INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL ANNUAL REPORT PLATFORM 2016 INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /1 Our Massive Transformative Purpose INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM The world has changed and has become an exponential setting where information is continually multiplying and making the future change at great speeds. At VESTA we have evolved toward a new understanding of our company, services, products, and the way a team should work. Becoming an Exponential Organization (ExO) is a commitment with innovation that requires establishing synergies within industries, be disruptive in the way we operate in order to break away from traditional efficiency standards, be flexible so we can adapt to change, and work to foster sustainability. Mexico is a strategic country and VESTA is a key element that connects logistics in the manufacturing processes to hasten growth in the most important industries. CONTENTS 02 Key Figures 04 Message from the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 08 We are VESTA Profile 24 Disruption Strategy 36 Drive Performance 44 Sinergy People 72 Transformation Social and Environmental Responsibility 100 Financial Highlights 138 GRI G4 Content Index 144 About this Report 2 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /1 KEY FIGURES Employees 2014-2016 Occupancy Rate Social Investment (thousands of dollars) 65 89.4% 165 53 87.3% 36 86.7% 146 142 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Financial Environmental Social 22.60 million US $818 thousand US $165 thousand SF of Gross in environmental invested in social projects Leasable Area (GLA) investments US $294 thousand US $87.13 million 125.94 thousand invested in the health in Net Operating SF of GLA are of our employees Income (NOI) LEED certified 105.98 thousand 89.4% 274.37 kWp man-hours Occupancy Rate installed photovoltaic voluntarily allocated capacity to social projects 2 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /3 GRI G4: G4-1 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER We innovate to become an At the same time, we continue to encourage the The term singularity describes the moment Exponential Organization passion and commitment of our INNOVESTEAM when a civilization is changing so much that its We are currently living a reality in which the only constant is change in everything around us: the by making their growth a priority and strengthening the team with new hires, for an rules, tools, and technologies become economy, politics, the environment, technology, 18% increase in our workforce in 2016. society and, consequently, private companies. incomprehensible to previous generations. It is a Evolution is increasing faster, more frequent Enhancing mobility point of no return in history, such as the one we and, above all, more disruptive. Therefore, we are currently reconsidering the way in which we One of the challenges being faced by our clients is in finding efficient and profitable means of are in at this moment. do business. mobility, since a majority of them are multinational companies with operations in different parts of At the same time, in the context of the 4th the world. To meet this need, at VESTA we offer In order to survive and stand out in times like Industrial Revolution, the world continues business integration in different areas in Mexico to transform at an extremely fast pace. It is and we serve as a connecting bridge to markets in these, a company needs to have strong moving toward a new production mode known as throughput: the number of products and North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia. We offer tailor-made multi-tenant buildings with leadership, a solid sense of social responsibility, services a company can produce and deliver in a innovative characteristics with which we contribute to transform Mexico into a competitive and and it must want to bring about a transformation specific period of time. productive industrial platform. that is not only economic, but also social and Under such a setting of change, transformation and evolution, companies are striving to This year we continued to deploy the infrastructure environmental. adapt so as not to succumb; they are trying to needed to support advanced manufacturing and successfully face challenges that go beyond logistics operations. At year-end 2016, we had sustainability, the relationship with stakeholders, 138 properties, with a leasable area of more At VESTA our INNOVESTEAM is continually and even how a company is managed. than 21.52 square feet and 303 hectares of land reserves. Based on our unrelenting trust in our getting ready to face these and other challenges Faced with these challenges, at VESTA we country’s capabilities and potential, we continued implementing our growth plans with a development are adopting the characteristics of Exponential we encounter in the changing environment in Organizations (ExO) with the aim to become portfolio of more than 185 thousand square which we work. a company more competitive, efficient, and meters, of which 38.7% has already been leased. innovative, capable to offer our clients real estate developments that can get ahead of the Transforming communities demands of the global market. in a positive way At VESTA we are firm believers that a business To this end, we are integrating into our company cannot be conceived in isolation. We continually the Massive Transformative Purpose, or MTP, strive to strengthen our social responsibility which at VESTA we have determined to be to plan by including environmental stewardship Innovating Mexico’s Industrial Platform. We are and social impact efforts in the locations where preparing our top executives to help the company we operate, with a social investment of US assimilate this new concept; that is why in 2016 $165,489 for 2016. we invested 440 man-hours in a program designed specifically for VESTA by Singularity University. We continue to work on contributing to the In addition to our executives, several members of development of the communities neighboring our Board also participated in this course aimed our parks with initiatives such as VESTA at helping us adopt state-of-the-art tools and Adopt a School, and by building homes for 11 implement innovative programs to evolve and become an ExO. 1 Eden et al, 2012 4 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /5 underprivileged families, fostering growth in In order to be more competitive, this year we education and quality of life for the people who defined new reporting metrics for our portfolio, live near our developments. standardizing our evaluation with that of our peers in the United States. We now consider We also reactivated the internship program at stabilized occupancy of the portfolio (93.3%), our corporate headquarters, and participated in same-stores occupancy (97.2%), and total the 6th VESTA Challenge, thus strengthening occupancy (89.4%). our commitment to support our incentives programs favoring the physical well-being of It is also important to mention that we our employees. With the 2016 edition of this restructured our debt at the beginning of the program, we offered our support to a civil year; this allowed us to reduce our debt costs society organization that helps cancer patients. by 300 basis points and, at the same time, 37 employees, family members, suppliers, extend maturity to six years. and clients participated in this effort through a 72-kilometer bicycle run in the state of Baja The macroeconomic and political environment California. all over the world presents a challenging scenario for all companies, but in particular for Aligned with international initiatives, we are those Mexican companies that interact with the signatories of the United Nations Global United States. Despite this, at VESTA we will Compact, and we are committed to promoting address this reality with patience and backed and complying with its 10 principles within by the knowledge that we have a diversified our company and throughout our value chain. exports portfolio, two-thirds of which are On the other hand, we are proud to say that based in Europe, Asia, Canada, and Mexico. in June 2016, for the third consecutive year, Additionally, our solid base of multinational our performance in Corporate Governance clients from 14 different countries helps us was recognized by the Mexican Stock diversify our risk. We trust that 2017 will bring good results for our investors for their continued trust, our 65 Exchange (BMV), including our company in its our business. We estimate that our income will employees for their commitment, our suppliers Sustainability Index of the 30 most sustainable Although we spend much time identifying increase somewhere between 16% and 18%, for their constant support, all our stakeholders issuers in Mexico. risks, in all honesty, risk tends to find us. and we are aiming for 95% NOI margin and and, of course, our clients—who are at the Consequently and to address current an 83% EBITDA margin. We will also work on center of all the decisions we make—for Opening the path to the future challenges from the different angles that maintaining our position as the leading industrial choosing us to help them make their businesses While 2016 was a year of moderate economic could have an impact on our business growth real estate developer in Mexico, by delivering grow in Mexico. growth for Mexico, once again at VESTA we over the next few years, we are working on solid financial performance and sustainable were able to increase our operation funds detecting new areas for improvement that growth to our shareholders. (FFO) up from US $40.1 million in 2015 to US could help us reach our VESTA Vision 20/20 $48.8 million in 2016. Our income was 15.2% and continue to grow with our clients, work We know this is possible because we have the higher than our goal for the year, reaching on integrating intelligent solutions into our best talent in the industry and we can offer our US $90.5 million in 2016. Our net operating developments, and bet on the exponential clients, investors, and stakeholders a company income (NOI) was 96.3%, and EBITDA stood growth and profitability of our operations by with great potential to generate economic growth at 83.7%. The total square feet of our gross being more efficient. for and from Mexico. leasable area (GLA) added onto our portfolio grew 13%, from 1.86 sq in 2015 to 22.60 sq ft I reiterate to all of you my commitment to remain in 2016. attentive of each of your needs in order to Lorenzo Berho C. ensure that VESTA continues to be the solid and Chairman of the Board of Directors transparent company it has always been. I thank and Chief Executive Officer 6 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /7 01 WE ARE VESTA We develop industrial real estate properties that connect the most dynamic sectors in Mexico fostering their growth. PRESENCE IN 13 STATES IN MEXICO 138 BUILDINGS IN OUR PORTFOLIO (ExO) 22.60 MILLION SF OF GLA 8 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /9 GRI G4: G4-56 PROFILE History For 18 years, we have innovated in the which we live and do business. Faced with this 2016_ Build to Suit buildings: ThyssenKrupp, TPI Composites, development of industrial buildings and parks new reality, every industry needs to implement Safran and Tachi S for light manufacturing companies and the most new strategies that adapt to the requirements important distribution centers in the country. the future will bring. Competitive debt refinancing Launching of the Exponential Organization program We innovate with the highest construction At VESTA we are prepared to face this reality standards that we view as a unique opportunity to grow 2015_ Second follow-on equity offering We innovate in the most dynamic strategic and innovate in our business and, at the same MetLife loan markets time, to become a strategic ally for our clients. We innovate to promote growth for our clients and Mexico From the beginning, we have learned about different 2014_ Park to Suit® BRP cultures and work philosophies from our strategic Inclusion in the BMV’s Sustainability Index Our innovation addresses the global demands partners. We have leveraged this knowledge to offer of a world that is transforming at great speeds— business models suited to the needs of the clients 2013_ Park to Suit® Nissan in a disruptive way—and is changing the way in who honor us with their preference. First follow-on equity offering 2012_ Initial Public Offering (IPO) 2010_ Acquisition of the GE stake in the Queretaro Aerospace Park Vision: To develop sustainable industrial real estate for the enhancement of human wellbeing. 2008_ Acquisition of the Lintel portfolio in Bajio 2007_ Acquisition of the Los Bravos portfolio in Ciudad Juárez Mission: To achieve excellence in the Joint Venture with GE Capital: development of industrial real estate through Bombardier Aerospace Park Broadreach investment an entrepreneurial team that generates efficient Deka investment and sustainable solutions. 2006_ Acquisition of the La Mesa Industrial Park in Tijuana Acquisition of the Nestlé Buildings DEG investment CalPers leverage buy out 1.1% 0.1% 8.1% 4.7% 2004_ CalPers investment Market float 2000_ Ned Spieker (Founder of Spieker Properties) investment Broadreach 1999_ First GE Capital loan Shareholder Behro Family Structure 1998_ Incorporation of VESTA Top Management Treasury * As of December 2016 86.0% 10 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /11 GRI G4: G4-4, G4-PR1, CRE8 PRODUCTS We build customized products based on several sustainability standards. The majority are class “A” Multi-Tenant Buildings We create facilities designed for customers that require space in the short-term, that comply with the buildings that meet the storage and manufacturing standards of any industry. They are located in the most dynamic industrial regions of the country and can be shared by two or more tenants. highest quality standards in the market and are This year we finished our facilities at VESTA Park Tijuana III, San Miguel de Allende Industrial Polygon, Queretaro Industrial Park, Tres Naciones Park, VESTA Park Toluca II, and VESTA Park Puebla. We also located in strategic regions started construction on more buildings at VESTA Park Guanajuato and at the DSP Park to Suit®. around the country. In addition, a team with great experience in the industrial real estate sector backs our products in order to help our clients maximize their potential. BTS/Build to Suit® We develop and manage comprehensive facilities that satisfy the particular needs of each client and contribute to improve their profitability. During the process, we make recommendations on designs that adhere to the best international standards, as well as cutting-edge eco-efficiency trends, including LEED certification. Our Sustainable Contribution Examples of successful 2016 projects include the LEED certification for BRP Juarez, delivery of BTS buildings offer the option of LEED Safran and ThyssenKrupp, the expansion of Tachi S, and the expanded TPI Composites project. certification. All our buildings are free of PCU and asbestos. We install photovoltaic panels in all new Multi-Tenant Buildings. We advise our tenants on the use of eco-friendly materials at our buildings. PTS/Park to Suit® We design industrial parks based on international standards, thought out to increase the competitiveness of our clients by offering innovative spaces that are suited to their own needs, where they can integrate members of their supply chain (clusters) or companies in the same industry that supply a single integrating entity. Currently our parks are occupied by clients from the aerospace and automotive industries. Buildings are developed according to the design and engineering required by the industry, based on a common-management structure, and under world class sustainable and safety conditions. All of this contributes to the wellbeing of our employees and results in savings and efficiencies for our clients. 12 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /13 GRI G4: G4-6, G4-8 PRESENCE TIJUANA North Bajio Central CD. JUÁREZ 4,479,452 SF 11,363,654 SF 6,726,482 SF Surface Area Surface Area Surface Area 37 69 32 Number of buildings Number of buildings Number of buildings 35 66 27 Number of clients Number of clients Number of clients 88.39 acres 623.78 acres 37.43 acres LOS MOCHIS Land reserves Land reserves Land reserves SAN LUIS POTOSÍ AGUASCALIENTES CANCÚN LAGOS DE MORENO GUANAJUATO QUERETARO VALLE DE MÉXICO TLAXCALA TOLUCA PUEBLA VERACRUZ 31.3% 18.9% 26.9% 23.8% 31.2% 19.5% We are present in 13 Mexican states with 22,569,584 SF of Gross Leasable Area, Number of GLA(1) ABR(2) divided into three main regions: buildings North, Central, and Bajio. 48.8% 49.2% 49.3% North North North Central Central Central Bajio Bajio Bajio 1 Gross Leasable Area 2 Annual Base Rent 14 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /15 GRI G4: G4-8, G4-PR5 CLIENTS We have a diverse portfolio made up of 128 In addition, and in order to strengthen the On the other hand, in 2016 we started were included by the Asset Management division clients from different industries and countries VESTA-client relationship even more, this conducting two additional surveys: the into its action plan. We also obtained very who, besides generating economic growth, Asset Management division was created to Maintenance Satisfaction Survey, to detect valuable information concerning client expansion are committed to sustainable development in focus on offering contract renewal, investment aspects that could affect the VESTA properties plans, new lines of business, demand for valueMexico. maintenance, administration, and park and, consequently our clients’ performance; added services related to the properties they are operation services. and the Supplier Survey, aimed at maintaining leasing, as well as sustainability initiatives. A key differentiator of our business philosophy efficient, healthy, and productive relationships is the service we provide our clients; at VESTA In 2016 this division implemented a program with the companies that offer us some kind of Based on this information, we invited them to we strive to become a strategic partner who to review the Central region portfolio. By service as part of our value chain. participate in the VESTA Social Responsibility establishes long-term relationships and offers appointing local employees, we improved initiatives that best align to their own interests. innovative services that improve profitability regional service and handled client From the results of the maintenance survey, we for both sides. requirements concerning their contracts and detected and addressed client concerns that maintenance. We have a close and personal relationship with our tenants, which translates into high We complemented this service by annual contract renewal rates thanks to the encouraging bidirectional communication by In general, the results of 83% believe our service and the work done by our Asset Management team, our Customer Satisfaction Survey that helps availability of the division’s staff is good who have a profound understanding of the us to get to know and evaluate the perception the survey are summarized or excellent. real estate sector and are in constant communication with our clients. of VESTA’s quality, real estate design, service, and response to client concerns. as follows: 75% believe the effectiveness with which we provide a solution to their problems is good or excellent. 89% are satisfied with the service VESTA provides them. 86% believes the quality of our facilities is good or excellent. This all reflected in a 98.5% renewals in 2016, 60% advance renewals for 2017 and 10% for 2018, confirming that we offer an efficient service. At the same time, results from the first supplier survey, which we conducted with contractors in the Development and Asset Management divisions, showed that: We obtained very valuable 84% believe the effectiveness with which The Supplier survey 92% view VESTA as their strongest ally. we provide a solution to their problems information from the clients was good or excellent. showed the 89% recognize that their relationship we surveyed. following results: with VESTA has evolved favorably over 93% believe our service and the the past year. availability of the administrative, commercial, and operational staff was 89% state that response times at both good or excellent. divisions are quick and timely. 92% are satisfied with the service VESTA provides them. Note: In 2016 customer satisfaction level was 90%. 16 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /17 SOME OF OUR CLIENTS BY INDUSTRY AUTOMOTIVE FOOD AND BEVERAGES AEROSPACE LOGISTICS Our portfolio allocates 29.4% of facilities to logistics companies and 70.6% to manufacturing companies. 39.7% Automotive 14.6% Other Portfolio by 11.5% Food & beverage Industry 10.6% Aerospace 8.7% Consumer goods % GLA 7.8% Recreational vehicles 4.6% Logistics 2.5% Electronics Our Key Clients Origin of our clients’ capital % GLA* 7.2% 4.4% 4.4% 3.9% 2.9% 2.7% 2.6% 2.1% 2.0% 1.7% Years with VESTA 14 3 8 3 1 7 9 3 7 6 Credit rating AA N/A N/A AB BBN/A A BBN/A 18 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /19 GRI G4: G4-12, G4-22, G4-32, G4-LA14, G4-HR10, G4-SO9, G4-PR2 VALUE CHAIN Our Core Competencies We focus our efforts on creating commercial intelligence that allows us to anticipate future needs and develop strategic facilities that can attract new industries as well as those we are already familiar with; simultaneously, we continue to build long-term relationships with our clients in order to achieve our expected future growth. Conceptual design Prospecting Development Search for and acquisition Leasing of land Value Chain VESTA’s business strategy is centered on try to mitigate the risks inherent to construction Maintenance Design developing industrial real estate and on and we foster competition among contractors, managing buildings and industrial parks. which translates into lower costs, better quality in our buildings, and into the possibility of Since VESTA is not a construction company, offering competitive options to our current and our value chain includes a variety of activities future clients. Property Construction and services we offer in collaboration with management specialized suppliers that adapt both to It is important to mention that we have been the needs of our clients, and to our specific using this model ever since we began to requirements. operate. To this date, we have had no delays or considerable additional costs during Contractors and suppliers who work with us the construction of the properties we have Outsourced Services are selected by means of a bidding process developed. through which we award contracts. This way we We work in collaboration with companies who are experts in design, construction, and maintenance so that we can offer the best and fastest real estate development, complying with our costs metrics as well as with the timeline of our projects. For all legal permits and procedures, we work with specialists who help us manage them. Once a building is ready, maintenance is provided by a variety of contractors. 20 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /21 The flexibility of the VESTA business model Of our 10 main suppliers in the Development allows us to choose the most innovative, division, all have policies in place to promote VESTA Contractors’ Day functional, and cost-efficient options that align the respect for human rights and to prohibit with the preferences and needs of our clients. child and forced labor. All of them either are signatories of or base their actions on the We select our project contractors by following a criteria established by the United Nations series of steps. First, our Allocation Committee Global Compact. Likewise, they have a code of assesses the candidates based on aspects ethics or values guidelines and, if VESTA were Seminars whose goal is to generate such as quality, experience, reputation, to require it, they would be willing to apply for more efficiencies by improving, sustainability, state-of-the-art construction environmental certifications. standardizing, and updating and engineering techniques, and on-time procedures in the works developed delivery of developments. Afterwards, we Every one of our construction projects follows by VESTA. evaluate feasibility and financial flow through an Occupational Safety Program developed standardized processes using a proprietary by the supplier, and make regular reports on software that regulates access and approval the safety meetings held at the work site, in levels. Once contractors have been selected, collaboration with the Project Manager and we monitor compliance and assurance that the the supplier. Additionally, contractors register development will be delivered on schedule. their workers with the Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS, by its name in Spanish), in In striving for our sustainability culture to accordance with Mexican law. permeate through all the links in our value chain, we share with our contractors the Sustainability In 2016 we were notified that one of our Requirements for Suppliers. They must contractors was not complying with its legal adhere to it, thus ensuring their construction obligations as an employer. As a result, we asked Workshops and Inauguration Events processes and activities are aligned with for evidence and our Development division VESTA’s sustainability strategy. We also carry established a plan of action to ensure that the rest out evaluations based on environmental, labor, of our contractors comply with our requirements. free association, and human rights criteria. In 2016 we had no complaints or breaches on To complement our relationship with our value chain, Our suppliers actively participate in these issues from any of our suppliers. we promote healthy, collaborative, and mutual our Code of Ethics workshops and are growth relationships through several programs. invited to inauguration and kick-off events for our developments. At these events, we encourage integration and entertainment. Social Responsibility Relationship with 50% of our 10 main suppliers support VESTA’s social responsibility projects. our suppliers: 90% develop their own social responsibility projects as part of their This year, 5 of our main contractors sustainable development policies. collaborated in our VESTA Adopt a 100% have included indicators related School initiative with improvements to social responsibility values in their to one of the school’s facilities and policies. by donating technological equipment aimed at improving the education of the children. 22 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /23 02 DISRUPTION (ExO) Strategy:// We are preparing to become an ExO by employing technology in our processes and by innovating in order to foresee the future needs of the industry and our surroundings. TRANSFORMATION TO BECOME AN ExO STRENGTHENED THE VESTA VISION 20/20 INNOVATION PROGRAM AT SINGULARITY UNIVERSITY 24 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /25 INNOVATION INNOVACIÓN An ExO is an organization whose output is at least This is how we defined the VESTA MTP: 10 times higher than its competitors as a result of INNOVATING MEXICO’S employing organizational techniques that leverage INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM acceleration technologies.1 01. 02. 03. The VESTA business strategy is based At VESTA we are aware that this is our time Since innovation is Building a Mexico is our on innovation, a feature that is part of our to transform and evolve, as all ExOs do, in at the foundation of consolidated inspiration and the company’s culture under the concept of aspects such as strategy, processes, culture, our INNOVESTING industrial platform country for whose INNOVESTING: investment in innovation. KPIs, people, and systems. Only then will we be philosophy, investing that is cutting-edge, success we work able to face the challenges brought about by This work philosophy has taken us to seek technological singularity. in innovation is a intelligent, and can vehemently. for new ways of doing business based on the priority for us. welcome the most use of technology, and to anticipate disruptive To achieve this transformation, our Board modern companies changes that could arise in the competitive members and top management trained at the in the world, is our environment with the digital revolution and Singularity University, an academic institution work ambition and artificial intelligence, both of which are setting whose main goal is to inspire leaders for the reason for being. the stage for establishing what is known as exponential development of technologies that Industry 4.0. In order to be prepared to face the will help us face great global challenges. challenges all this will entitle, in 2016 we began a process aimed at transforming VESTA into an Based on all this, the first step we took toward In addition to defining our MTP, we are working Because our human capital will be key to Exponential Organization (ExO). organizational change at VESTA was to define to identify and develop key elements with implementing these changes, we are aligning our Massive Transformative Purpose (MTP) by exponential goals that will help us face the our goals as a company with our MTP and with One of the characteristics of an ExO is that means of an internal process that allowed us challenges of the global economic environment. the technological processes. This is why we it can easily adapt to change because of its to identify our strengths, ambitions, and the To this end, we will transform our processes have already started innovating the way in which horizontal structure and multi-disciplinary teams company’s DNA. We concluded the result would based on information technologies that will allow we manage our Human Resources division by that operate on decentralized authority. have to: us to become more efficient, save resources, grow defining profiles, training courses, and new our business internationally, and optimize the abilities based on an exponential approach. transference of knowledge within the organization. 01. 02. 03. Be powerful and Generate a cultural Have a well-defined inspiring. movement that purpose. invites change; become a transforming agent. 1Exponential Organizations, Salim Ismail. 2 An MTP is a company’s aspirational objective that captures the hearts and minds not only of its employees, but also of its stakeholders. 26 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /27 INNOVATION PROGRAM AT We want to be the leaders for change, to never stop learning, and have a continued future of SINGULARITY UNIVERSITY exponential growth. Experts agree that companies that do not innovate In December, one of our Vice Presidents will not survive in the new era of technological attended the Executive Program with other more advances that are changing the way in which than 40 top executives from all over the world industry works at an exponential pace. in order to understand the creativity-developing theories so that we can include them in the VESTA Based on this premise and in an effort to be innovation culture by employing different tools. congruent with our INNOVESTING philosophy, in October 2016 members of our Board and In total, 68 employees and Board members our top management attended an program participated in this initiative, allocating 440 mandeveloped exclusively for VESTA by the hours to this training course. Singularity University, an institution located in Palo Alto, California, at NASA’s Ames Research In 2017, developing innovation will become Park. The program was designed to explore systematic for the whole company. We will disruptive forces that are impacting the real conduct workshops, employee courses, estate industry, and focused on articulating the and programs to create new products and transformation of VESTA into an ExO. processes and to increase productivity by adopting technology. Singularity is an inflection point in which the rules and technology of a given civilization accelerate in such a way that they become incomprehensible for the previous generations. 28 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /29 GRI G4: G4-56 INTELLIGENCE Components Developing market intelligence that will guide us categories where our clients participate. This VESTA Vision 20/20 toward innovative methods in the transformation helps us make profitable and sustainable of our business is an essential part of the decisions: we capitalize intelligence. innovation process at VESTA, and it will Business contribute to the success of our strategy. Our new assessment tools help us ensure that · Focus on the most dynamic market our investment decisions will maximize value and regions in Mexico This implies having the necessary knowledge creation for our shareholders. · Corporate governance and being prepared to face different scenarios Employees that could arise from cutting-edge information As part of the transition process to becoming · Job security technologies, global and local trends, our an ExO, we are preparing our employees so · Attracting and retaining talent · Training and development clients’ needs, as well as from statistical results that they become part of the strategy and apply Industry partners / brokers on topics related to the industry. certain elements of intelligence to existing · Key trade channels processes in their own activities. In addition, we · Strong relationships Technology strengthens our business model, are aligning individual objectives to the goals of Investors and allows us to differentiate our product the company, based on trends in our sector, by · Return on investment offering depending on the markets and their employing performance matrixes and strategic · Growth competitiveness, based on a profound analysis maps that ensure continuity. · Net operating income Corporate citizenship of market dynamics and different industrial · Risk management · Transparency · Environment · Community · Reputation · Human rights Local Authorities · Strong relationships · Long-term relationships · Economic and social development VESTA VISION 20/20 PLAN · Local development Clients / Consumers · Attract global players in key industries · Capture growth of current clients · Long-term relationships 2016 was a year full of changes in the international environment that forced us to revisit our Product expansion projections and strengthen the strategic VESTA Vision 20/20 plan. · Class “A” buildings · Stricter eco-efficiency standards While our key objectives remain the same, we have reconsidered our annual growth based on a · Certified buildings profound, systematic, and quantitative analysis of the markets in which we participate, selecting Suppliers / Contractors · Business continuity the opportunities we wish to leverage depending on the field and client. Our projections are · Business partners conservative because we wish to maintain a healthy capital structure, whose ability to absorb the · Fair and equitable treatment market is favored by the diversification strategy: 01. 02. 03. Double the size Strengthen Increase our of our property our corporate investment in portfolio. responsibility and developing our most risk management important asset: our efforts. human capital By reinforcing the VESTA Vision 20/20 strategic plan we are preparing for changes in the market that are not under our control, thus ensuring profitable and sustainable growth for our business. 30 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /31 GRI G4: G4-2, G4-35, G4-36, G4-PR5 Environmental Policy SUSTAINABILITY Comply with the company’s policies and procedures, as well as with all Priority social and environmental projects are all within applicable local laws and regulations and, where appropriate, exceed regional the area of influence of our company and directly environmental standards. benefit our stakeholders. Reduce the ecological impact of our developments by promoting continuous improvement in bio-climatic design and eco-efficient buildings, working together The components of our strategy are a perfect combination for VESTA’s sustainability because we with our suppliers and contractors to contribute to the competitiveness of our clients and the wellbeing of society by minimizing the meet the needs of our clients. environmental impact of our developments and, at the same time, creating capabilities for our neighboring communities. Make a strategic effort to promote the use of renewable energy in The guidelines we follow for sustainable projects are headed by the company’s highest governance our developments and with our body and have the support of the Social Responsibility and Environmental Committee (CRSA, by its stakeholders. name in Spanish), the Ethics Committee, the Investment Committee, and the Sustainability division. Optimize the consumption of CRSA is responsible for determining the sustainability plan and for verifying compliance with energy, water, and materials at our the company’s programs related to this topic. Additionally, to make sure all our projects include operations, and minimize our impact on sustainable aspects, and they do not go against the guidelines established in the Social and biodiversity as well as air, water, and Social Responsibility and Environmental Policies, a member of CRSA and the person heading the land emissions. Sustainability division, are both members of the Investment Committee. In 2016 we worked to extend our institutional programs to every region in which we are present, and we encouraged our employees to participate more in sustainable projects. In the Transformation Identify, plan, and manage potential section of this Report we give detailed information on our most relevant programs, as well as the environmental risks in a timely manner social and environmental benefits they offer. in our buildings, developments, and operations. In order to create social and environmental value at the locations where we are present, the projects and programs we carry out must follow: Provide the necessary resources for training and supervision in order to 1.Generate a considerable social and environmental Guidelines that impact that can be measured. properly manage the environmental aspects of our operations. capitalize our efforts 2.Promote, maintain and/or protect the VESTA name. toward sustainability: 3.Encourage initiatives in every region. Promote actions that raise environmental awareness and combat climate change 4.Prioritize projects that fall within our area of influence. among our stakeholders. 5.Under no conditions will we consider projects that go against the VESTA Code of Ethics. Maintain open communication with 6.Initiatives that only imply a cash and/or in-kind our stakeholders. donation will not be eligible, and neither will those that are not aligned with our business. 7.Incentives for projects that do not have a direct relevance are not eligible either. Define, monitor and openly report our environmental performance, with 8.CRSA is the only body that can approve exceptions measurable and achievable objectives to these guidelines. and goals. 32 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /33 QUALITY About our commitment with the environment, With the same commitment with which we during 2016 VESTA Park Toluca I obtained promote a culture of quality, we strive to ensure the Environmental Quality certification granted the safety of our clients within the VESTA We are committed to promoting a culture of response times in our general communications and by Mexico’s Federal Environmental Protection facilities and industrial buildings; we do this by sustainability among our stakeholders and, operation. Likewise, their post-sale service needs Agency (Profepa), and VESTA Park Tlaxcala implementing our Property Security Policy. particularly, among our clients. Although we know are handled by our Asset Management team whose goal is to offer a service experience that surpasses was certified as an Authorized Economic that we have no control over their activities and our clients’ expectations. Operator by the Mexican Association of consumption habits, we make sure we offer them Industrial Parks (AMPIP). eco-efficient spaces and oversee that they comply with the guidelines established by international In 2016 we worked to obtain the ISO 9001:2015 certifications such as ISO 9001 or any other specific certification with the active participation of all Property 1.Responsibility Safety at our buildings and industrial parks certifications the client requires. divisions in the company. For the first time ever, we developed talent internally to update all process Security Policy is a shared responsibility between VESTA In addition to our Environmental Policy, we also have and procedures documentation, and to carry out the and our tenants. a Quality Policy, a Quality Management System internal quality-control audit. We have concluded the (SGC, by its name in Spanish), and internal auditors diagnosis and phase I of the audit. At VESTA safety is 2.Training Training our employees in safety processes to drive efficiency throughout the company, all of whom make sure all our projects comply with the This exercise allowed us to involve key areas in the everyone’s responsibility. and systems is a primary obligation at required processes. company such as marketing, development, and VESTA. new business, and to gain a better perspective that 3.Integration Our Quality Policy offers our clients efficient service and sustainable real estate developments. With will help us make the VESTA operating procedures more efficient. We are committed Effective communication is essential for the an enterprising team and personalized service, to a culture of prevention proper understanding and application of we establish a relationship of mutual respect While improving our processes, the internal protective actions. with our suppliers and implement the continuous VESTA quality management effort considers the that protects all aspects 4.Compliance improvement of our ISO 9001:2015 quality management system. sustainability strategy as well as the expectations of our stakeholders. Consequently, the whole company of our buildings and VESTA is obligated to comply with the safety is on the same path to achieving the goal of finding industrial parks, requirements of its clients. As part of our SGC we take our stakeholders and a better way to mitigate and capitalize on our their expectations into consideration to improve our resources to create value. including people, assets, 5.Best Practices VESTA adheres to national and international information, processes, safety standards. and the community. 6.Business Partners Business partners align with VESTA’s safety policies. Quality Management System ISO 9001:2015 Establish the context, determine the relevant interested parties and the scope of the QMS Continuous improvement Leadership Clients and other Customer relevant interested satisfaction parties SGC and its Performance Planning processes assessment Products and Requirements services Operations Process support 34 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /35 03 DRIVE Performance:// We blend innovation with investments to offer properties that are tailored to meet the needs of our clients and to strengthen the company’s profitability. 18% INCREASE IN INCOME 11.2% GROWTH IN GLA 40% OF THE GROWTH IN BTS 36 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /37 GROWTH In 2016 the world economy was riddled with we added global companies and their firstuncertainty and vulnerability; factors such as and second-degree suppliers such as TPI the exchange rate, oil prices, interest rates Composites, Safran, Tachi-S, ThyssenKrupp, hikes, and the change of government in the Oxxo, and Gestamp. United States, contributed to creating an unstable environment. Because Mexico and the We added a total of 2.51 million SF of GLA to United States are neighbors with a very close our portfolio during the year, the highest number relationship, our position as a country was even we have ever had since the first quarter of 2015. more challenging, and it had an impact on This is the result of the consistent hard work of companies that depend largely on the American the teams led by the New Business and Asset market and/or American business partners. Management divisions, represented by an increase in the Net Operating Income (NOI) The sum of these events resulted in an of 14.7%, from US $75.98 million in 2015 to average annual growth of 2.3% for the Mexican US $87.12 million in 2016. Economy, based on the information provided by the Mexican Treasury Department (SHCP, To achieve this, we deployed infrastructure by its name in Spanish). However, because within our developments to support advanced of our diversified strategy and the work of our manufacturing and logistics operations. At INNOVESTEAM, we were able to increase our year-end 2016 we had 138 properties, with a income by 15.2%, up from US $78.56 million in leasable area of more than 22.60 million SF and 2015 to US $90.51 million in 2016. 303 hectares of land reserves. We are intensifying our diversification strategy; We have complete confidence in Mexico’s currently our portfolio includes companies potential and we will continue with our growth in Europe, Asia, Canada, and Mexico, plans and a development portfolio of more multinational companies from 14 countries. than 2 million sq ft, of which 38.7% are already Correspondingly, our risks are diversifying and leased. At the same time, we are evolving to we continue to grow in spite of the adversity. become an exponential organization so that we can increase the profitability of our operations In 2016 we surpassed all macroeconomic based on greater efficiencies, employing expectations and we achieved the greatest technologies in our processes, and by growth ever in Build to Suit (BTS), which developing market intelligence. We are certain currently account for 35.40% of our Gross we will reach our VESTA Vision 20/20 and will be Leasable Area (GLA). To existing clients, ready to face the disruptive changes that could affect our environment. At year-end 2016, we had 138 properties, with a leasable area of more than 22.60 million SF and 303 hectares of land reserves. 38 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /39 PORTFOLIO METRICS Occupancy % Portfolio To measure the growth and performance of define the total portfolio as all those properties 88.3% 90.3% 89.4% our portfolio it is important to have comparable that are occupied, including development, 87.6% 86.7% 87.5% 87.8% tools that help us make good investment re-development, stabilized, and properties for sale. The stabilized portfolio is defined as 85.1% decisions. To this end, and in order to improve 1Q 2015 2Q 2015 3Q 2015 4Q 2015 1Q 2016 2Q 2016 3Q 2016 4Q 2016 transparency and standardize VESTA’s those properties that have an 80% occupancy evaluation to that of our peers in the United or that have been delivered for at least one States, in 2016 we defined new metrics to year, considering whichever comes first of these report our portfolio’s performance, based on the two conditions. And in the same store category market practices of the National Association of we take into consideration properties that have Occupancy % Stabilized Portfolio Real Estate Investment Trusts® (NAREIT®). been operating or stabilized for two comparable periods; we are adopting common market This process led us to make some adjustments practices and helping our readers compare 93.0% 94.2% 93.7% 93.8% 93.8% in our occupancy metrics for: total portfolio, VESTA’s performance against our public 91.7% 87.8% stabilized portfolio, and same store. We now competitors. 91.0% 1Q 2015 2Q 2015 3Q 2015 4Q 2015 1Q 2016 2Q 2016 3Q 2016 4Q 2016 Metrics Definition Occupancy % Same store Total portfolio occupancy ·· Percentage of occupied properties in the total portfolio. Includes development, re-development, stabilization, and 97.2% 95.5% 95.3% 95.8% 95.9% 95.9% 95.9% properties for sale. Stabilized portfolio occupancy ·· Occupancy percentage in stabilized properties. A property 94.6% is considered to be stabilized when it reaches an 80% occupancy or when it has been delivered for at least a 1Q 2015 2Q 2015 3Q 2015 4Q 2015 1Q 2016 2Q 2016 3Q 2016 4Q 2016 year, whichever of these two conditions happens first. Occupancy portfolio like for like ·· Occupancy percentage in properties that have been operating (stabilized) for two comparable periods. At VESTA we believe it is vital important to a three year maturity; and a 10 year secured communicate to all our stakeholders any non-recourse loan for US $150 million dollars. changes in our financial information in a timely It is worth mentioning the BBVA and HSBC led manner in order to offer certainty to the market. a bank sydicate for the unsecured facilities, while the secured term loan was closed with In 2016 we carried out several efforts Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Metlife). concerning the restructuring of our debt, enabling us to maximize profit from operations Sustainability efforts in our business also include and gain the trust of our investors. In August caring for our finances. To this end, we analyze we reduced by 300 basis points our debt costs the credit profile of our clients and require VESTA’s performance in 2016, under the new and, at the same time, we extended maturity to six years. Likewise, we paid in full our debt collateral on 80% of our leasing contracts, as well as double or triple support, meaning the occupancy metrics for the portfolio, came to 89.4% liabilities to Grupo Blackstone LP for US $298.06 client is responsible for paying most of the million, corresponding to 100% of the debt with maintenance costs, including property taxes. for the total portfolio, 93.8% in the stabilized portfolio, maturity this year. and 97.2% in same store. Concerning new financing, we closed In the years to come, we will continue to work to strengthen our company’s profitability, negotiations for US $400 million, including: a leveraging all our resources to maximize US $150 million unsecured five year loan; a economic value and ensure our return on US $100 million revolving unsecured loan with investment. 40 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /41 GRI G4: G4-EC1, G4-EC8 ECONOMIC VALUE As part of our business strategy, we seek to maximize the economic value of our company. These are the resources we can use to promote innovative projects benefiting our investors, employees, and neighboring communities. Direct Economic Value Generated 2015 2016 Total Income $78,562,329 100% $90,511,822 100% Rental income $76,837,211 97% $87,278,706 96% Refundable $1,725,118 3% $3,233,116 4% Economic Value Distributed 2015 2016 Total expenses $15,660,996 100% $15,613,122 100% Property operating expenses $4,335,132 28% $4,376,446 28% Direct employee benefits $7,204,579 46% $7,130,504 46% Administrative expenses $1,220,309 8% $1,220,309 8% Legal and audit expenses $1,208,874 8% $1,212,794 8% Marketing $1,136,643 7% $1,136,643 7% Other $21,795 0% $2,762 0% Property appraisal expenses $352,357 2% $352,357 2% Issue of indirect shares $181,309 1% $181,309 1% Break-down of the Economic Value Distributed by Input 2015 2016 Property Operating Expenses $3,578,135 $4,376,446 Electricity $218,156 $223,828 Water $144,968 $191,030 Safety $494,635 $498,174 La Mesa maintenance $145,735 $116,943 Materials $43,344 $28,335 Waste collection $1,990 $3,177 Gas $6,293 $6,903 Real estate taxes $1,286,942 $1,384,345 Insurance $375,210 $353,680 Maintenance $559,685 $896,732 Industrial park membership fees $245,446 $298,482 Legal expenses $54,359 $97,573 Doubtful accounts $0 $227,244 Administration Expenses $2,339,543 $2,438,075 Leasing $342,780 $425,687 Communications $18,246 $124,727 Consulting and technical support $226,090 $396,479 Other current expenses $537,603 $273,415 Marketing $1,049,742 $1,112,847 Non-deductibles $65,084 $101,980 Clean park 0 $2,941 *Amounts in dollars. 42 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /43 04 SYNERGY People:// We value and leverage the talent of our employees and of the people with whom we interact, recognizing them as a key factor that allows us to achieve our business goals and objectives. 100% OF THE AUDIT AND CORPORATE PRACTICES COMMITTEES INCLUDE INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 21 NEW EMPLOYEES 2 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEYS AND 1 SUPPLIER SURVEY 44 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /45 GRI G4: G4-17, G4-34, G4-37, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-48, G4-49, G4-50, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53, G4-LA12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors is the highest governing experience, working abilities, decision making, 01. 02. 03. body at VESTA. It establishes the general moral character and, above all, corporate guidelines for the business, always based on integrity. our ethics and transparency principles; approves the business plan and the annual In order to be a transparent organization that budget; analyzes potential risks, and oversees promotes synergies with the people with whom compliance with the company’s norms and we interact, we have policies in place policies throughout the operation. concerning the activities performed by our Board members, top management, and Another of its functions is to develop new employees who have access to confidential or 04. 05. 06. 07. long-term policies, with the collaboration of the privileged information and to the company Board members, top management, and values, as well as the guidelines for the share employees. These policies combine how the buyback program, in accordance with the business is managed with solid corporate Mexican Securities Market Law (LMV), and the values and good social practices to offer a Document for Issuers and Other Market high-quality service that satisfies the needs of Participants. our clients, for whom we strive to create value beyond just the economic aspect. Economic compensation granted to the Board members complies with the provisions of 08. 09. 10. Our Board includes 10 proprietary members, of Section I of Article 43 of the LMV and with the which eight are independent. The members VESTA bylaws. The Corporate Practices Board of Directors themselves, or their corresponding alternate Committee issues a recommendation on the Director Age Seniority Attendance Nationality Alternate Age Seniority Attendance Nationality members, are selected or ratified by the amount, which is approved by the Shareholders Ordinary Shareholders Meeting based on their Meeting. Remuneration for the company’s top 01. Lorenzo Manuel 57 16 years 100% Mexican Lorenzo Dominique 34 16 years 100%*** Mexican experience, capabilities, trajectory, moral management is determined based on their Berho Corona** Berho Carranza character, and professional reputation, in responsibilities. 02. Stephen B. 66 16 years 100% American Michael Peckham* 58 3 years 0% American compliance with the requirements established in Williams* the Article 26 of the Mexican Securities Law During 2016 we made no changes to 09. José Manuel 57 1 year 100% Mexican José Humberto López 56 6 years 50% *** Mexican (LMV). To be eligible as independent, they must compensations paid to the members of the Domínguez Díaz Niederer* perform their duties with no conflicts of interest Board nor the committees. Concerning our top Ceballos* and ensuring they have no personal, property, executives, a group of external consultants 06. Marlene Hormes* 38 5 years 100% German Craig Wieland* 57 1 year 50% *** Mexican or economic interests. assessed whether compensations were well 03. Enrique Carlos 44 10 years 83% Mexican Luis Javier Solloa * 50 2 years 0% Mexican aligned with their respective responsibilities. Lorente Ludlow* The VESTA Board of Directors is diverse and Accordingly, salaries for these positions within 05. John Andrew 56 6 years 83% American Craig Gladstone Vought 55 5 years 17% American multicultural, and it includes one female as the company were leveled out to market value Foster independent proprietary member, a German and were approved by the Corporate Practices member, and two members from the United Committee and by the Board of Directors. 04. Wilfrido Castillo 75 3 years 66% Mexican José Antonio Pujals 78 11 years 33% Mexican States. This fortifies the contribution the Board Sánchez Mejorada* Fuentes* makes to the growth of our company. Our stakeholders can request information about 10. Oscar Francisco 57 3 years 50% Mexican Daniela Berho Carranza 32 3 years 50% Mexican this or issue their recommendations and Cázares Elías* The Board is chaired by Lorenzo Berho Corona, opinions at investor.relations@vesta.com.mx. 08. Francisco Uranga 53 6 years 83% Mexican Jorge Alberto de Jesús 70 6 years 17% *** Mexican who is also the company’s Chief Executive Thomas* Delgado Herrera* Officer. He holds both positions due to his 07. Luis De la Calle 57 6 years 83% Mexican Javier Mancera 57 6 years 33% *** Mexican Pardo* Arrigunaga* *Independent Members **Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of VESTA, approves the Sustainability Report in collaboration with the Board of Directors and the Social Responsibility and Environmental Committee. *** Alternate members who attended the Meetings of the Board with no voting rights because the named member was also present. They participated in the meetings to stay up to date on the company’s strategies and projects. We ensure value creation for all stakeholders based on a solid Corporate Governance structure, 2016 Meetings of the Board of Directors Date January 27 February 17 April 27 July 27 October 26 November 22 experienced leadership, and an innovative work team. Participants 100% 100% 100% 90% 100% 80% 1 Independent Directors 2 Proprietary Directors 3 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board 46 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /47 Besides the compensation and economic retribution, topics described above, during these Committees meetings the Board of Directors reviewed sustainability issues that are crucial to the company’s growth and development. Other issues discussed were the organizational structure, approval To support the functions of the Board, we have six operating committees. The chairmen of the Audit of the Director of Human Resources position, the share buyback strategy, training in innovation, Committee and the Corporate Practices Committee are elected by the Shareholders Meeting, while the political and economic environment following the presidential elections in the United States, both the members and chairmen of the other committees are elected by the Board of Directors. projects under development, and the challenges and opportunities for the company in 2017. The Chairman of the Board actively participates in the meetings of the committees, communicating to the members the most relevant issues for the company that are also included in the report he submits annually to the Board of Directors and the General Shareholders Meeting. In addition, most Board members participate as either chairmen or members in a committee, directly involving themselves with VESTA’s most relevant issues. 100% of the committees include at least one Independent Board Director. Audit Corporate Practices Investment Committee. Committee. Committee. Meetings of the Operating Committees Chairman: José Humberto Chairman: Javier Mancera Chairman: John A. Foster Committee Date Attendance Topics discussed López Niederer Arrigunaga1 Members: Members: Members: Craig Wieland1 Audit January 26 100% ·· Financial statements Stephen B. Williams1 José Antonio Pujals Lorenzo Berho Corona February 16 ·· External auditor April 26 José Manuel Domínguez1 Fuentes1 Stephen B. Williams1 ·· Building valuations Marlene Hormes1 Stephen B. Williams1 Marlene Hormes2 July 25 October 24 ·· Budgets Óscar F. Cázares Elías1 Oversees compliance with It evaluates, analyzes, and approves Corporate January 26 100% ·· Review and approval of the report on employee bonuses corporate, accounting, financial Reduces the potential risk of investments and financing for Practices February 29 ·· Analysis and approval of the compensation plan for the CEO information, and internal control carrying out operations in company projects, even making April 26 ·· Analysis and approval of the VESTA organizational matrix policies in accordance to the disadvantageous conditions or that sure that all investments take into September 1 ·· Approval and recommendation on the number of shares Mexican Securities Market Law. benefit a specific group of people or consideration environmental and corresponding to the long-term incentives plan for the top shareholders. Oversees executive social responsibility aspects. The management and employee administrative, Sustainability Manager participates in the meetings of this committee. ·· Analysis and approval of the implementation of the VESTA Social and remuneration, and compensation policies. Addresses and solves organizational structure Environmental conflicts of interest, except when, Investment January 8 100% ·· Project evaluation Responsibility because of their own nature, these February 12 ·· Approval of investments in buildings and for buying land banks Committee. need to be addressed by the Board March 17 ·· Assessment of new developments and geographies Chairman: Jorge Alberto of Directors. Ethics June 28 ·· Review of the occupancy percentages in the portfolio de Jesús Delgado Herrera1 Committee. September 7 It also functions as a Nominations Members: October 10 Committee responsible for selecting José Manuel Domínguez1 Chairman: José Antonio Ethics August 15 100% ·· Report on the activities and follow up on claims made Board members and the members Roque Trujillo of the executive committees, by Pujals Fuentes1 September 19 ·· Monitoring of employee compliance with the code of conduct Diego Berho Carranza issuing its recommendations to the Members: Social and November 15 100% ·· Approval of the budget and objectives Daniela Berho Carranza Board of Directors and to the Alejandro Pucheu Romero Environmental ·· Participation in regions with social projects Shareholders Meeting, as Elías Laniado Laborín Responsibility Promotes sustainable development in all appropriate. It also verifies the ·· “Well” and LEED certifications the company’s projects and is in charge independence of the Members. It verifies compliance with the Code Debt and Equity January 5 100% ·· Market valuation of identifying environmental risks and of Ethics; additionally, it is the body February 19 ·· General strategy, financing policies, and debt plan determining how to mitigate them. in charge of receiving and March 30 ·· Assessment of new financing options Debt and Capital processing complaints, violations, Ensures that the company’s Committee. and breaches in the company’s or environmental and social policy is our stakeholders’ rules. followed by all projects. It submits an annual report to the Board of Directors Chairman: Wilfrido Castillo including a summary of all activities and Sánchez Mejorada1 1 Independent Members 2 Alternate Member degree of compliance. The report is also Members: 3 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman submitted to the Shareholders Meeting. John A. Foster2 of the Board Stephen B. Williams1 Lorenzo Berho Corona3 Analyzes the market to draft the company’s general strategy and financing debt and equity policies to ensure growth. 48 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /49 The Social Responsibility and Environmental Committee’s selfevaluation will help us improve its contributions in the future, as the risk management model will do as well. GRI G4: G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-EC2 To update the Board of Directors on issues that have an impact on sustainability, presentations Risk Management are made during some of the meetings on relevant topics. In addition, the Board members take part in guided tours of industrial parks, works in progress, or relevant companies to gain a better At every meeting of the Board of Directors we assess the economic, political, social, and perspective of the conditions prevailing in the geographies where we operate. environmental conditions of the real estate industry in Mexico and in other countries. We follow a risk management methodology that takes into account the potential impact on our business. In 2016, for the first time, we conducted the self-evaluation of the Social Responsibility and Environmental Committee on both its performance and the issues discussed. In 2017, we will Any time a new risk is identified, the committees in charge of classifying them, based on the VESTAreplicate this with the other committees and with the Board itself. established guidelines, communicate them to the Board of Directors, and mitigation strategies are set. Also during the year we held the first meeting of the Board of Directors outside Mexico, in the city of Palo Alto, California, where we also held the course on exponential organizations and innovation Item Risks offered by Singularity University. The goal of this meeting was to include new global trends in Risks associated with ·· Economic and industry situation our company and to analyze the way in which we can integrate them into our operation, from an the business ·· Socio-political and environmental factors affecting business prospects or current projects innovative point of view. ·· Financial market volatility ·· Slowdown in our clients’ industries On the other hand, we offer several options for anyone who wishes to communicate with our executives or Board members. We have an Investor Relations division that establishes and ·· Growing competition coordinates different means of communication, including: ·· Operating or financial restrictions ·· Damages or losses due to natural phenomena ·· Conference calls ·· Developing industrial properties ·· e-mail: investor.relations@vesta.com.mx ·· Legal, environmental, and safety regulations ·· Publishing information that we consider to be relevant to the society ·· Delays or improvements at our properties ·· Reports to the Mexican Stock Exchange and the Mexican Banking and Securities Commission. ·· Succession of key executives ·· Annual and quarterly reports ·· Incurring in debt to finance acquisitions Likewise, questions can be posted to the Board of Directors—through our General Counsel—on ·· Natural phenomena and climate change economic, social, or environmental issues. In accordance with our transparency framework, our Risks associated with ·· Macroeconomic situation financial and Corporate Governance information can be viewed at www.vesta.com.mx. Mexico ·· Socio-political events ·· Exchange rates, inflation, and interest rates During 2016, the Board of Directors received inquiries concerning the prevailing political and ·· Changes in legislation economic environment in Mexico, feedback on the Code of Ethics and employee training plans. After reviewing every proposal, the corresponding committee issued a report that was submitted to Risks related to ·· Fluctuations in our share price our shares and our ·· Potential sources of financing the Board for its consideration. shareholders ·· Main shareholders with influence over the operation ·· Dividend payments ·· Limits on our operating and financial flexibility ·· Large selloff of shares 50 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /51 GRI G4: G4-14, G4-41, G4-56, G4-57, G4-58, G4-LA16, G4-HR1, G4-HR2, G4-HR3, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR8, G4-HR9, G4-HR11, G4-HR12, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-SO11, G4-PR2, G4-PR8 ETHICS AND HUMAN RIGHTS At VESTA, ethics are a part of all the decisions Via this email, whistleblowers can describe we make, both within the company and the situation either anonymously or openly, We are signatories of the United Nations externally. Consequently, we have placed particular attention to promoting a culture of knowing that the information will be handled confidentially and will be used exclusively to Global Compact, and we actively foster with our legality at all levels of the company, and with our stakeholders. This effort has helped us investigate the claim. stakeholders its 10 principles concerning human become a solid company that is an active All complaints are received by the Ethics rights, labor standards, the environment, and the fight participant in Mexico’s growth. We generate Committee, who investigates the case and trust for investors and contribute to making the determines if it merits a sanction, which can against corruption. country an industrial platform for North America result in anything from a simple reprimand, or and the rest of the world. in someone getting fired or be subjected to applicable law. Our Code of Ethics* is a document in continual evolution that consolidates our commitment The committee does not execute the sanctions; In 2016, we received and attended a complaint we include clauses in our rental agreements to being a transparent company in the whole this is the responsibility of VESTA executives. of an employee related to the non-compliance referring to ethics, human rights, and VESTA’s sense of the word, and which steers the correct However, the committee meets once every three with the Code of Ethics; we did not received position against employing child labor or creating behavior we need to adopt and the reality months, issues a report to the Chairman of the complaints pertaining to acts of corruption. This is conditions for forced labor, which we extend to in which we live. It is aimed at all of us who Board (irrespective of whether there are any the result of an open dialogue on best corporate our clients and suppliers. As of this date, we have work at VESTA, including our Board members, complaints or not), and has other objectives practices, the constant training our employees no evidence that any operation is not complying and establishes the way in which we wish to such as: receive on ethics and anti-corruption issues, as with these principles. engage with our employees, clients, suppliers, well as the request we make of all our clients and shareholders, society, industry, the environment, 1. To encourage compliance with the Code of suppliers that they comply, as we do at VESTA, Although we have not carried out any human and the authorities, as well as a series of Ethics, including awareness, understanding and with the Law for Preventing and Identifying rights evaluations at the work centers, in 2016 we measures to prevent conflicts of interest and assimilation within the company. Operations done with Illicit Resources. The law received no reports concerning labor practices, corruption practices. It is constantly updated 2. To determine a system of consequences aimed implies gathering information on third parties with discrimination, social impact, or human rights through meetings held three times a year where at strengthening compliance with the Code. whom we do business to determine whether their violations, nor did we detect any real or potential the new challenges and ethical dilemmas being 3. To process the ideas, suggestions, concerns, actions are legitimate. risks of child or forced labor at our locations. faced by the industry and our country are complaints, and feedback of a moral nature, discussed. drafting recommendations for the company that In terms of regulatory compliance, we adhere to In addition, during this period we did not receive are consistent with the whistleblower system. all applicable regulations in the markets where any grievances or complaints concerning the We train our whole team regularly on the content 4. To identify areas and topics in which ethical we operate. In 2016, we were not subject to violation of the rights of indigenous groups. Our of the Code of Ethics, and we include training standards, or the consequences system, any reviews, reports, sanctions, or fines related properties are located in areas that have been on this issue in the induction course that every are insufficient or nonexistent and, where to monopolistic or anti-trust practices, nonspecifically allocated to industrial purposes in new employee must take. We also share it appropriate, establish the required standards or compliance with health and safety while offering the development plans established by state and with our clients and suppliers, whom we ask to consequences. our services, or with any other law. municipal authorities. Correspondingly, there have adhere to the principles included in the code. 5. To request information related to how been no community displacements or relocations. environmental, social, economic, and corporate We adhere to all applicable legislation in Mexico On the contrary, at VESTA we are committed to To report acts or behaviors that go against the governance risks are being managed, in order to to handle our clients’ information adequately. We establishing a positive relationship with society guidelines established in our Code of Ethics, we make specific recommendations. did not receive any complaints about privacy through investments, job creation, economic make the following email address available to all 6. To strengthen the ethical culture in the company. breaches or personal data leaks. Additionally, benefits, and training. our stakeholders: etica@vesta.com.mx most of the information we gather from our clients is public information. Likewise, we demand from our suppliers and clients that they comply with all applicable At VESTA we do not sell banned or disputed legal obligations, including but not limited to, products. the stipulations of the Federal Labor Law, as well as our Sustainable Construction Manual To make sure that the human rights of every for contractors, that includes sustainability and person with whom we interact are protected, human rights clauses. At VESTA we maintain a position of zero tolerance to corruption and we operate with total transparency and adherence to all applicable laws. * The VESTA Code of Ethics can be viewed on our website: www.vesta.com.mx 52 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /53 GRI G4: G4-9, G4-10, G4-11, G4-35, G4-36, G4-54, G4-55, G4-EC3, G4-EC5, G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3, G4-LA12, G4-LA13, G4-HR4 TEAM At VESTA we are creating the synergies we status, pregnancy, illnesses, ideas, opinions, Number of employees by gender Number of employees by age range need in order to become an exponential disabilities, political or sexual preferences, organization with the flexibility to adapt and religion, or social or economic conditions in our 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 leverage opportunities when facing the employees or in people applying to occupy a Men 23 34 40 <25 0 2 4 disruptive changes in the global environment. post in our company. Women 13 19 25 26-30 9 10 14 Women at director level 0 1 2 31-35 6 14 15 We are a group of men and women led by As a result of our growth, in 2016 we increased a creative, collaborative, and responsible our workforce to 65 employees, 40 men and Women at manager level 3 3 3 36-40 7 7 8 leadership that promotes our growth as a 25 women. They are all directly employed by Women at staff level 10 15 20 >41 14 20 24 company. We can anticipate the needs of our VESTA Management, S. de R.L. de C.V. Even Total 36 53 65 clients with unique and innovative projects and, though we ensure their freedom of association Average age 41 39 38 at the same time, set the pace to stir up the real and their right to belong to a Union, none of our estate sector in Mexico. current employees are unionized. We know that, to create synergies, promote Independent contractors who operate with their different forms of innovation, and enrich our own collective bargaining contracts carry out Employees 2014-2016 work, we need a diverse team. Correspondingly, construction at our industrial facilities; their we make no distinctions for age, gender, workers are unionized in each of the regions race, ethnicity, origin, nationality, social where we build our developments. We increased the 65 percentage of women 53 36 who work at VESTA from 36% in 2015 to 38% in 2016. 2014 2015 2016 We praise the passion, talent, commitment, and experience of our employees because we are certain that this is, and will continue to be, a key to reaching our company goals. 54 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /55 Organization Chart Number of employees by position in 2016 Level Director Manager Staff Total Age range Men Women Men Women Men Women <30 1 0 0 0 5 11 17 30-40 4 1 8 2 4 5 24 41-50 3 0 5 1 1 1 41 Chief >50 7 1 1 0 1 3 13 Executive Officer Total 15 2 14 3 11 20 65 Employees by type of contract and gender in 2016 Corporate Bajio Tijuana Toluca Guanajuato Aguascalientes Ciudad Juárez Puebla Total by type of Manager of Assistant to contract and gender Sustainability the CEO Permanent 39 7 7 5 2 2 2 1 65 Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Men 23 5 3 4 1 2 1 1 40 Women 16 2 4 1 1 0 1 0 25 Manager of Internal Analyst for Internal Communications Auditor Auditing VESTA’s corporate structure includes 17 our main competitors. We do this through salary directors, 17 managers, 31 administrative surveys conducted by global consulting firms, staff, operations coordinators, and internal taking into consideration the responsibilities auditors, all of whom carry out their duties inherent to each position to compare them with transparency, in adherence to corporate against equivalent positions in companies values, and in a socially responsible manner, similar to VESTA in terms of the industry, sales Chief Chief Chief General Chief Chief in response to their corresponding economic, volume, and number of employees. Financial Operations Investments Counsel Development Human Resources environmental, and social issues. Officer Officer Officer Officer Officer Additionally, we established a process to make The Human Resources Management manages a general salary revision, which is carried out Corporate Deputy Director all training plans and programs to ensure our annually during the first month of the year, Counsel of Development employees can grow by employing cutting-edge and includes an inflation-based adjustment, tools that will allow them to meet not only the ensuring that our employees maintain their Manager of Manager of Talent Compensations company’s goals, but their own as well. The purchasing power. We also use this review to Director of Director of the Director of Chief Legal division is also charged with promoting the best make adjustments in the retribution of those Accounting Treasury Investor Information Assistant Relations Officer working conditions needed to attract and retain employees whose performance exceeds our employees. expectations, and to level out people who are receiving salaries below the market average for During the third quarter of 2016, we hired their position. a Director of Human Resources with vast experience in global companies, in order to In 2016, we granted a general 5% raise, take this division to a level that corresponds to including the highest paid employee. For the Director of Director of Director of Director of Director of Vice President New Business New Business New Business New Business New Business of Asset the evolution and growth we have experienced employees who were leveled out, the highest Bajio North Central Silao Aguascalientes Management over the past few years. This position reports raise we granted was 44%. directly to the CEO and participates in different committees as an observer, thus ensuring that In 2017, we will review all positions with the all issues related to our employees are among collaboration of an external consultant in VESTA’s strategic priorities. order to classify them by level and to allocate a salary band. This will enable us to manage Analyst for Analyst for Analyst for Analyst for Because it is vitally important for us to not every employee’s total remuneration in a more Planning Planning Planning Prices only attract the best talent, but also to retain objective and effective manner, and in line with it, we continually seek validation concerning the best practices in the market. how competitive the remuneration we offer our employees is with respect to the market and 100% of our employees receive a salary above the general minimum wage. 56 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /57 The minimum wage at VESTA is 3.33 times higher than the general minimum wage. takes into account the candidate’s most recent We also offer an attractive benefits package beyond legal stipulations including: a three-month 2016 average Base Salary (in multiples of the minimum wage) compensation package, the level and salary performance bonus once a year, gasoline coupons, major medical insurance for our employees Company Level Men Women Ratio band, the position profile, and the required and their children under the age of 24, life insurance, car insurance as part of the VESTA fleet, Director 108 35 3 times competencies. maternity and paternity leave, even when adopting a child. Manager 30 16 2 times The following table shows our average initial Life insurance for employees Staff 11 11 Fair salary2 for new employees hired during 2016 at Coverage Investment 2014 Investment 2015 Investment 2016 *Average salary by company level locations where we have significant operations: Total 100% US $17,215.92 US $14,654.16 US $15,240.03 Within VESTA the minimum wage (MW) to Average initial salary in 2016 (in multiples of the minimum wage) highest salary ratio is 71 times, while the This benefit allows our employees to determine the date on which they want to begin their paid City Men Women average salary is 38.6 times higher than the maternity leave and gives them the opportunity to work on a flextime basis with full-pay for up to minimum wage. Mexico City 37 11 six months after the expiration of their law-backed leave. Employees can opt to work from home, ·· Highest salary in MW= 108 Tijuana 4 8 depending on the needs of their division and upon approval by their superior. ·· Average salary in MW= 39 Queretaro 34 17 ·· Difference between the lowest salary and the For paternity leave, employees can take up to 10 working days off within six months from the date Toluca 17 8 average= 4.5 times of birth or adoption of the child. Because we are currently making the necessary We offer our employees a benefits package in Due to this maternity and paternity leave benefit, our retention rate after the birth of a child is 100%. adjustments to ensure gender equality in accordance with what the Mexican labor law our operation, starting in 2016, we review stipulates including: 30-day Christmas bonus Likewise, in seeking to ensure the comfort and wellbeing of our employees, we offer them other all candidate profiles during recruiting and and, depending on seniority, 25% vacation-pay, benefits such as a business casual dress code, healthy snacks, and support for participating in selection processes without taking gender employee profit sharing, and vacations (six days exercise and physical activity programs. We subsidize up to US $240 a year for sports programs, into consideration. The initial salary we offer1 a year for staff, 16 for managers, and 25 for top races, or gym memberships and 50% of the cost of a Fitbit Flex sports and health monitor. executives). Due to the maternity and paternity leave benefit, our retention rate after the birth of a child is 100%. 1 We are making the necessary adjustments in order to offer fair salaries. 2 The minimum wage was standardized in all of Mexico since 2015. 58 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /59 WELL BUILDING STANDARD® CERTIFICATION Over the past few years, we have implemented such as air, water, light, comfort, nutrition, efforts to improve working conditions within our wellbeing, and physical and mental health. We strive to benefit the whole team by offering corporate offices, striving to benefit the whole team by offering them a working space where As part of the evaluation process, aspects them a working space where they can improve they can improve productivity while performing such as performance and the impact of these productivity while performing their duties, as well their duties, as well as their quality of life in the efforts on the staff are measured. To this end, long term. we conducted a satisfaction survey among our as their quality of life in the long term. employees in the corporate offices. Results Our commitment with this program includes show that 83% feel they are more productive obtaining the WELL Building Standard® individually, and 94% believe the space has certification in 2017, and becoming the first resulted in greater productivity for the company corporate headquarters in Mexico to obtain as a whole. such a distinction. The result proves we are on the right path The certification is granted to companies toward continuing to improve the wellbeing of who prove they have managed up to certain our employees while at the same time promoting standards different aspects within their building company growth. 60 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /61 GRI G4: G4-EC6, G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, CRE6, G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11 Health and safety In 2017, we will draft our own Health and Employee turnover develop the best capabilities in its employees. Occupational Safety Policy aimed at our employees, Consequently, in 2016 we offered training on the contractors, and visitors to reinforce our current 2014 2015 2016 following topics: The health and safety of our employees is a key factor in our ability to offer the best efforts and initiatives. Correspondingly, we will put Employees hired 9 19 21 working conditions to carry out the company’s together first aid, evacuation, and fire brigades at all Employees cut 3 2 10 ·· Exponential Organizations (Singularity activities. Consequently, we focus on company facilities. University) Total employees 36 53 65 promoting good health habits, preventing ·· Induction program Absenteeism, work-related illnesses, lost days, Turnover Rate 16.67% 32.08% 16.92% ·· English accidents, eliminating risks, and on being prepared to face emergencies. and fatalities ·· Corporate Governance *Formula to calculate turnover: (Hires-cuts) / total 2014 2015 2016 employees*100 ·· Law against money laundering We offer our employees benefits that Fatalities 0 0 0 ·· e-marketing, social networks, and contribute to their health, such as medical When we include new employees in our team, performance metrics Contractor fatalities 0 0 1 ·· Procaf Conferences check-ups for the managing team, and social we strive to get them to identify with our security (IMSS) and major medical insurance Injury rates, lost days, 0 0 0 philosophy and work ethic so that they can ·· ISO-9001 for all employees and their immediate families and absenteeism successfully perform their duties. We offer ·· System to Manage Real Estate Developments (spouses and children under the age of 24), Total hours worked 81,648 122,112 148,976 them feedback after their first three months on (SADI) including dental coverage and eye care. the job, evaluating aspects such as attitude, ·· Customer Relations Management Program teamwork, results-orientation, communication, (CRM) Due to the nature of our business, we do not perform high-risk activities nor we use hazardous as well as their knowledge of their area, the Investment in major life insurance for employees (us) planning process, and the company itself. Our top management and some members materials. Our employees are not at risk of of our Board of Directors participated in the Coverage 2014 2015 2016 acquiring any work-related illnesses. For the whole team, we carry out competencyExponential Organizations course that was held Employees 100% $19,735 $20,020 $78,867 based performance evaluations, through which in Palo Alto, California, and taught by professors Directors 100% $264,145 $216,879 $187,853 we detect training and development needs in of the Singularity University. The rest of our Attracting and retaining talent order to establish specific plans to contribute to personnel participated remotely by employing Investment in the health of employees (us) each employee’s professional career. the technology installed at our facilities. At VESTA we mark the difference in our sector: 2014 2015 2016 we attract and retain people who, in addition to In 2016, we carried out the competencyWe decided to take this course because it is Total investment $311,191 $251,554 $293,677 their individual talents, share our team spirit as based performance evaluation for the whole linked to our company’s innovation strategy and well as our company values, making it possible Number of employees 36 53 65 workforce. Starting in 2017, each employee will we view it as the driver behind the work we will to create synergies with everyone we interact have annual objectives that will be evaluated do in 2017 to implement certain projects and Investment per $8,644 $4,746 $4,518 with, achieving exponentially positive results. employee at the end of the year in conjunction with the concepts derived from this training. In 2016, resulting from the growth of our competencies of each position. They will receive feedback from their supervisor on both In 2016 we offered 1,305 man-hours of training, In order to ensure the safety of the people who business, we welcomed 21 new employees into their strengths and areas where they need for a 17% increase with respect to 2015. work at or visit our corporate offices, we adhere to our workforce, for a 22% increase with respect the procedures established by the administration to 2015. All new hires are compatible with the to improve, to reinforce or improve specific staff of the building where our offices are located. philosophy we are known for: INNOVESTEAM. actions. This methodology will allow us to focus Man-hours of training per employee We also have evacuation brigades composed of our efforts, abilities, and expertise on growing three employees per work center who are trained Among the new employees, two are Mexican as a team and creating synergies. 21 20 to address any potential situation and have the executives directly reporting to the CEO. necessary evacuation equipment, including vests, Additionally, we will identify key positions bracelets, and megaphones. At our parks, we Our turnover rate decreased with respect to within the company, as well as high-potential guarantee the safety of our contractors by adhering 2015 and average seniority continues to be four employees, to develop succession plans to to all legal stipulations. years, as it has been in previous years. Of the ensure the continuity of the business. employees who left our company, eight did so 4.2 on their own accord, and two were asked to We offer all our employees flexibility in their work schedule so they can attend specialized 2014 2015 2016 leave by the company. or post-graduate courses, or obtain a Master’s degree, and we motivate them to continue training and to share their knowledge with their colleagues and/or at academic institutions. Over the coming years we will continue to work to consolidate projects and programs aimed at For a company to become an Exponential developing our employees in order to achieve INNOVESTEAM refers to working with a Organization, it needs to, among other things, offer the necessary training tools to our VESTA vision and to become a platform for innovation. common goal and shared values, and applying innovation in our daily work. 62 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /63 INTERNS FOR SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRIAL REAL ESTATE Aligned with our commitment to sustainability participated in this program in 2016. They and education, we designed our Sustainable interacted with our top executives by Industrial Real Estate Internship, aimed at participating in meetings, through their daily University students who are interested in work, and by visiting our industrial parks. understanding the trends and opportunities in the field of sustainability in the industrial real They were also involved in other company estate sector in Mexico. projects such as our inclusion in the Sustainability Index of the BMV, Bloomberg Two students, one male and one female, indicators, the VESTA Adopt a School program, still enrolled in the University to obtain their the Carbon Disclosure Project, and building Bachelor’s Degree respectively in Sustainable homes for underprivileged communities. Development in Engineering, and Marketing, We strive to help our interns understand our business as well as VESTA’s sustainable management efforts, so that in the future they can become part of INNOVESTEAM. 64 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /65 GRI G4: G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 STAKEHOLDERS Employees ·· Quarterly management review ·· Offering a better work place in a ·· Participation in events and conferences wellness environment Having an excellent team and offering high-quality services is vitally important to offer our ·· Training programs ·· Work environment that promotes stakeholders the service they need. However, this in itself is not enough to create value for all of ·· Performance evaluations learning them. We know that it is important for us to get to know them, communicate with them, and establish ·· Specific e-mail for complaints ·· Professional and personal growth flourishing relationships that will allow us to anticipate their requirements, requests, and needs, ·· Monthly internal electronic newsletter ·· Fair and responsible compensation ·· Website while at the same time ensuring the sustainability of our business. ·· Open doors policy to meet with any director ·· Motivational content developed specifically for the video wall Through the CRSA, we have identified the stakeholders with whom we interact directly or indirectly. ·· Wellness content on cafeteria screen Real estate ·· Active participation in industry associations ·· Long-term relationships partners ·· Participation as panelists and sponsors at industry events ·· Quick response Stakeholders Type of communication with a permanent Vesta value proposition ·· Continuous meetings with brokers contact frequency ·· Site visits to buildings and industrial parks ·· Media interviews Clients ·· Customer Satisfaction Survey (maintenance and trade) ·· Offering Class “A” buildings and ·· Visibility in publications promoting foreign investment and ·· Ongoing individual and group meetings industrial parks with the best sustainability issues ·· Building maintenance program and contract renewals location ·· Brokers day in each region ·· Corporate and regional contact, in addition to specific ·· Offering the best quality in requirements, with the Asset Management division Society ·· Participation in local projects with the community where we ·· Long-term relationships engineering and architecture operate ·· Participation in industry events and forums in different regions ·· Credibility ·· High-level client service and ability ·· Open communication before and during the development of ·· Tenant Appreciation Day to execute our industrial parks ·· Direct and indirect economic impact ·· Joint participation in local social responsibility projects ·· Specific e-mail for complaints ·· Prompt response to specific needs ·· Media presence ·· Advertising in local newspapers in the regions where we are ·· Research articles in trade publications ·· Regular service and contact to present anticipate needs ·· Inauguration and kick-off events at our developments ·· Press invitations to inauguration and kick-off events at our ·· Website developments ·· Quarterly electronic newsletter for external communication ·· Visibility in publications promoting foreign investment and sustainability issues Shareholders ·· Shareholders Meeting ·· Value creation ·· Website ·· Quarterly results conference call including Q&A session with ·· Modern portfolio ·· Developments’ promotion in media top management ·· High rates of return Government ·· Active participation in fora and events focused on attracting ·· Relationships to help develop and ·· Integrated Annual Report foreign investment leverage key projects ·· Annual report to the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and Mexican Securities Commission (CNBV) ·· Meetings and calls ·· Investor Relations division ·· Visibility in publications promoting foreign investment and sustainability issues ·· Participation in investor conferences ·· Participating in municipal and state fora ·· One-on-one meetings with shareholders, investors, financial analysts, debt holders, and global banks. ·· Inviting relevant authorities to inauguration and groundbreaking events at our developments ·· Site visits to properties and industrial parks ·· Website Suppliers ·· Satisfaction Survey ·· Credibility ·· Contractors’ Day (Development division) ·· Credit risk We offer all of them an e-mail address that is Based on the results of our customer ·· Open bidding process to select contractors ·· Transparent processes reviewed daily to address their concerns and satisfaction surveys, we submit a written ·· Work meetings and calls ·· Selection according to established issues that are relevant to our business: report to the corresponding division, which in ·· Weekly reports during the construction process ·· Supplier development through VESTA’s Sustainable criteria contact@vesta.com.mx turn develops an action plan to address any Construction Manual pending issues. When a specific request is ·· Selecting suppliers for promotional articles, design, and To meet the requirements of our investors, made through the survey, we contact the client printing that are awarded annually through a bidding process we offer them our e-mail address investor. directly. ·· Drafting specific briefs for marketing and communications topics relations@ vesta.com.mx, managed by the ·· Regular meetings to review communication objectives Investor Relations division. This year we conducted two customer ·· Monitoring designs, communications, marketing and branding satisfaction surveys, instead of one. The first ·· Annual satisfaction survey to find opportunities for improvement in Employment and internship applications are was with commercial clients, and the second relationships and to make processes more agile ·· Information on our VESTA Adopt a School program and VESTA handled by the Human Resources division. was about maintenance. This helped us Challenge, and invitations to participate in them Media and interview requests are handled identify specific needs and, above all, design by our Communications division. In addition, the strategies we need in order to be more the New Business, Development, or Asset proactive and address pressing issues for our Management divisions respond to people or clients promptly. It also allows us to maintain our companies offering their services, land, or properties in an optimal state. industrial buildings to us. 66 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /67 VESTA CONTRACTORS’ DAY AND GROUNDBREAKING EVENTS In 2016, in response to the growth and On the other hand, we also organized two strengthening of our Development team, groundbreaking events at two of our new we held an event with 70 contractors who developments: the F3 building at VESTA Park work with us in the construction of industrial Tijuana III and VESTA Park Aguascalientes. buildings and parks. The goal was to share State and municipal authorities, brokers, legal with them our objectives for the future, the teams, suppliers, Board members, investors, company’s growth plan, and to explain how employees, and other stakeholders, all the Asset Management division will work. participated in these events. Our goal is to strengthen our relationship with our suppliers and other stakeholders, by being proactive and improving our contact mechanisms. 68 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /69 GRI G4: G4-15, G4-16 Associations We participate in our communities through different associations and chambers to which we belong. We establish partnerships and develop projects in collaboration with them to bring about change to the industry because we are convinced that the sum of all efforts results in more growth for our country. We also actively participate in the B20 Summit, whose mission is to support the G20 on issues dealing with responsibility in a sustainable world economy. Our CEO participates in the Committee for Responsible Conduct in Business and Anti-corruption. Asociación Mexicana de Parques Industriales (AMPIP) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Cámara México-Alemana de Comercio e Industria (CAMEXA) US Green Building Council (USGBC) Sustentabilidad para México (SUME) B20 Group Asociación de Parques Industriales del Bajio Asociación Mexicana de la Industria Maquiladora y Exportación (AIM) Tijuana y Ciudad Juárez Desarrollo Económico e Industrial de Tijuana (DEITAC) Industria Nacional de Autopartes (INA) Consejo de América Latina de Real Estate Network de YPO/WPO Consejo Empresarial Mexicano de Comercio Exterior, Inversión y Tecnología (COMCE) Urban Land Institute (ULI) Federación Mexicana de la Industria Aeroespacial (FEMIA) Desarrollo Económico de Ciudad Juárez Otay Mesa Chamber of Commerce Western Maquila Association Smart Border Coalition National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAIRET) Issuers Committee of the Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Committee of the Mexican Stock Exchange Consejo Consultivo de Financiamiento Verde of the Mexican Stock Exchange 70 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /71 05 TRANSFORMATION Social and Environmental Responsibility:// We create opportunities for growth for the communities neighboring our developments with social and environmental initiatives. US $165,486 IN SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 274.37 kWp RENEWABLE ENERGY INSTALLED 147.54 TON REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS 72 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /73 GRI G4: G4-EC7, G4-SO1, G4-SO2, CRE7 SOCIAL Culture In the communities where we are present, On the other hand, and aligned with the simply because of the essence of our business, company values we are known for, we strive for we can become a platform through which, in all our developments to implement community collaboration with our clients, we generate engagement programs in which other economic benefits by creating jobs, sharing stakeholders also participate. This allows us to knowledge, developing infrastructure, and generate an exponential and transcendental establishing points that favor connectivity. change to benefit not only VESTA itself, but also the people living in those communities and the Construction of our parks comes with social other parties involved. benefits for the people who live in nearby communities, such as better access to the area, These programs are all approved by the Social pavement, public lighting, road signs, road Responsibility and Environmental Committee connections, power line infrastructure, access (CRSA, by its name in Spanish) and by our to public transportation, and access for people CEO, once they comply with the established with disabilities, among others. guidelines. Priority is given to those programs that offer a significant and measurable impact in It is important to mention that the VESTA the company’s area of influence. facilities are installed on land designated as industrial areas by local authorities as We have an Investment Policy in place for social part of their master development plans. and environmental impact efforts that establishes Consequently, we have had no displacements that for each square foot of leased space we must or voluntary or involuntary relocations of people invest US $0.01 cents. In 2016, we invested US or communities, nor any negative current or $165,486, almost US $19 thousand more than potential impact on the communities where we in 2015, benefiting 15,448 people directly or are present. indirectly, with 105,982 man-hours of work in the communities where we operate. Construction of our parks comes with social benefits for the people who live in nearby communities. 74 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /75 VESTA ADOPT The project began with the Faustino Arciniega A SCHOOL Morales Elementary School in Toluca, and this year we adopted three more schools in the Since 2013, VESTA Adopt a School has been one of our flagship social responsibility efforts. It cities of Queretaro, Silao, and Ciudad Juárez. allows us to provide better education to the children living in the communities where we participate, by offering them infrastructure, training, technological tools, and recreational areas. We have rehabilitated common, surrounding, and sports areas, installed water and electricity infrastructure, equipped classrooms with technology, offered training to teachers and parents, and taught workshops on environmental stewardship and energy conservation. After we finish with material interventions, we also offer life-skills workshops for children, teachers, and parents. The program is known as Adopt a School because our involvement is permanent and long term. 2013-2016 beneficiaries of the VESTA adopt a school program Beneficiaries Toluca Queretaro Ciudad Juárez Silao Total Students 67 425 350 45 887 Parents 30 225 250 30 535 Teachers 3 13 13 5 34 Social Service Members 2 0 0 0 2 Total 102 663 613 80 1,458 Toluca Ciudad Juárez Profesor Faustino Arciniega Morales Othón Martínez Lara Elementary School Elementary School –adjacent to VESTA adjacent to TPI, BRP, and the VESTA land Park Toluca II reserve ·· In previous years we carried out ·· We offered life-skills workshops to 250 Querétaro Silao infrastructure works in common and parents, students, and teachers. sports areas and classrooms, and we ·· Parents also participated in play-andPresidente Adolfo López Mateos Miguel F. Martínez Kindergarten – restructured their electric installation. experience-based workshops. Elementary School – adjacent to the community of El Salitrillo, near VESTA Park ·· In collaboration with other suppliers, we ·· We designed a teachers’ manual, and Bernardo Quintana Park Guanajuato installed solar panels, making this the only children participated in different activities public school in the Estado de México throughout the year. ·· We invested in energy-efficient ·· We contribute to improving and to employ eco-technology to generate infrastructure and got a contract with the maintaining infrastructure in collaboration ·· We donated shoes for the children. renewable energy. Today energy costs for Federal Electricity Commission (CFE). with five of our suppliers. the school are null. ·· We offered training courses to 425 ·· We equipped classrooms, libraries, and ·· In collaboration with the Yo Quiero children and 225 parents on the benefits computer centers. Yo Puedo, A.C. non-governmental of renewable energy. ·· Our volunteers painted external walls, organization, we continue to offer life·· In collaboration with Yo Quiero Yo Puedo, games, dinner tables, bathroom skills workshops that we started two years A.C. we offered play-and-experienceappliances, the fence, and the main ago, for children, their parents, and their based workshops to parents and drafted access. teachers. a life-preparedness manual for teachers so they can continue to work with the children. 76 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /77 VESTA CHALLENGE To promote good habits and interaction among our employees and their families, we participated in a 72 km cycling event on the Rosarito-Valle de Guadalupe route in Baja California. People from the neighboring communities, brokers, clients, contractors, and Board members, among others, also participated. VESTA’s team included 37 cyclers—the second largest corporate team in the event—all of whom finished the race. We offered 10 plane tickets for employees who do not live in Tijuana as an incentive to participate, and we donated US $10,000 to the cause. The goal of the event is to raise funds for treating children with cancer who are patients of the Pediatric Oncology Center (COP) in Baja California, a hospital that is backed by the Castro-Limón Foundation. 78 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /79 BUILDING HOMES FOR UNDERPRIVILEGED FAMILIES With the volunteer work of 42 of our employees, for a total of 385 man-hours of work, we built 10 homes in Santa Ana Jilotzingo, in the Estado de México, and one in Tijuana, in Baja California, on land plots that were donated by the families of people who are living in vulnerable and overcrowded conditions. These actions bring to life our ethical commitment with the communities where we operate, in an effort to have a more just society in our country. 80 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /81 Performance Summary of social performance and priorities Past Present Future To make sure that our social performance generates a real and tangible impact on the communities 2014 2015 2016 Mid Term Long Term where we are present, we establish midand long-term goals aligned with our VESTA Vision 20/20. Training, performance, and work environment. 100% of our We hired a person to We created a new Establish strategic Establish a Career employees has a oversee the Human Human Resources Human Resources Plan for all our Summary of social performance and priorities short-term variable Resources division. division, and hired objectives, conduct employees. Past Present Future compensation system 100% of our an expert to head a satisfaction or 2014 2015 2016 Mid Term Long Term and 30% have a employees is on a it. For the first work environment long-term variable short-term variable time we carried survey, increase to Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Index (IPC) compensation system. compensation system out a performance 100% the percentage Score for the first time Second consecutive Third consecutive Remaining in the BMV Be the sustainability and 25% on a evaluation based on of employees who we were included in score: score: Sustainability Index. leader in the industry. long-term variable competencies for the receive an annual the index: -Universidad Anáhuac -Universidad Anáhuac compensation system. whole workforce, and performance review. Universidad Anáhuac 8.35/10 8.95/10 we established 2017 7.27/10 -EIRIS 28/60 objectives. ESG Bloomberg 4.2 man-hours in 21 man-hours in 20 man-hours in Implement the DTN Offer 25 man-hours in external training per external training per external training per (Detect Training external training per Score: 33.88 Score: 40.50 Score: 42.56 Maintain the same Become the reference employee. employee. employee. Needs) project for all employee. score range. in the industry employees. for information transparency. --127 man-hours in 154 man-hours in Encourage employee Offer 200 man-hours internal training, internal training. participation in in internal training. Social initiatives under social action guidelines taught by other training on specific Implemented in 75% Implemented in 80% Implemented in 80% Implement initiatives Implement social employees. topics. of the regions where of the regions where of the regions where aligned with our initiatives in 100% of Integrated Annual Report. we operate. we operate. The CRSA we operate. social investment the regions where we approved the social strategy and increase operate. We published our We published our third We published our Increase the scope Perform an initiative guidelines. participation in the second Integrated Integrated Annual fourth Integrated of performance annual audit of We trained 100% regions where we Annual Report under Report, using the GRI Annual Report under indicators to our performance of employees in operate. the GRI 3.1 guidelines. G4 guidelines for the the GRI G4 guidelines. communicate indicators. corporate ethics and At the request of a first time. At the request At the request of a information that cybersecurity. tenant, we audited the of a tenant, we audited tenant, we audited the is relevant to our non-financial public the non-financial public non-financial public stakeholders. Social projects information through information through an information through We benefited 193 We benefited 1,403 We benefited Improve mechanisms Make social an independent third independent third party. an independent third people with an people with an 15,488 people with to measure social investments in 100% party. party. investment of 842 investment of 64,653 an investment of impact. of the regions. Communication man-hours and US man-hours and US 105,982 man-hours $102,442. $146,667. and US $165,486. We created the We sent out seven We sent out 12 Increase the frequency Increase the reach Newsletter as a Newsletters to our Newsletters to our of publications so that of the Newsletter to Social Responsibility and Evironmental Committee (CRSA) means to keep all our employees. employees. We we have 12 per year. different stakeholders. We held two sessions A new independent We held two Strengthen the Establish a strategy employees informed. created a specialized and one work director was added sessions with 100% relationship with to verify how social Newsletter for brokers meeting with 100% and we carried out attendance. We stakeholders through investments perform. and clients. attendance. three sessions with established the annual collaborative project. Participate in international forums and conferences the participation of Social Responsibility the CEO and CFO as Award to recognize We actively We actively We actively Maintain participation Explore different guests. outstanding participated in participated in the participated in the in national and long-term financial employees and two international Issuers Forum of the Issuers Forum of the international mechanisms with regions. conferences with BMV. We explored BMV. conferences and sustainability responsible investors. the possibility of attract potential guidelines. issuing green longresponsible investors term debt. to the company. 82 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /83 GRI G4: G4-EN7, G4-EN19, G4-EN27, G4-EN31 ENVIRONMENTAL Culture At VESTA we promote an environmental 4. Materials and resources: use regional, stewardship culture with all our stakeholders. recycled, and environmentally friendly The VESTA facilities are designed to use natural Even during the planning stages of our developments, we include construction materials to reduce environmental impact and, at the same time, contribute to local light, take into consideration that thermal comfort guidelines that have the least environmental development; consider including a space is needed to minimize the use of air conditioning impact and include eco-efficient technologies. in the facility for separating waste and for recycling. systems, consider the weather and hydrography In collaboration with one of our strategic partners, in 2012 we developed our 5. Indoor environmental quality: reduce the amount of volatile organic compounds of the surroundings to achieve the best Sustainable Construction Manual based on internationally recognized standards to establish that affect the health and productivity of employees, promote access to spaces performance and lowest impact, and use five important points in terms of the environment with a view, natural light, and comfortable materials sourced in nearby locations. that our suppliers and contractors need to take temperature, and minimize exposure to into consideration at any of our developments. cigarette smoke, in order to create an environment for wellbeing. 1. Sustainable sites: to reduce pollution and This manual was designed to reinforce our the negative impact on the construction site commitment to the environment and society, in by implementing erosion and sedimentation addition to contributing to improve the company plans, the use of thermal materials and good reputation with our investors, strategic permeable paving to harvest rainwater, and partners, potential clients, and other stakeholders. protecting surrounding habitats and natural resources. In collaboration with our suppliers and contractors, 2. Water efficiency: install water harvesting we focus on continually improving the design and and reuse systems and water-saving fixtures, construction methods so that our properties are plant native vegetation that require little eco-efficient and, at the same time, respond to the water, and treat wastewater to reduce the specific needs of our clients. use of drinking water. Although we have no control over the activities 3. Energy and atmosphere: include or consumption habits of our tenants, we do specifications for thermal materials to be encourage them to install other tools and used in windows, domes, roofs, and walls technologies that will allow them to use the to reduce energy consumption, maintain space in an efficient, profitable, healthy, and optimal comfort levels based on the environment-friendly manner. requirements established in the Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC), and Likewise, in order to improve VESTA’s consider using natural light, LED lighting, environmental performance within our sector, and photovoltaic panels. for several years we have been investing in sustainable initiatives for our developments. Environmental investments (US dollars) Initiative 2014 2015 2016 Photovoltaic energy US $276,753 US $166,471 US $133,790 Changing to LED lights US $54,112.5 0 0 LED lighting in new buildings US $460,902 US $1,050,425 US $684,978 Total US $791,767 US $1,216,896 US $818,768 *New buildings 2014 – 90,267 m2 *New buildings 2015 – 238,009 m2 *New buildings 2016 – 233,802 m2 84 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /85 BAJA CALIFORNIA RECOGNIZED BY CRSA Among the efforts of the Baja California team in Social Responsibility, the following stand out: contest to paint murals for the sub-stations of an industrial park, in which four muralists could show their talent, as well as a campaign in collaboration with the Naturalus association to promote the use of eco-friendly shopping bags at the Calimax supermarkets in Tijuana. To this end, University students designed 1,300 bags with an environmental protection message. In addition, they also built a home for an underprivileged family, and organized and coordinated the 2016 VESTA Challenge. The Baja California region was recognized by the Social Responsibility and Environmental Committee (CRSA) for their outstanding work, initiative, and selfless volunteerism in the area. 86 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /87 GRI G4: G4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN3, CRE1, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7 Materials management Energy management The main materials we use to build our developments are concrete and steel structures and sheets. At our developments, most of the consumption of energy results from the activities carried out by our The suppliers we hire for the projects follow the guidelines on materials specified in our Sustainable clients, over which we have no direct control. However, as part of our commitment to sustainability, Construction Manual and they purchase the raw materials for the buildings. Whenever possible, we since the design stages of our projects we encourage the use of eco-efficient technologies that will use materials with a high content of recycled inputs or that have a high potential for being recycled allow us to collaborate in reducing energy consumption at the industrial parks. and/or reused at the end of their life cycle. During the negotiation process with potential clients of the Build to Suit (BTS) buildings, we offer to In 2016, the volume of the strategic materials used in our developments was distributed as follows: prepare the facility for LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification. We can collaborate with those tenants whose policies so require in the process to obtain the certification. In 2015, we reported exclusively the energy consumption for which we are personally responsible: the operation of common areas and corporate offices. Strategic material by measuring unit Direct energy consumption Concrete (m3) 2014 2015 2016 kWh GJ kWh GJ kWh GJ 95,826 Energy consumption at existing locations Energy consumption at new locations 204,788 139,603 737.24 502.58 327,718 111,655 1,179.81 401.96 287,649 * 1,035.54 * 81,521 Total (kWh) 344,391 1,239.82 439,373 1,581.77 287,649 1,035.54 *As of the closing of this report we do not have the corresponding information. Energy consumption from renewable sources 2015 2016 Installed photovoltaic capacity 2015 2016 Objetivo a largo plazo kWp 56.84 90.09 241.68 Cumulative 184.28 274.37 516.05 Sheets (ton) The specified goals are subject to the expected portfolio growth. Energy intensity 1,529 2014 2015 2016 1,289 kWh per employee 9,942.80 8,290.05 4,293.26 kWh per m 2 0.23 0.24 0.15 *53 employees in 2015; 65 employees in 2016. *1,862,981 m² in 2015; 2,100,000 m² in 2016. 2015 2016 Structural Steel (ton) 8,852 2016 4,950 All our new Multi-Tenant Buildings are equipped 2015 2016 with photovoltaic panels that can be used by our clients. Does not include data for 2014 because measurements were not done then. 88 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /89 REDUCTIONS IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION Installed photovoltaic capacity in vesta industrial buildings and parks (kWp) To promote efficiency and the use of renewable energy and reduce consumption from conventional sources at our industrial facilities and parks, we have 274.37 kWh of installed photovoltaic energy capacity available for our tenants to be used in common areas at the developments. 93.14 90.09 In 2016, as part of the changes we made in our corporate structure, we issued a bid to install solar panels at seven of our Multi-Tenant Buildings at the following parks: VESTA Park Guanajuato, 56.84 San Miguel de Allende Industrial Polygon, VESTA Park Toluca II, Ciudad Juárez, and VESTA Park Tijuana III, for 40% monetary savings, in addition to the environmental benefit achieved. 2014 2015 2016 These are in addition to the parks that were already fitted with photovoltaic energy: Douki Seisan VESTA Park Tlaxcala, and the Queretaro office. The installation of solar panels was carried out in line with the strategic VESTA Vision 20/20 plan, and it translated into a 33% growth in our installed photovoltaic capacity in 2016. We have 274.37 kWh of installed capacity of photovoltaic energy to service our tenants and the common areas at our developments. 90 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /91 LEED CERTIFICATION We contribute to the creation of spaces that are efficient in terms of energy and water usage by means of the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification. At year-end 2016, 6.48% of our Gross Leasable Area (GLA), representing 9.39% of our cumulative income, had obtained the certification. This has contributed to reduce our electricity and water consumption expenses, and to continue to promote sustainable practices with all our stakeholders. In 2016, we obtained the LEED Silver certification for our corporate offices in Mexico City and the conventional LEED certification for our BRP building in Ciudad Juárez. Both were verified by a third party, who corroborated that we made the practical and measurable adaptations needed to improve our environmental performance. Facilities certified at year-end 2016 Project LEED Certification Date GLA SF Cumulative Income Level 3Q2016 LJ85 LEED Certified August 2013 183,675 1,034,149.85 MA2 LEED Silver April 2014 228,273 1,057,323.56 BRP Queretaro LEED Silver August 2014 536,755 1,746,365.01 Queretaro Office LEED Gold November 2014 NA NA BRP Juárez LEED Certified August 2016 207,000 2,308,491.39 Headquarters LEED Gold October 2016 NA NA Total 1,355,703 6,146,329.81 Total Portfolio 20,923,337 65,450,825 % LEED 6.48% 9.39% In 2016 we obtained the LEED Gold certification for our corporate headquarters in Mexico City, and the conventional LEED Certification for the BRP building in Ciudad Juárez. 92 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /93 GRI G4: G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10, CRE2, CRE3, G4-EN16, G4-EN19, G4-EN22, CRE5, G4-EN26, G4-EN29, G4-EN34, G4-PR9 GRI G4: G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN14, G4-EN18 G4-EN23, G4-EN24, G4-EN25, G4-EN29 Water and discharge management At VESTA we do not use great amounts of water Resulting from the implementation of these to operate. We only use it directly to water actions, in 2016 we reduced our CO2e emissions Waste Since water is an essential resource in any the common areas of the parks we own. On by 147.54 tons. industry, at VESTA we have implemented the other hand, our water discharges come The most significant waste generation comes monitoring efforts at all our developments. Our from the service areas and are sent to water from the sludge in our wastewater treatment maintenance team in the Asset Management treatment plants, which gauge the quality of the plants and from the maintenance-related division, created in 2015 to ensure that treated water to verify that it complies with the activities at the parks and corporate offices. we adequately manage our environmental requirements established by the corresponding To dispose of it correctly, an external certified indicators, oversees monitoring. Official Mexican Standards. This way, the water company handles it. A specialized company meets the quality conditions to be discharged handles non-hazardous waste. At VESTA we do Water supply for the majority of our parks comes into national rivers. We have received no Reductions not generate hazardous waste as defined by the from ground water wells, for which we have complaints from the impact of these activities. in CO2e Basel Convention. the corresponding concessions and permits granted by local authorities. Emissions management In 2016, we did not have to address any soil or land problems because of our activities nor did Additionally, in order to determine metrics that We make sure our suppliers and contractors we have to pay any fines for non-compliance would help us reduce our consumption levels follow the guidelines of our Sustainable with environmental regulations. This year there and detect potential savings, we installed stateConstruction Manual that describes the were no reports of impacts derived from our Annual Reductions of-the-art water measurement devices at our activities, technologies, and tools to be used for generation kWh Tons of CO2e activities, nor did we register any significant parks and carried out other initiatives to harvest reducing consumption of electric power, which spills; we received no fines for non-compliance is the main source of our air emissions. Queretaro 69,744 34.85 rainwater, treat it, and use it to water garden with environmental regulations, or complaints areas at the facilities. Ciudad Juárez 16,161 8.08 related to this issue. We were fined $131,651 On the other hand, we record all VESTA’s Silao 79,000 39.47 Mexican pesos for non-compliance with the Water consumption at parks (m3) direct emissions from the electric power we norms concerning the use and supply of San Luis Potosí 17,032 8.51 Park 2014 2015 2016 use to operate our corporate headquarters products and services. and the shared spaces, in order to be able to Tijuana 18,294 9.15 VESTA Park 7,213 8,129 33,958 Toluca I establish our reduction goals and initiatives that Tlaxcala 28,860 14.43 Biodiversity contribute to improving our efficiency. Toluca 66,210 33.09 El Coecillo 29,382 26,617 23,931 Total 295,310 147.54 Because our developments are in areas VESTA Park 2,144 2,979 Scope 2 emissions* designated for industrial use by the local Toluca II (Tons of CO2e) authorities, none of our parks is located on VESTA Park 2,173 2,358 protected areas or on areas of great biodiversity Tlaxcala I 148 131 At VESTA we have no significant environmental value or with endangered species. El Florido 1,653.9 1,875.5 92 impacts on products, materials, or people. However, we measure the intensity of our To make sure of this, we do a phase I La Mesa 2,036.11 2,135.6 greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our environmental risk assessment before we start Aerospace NA NA NA direct energy consumption at our corporate construction on any project. We have never Park 2014 2015 2016 headquarters and shared spaces. affected any endangered species or natural DSP NA NA NA habitat. *Derived from our direct consumption of electric power using Total 42,753.01 67,237.1 the emissions factor for 2016 which was 0.458. Intensity of CO2e emissions Indicator 2014 2015 2016 Percentage and volume of water recycled and reused Our initiatives to reduce emissions in some Ton of CO2e per 2.6 4.2 4.9 the industrial parks include employing solar employee Park 2015 2016 energy, complying with LEED Certification, VESTA 35% 2,845.20 84% 6,867.80 Kg of CO2e per 0.11 0.12 0.14 and implementing eco-efficient technologies, m2 Park m3 m3 all of which are described in our Sustainable Toluca I Sales 2.6 2.8 3.3 Construction Manual, which specifies how they VESTA 40% 857,60 85% 1,818.00 should be applied in terms of sites, water, energy Park m3 m3 and air, materials and resources, as well as Toluca II interior environmental quality. Intensity in water use 2015 2016 m per employee 3 806.66 1,012.5 m3 per m2 0.02 0.04 Our facilities have a useful life of approximately 30 to 50 years; as of this date, none of them have reached the end of their useful life or been sold. 94 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /95 Performance In order for our environmental performance to be sustainable, efficient, in harmony with the Summary of environmental performance and priorities communities where we are present, and aligned with the VESTA Vision 20/20, we have established mid and long term goals. Past Present Future 2013 2014 2015 2016 Mid Term Long Term Environmental training Summary of environmental performance and priorities We trained our We offered 60 We offered 100 We offered100 Implement Extend training Past Present Future top management man-hours man-hours man-hours renewable energy programs to our 2013 2014 2015 2016 Mid Term Long Term focusing on LEED of training in of training in of training in programs and stakeholders. Certification and renewable energy renewable energy renewable energy initiatives in Social Responsibility and Environmental Committee (CRSA) our employees in collaboration in collaboration in collaboration collaboration with We created the We held two We included a We held two Strengthen the Establish a in managing with suppliers and with suppliers and with suppliers and our stakeholders. CRSA, which sessions and one new independent sessions with relationship with strategy to resources and the community. the community. the community. reports directly work meeting with director and held 100% attendance, stakeholders verify how social energy. to the Board of 100% attendance. three sessions we accepted the through investments Water consumption Directors. in which the resignation of one collaborative perform. CEO and CFO director, and we project. -Assessment Consolidation of Water Ensure water Grow the scope of participated as reconfigured the to measure the corporate and consumption consumption the measurement guests. board with four and monitor regional Asset in eight parks: measurement and and monitoring of members. water. Water Management 67,237.1 m3. monitoring at all water at all our consumption at divisions. Water our parks. developments. Participation in international indexes two parks: VESTA consumption We established We participated We participated We participated Continue to Attract investors Park I: 7,213 in eight parks: environmental for the first time for the second for the third time participate in by participating m3 and Coecillo: 42,753.01 m3. indicators and in the Green time in the Green in the Green international in performance 29,382 m3. objectives. Real Estate Real Estate Real Estate sector indexes. indexes. Energy consumption Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Benchmark and Benchmark and Benchmark and Energy Energy Energy Energy Grow by 217 kWp Ensure the growth we obtained the we obtained the we obtained the consumption: consumption: consumption: consumption: the cumulative of the energy GRESB score: GRESB score: GRESB score: 127,399 kWh. 383,223 kWh. 439,373 kWh. 287,649 kWh. renewable energy installed capacity 32/100. 43/100. 50/100. Renewable energy Renewable energy Renewable energy Renewable energy installed capacity. in line with the installed capacity installed capacity installed capacity installed capacity VESTA growth LEED Certification (FV): 34.3 kWp (FV): 127.44 kWp (FV): 184.24 kWp (FV): 274.37 kWp plan. We certified our We certified three We started the We certified one Increase the Increase the cumulative. cumulative. cumulative. cumulative. first industrial more buildings process to certify building (407,005 percentage of percentage of Emissions building (183,675 (607,601 SF), one building SF), our corporate SF with LEED SF with LEED SF), 20% of our 40% of our (314,306 SF), headquarters as certification in certification in line Greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas Increase the To be a CO2e offices. offices. and our corporate LEED Gold and we Build to Suit with our growth emissions from emissions from emissions from emissions from scope with CO2e neutral-emissions headquarters are in the process buildings. plan. the use of energy: the use of energy: the use of energy: the use of energy: measurements company. under LEED and of obtaining the 64 tons of CO2e. 92 tons of CO2e. 148 tons of CO2e. 131 tons of CO2e. to the whole the WELL Building WELL Building company. Standard. Standard Policy and investment in the environment. certification. Drafting an Investments in the Investments in the Investments in the Maintain Grow investments Eco-efficient Standards Environmental Environment: US Environment: US Environment: US investments made in the environment We applied ecoWe applied in We applied in We applied in Continue with Implement Policy and one for $791,767. $1,216,896. $818,768. in environmental in line with the efficiencies based 100% of our 100% of our 100% of our 100% of our eco-efficient environmental and eco-efficiencies VESTA growth on this standard. Multi-Tenant Multi-Tenant Multi-Tenant Multi-Tenant guidelines in social investment. in areas that are plan. Buildings the new Buildings the new Buildings the new Buildings under buildings that are strategic for the eco-efficiency eco-efficiency eco-efficiency these standards more than 15 company. guidelines. guidelines. guidelines. and based years old. on the VESTA Reported emissions were reformulated because we updated the emissions factor and, correspondingly, figures for 2014 and Sustainable 2015 were adjusted. Construction Manual. 96 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /97 GRI G4: G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-45, G4-EC2 MATERIALITY To determine the most relevant aspects, we analyzed the issues that are important to our industry and our company, considering the Mexican context and that of the regions where we have infrastructure installed. In addition, our team of directors and managers, as well as our Chairman of the Board and CEO participated in the process to also identify those economic, social, 02_ Close relationships 01_ Attracting global environmental, and corporate governance issues that are most relevant for our stakeholders. with key stakeholders customers in key industries To determine the material aspects and compile all the information that is relevant to our business we considered four topics: Determination of the 2016 Materiality 04_ Long term Item Mechanism growth with 05_ Attracting and Business strategy ·· Strategic planning clients 03_ Economic retaining talent growth and ·· Risk management HGIH market share IMPORTANT MORE IMPORTANT ·· VESTA Vision 20/20 growth plan 2 1 External factors ·· External consultants 3 4 ·· Benchmark for best practices in the sector 5 6 06_ Local IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDERS ·· Evaluators of financial and sustainability indexes 7 8 economic impact ·· Non-financial audits 9 08_ Long term 07_ Risk relationships with management Stakeholders ·· Interviews with employees and investors suppliers and ·· Client surveys and feedback contractors ·· Taped interviews with 7% of our clients 09_ ·· Traditional communication channels LESS IMPORTANT IMPORTANT Environmental LOW management Financial performance ·· Social and environmental initiatives LOW IMPACT ON THE BUSINESS HIGH ·· Regional projects. After analyzing the data, we identified nine aspects that we prioritized based on their relevance with the stakeholder, they impact, and their area of influence, starting with the most relevant. Once concluded, the exercise was validated by our CEO to determine the content of our Annual Report. Growth of the Strategic Plan Material Aspect Stakeholders it impacts Location 1. Client attraction Clients and investors Mexico 2020 Goal: Development 20 M SF ~1.3x our current growth pace 2. Attracting and retaining talent Employees Mexico Management 37 M SF ~2.2 x management capacity of our current portfolio 3. Economic growth and market share. Clients, suppliers, employees, and investors Regional 4. Risk Management Clients, suppliers, employees, government, society, partners in Mexico the real estate sector, and shareholders. Key current capabilities Key capabilities that we need to strengthen 5. Strengthening relationships with Clients, suppliers, employees, government, society, partners in Mexico stakeholders the real estate sector, and shareholders. Culture and leadership Value creation for our Systems and 6. Social Management Employees, clients, suppliers, and government Regional stakeholders processes Talent Culture and Managing 7. Environmental management Clients, suppliers, employees, and shareholders Regional leadership environmental, at our Park to Suit and some social, economic, and developments Structure Talent corporate governance 8. Local economic impact Clients, suppliers, and employees Regional risks 9. Long-term growth with clients Clients and employees Mexico Systems and processes Structure In addition, in 2014 we carried out a 2020 strategic planning exercise, whose results are included in the VESTA Vision 20/20 plan. It was developed in collaboration with expert third parties, the information provided by the VESTA employees and stakeholders, macroeconomic prospects, and the company’s real expectations in order to identify both risks and opportunities for our company, as well as the implications for our stakeholders. 98 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /99 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION ·· Other property-related expenses were up US $0.03 Other income and expenses AND ANALYSIS million, resulting from our acquisition of land reserves inside the industrial parks, and from Other income and expenses for the twelve-month period grew to an income of US $25.50 million in safety, water, electric power, and other expenses, 2016, compared to the US $30.97 million expense from the facilities that were unoccupied in 2016. year over year. The increase is mainly due to an Revenue Of this increase, US $0.81 million are direct exchange rate loss of US $24.78 million, compared Rental Income operating costs of leased investment properties Administration expenses to US $45.82 million for the same period of the prior Rental income for the year ending on December 31, which generated rental income. During 2016, Administration expenses for the year ending on year, resulting from the depreciation of the peso 2016 was US $90.51 million, compared to US $78.56 these costs amounted to US $3.38 million, while December 31, 2016 came to US $11.24 million, versus the dollar. This increase was further favored million as of December 31, 2015, for an increase of for 2015 the cost was US $2.58 million. compared to US $9.83 million as of December 31, by an increase in the gain resulting of the US $11.95 million, or 15.2%. 2015, for an increase of US $1.40 million, or 14.3%. revaluation of investment properties that came to This change is mainly due to: US $67.00 million, compared to US $31.44 million This increase in rental income is mainly due to: ·· Other property-related expenses were up This increase is primarily due to the expenses the prior year. The appraisal done as of December ·· A 17.2% increase from new lease agreements for 39.7%, to US $0.35 million. During 2015 other resulting from the Company hiring a management 31, 2016 reflects the conditions of the real estate new space or space that remained vacant in property-related expenses were US $0.89 team. market as of that date. 2015 but had been occupied during 2016. million, and for 2016 they came to US $1.24 ·· In 2016, we registered a US $0.93 million, or ·· A 1.7% increase in rental income from an million; 17.5%, increase compared to 2015, in employee The 2016 appraisal shows a US $67.00 million inflation-adjusted increase in rent, as stipulated ·· A US $0.03 million, or 10.1%, increase in salary and administration expenses. gain, compared to US $31.44 million in 2015. The in the lease agreements. Most of our lease insurance for investment properties; in 2015, ·· A US $0.93 million, or 34.4%, increase in legal appraisal was done in late December 2016, and agreements include a provision stipulating that we paid US $0.27 million in insurance, and for and audit expenses. reflects the conditions of the real estate market at the rent is automatically adjusted annually to 2016 the payment came to US $0.30; the end of 2015. reflect changes in the US Consumer Price Index, ·· A US $0.28 million, or 59.7%, increase in These increases were partially offset by: for dollar-denominated rent payments, or the maintenance costs. Maintenance costs for ·· A US $0.01 million decrease in commissions on Year ending on December 31, Mexican Consumer Price Index (INPC), for rent 2015 and 2016, respectively, were US $0.47 property acquisitions; Interim Consolidated 2016 2015 payments that are denominated in pesos. INPC million and US $0.75 million; ·· A US $0.02 million, or 41.1%, reduction in Statement and Other changes were 3.4% and 2.1% in 2016 and 2015, · · An increase of US $0.15 million, or 15.6%, in marketing expenses. Comprehensive Income respectively, and inflation in the US was 2.07% property taxes, which came to US $1.09 Other income and expenses and 0.73% for 2016 and 2015, respectively. million in 2016, and were US $0.94 million in In order to maintain our strong corporate 2015. Real estate property taxes are paid in governance practices, the Board of Directors Interest income 3,368.38 6,138.65 ·· A 1.9% increase in expenses related to payments we made for our clients, for which they pesos. In 2016, real estate property taxes approved a compensation plan for top executives, Other income (expenses) 722.44 639.64 later reimbursed us, that have been recorded as paid in pesos came to Ps. $20.35 million, based on the return generated for shareholders. Transaction costs of debt (947.88) rental income. while in 2015 the payment was for Ps. $14.96 issuance million, for an increase of Ps. $5.39 million, Shares were granted based on the performance of Interest expense (19,862.67) (23,373.26) These increases were partly offset by: or 36.0%. This in addition to the effect of the the Company’s share price as of December 31, peso devaluation versus the US dollar, which Exchange loss (24,781.51) (45,820.68) ·· A 2.4% decrease due to currency translation 2016 and 2015, in accordance to the VESTA Vision effects from peso-denominated rent payments. went from Ps. $15.8546 per dollar in 2015 to 20/20 plan. We registered a shared-related Gains on revaluation of 67,004.61 31,444.06 ·· A US $1.54 million, or 2.0%, decrease in rental Ps. $18.6567 per dollar in 2016. expense of US $0.84 million and US $0.77 million investment properties income from lease agreements that expired in ·· for 2016 and 2015, respectively. This expense is Total other (expenses) 25,503.38 (30,971.59) 2015 and were not renewed in 2016; Additionally, there was a US $0.04 increase in calculated as the fair value at the date the shares income ·· A US $1.01 million, or 1.3%, decrease in rental direct operating costs from investment properties were granted using the Monte Carlo model, which income from lease agreements in which the that were not leased and did not generate any takes into account the performance probability of Interest income decreased US $2.77 million rent-per-square-feet was reduced in order to rental income. the Company’s stock. The long-term bonus plan during 2016, up from US $6.14 million in 2015 retain the client when the contract was up for does not represent a cash outflow nor does it have to US $3.37 million in 2016. This decrease is renewal. This increase was the result of: an effect on EBITDA. For more information please due to the interest generated by investments ·· ·· A US $0.05 million decrease in the real estate read Note 16 to the Financial Statements. in resources of the follow-on offerings held Operating costs property taxes for properties that generated no during the year, which are being invested in Our property operating costs as of December 31, income because several properties that had Depreciation short-term government securities. Because 2016 were US $4.37 million, compared to US previously been unoccupied, were leased Depreciation expenses for the year ending on the company continues to invest in $3.53 million as of December 31, 2015, for an during 2016. December 31, 2016 came to US $0.32 million, developing new properties, we expect to see increase of US $0.84 million, or 24.0%. ·· A US $0.06 million increase on properties that compared to US $0.19 million as of December cash reductions over the following quarters. generated no income because of facilities that 31, 2015. were unoccupied during 2016, resulting in the Exchange loss in 2016 was US $24.78 million, Company having to cover maintenance costs. compared to a loss in 2015 of US $45.82 million. Exchange losses or gains are explained mainly by the peso/dollar foreign 100 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /101 exchange effect on the dollar-denominated Comprehensive profit (loss) Cash flow generated from operating activities was As of December 31, 2014, the long-term debt WTN debt, as well as the balance in pesos of for the year US $68.27 million, US $68.68 million, and US balance was US $306.74 million, of which US $8.63 CIV-held resources from the initial public Comprehensive profit includes differences in $32.84 million for 2016, 2015, and 2014, million, or 2.8%, correspond to the principal on offering. foreign currency conversions for foreign respectively. short-term liabilities, while US$ 298.11 million, or operations, reflecting the impact of the exchange 97.2%, were long-term debt. Interest expense was down US $3.51 million, rate fluctuations year over year in the WTN Cash flow generated by operating activities in or 15.0%, as of December 31, 2016, accounts. WTN is the only one of our subsidiaries 2016 was affected primarily by the increase in On July 22, 2016, we obtained 5-year-maturity compared to the prior year. The decrease is that employs the Mexican peso as its functional taxes that have yet to be reimbursed in the loans from several financial institutions in the due to the fact that in June 2016, we currency. amount of US $6.15 million. Cash flow from amount of US $150,000,000 (the “Syndicated refinanced our Blackstone debt, reducing operating activities in 2015 was affected Loan”), and we received the resources on the debt costs by approximately 300 basis points As of December 31, 2016, we recorded a US $20.86 primarily by the decrease in accounts receivable same day. The Syndicated Loan also includes a and extending maturity to almost six years. exchange rate loss from converting foreign from operating leasings, for US $3.36 million. revolving line of credit for up to US $100,000,000 operations, compared to a US $20.93 loss as of Cash flow generated by operating activities in that had not been used as of December 31, 2016. Gain on revaluation of investment properties December 31, 2015, and a US $0.45 million profit as 2014 was affected primarily by the increase in On July 27, 2016, the Company obtained new debt that generate income as of December 31, of December 31, 2014. taxes that have yet to be reimbursed in the with a 10-year maturity with Metlife in the amount of 2016 registered a US $35.56 million increase, amount of US $13.97 million. US $150,000,000. Resources from both loans were compared to 2015. Consequently, comprehensive income for 2016 used by the Company to pay back Blackstone stood at US $24.22 million, compared to a loss of Cash flow from investing activities debt, with maturity August 1, 2016. Earnings before taxes US $24.76 million in 2015. As of December 31, Cash flow from investing activities came from For the reasons described above, our earnings 2014, our comprehensive income was US $24.67 generating resources for US $23.38 million, using before taxes as of December 31, 2016 came to million. US $266.50 million, and generating US $29.76 Relevant events in 2016 US $100.08 million, up from a gain of US $34.04 million as of December 2016, 2015, and 2014, The Investment Committee approved investments in as of December 31, 2015. respectively. the amount of US $30.9 million. US$ 12.7 million were Cash flow used to construct two multi-tenant buildings at the Income tax The following table shows the cash generated and During 2016, investing activities were primarily Douki Seisan Park in Aguascalientes, US $10.7 Income tax expense as of December 31, 2016 used for the years ending on December 31, 2016, related to the construction of new buildings in the million for a multi-tenant building at the Queretaro resulted in a US $55.00 million expense, compared 2015, and 2014. Bajio, North, and Central regions. Total investments Industrial Park, and US$ 7.5 million to expand the J10 to an expense of US $37.87 million as of December paid during 2016 reached US $157.44 million, and multi-tenant building located in Ciudad Juárez. 31, 2015. This is mainly explained by the effect of Year ending on December 31, US $116.67 million and US $118.51 million in 2015 deferred tax expenses, which came to US $48.86 2016 2015 2014 and 2014, respectively. During the fourth quarter of the year, the Company million. Deferred taxes mainly reflect: (i) changes in (thousands of dollars) purchased 3.7 hectares of land inside the Pacífico the exchange rate as of the end of the year that are Cash flow 68,276.85 68,688.82 32,836.65 Cash flow from financing activities Industrial Park in Tijuana, Baja California for US used to convert our Mexican peso-denominated from operating Cash flow from financing activities for 2016, $1.8 million. asset balances for tax purposes (including our activities 2015, and 2014 came from using US $64.75 investment property and net tax loss carryforwards) Cash flow 23,383.16 -266,503.09 29,756.53 million, generating US $215.52 million, and using During the third quarter, we signed a leasing to US dollars, (ii) a benefit resulting from the impact from investing US $50.42 million, respectively. The issuing of agreement with Saargummi Technologies, a of inflation on the tax basis of our asset balances activities 124.27 million shares, in 2015, allowed VESTA to German supplier of the automotive industry who is (including our investment property and net tax loss Cash flow -64,749.77 215,520.09 -50,424.09 add US $224.06 million to its equity. currently one of our clients. Saargummi will lease carryforwards), as allowed by Mexican Income Tax from financing the currently vacant building within the Bernardo Law (Ley del Impuesto Sobre la Renta), and (iii) the activities Debt Quintana Industrial Park in Queretaro, with a effects of the fair value recognition in our Effects of -3,896.54 61.77 -9,792.13 As of December 31, 2016, our debt balance stood leasable area of 14,488 m2 (155,948 SF). The term investment properties for accounting purposes, exchange rate at US $340.87 million, 100% of which is long-term of the lease is 8 years, and rental payments will fluctuations which are not reflected for tax purposes because debt. Total debt is secured by 53 of our investment start in April 2017. In addition, Saargummi the tax value of the asset remains at its historical Net cash flow 23,013.70 17,767.59 2,376.96 properties and the corresponding rent payments. extended the existing lease for five additional (used) generated cost and is subsequently depreciated. As of December 31, 2016, 100% of the debt was years, to 2023. denominated in US dollars. Profit (loss) for the Year During the third quarter, we signed a leasing Cash flow from operating activities For the reasons described above, our gain as of As of December 31, 2015, the balance of longagreement with ZF Chassis Toluca, S.A. de C.V.— The most significant factors affecting the December 31, 2016 came to US $45.08 million, term debt reached US $344.76 million, of which which produces parts and accessories for generation of cash flow from operating compared to a US $3.83 million loss as of US $298.07 million, or 86.5%, correspond to the automobiles—for a Build to Suit (BTS) facility at activities are the rent payments collected from December 31, 2015. principal on short-term liabilities, while US $46.70 Douki Seisan Park, in Aguascalientes. The building our tenant base. million, or 13.5%, are long-term debt. 102 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /103 will have a GLA of approximately 9,221 m² (99,256 SF) Analyst coverage with a 10-year contract. Monthly rent is expected to be US In compliance with the bylaws of the Mexican Stock $39,189, for an 11.4% cap rate. Exchange (BMV), article 4.033.01 Paragraph VIII, we wish to inform that our analyst coverage comes from the During the second quarter, the Company purchased 19.6 following brokers: hectares of land within the San Miguel Allende Industrial ·· Barclays Bank Mexico, S.A. Polygon, for US $7.1 million, and 102 hectares of land ·· Bradesco BBI Research reserves in Queretaro, for a total investment of US $12.4 ·· BTG Pactual US Capital LLC million. ·· Casa de Bolsa Credit Suisse S.A. de C.V. ·· Casa de Bolsa Santander S.A. de C.V. Also during the second quarter, we signed a contract to ·· Citigroup Global Markets Inc CORPORACIÓN INMOBILIARIA develop a Build to Suit (BTS) facility in San Miguel de ·· GBM Grupo Bursátil Mexicano S.A. de C.V. Allende, Guanajuato, with car maker Bilstein, a subsidiary of ·· Grupo Financiero Interacciones S.A. de C.V. ThyseenKrupp. The building will have a GLA of 19,094 m² ·· HSBC México S.A. de C.V. VESTA, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND (205,526 SF). The contract is for more than 10 years and ·· Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A rent payments began in December 2016. Monthly rent is ·· J.P. Morgan Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V. expected to be US $62,246. ·· Merrill Lynch Mexico, S.A. de C.V. During the second quarter, we signed with Snecma México, an aerospace engineering subsidiary of Grupo ·· Scotia Inverlat Casa de Bolsa S.A. de C.V. ·· UBS Casa de Bolsa S.A. SUBSIDIARIES Safran, a contract for a Build to Suit (BTS) facility at the Queretaro Aerospace Park, in Queretaro. The building will have a GLA of approximately 31,401 m² (337,997 SF) with a 12-year contract. Monthly rent is expected to be Consolidated Financial Statements for the Years Ended US $198,500, for an 11.4% cap rate. VESTA has met all its 2016-maturity obligations with debt refinancing agreements, resulting in a reduction in debt costs for the Company of approximately 300 basis points, December 31, 2016, 2015 and and an extension on the average term to approximately six years. 2014, and Independent Auditors’ The Company acquired US $400 million in new financing debt, including a US $150 million unsecured mid-term Report Dated February 15, 2017 5-year loan; a US $100-million revolving unsecured loan with a 3-year maturity, and a 10-year secured nonrecourse loan for US $150 million. During the first quarter, we delivered two Build to Suit facilities ahead of time: Oxxo Veracruz and Gestamp at Vesta Park Toluca II. VESTA also purchased an industrial property in Tijuana, with a GLA of 16,118 m2 (173,008 SF). The purchase price was US $6.9 million, with a 10.5% stabilized cap rate. The building is occupied by Balboa Water Group, a company that builds fixtures for bathrooms and spas, with a 5-year leasing agreement. TABLE OF CONTENTS 106 Independent Auditors’ Report 109 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 110 Consolidated Statements of Profit or loss and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 111 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity 112 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 113 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 104 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE iv) using the work of our internal expert on valuation to test the fair value as determined by the Entity’s expert of a sample of investment properties; v) performing an analytical substantive test of the fair BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS value of the investment properties. Our procedures also included reviewing the appropriateness of the Entity’s disclosures regarding the assumptions and accounting policies for the recognition of investment OF CORPORACIÓN INMOBILIARIA VESTA, S. A. properties, which are included in the Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. B. DE C. V. (IN US DOLLARS) DEFERRED INCOME TAXES As explained in Note 2.16 to the consolidated financial statements, the Entity’s deferred taxes are calculated by applying the statutory income tax rate to temporary differences resulting from comparing the accounting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and including, if any, future benefits from tax loss carryforwards and certain tax credits. As of December 31, 2016 the amount of the tax loss carryforwards totaled $47,350,958, which represents a deferred income tax asset of $14,205,287. The use of this asset OPINION is subject to the sufficient future taxable income of each of the subsidiaries of the Entity that generated We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, such benefit before their expiry date, which is 10 years from the year in which the tax loss is determined. S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries (the “Entity”), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial The testing of the deferred income tax was is significant to our audit due to the complexity of its position as of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, and the consolidated statements of profit or loss and determination. As a result, our audit procedures included among others: i) testing of the reasonableness other comprehensive income (loss), consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’ equity and of the calculations made by the Entity to determine the deferred income tax; ii) testing the assessment consolidated statements of cash flows for the years then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial of the Entity as to whether it is reasonable the benefits from the deferred income assets and the tax statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. losses carryforward will be realized as of December 31, 2016; iii) review of the disclosures made in the consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Entity as of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, its financial performance and its cash INFORMATION OTHER THAN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS flows for the years then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as issued AND AUDITOR’S REPORT by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises two documents, the Entity’s Annual Report and the information that will be incorporated in the Annual Report which the BASIS FOR OPINION Entity is required to prepare in accordance with article 33Ib) of the fourth title, first chapter of the General We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our Provisions Applicable to Issuers of Securities and Other Participants in the Securities Market in Mexico responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit (the requirements). As of the date of our auditor’s report we have not yet obtained these documents and of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Entity in accordance with they will be available only after the issuance of this Audit Report. the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not statements in Mexico, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. requirements and the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with KEY AUDIT MATTERS the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our misstated. audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH a separate opinion on these matters. We have concluded that the following Key Audit Matters should be GOVERNANCE FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS communicated in our report. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s INVESTMENT PROPERTIES report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Investment properties are properties held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation (including guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement property under construction for such purposes). Investment properties are measured initially at cost, when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are measured at fair in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment properties are included in on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. profit or loss in the period in which they arise. The Entity uses external appraisers in order to determine the fair value for all of its investment properties. The independent appraisers, use valuation techniques As part of an audit in accordance with IASs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional such as the discounted cash flows approach, replacement cost approach and income cap rate skepticism throughout the audit. We also: approach. The techniques used include assumptions, the majority of which are not directly observable ·· ­Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud in the market, to estimate the fair value of the Entity’s investment property such as discount rates, longor error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence term net operating income, inflation rates, absorption periods and market rents. The audit procedures that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material performed to test investment properties were significant for our audit given that in order to test the misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve reasonableness of the fair value of the investment properties, we involved an internal expert in valuation. collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. As a result, our audit procedures included among others: i) testing the Entity’s internal controls related ·· ­Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures to the approval of construction of new investment properties as well as cash disbursements related to that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the such constructions, ii) performing detail substantive testing of the additions in investment properties effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. made during the year; iii) performing physical inspection of some of the Entity’s investment properties; ·· ­­Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. 106 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /107 · · Conclude ­­ on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our As of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (In US dollars) auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. Assets Notes 2016 2015 2014 ·· ­­Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the Current assets: disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 4 $ 50,720,751 $ 27,745,05 $ 10,674,770 manner that achieves fair presentation. Financial assets held for trading 5 613,015 203,563,025 95,025,988 ·· ­We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned Recoverable taxes 6 21,794,481 20,822,580 27,712,294 scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. Operating lease receivables 7 7,028,975 4,148,109 7,505,226 Prepaid expenses 37,191 505,450 447,152 We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant Guarantee deposits made 2,750,579 ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other Total current assets 80,194,413 259,534,798 141,365,430 matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related Non-current assets: safeguards. Investment property 8 1,415,714,762 1,214,930,005 1,101,352,822 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters Office furniture Net 1,965,192 1,842,468 421,340 that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are Guarantee deposits made and restricted cash 2,920,475 1,210,131 2,883,972 therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation Total non-current assets 1,420,600,429 1,217,982,604 1,104,658,134 precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine Total assets $ 1,500,794,842 $ 1,477,517,402 $ 1,246,023,564 that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Liabilities and stockholders’ equity Current liabilities: Current portion of long-term debt 9 $ $ 298,069,960 $ 8,629,108 Accrued interest 1,609,233 3,202,040 3,068,412 Accounts payable and client advances 1,795,748 1,409,555 14,222,235 Taxes payable, mainly income taxes 550,557 314,896 1,274,395 Accrued expenses 1,981,263 1,698,410 1,636,361 Total current liabilities 5,936,801 304,694,861 28,830,511 Non-current liabilities: Long-term debt 9 340,871,417 46,689,049 298,109,960 Guarantee deposits received 8,868,661 7,205,978 5,706,109 Deferred income taxes 13.3 185,733,064 144,140,530 115,641,120 Total non-current liabilities 535,473,142 198,035,557 419,457,189 Total liabilities 541,409,943 502,730,418 448,287,700 Litigation and other contingencies 17 Stockholders’ equity: Capital stock 10 450,880,150 455,741,735 370,368,712 Additional paid-in capital 343,037,228 349,557,056 211,869,157 Retained earnings 201,751,251 185,494,148 211,640,460 Share-based payments reserve 1,973,372 1,391,080 323,764 Foreign currency translation (38,257,102) (17,397,035) 3,533,771 Total stockholders’ equity 959,384,899 974,786,984 797,735,864 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,500,794,842 $ 1,477,517,402 $ 1,246,023,564 Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruiz Urquiza, S. C. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited C. P. C. Erick J. Calvillo Rello See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. February 15, 2017 108 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /109 Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (In US dollars) For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (In US dollars) Note 2016 2015 2014 Additional Share-Based Foreign Total Retained Revenues: Capital Stock Paid-in Payments Currency Stockholders’ Earnings Capital Reserve Translation Equity Rental income $ 90,511,822 $ 78,562,329 $ 69,332,889 Balances as of $ 370,368,712 $ 211,869,157 $ 204,265,028 $ 3,082,509 $ 789,585,406 January 1, 2014 Property operating costs: (3,384,389) (2,576,520) (2,761,265) Share-based $ 323,764 323,764 payments Related to properties that generated rental income 12.1 Dividends (16,846,565) (16,846,565) declared Related to properties that did not generate rental income 12.1 (992,057) (953,487) (838,684) Comprehensive 24,221,997 451,262 24,673,259 income Gross profit 86,135,376 75,032,322 65,732,940 Balances as of December 31, 370,368,712 211,869,157 211,640,460 323,764 3,533,771 797,735,864 Administration expenses 12.2 (11,236,676) (9,832,480) (8,302,946) 2014 Equity Depreciation 85,749,137 138,310,418 224,059,555 (322,627) (188,267) (40,536) issuance Share-based Other Income and Expenses: 1,067,316 1,067,316 payments Dividends Interest income 3,368,382 6,138,652 5,712,082 (22,321,140) (22,321,140) declared Other income (expense) Repurchase of 722,439 639,637 (290,063) (376,114) (622,519) (998,633) shares Transaction costs on debt Comprehensive (947,875) (3,825,172) (20,930,806) (24,755,978) income (loss) Interest expense (19,862,673) (23,373,256) (22,186,990) Balances as of December 31, 455,741,735 349,557,056 185,494,148 1,391,080 (17,397,035) 974,786,984 2015 Exchange loss (24,781,506) (45,820,677) (19,433,700) Share-based 860,125 860,125 Gain on revaluation of investment property payments 67,004,611 31,444,058 29,955,242 Vested shares 104,640 173,193 (277,833) Total other income and expenses 25,503,378 (30,971,586) (6,243,429) Dividends (28,825,690) (28,825,690) declared Profit before income taxes 100,079,451 34,039,989 51,146,029 Repurchase of (4,966,225) (6,693,021) (11,659,246) shares Income tax expense 13.1 (54,996,658) (37,865,161) (26,924,032) Comprehensive 45,082,793 (20,860,067) 24,222,726 income (loss Profit (loss) for the year 45,082,793 (3,825,172) 24,221,997 Balances as of December 31, $ 450,880,150 $ 343,037,228 $ 201,751,251 $ 1,973,372 $ (38,257,102) $ 959,384,889 Other comprehensive (loss) income net of tax: 2016 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Exchange differences on translating other functional currency operations (20,860,067) (20,930,806) 451,262 Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year $ 24,222,726 $ (24,755,978) $ 24,673,259 Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 11 0.072 $ (0.006) $ 0.05 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 110 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /111 Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A.B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2015 (In US dollars) For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (In US dollars) 2016 2015 2014 Cash flows from operating activities: Profit before income taxes $ 100,079,451 $ 34,039,989 $ 51,146,029 1. General information Adjustments: Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. (“VESTA”) is a corporation incorporated in Mexico. Depreciation 322,627 188,267 40,536 The address of its registered office and principal place of business is Paseo de los Tamarindos 90, 28th floor, Mexico City. Gain on revaluation of investment property (67,004,611) (31,444,058) (29,955,242) Effect of foreign exchange rates 24,781,506 45,820,677 10,243,391 VESTA and subsidiaries (collectively, the “Entity”) are engaged in the development, acquisition and Interest income (3,368,382) (6,138,652) (5,712,082) operation of industrial buildings and distribution facilities that are rented to corporations in thirteen Gain on sale of investment properties (731,326) states throughout Mexico. Interest expense 19,862,673 23,373,256 22,186,990 On January 28, 2015, the Entity issued a total of 124,272,111 shares, including the overallotment Expense recognized in respect of share-based payments 860,125 1,067,316 323,764 option, through a follow-on public offering of shares in the Mexican Stock Exchange and through Working capital adjustments: a private offering of shares in international markets under the Rule 144A of the United States of (Increase) decrease in: America and Regulations S under the Securities Act of 1933. The offering price was 27 Mexican Operating lease receivables Net (2,880,866) 3,357,117 (798,467) pesos per share and the net proceeds of this offering which amounted to $224,059,555 were Recoverable taxes (6,147,505) (1,492,217) (13,967,534) received on February 4, 2015. Prepaid expenses 468,259 (58,298) (123,165) On July 22, 2016, the Entity entered into a five-year credit agreement with various financial Guarantee deposits made (379,428) 83,863 institutions for an aggregated amount of $150,000,000, the proceeds of this loan were received on Increase (decrease) in: the same date. This credit agreement also includes a revolving credit facility up to $100,000,000 Accounts payable and client advances (190,045) 736,254 (180,055) which as of December 31, 2016 has not been utilized. On July 27, 2016, the Entity entered into a 10Guarantee deposits received 1,662,683 1,499,869 182,940 year loan agreement with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for a total amount of $150,000,000. Accrued expenses 553,705 62,049 (31,639) The proceeds of both of the aforementioned credit facilities were used to settle the Entity’s debt with Blackstone. Income taxes paid (722,775) (1,943,319) 128,652 Net cash generated by operating activities 68,276,845 68,688,822 32,836,655 Acquisition of office furniture 2. Significant accounting policies 2.1 Statement of compliance Purchases of investment property (157,437,522) (116,674,635) (118,513,768) The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Acquisition of office furniture (716,203) (1,609,395) (117,336) Financial Reporting Standards, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Financial assets held for trading 178,168,504 (154,357,714) 138,026,032 Proceeds from sale of investment property 4,649,526 2.2 Basis of preparation Interest received 3,368,382 6,138,652 5,712,082 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for investment properties and financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end Net cash (used in) generated by investing activities 23,383,161 (266,503,092) 29,756,536 of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies below. Cash flows from financing activities: i. Historical cost Proceeds from equity issuance 224,059,555 Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in Guarantee deposits made (1,672,342) exchange for goods and services. Guarantee deposits collected 2,750,579 ii. Fair value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a Interest paid (21,455,480) (23,239,628) (22,288,846) liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement Proceeds from borrowings 300,000,000 47,500,000 date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using Repayments of borrowings (298,069,960) (8,629,108) (11,288,678) another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, Dividends paid (28,825,690) (22,321,140) (16,846,565) the Entity takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market Repurchase of treasury shares (11,659,246) (998,633) participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure Debt issuance costs (5,817,632) (850,951) purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, Net cash generated by (used in) financing activities (64,749,771) 215,520,095 (50,424,089) except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, Effects of exchange rates changes on cash (3,896,537) 61,770 (9,792,129) Share-based Payments. Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 23,013,698 17,767,595 2,376,973 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at the beginning of In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorized into year 28,442,365 10,674,770 8,297,797 Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at the end of year $ 51,456,063 $ 28,442,365 $ 10,674,770 which are described as follows: Note 4 ·· Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date; See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 112 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /113 ·· Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and retranslated at the exchange rates in effect at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value ·· Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates in effect on the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 2.3 Basis of consolidation historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of VESTA and entities (including structured entities) controlled by VESTA and its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when Exchange differences on monetary items are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which the Entity: they arise. ·· has power over the investee; ·· is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and For the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of WTN ·· has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. and VM are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rates in effect on the last business day of each reporting period. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates The Entity reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. exchange rates in effect on the dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recorded in other comprehensive income. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Entity obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Entity loses control of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement Cash and cash equivalents consist mainly of bank deposits in checking accounts and short-term of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Entity gains control until investments, highly liquid and easily convertible into cash, maturing within three months as of their the date when the Entity ceases to control the subsidiary. acquisition date, which are subject to immaterial value change risks. Cash is carried at nominal value and cash equivalents are valued at fair value; any fluctuations in value are recognized in When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring interest income of the period. Cash equivalents are represented mainly by investments in treasury their accounting policies into line with the Entity’s accounting policies. certificates (CETES) and money market funds. All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 2.6 Financial instruments transactions between members of the Entity are eliminated in full on consolidation. Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized when VESTA or its subsidiaries become a party to the contract governing such financial instruments. Porcentaje de participación Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that Subsidiaria / entidad 2016 2015 2014 Actividad are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other QVC, S. de R. L. de C. V. 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or QVC II, S. de R. L. de C. V. 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial WTN Desarrollos Inmobiliarios de México, recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognized immediately in profit or loss. S. de R. L. de C. V. Vesta Baja California, S. de R. L. de C. V. 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties Vesta Bajio, S. de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties 2.6.1 Financial assets Vesta Queretaro, S. de R. L. de C. V. 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets Proyectos Aeroespaciales, S. de R. L. de ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ (“FVTPL”), ‘held-to-maturity’ investments, ‘available99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends C. V. on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial CIV Infraestructura, S. de R.L. de C. V. 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties recognition. All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognized and Vesta Management, S. de R. L. de C. V. 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties derecognized on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or Provides administrative services sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by Vesta DSP, S. de R. L. de C. V. 99.99% 99.99% 99.99% to the Entity regulation or convention in the marketplace. Servicio de Administración y Provides administrative services 99.99% 99.99% Mantenimiento Vesta, S. de R. L. de C. V. to the Entity 2.6.2 Financial assets at FVTPL A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading or contingent consideration 2.4 Foreign currencies that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business combination may be designated as The U.S. dollar is the functional currency of VESTA and all of its subsidiaries except for WTN of FVTPL upon initial recognition if: Desarrollos Inmobiliarios de México, S. de R. L. de C. V. (“WTN”) and VESTA Management, Such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition S. de R.L. de C.V. (VM), which consider the Mexican peso to be their functional currency and inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or are considered to be “foreign operations” under IFRS. However, Vesta and its subsidiaries The financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, keep their accounting records in Mexican pesos. In preparing the financial statements of each which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance individual entity, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign with the Entity’s documented risk management or investment strategy, and information currencies) are recognized at the exchange rates in effect on the dates of each transaction. about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or It forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 permits the entire combined contract to be designated as of FVTPL. 114 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /115 Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on such restrictions are fulfilled, whereby the short-term restricted cash balance was classified within remeasurement recognized in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss current assets under cash and cash equivalents and the long-term restricted cash was classified incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the within guarantee deposits made. ‘other income (expenses) Net line item. 2.10 Provisions The Entity has not designated any asset as at FVTPL. Provisions are recognized when the Entity has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, when it is probable that the Entity will be required to settle the obligation, 2.6.3 The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a debt and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows expected to be received The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to (including all fees and expenses paid or received that form an integral part of the effective settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life uncertainties associated with the obligation. When a provision is measured using the cash flows of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash on initial recognition. flows (where the effect of the time value of money is material). Income is recognized on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be financial assets classified as of FVTPL. recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognized as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably. 2.6.4 Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables (including 2.11 Financial liabilities operating lease receivables and others) are measured at amortized cost using the effective 2.11.1 Financial liabilities interest method, less any impairment. Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (“at FVTPL”) or other financial liabilities. Interest income is recognized by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the effect of discounting is immaterial. 2.11.2 Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities (including borrowings) are subsequently measured at amortized 2.6.5 Derecognition of financial assets cost using the effective interest method. The Entity derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial of ownership of the asset to another party. liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees 2.7 Investment property and expenses paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, Investment properties are properties held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation (including transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the property under construction for such purposes). Investment properties are measured initially at financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are initial recognition. measured at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment properties are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. 2.11.3 Derecognition of financial liabilities The Entity derecognizes financial liabilities when, and only when, the Entity’s obligations are An investment property is derecognized upon sale or when the investment property is permanently discharged, cancelled or have expired. The difference between the carrying amount of the withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected to be received from such financial liability derecognized and the consideration paid and payable is recognized in profit investment property. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the property (calculated as the or loss. difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in profit or loss in the period in which the property is derecognized. 2.12 Short term and other long term employee benefits and employee profit sharing (“PTU”) A liability is recognized for benefits accruing to employees in respect of wages and salaries, 2.8 Office furniture annual leave and sick leave in the period the related service is rendered at the undiscounted Office furniture is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment amount of the benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service. losses. Liabilities recognized in respect of short-term employee benefits are measured at the Depreciation is recognized so as to write off the cost of assets less their residual values over undiscounted amount of the benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the related service. their useful lives, using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of Liabilities recognized in respect of other long-term employee benefits are measured at the present any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. An item of office furniture is value of the estimated future cash outflows expected to be made by the Entity in respect of derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the services provided by employees up to the reporting date. continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of the asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and Statutory employee profit sharing is recognized in profit or loss. PTU is recorded in the results of the year in which it is incurred and is presented in administration expenses line item in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. 2.9 Restricted cash Restricted cash represents cash and cash equivalents balances held by the Entity that are only PTU is determined based on taxable income, according to Section I of Article 9 of the that Law. available for use under certain conditions pursuant to the long-term debt agreements entered into by the Entity (as discussed in Note 9). These restrictions are classified according to their 2.13 Employee benefits for termination restriction period: less than 12 months and over one year, considering the period of time in which Employee benefits for termination are recorded in the results of the year in which they are incurred. 116 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /117 2.14 Share-based payment arrangements difference arises from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) Share-based payment transactions of the Entity of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. In addition, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if the temporary Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill. instruments at the grant date. Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in Note 16. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Entity’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity. At the end of each Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply reporting period, the Entity revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized, based on tax rates (and vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognized in profit or loss such tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the period. equity settled employee benefits reserve. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences 2.15 Leasing that would follow from the manner in which the Entity expects, at the end of the reporting Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease agreement transfer period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 2.16.3 Current and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate to items The Entity as lessor that are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are in equity, respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognized on a straight-line basis over the for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business lease term. combination. The Entity as lessee 2.17 Impairment of long-lived assets other than goodwill Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation At the end of each reporting period, the Entity reviews the carrying amounts of its long-lived assets so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If expenses are recognized immediately in profit or loss. Contingent rentals are recognized as any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks operating leases are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying recognized as a liability. The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognized as a reduction of rental amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative of immediately in profit or loss. the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. 2.18 Earnings per share Basic earnings per common share are calculated by dividing net income of the controlling interest 2.16 Income taxes by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. per share are determined by adjusting consolidated net income and common shares on the assumption that the Entity’s commitments to issue or exchange its own shares would be fulfilled, 2.16.1 Current tax unless the impacts of such instruments would be anti-dilutive (for example in a year in which the Current income tax (“ISR”) is recognized in the results of the year in which is incurred. Entity incurred a loss). 2.16.2 Deferred income tax 2.19 Application of new and revised IFRSs that are mandatorily effective for the current year Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of In the current year, the Entity has applied amendments to IFRSs issued by IASB that are assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after January 1, 2016, none of tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally which had a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements. recognized for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary The amendments to IAS 1 give some guidance on how to apply the concept of materiality in practice. 118 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /119 2.20 New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective financial items that are eligible for hedge accounting. In addition, the effectiveness test has The Entity has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not been overhauled and replaced with the principle of an ‘economic relationship’. Retrospective yet effective: assessment of hedge effectiveness is also no longer required. Enhanced disclosure requirements about an entity’s risk management activities have also been introduced. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments2 The Entity’s management do not anticipate that the application of IFRS 9 will have a material IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers2 impact. IFRS 16 Leases3 Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes1 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Amendments to IAS 7 Statements of Cash Flows1 In May 2014, IFRS 15 was issued which establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and measurement of share-based payments2 use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts 1 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, with earlier application permitted. and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective. 2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with earlier application permitted. 3 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier application permitted. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Specifically, the Standard IFRS 9 issued in November 2009 introduced new requirements for the classification and introduces a 5-step approach to revenue recognition: measurement of financial assets. IFRS 9 was subsequently amended in October 2010 to include requirements for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities and for derecognition Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer and in November 2014 to include the new requirements for general hedge accounting. Another Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract revised version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 mainly to include a) impairment requirements for Step 3: Determine the transaction Price financial assets and b) limited amendments to the classification and measurement requirements by Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract introducing a ‘fair value through other comprehensive income’ (FVTOCI) measurement category for Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation certain simple debt instruments. According to IFRS 15, an entity recognizes the income when the obligation is satisfied, that is, when the “control” of the goods or services related to the performance obligation has been Key requirements of IFRS 9: transferred to the client. Additionally, IFRS15 includes guidelines to face specific situations. Also, ·· All recognized financial assets that are within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: the amount of required revelations is increased. Recognition and Measurement are required to be subsequently measured at amortized cost or fair value. Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business model whose objective The Entity is in the process of determining the potential impacts of the adoption of this norm is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely derived into its consolidated financial statements, although, considering the nature of its payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at operations, no significant impact is expected. amortized cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods. Debt instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows IFRS 16, Leases and selling financial assets, and that have contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to IFRS 16 “Leases” was issued in January 2016 and supersedes IAS 17 “Leases” and related cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, interpretations. The new standard brings most leases on-balance sheet for lessees under a single are measured at FVTOCI. All other debt investments and equity investments are measured at model, eliminating the distinction between operating and finance leases. Lessor accounting, their fair value at the end of subsequent accounting periods. In addition, under IFRS 9, entities however, remains largely unchanged and the distinction between operating and finance leases may make an irrevocable election to present subsequent changes in the fair value of an equity is retained. IFRS 16 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier investment (that is not held for trading) in other comprehensive income, with only dividend adoption permitted if IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ has also been applied. income generally recognized in net income (loss). ·· With regard to the measurement of financial liabilities designated as of fair value through profit Under IFRS 16, a lessee recognizes a right-of-use asset and a lease liability. The right-of-use asset or loss, IFRS 9 requires that the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is treated similarly to other non-financial assets and depreciated accordingly, and the liability is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability is presented in other comprehensive accrues interest. This will typically produce a front-loaded expense profile (whereas operating income, unless the recognition of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other leases under IAS 17 would typically have had straight-line expenses) as an assumed linear comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. depreciation of the right-of-use asset and the decreasing interest on the liability will lead to an Changes in fair value attributable to a financial liability’s credit risk are not subsequently overall decrease of expense over the reporting period. reclassified to profit or loss. Under IAS 39, the entire amount of the change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as fair value through profit or loss is presented in profit or loss. ·· In relation to the impairment of financial assets, IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model, The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments payable over the as opposed to an incurred credit loss model under IAS 39. The expected credit loss model lease term, discounted at the rate implicit in the lease if that can be readily determined. If that rate requires an entity to account for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit cannot be readily determined, the lessee shall use their incremental borrowing rate. losses at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition. In other words, it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are However, a lessee may elect to account for lease payments as an expense on a straight-line basis recognized. over the lease term for leases with a lease term of 12 months or less and containing no purchase ·· The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three types of hedge accounting options (this election is made by class of underlying asset); and leases where the underlying asset mechanisms currently available in IAS 39. Under IFRS 9, greater flexibility has been introduced has a low value when new, such as personal computers or small items of office furniture (this to the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types election can be made on a lease-by-lease basis). of instruments that qualify for hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non120 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /121 IFRS 16 establishes different transitional provisions, including retrospective application or the 3.1 Valuation of investment properties modified retrospective application where the comparative period is not restated. As described in Note 8, the Entity uses external appraisers in order to determine the fair value of its investment properties. Such appraisers use several valuation methodologies that include The Entity is in the process of determining the potential impacts that will derive from the adoption assumptions that are not directly observable in the market to estimate the fair value of its of this standard in its consolidated financial statements, although by the nature of its operations it investment properties. Note 8 provides detailed information about the key assumptions used in would not expect significant impacts. the determination of the fair value of the investment properties. Amendments to IAS 12 Income Tax: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealized In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Entity uses market-observable data to Losses, clarify how to account for deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured the extent it is available. Where Level 1 inputs are not available, the Entity engages third party at fair value. qualified valuers to perform the valuation. The valuation committee works closely with the qualified external valuers to establish the appropriate valuation techniques and inputs to the model. The IAS 12 provides requirements on the recognition and measurement of current or deferred tax Chief Financial Officer reports the valuation committee’s findings to the Board of Directors of the liabilities or assets. The amendments clarify the requirements on recognition of deferred tax Entity every quarter to explain the cause of fluctuations in the fair value of the assets and liabilities. assets for unrealised losses, to address diversity in practice. Information about the valuation techniques and inputs used in determining the fair value of various assets and liabilities are disclosed in Note 8 and 14. Entities are required to apply the amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. Earlier application is permitted. The Entity’s management believes that the chosen valuation methodologies and assumptions used are appropriate in determining the fair value of the Entity’s investment properties. The management of the Entity does not expect significant impacts a result of these amendments. Amendments to IAS 7 Statements of Cash Flows: Provide disclosures. 4. Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash The amendments in disclosure initiative (Amendments to IAS 7) come with the objective that For purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on entities shall provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in hand and in banks, including restricted cash. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting liabilities arising from financing activities. period as shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows can be reconciled to the related items in the consolidated statements of financial position as follows: To achieve this objective, the IASB requires that the following changes in liabilities arising from financing activities are disclosed (to the extent necessary): (i) changes from financing cash flows; 2016 2015 2014 (ii) changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses; (iii) the Cash and cash equivalents $ 48,054,432 $ 21,632,285 $ 6,848,378 effect of changes in foreign exchange rates; (iv) changes in fair values; and (v) other changes. Current restricted cash 2,666,319 6,112,770 3,826,392 Entities are required to apply the amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 50,720,751 27,745,055 10,674,770 2017. Earlier application is permitted. Non-current restricted cash 735,312 697,310 Total $ 51,456,063 $ 28,442,365 $ 10,674,770 The management of the Entity is in process to determine the impacts resulting of these Restricted cash represents balances held by the Entity that are only available for use under certain amendments. conditions pursuant to the loan agreements entered into by the Entity. Such conditions include payment of monthly debt service and compliance with certain covenants set forth in the loan agreement. These Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment restrictions are classified according to their restriction period: less than 12 months and over one year, The amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, clarify the classification and measurement considering the period of time in which such restrictions are fulfilled. Non-current restricted cash was of share-based payment transactions. The amendments contain clarifications and amendments classified within guarantee deposits made in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial address to the accounting for cash-settled share-based payment transactions; classification of positon. share-based payment transactions with net settlement features; and accounting for modifications of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity-settled. These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier application is permitted. The amendments apply prospectively. 5. Financial assets held for trading The portfolio of financial assets that the Entity has classified as held for trading relates to investments used by the Entity to manage its cash surplus. Such financial assets were acquired in active markets The management of the Entity does not expect significant impacts as result of these and are principally comprised of investment funds with no maturity date and which mainly invest in AAA amendments. debt instruments, such as government bonds. 3. Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Entity’s accounting policies which are described in Note 2, management is required to make judgments, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and 6. Recoverable taxes liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions 2016 2015 2014 are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results Recoverable value-added tax (“VAT”) $ 10,438,157 $ 9,216,603 $ 22,043,687 may differ from these estimates. Recoverable income taxes 11,320,220 11,541,336 5,602,192 The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting Other receivables 36,104 64,641 66,415 estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that $ 21,794,481 $ 20,822,580 $ 27,712,294 period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 122 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /123 7. Operating lease receivables insurance (third party liability) and operating maintenance are obligations of the tenants. All lease 7.1 The aging profile of operating lease receivables as of the dates indicated below are as agreements include a rescission clause that entitles the Entity to collect all unpaid rents during the follows: remaining term of the lease agreement in the event that the client defaults in its rental payments, vacates the properties, terminates the lease agreement or enters into bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. All lease agreements are classified as operating leases and do not include 2016 2015 2014 purchase options. 0-30 days $ 4,541,467 $ 2,955,085 $ 6,392,749 30-60 days 1,588,869 424,763 861,273 7.5 Non-cancellable operating lease receivables 60-90 days 551,533 332,338 87,726 Future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating lease agreements are as follows: Over 90 days 347,106 435,923 163,478 Total $ 7,028,975 $ 4,148,109 $ 7,505,226 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Pursuant to the lease agreements, rental payments should be received within 30 days following Not later than 1 year $ 100,997,236 $ 85,322,145 $ 70,629,698 their due date; thereafter the payment is considered past due. As shown in the table above, 64%, Later than 1 year and not later than 3 years 170,779,851 145,954,674 122,117,261 71% and 85% of all operating lease receivables are current at December 31, 2016, 2015 and Later than 3 year and not later than 5 years 191,181,511 147,512,967 115,421,411 2014, respectively. Later than 5 years 159,893,939 140,891,280 118,579,372 All rental payments past due are monitored by the Entity; for receivables outstanding from 30 to 90 $ 622,852,537 $ 519,681,066 $ 426,747,742 days efforts are made to collect payment from the respective client. Operating lease receivables outstanding for more than 30 days but less than 60 days represent 22%, 10% and 11% of all 8. Investment property operating lease receivables at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Operating lease The Entity uses external appraisers in order to determine the fair value for all of its investment properties. receivables outstanding for more than 60 and less than 90 days represent 8%, 8% and 1% of all The independent appraisers, who hold recognized and relevant professional qualifications and have operating lease receivable at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. Operating lease receivables vast experience in the types of investment properties, owned by the Entity, use valuation techniques outstanding greater than 90 days represent 5%, 11% and 2% as of December 31, 2016, 2015 and such as the discounted cash flows approach, replacement cost approach and income cap rate 2014, respectively. approach. The techniques used include assumptions, the majority of which are not directly observable in the market, to estimate the fair value of the Entity’s investment property such as discount rates, long-term 7.2 Movement in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable NOI, inflation rates, absorption periods and market rents. The Entity individually reviews each of its operating lease receivables and according to the aging report determines the need to create an allowance for the recoverability of such receivables. The The values, determined by the external appraisers annually, are recognized as the fair value of the balance as of December 31, 2016 is $41,314, which was created during 2016. During 2015 and Entity’s investment property at the end of each reporting period. The appraisers use a discounted 2014 there were no increases to the allowance for doubtful accounts. cash flow approach to determine the fair value of land and buildings (using the expected net operating income (“NOI”) of the investment property) and a market approach to determine the fair value of land 7.3 Client concentration risk reserves. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the consolidated As of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 one of the Entity’s clients account for 29% or statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive (loss) income in the period in which they arise. $2,040,061, 20% or $830,135 and 75% or $5,646,339, respectively, of the operating lease receivables balance. The same client accounted for 11%, 12% and 17% of the total rental income The Entity’s investment properties are located in México and they are classified as Level 3 in the IFRS of Entity for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2104, respectively. As of December fair value hierarchy. The following table provides information about how the fair values of the investment 31, 2016, two of the entity’s clients accounted for 21% and 18% of the operating lease receivable properties are determined (in particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used). balance; however, neither of these clients accounted for more than 10% of the total rental income of the Entity for the year ended December 31, 2016. 7.4 Leasing agreements Operating leases relate to non-cancellable lease agreements over the investment properties owned by the Entity, which generally have terms ranging between 5 to15 years, with options to extend the term up to a total term of 20 years. Rents are customarily payable on a monthly basis, and are adjusted annually according to applicable inflation indices (US and Mexican inflation indices). Security deposits are typically equal to one or two months’ rent. Obtaining property 124 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /125 Relationship of Fair value Valuation Significant unobservable A total of $1,077,234 additions to investment property related to land reserves and new buildings which Property unobservable Value/range were acquired from third parties, were not paid as of December 31, 2016 and were therefore excluded hierarchy techniques inputs to fair inputs from the consolidated statements of cash flows. As of December 31, 2015, a total of $500,996 additions value Buildings and land Level 3 Discounted cash Discount rate 2016: 9.75% The higher the to investment property, which were acquired from a third party, were not paid; these additions were paid flows 2015: 9.50% discount rate, during the year ended December 31, 2016. 2014: 9.50% the lower the fair value. During 2007, the Entity entered into an agreement to build the Queretaro Aerospace Park, which consists Long-term NOI Based on The higher the NOI, of a trust created by the Government of the State of Queretaro, as grantor (fideicomitente), Aeropuerto contractual rent the higher the fair Intercontinental de Queretaro, S. A. de C. V., as a participant for the purposes of granting its consent, and then on market value. Bombardier Aerospace México, S.A. de C.V., as beneficiary (fideicomisario), and BBVA Bancomer, related rents S.A., as trustee (fiduciario), to which the Entity, through its subsidiary, Proyectos Aeroespaciales, Inflation rates Mexico: 3.5% in The higher the adhered as grantee and beneficiary. The Government of the State of Queretaro contributed certain 2016 and 3.4% in inflation rate, the rights to the trust, including rights to use the land and the infrastructure built by the state of Queretaro, 2015 and 2014 higher the fair allowing Proyectos Aeroespaciales to build and lease buildings for a total period equivalent to the term U.S.: 2.2% in value. of the concession granted to the Aerospace Park; the remaining term is approximately 42 years as of 2016 and 2.1% in December 31, 2016. 2015 and 2014 Absorption period 12 months on The shorter the Proyectos Aeroespaciales is the only designated real estate developer and was granted the right to average absorption period, use the land and infrastructure to develop industrial facilities thereon, lease such industrial facilities to the higher the fair companies in the aerospace and related industries and to collect the rents derived from the lease of value the industrial facilities, for a period of time equivalent to the remaining term of the airport concession Market related Depending on the The higher the (approximately 42 years as of December 31, 2016). With respect to such rights, all construction, rents park/state market rent the addition and improvements made by Proyectos Aeroespaciales to the contributed land (including higher the fair without limitation, the industrial facilities) will revert in favor of the Government of the State of Queretaro value at the end of the term of the trust, for zero consideration. Exchange rate 2016: 20.00 2015: The higher the Mexican pesos 16.03 2014: 13.60 exchange rate the per $1 lower the fair value During 2013, the Company entered into an agreement with Nissan Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (“Nissan”) Land reserves Level 3 Market value Price per acre Weighted average The higher the to build and lease to Nissan the Douki Seisan Park (“DSP Park”) located in Aguascalientes, Mexico. price per acre in price, the higher The land where the DSP Park is located is owned by Nissan. On July 5, 2012, Nissan created a trust 2016 $105,893 the fair value. (trust No. F/1704 with Deutsche Bank México, S.A. as trustee) to which the Company (through one of and $134,473 in its subsidiaries, Vesta DSP, S. de R.L. de C.V), is beneficiary and was granted the use of the land for a 2015. period of 40 years. The infrastructure and all the related improvements were built by and are managed by the Company. The table below sets forth the aggregate values of the Entity’s investment properties for the years As of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Entity’s investment properties have a gross leasable indicated: area (unaudited) of 22,569,585 square feet (or 2,096,783 square meters), 20,052,909 square feet (or 1,862,981 square meters) and 16,791,931 square feet (or 1,560,021 square meters), respectively and 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 they were 89.2%, 86.7% and 87.3% occupied by tenants (unaudited), respectively. As of December 31, Buildings and land $ 1,393,000,000 $ 1,198,208,983 $ 1,092,424,983 2016, 2015 and 2014, investment properties with a gross leasable area (unaudited) of 2,008,397 square feet (or 186,586 square meters), 1,272,670 square feet (or 118,235 square meters) and 2,870,847 Advances for acquisition of land 9,652,444 2,770,159 395,921 square feet (or 266,710 square meters), respectively, were under construction, representing an Land reserves 79,377,000 58,602,000 64,740,000 additional 8.9%, 14.31% and 11.68% of the Entity’s total leasable area. 1,482,029,444 1,259,581,142 1,157,560,904 Less: Cost to complete construction in-progress (66,314,682) (44,651,137) (56,208,082) Most of the Entity’s investment properties have been pledged as collateral to secure its long-term debt. Balance at end of year $ 1,415,714,762 $ 1,214,930,005 $ 1,101,352,822 9. Long-term debt The reconciliation of investment property is as follows: On July 22, 2016, the Entity entered into a new five-year credit agreement with various financial institutions for an aggregated amount of $150,000,000; the proceeds were received on the same 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 date (the “Syndicated Loan”). The Syndicated Loan also includes a revolving credit facility up to Balance at beginning of year $ 1,214,930,005 $ 1,101,352,822 $ 951,884,585 $100,000,000 which as of December 31, 2016 has not been utilized. On July 27, 2016, the Entity entered Additions 158,013,760 103,125,702 123,431,195 Investment properties sold (3,918,200) Foreign currency translation effect (24,233,614) (20,992,577) Gain on revaluation of investment property 67,004,611 31,444,058 29,955,242 Balance at end of year $ 1,415,714,762 $ 1,214,930,005 $ 1,101,352,822 126 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /127 into a 10-year loan agreement with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (“MetLife”) for a total amount (1) Five-year Syndicated Loan, interest is paid on a quarterly basis and calculated using LIBOR (London of $150,000,000. The proceeds of both of the aforementioned credit facilities were used to settle the interbank offered rate) plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin varies depending on the Entity’s debt with Blackstone which matured on August 1, 2016. The long-term debt is comprised by the Entity’s leverage ratio (higher or lower than 40%) and the number of months that the Syndicated Loan following notes: has been outstanding. Currently the applicable margin is 200 basis points; if leverage ratio is higher than 40% the margin would increase to 225 basis points. Principal amortization will commence on July 22, Original Annual Monthly 2019; thereafter the Syndicated Loan will have quarterly principal payments equal to 1.25% of the loan Issue date Maturity 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 amount interest rate amortization amount. Tasa Variable July 2016 150,000,000 (1) July 2021 $150,000,000 $ $ (1) (2) 10-year loan agreement with MetLife, interest on this loan is paid on a monthly basis and calculated July 2016 150,000,000 4.55% (2) August 2026 150,000,000 using an annual fixed rate of 4.55%. Principal amortization will commence on September 1, 2023.This April 2015 47,500,000 4.35% (3) April 2022 47,500,000 47,500,000 loan is guaranteed with 48 of the Entity’s properties. September 7,637,927 7.17% 11,736 August 2026 4,990,210 5,134,727 (3) On March 9, 2015, the Entity entered into a 7-year loan with MetLife, interest on this loan is paid 2003 April 2005 2,000,000 7.17% 3,281 August 2026 1,393,073 1,433,480 on a monthly basis and calculated using an annual rate of 4.35%. The loan has monthly interest only payments for 42 months and thereafter monthly amortizations of principal and interest until it matures on August 2005 6,300,000 7.17% 10,441 August 2026 4,437,481 4,566,048 April 1, 2022. The loan is secured by 6 of the Entity’s investment properties. August 2005 14,500,000 7.17% 24,146 August 2026 10,247,179 10,544,502 November These credit agreements require the Entity to maintain certain financial ratios (such as Cash-on-Cash 32,000,000 7.17% 274,440* August 2026 21,237,473 21,807,521 and debt service coverage ratios) and to comply with certain affirmative and negative covenants. The 2005 March 2006 15,000,000 7.17% 25,336 August 2026 7,767,320 8,079,295 Entity was in compliance with these covenants under the Blackstone credit agreement as of December 31, 2016. July 2006 50,000,000 7.17% 99,961 August 2026 47,256,946 48,487,816 July 2006 12,000,000 7.17% 23,991 August 2026 10,609,960 10,905,370 The credit agreements also entitles MetLife to withhold certain amounts deposited by the Entity in a September separate fund as guarantee deposits for the debt service and tenants guarantee deposits of the Entity’s 10,800,000 7.17% 19,948 August 2026 8,961,734 9,207,363 investment properties pledged as collateral. Such amounts are presented as guarantee deposit assets 2006 October 2006 8,300,000 7.17% 15,330 August 2026 6,887,259 7,076,029 in the statement of financial position. November 2006 12,200,000 7.17% 17,717 August 2026 8,006,030 8,224,187 Scheduled maturities and periodic amortization of long-term debt are as follows: November 28,091,497 7.17% 25,234 August 2026 11,343,196 11,653,920 2006 May 2007 6,540,004 7.17% 12,182 August 2026 5,475,496 5,625,506 As of December 2017 $ September 8,204,039 7.17% 15,359 August 2026 6,905,008 7,094,132 As of December 2018 123,019 2007 April 2008 32,811,066 6.47% 73,846 August 2026 28,271,033 29,193,227 As of December 2019 763,388 As of December 2020 791,939 April 2008 867,704 6.47% 3,756 August 2026 1,437,785 1,484,686 As of December 2021 833,388 April 2008 * 7,339,899 6.62% 183,115* August 2026 11,718,557 12,097,602 Thereafter 344,988,266 August 2008 3,372,467 6.47% 11,936 August 2026 4,570,012 4,719,073 Less: direct issuance cost (6,628,583) August 2008 6,286,453 6.47% 14,187 August 2026 5,431,327 5,608,491 Total long-term debt $ 340,871,417 April 2009 19,912,680 7.17% 36,436 August 2026 16,167,177 16,615,833 December 10. Capital stock 30,000,000 7.17% 56,729 August 2026 24,171,582 24,870,114 10.1 Capital stock as of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 is as follows: 2009 July 2012 19,768,365 7.17% 39,521 August 2026 16,778,331 17,264,976 27,960,333 Number of Number of Number of July 2012 7.17% 55,899 August 2026 24,392,657 25,080,968 Amount Amount Amount shares shares shares July 2012 5,000,000 6.15% 1 45 August 2026 4,364,210 4,526,111 Fixed capital March 2013 5,918,171 5.80% 15,008 August 2026 5,248,924 5,438,091 Series A 5,000 3,696 5,000 3,696 5,000 3,696 347,500,000 345,569,960 306,739,068 Variable capital Less: Current Series B 621,092,663 450,876,454 631,134,923 455,738,039 507,447,012 370,365,016 (298,069,960) (8,629,108) portion Total $621,097,663 $450,880,150 $631,139,923 $455,741,735 $507,452,012 $370,368,712 Less: direct (6,628,583) (810,951) issuance cost Long-term debt 298,109,960 with Blackstone Total long-term $340,871,417 $46,689,049 $298,109,960 debt * These notes payable had bi-annual amortization. 128 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /129 Stockholders’ equity, except restated paid-in capital and tax retained earnings will be subject to 12. Property operating costs and administration expenses ISR payable by the Entity at the rate in effect upon distribution. Any tax paid on such distribution 12.1 Property operating costs consist of the following: may be credited against annual and estimated income taxes of the year in which the tax on 12.1.1 Direct property operating costs from investment properties that generated rental income dividends is paid and the following two fiscal years. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, there during the year: were a total of 10,626,460 and 586,200, respectively, shares in treasury. There were no shares in treasury as of December 31, 2014. 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 10.2 Fully paid ordinary shares Real estate tax $ 1,090,743 $ 943,499 $ 881,644 Insurance 302,400 274,669 312,383 Number of Additional paidMaintenance 748,043 468,528 484,080 Amount shares in capital Other property related expenses 1,243,203 889,824 1,083,158 Balance as of December 31, 2014 507,452,012 370,368,712 211,869,157 $ 3,384,389 $ 2,576,520 $ 2,761,265 Capital stock issuance of January 28, 2015 124,272,111 85,749,137 144,250,863 Direct equity issuance costs (8,486,350) 12.1.2. Direct property operating costs from investment property that did not generate rental income during the year: Income taxes related to direct equity issuance 2,545,905 costs 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Repurchase of shares (586,200) (376,114) (622,519) Real estate tax $ 293,602 $ 343,443 $ 269,412 Balance as of December 31, 2015 631,139,923 455,741,735 349,557,056 Insurance 51,280 52,879 47,606 Vested shares 163,089 104,640 173,193 Maintenance 148,689 91,689 43,648 Repurchase of shares (10,203,349) (4,944,225) (6,693,021) Other property related expenses 498,486 465,476 478,018 Balance as of December 31, 2016 621,097,663 $ 450,880,150 $ 343,037,228 992,057 953,487 838,684 Total property operating $ 4,376,446 $ 3,530,007 $ 3,599,949 10.3 Dividend payments Pursuant to a resolution of the general ordinary stockholders’ meeting on April 4, 2016, the Entity declared a dividend of approximately $0.046 per share, for a total dividend of $28,825,690. The 12.2 12.2 Administration expenses consist of the following: dividend was paid on April 19, 2016 in cash. Pursuant to a resolution of the general ordinary stockholders’ meeting on March 25, 2015, the 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Entity declared a dividend of approximately $0.035 per share, for a total dividend of $22,321,140. Employee direct benefits $ 6,270,379 $ 5,044,294 $ 6,597,970 The dividend was paid on April 30, 2015 in cash. Pursuant to a resolution of the general ordinary stockholders’ meeting on March 13, 2014, the Auditing, legal and consulting expenses 1,212,794 902,242 873,927 Entity declared a dividend of approximately $0.033 per share, for a total dividend of $16,846,565 Property appraisal and other fees 352,357 358,903 214,986 which was paid via cash distributions on April 4, 2014. The payment was applied against the Indirect equity issuance and trading costs 181,309 160,695 241,284 Entity’s net tax income account. Marketing expenses 1,136,642 1,078,389 48,676 Other 1,223,070 1,220,641 2,339 11. Earnings per share 7,979,182 The amounts used to determine earnings per share are as follows: 10,376,551 8,765,164 Long-term incentive Note 16 860,125 1,067,316 323,764 2016 Total $ 11,236,676 $ 9,832,480 $ 8,302,946 Weighted-average number Earnings Dollars per share of shares Profit for the year $ 45,082,793 630,259,650 $ 0.072 13. Income taxes 2015 The Entity is subject to ISR. The statutory ISR rate is 30%. Weighted-average number Earnings Dollars per share 13.1 Income taxes are as follows: of shares Loss for the year $ (3,825,172) 622,206,426 $ (0.006) 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 2014 ISR expense: Weighted-average number Earnings Dollars per share Current $ 6,134,040 $ 2,501,584 $ 2,801,516 of shares Profit for the year $ 24,221,997 507,452,012 $ 0.05 Deferred 48,862,618 35,363,577 24,122,516 Total income taxes $ 54,966,658 $ 37,865,161 $ 26,924,032 For the year ended December, 31, 2016, basic and diluted earnings per share are the same because the weighted average number of instruments that are considered potentially dilutive, 226,159, have no impact on the per share amount. For the year ended December 31, 2015 all potentially dilutive instruments are considered to be anti-dilutive because the Entity incurred a loss for the year. 130 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /131 13.2 The effective ISR rates for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 differ from the statutory rate as The capital structure of the Entity consists of net debt (total borrowings, including the current follows: portion, as detailed in Note 9 offset by cash and bank balances) and equity of the Entity (comprising issued capital, additional paid-in capital, retained earnings and other comprehensive 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 income as detailed in Note 10). The Entity is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. Statutory rate 30% 30% 30% Effects of exchange rates on tax balances 27% 90% 33% Effects of inflation (4)% (12)% (12)% 14.2 Leverage ratio Other 2% 3% 2% The Board reviews the capital structure of the Entity on a regular basis. As part of this review, the Board considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. Effective rate 55% 111% 53% The leverage ratio at end of following reporting periods was as follows: 13.3 The main items originating the deferred ISR liability are: 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Deferred ISR assets (liabilities): Debt $ 340,871,417 $ 344,759,009 $ 306,739,068 Investment property (124,338,843) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (10,674,770) $ (199,134,089) $ (160,640,067) $ (50,720,751) (28,442,365) Effect of tax loss carryforwards 14,205,287 15,635,979 7,670,338 Financial assets held for trading (613,015) (203,563,025) (95,025,988) Other provisions and prepaid expenses (804,262) 863,558 1,027,385 Net debt 289,537,651 112,735,619 201,038,310 Deferred income taxes Net $ (185,733,064) $ (144,140,530) $ (115,641,120) Equity 959,384,899 974,786,984 797,735,864 Net debt to equity ratio 30% 12% 25% To determine deferred ISR the Entity applied the applicable tax rates to temporary differences based on their estimated reversal dates. 14.3 Categories of financial instruments Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria 13.4 A reconciliation of the changes in the deferred tax liability balance is presented as follows: for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognized, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 disclosed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax liability at the beginning of the $ (144,140,530) $ (115,641,120) $ (91,518,604) The Entity’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash equivalents and restricted cash as period disclosed in Note 4, recoverable taxes and operating lease receivables as disclosed in Notes 6 Movement included in profit or loss (48,862,618) (35,363,577) (24,122,516) and 7, respectively and financial assets held for trading in Note 5. The Entity’s principal financial Movement included in equity 2,545,905 liability is long-term debt as disclosed in Note 9. Movement included in other comprehensive 7,270,084 4,318,262 14.4 Financial risk management objectives income The Entity seeks to minimize the effects of market risk (including fair value interest rate risk), credit Deferred tax liability at the end of the year $ (185,733,064) $ (144,140,530) $ (115,641,120) risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk (although currently the Entity only has fixed rate debt instruments with varying maturity profiles). No significant interest rate hedges or trading 13.5 The benefits of restated tax loss carryforwards for which the deferred ISR asset has financial instruments were entered into during the period of the accompanying consolidated been recognized can be recovered subject to certain conditions. Restated amounts as of financial statements. December 31, 2016 and expiration dates are: 14.5 Market risk Expiration date Fiscal losses The Entity’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates (see 14.7 2023 $ 7,231,663 below) and foreign currency exchange rates (see 14.6 below). The Entity may enter into derivative 2024 5,067,399 financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk. There has been no change to the Entity’s exposure to market risks or the manner in which these risks are managed and 2025 16,228,645 measured. 2026 18,823,251 $ 47,350,958 14.6 Foreign currency risk management The Entity is exposed to foreign exchange risk, primarily with respect to the Mexican peso and to 14. Financial instruments the US dollar in respect of one of its subsidiaries whose functional currency is the Mexican peso. 14.1 Capital management Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognized monetary assets The Entity manages its capital to ensure that the Entity will be able to continue as a going concern and liabilities. while maximizing the return to partners through the optimization of the debt and equity balance. 132 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /133 The carrying amounts of the Entity’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary The Entity currently leases two distribution facilities to a single customer, which represent 9% of liabilities at the end of the reporting period as well as the relevant exchange rates are as follows: its total portfolio’s gross leasable area (unaudited), and 42%, 20% and 75% of its operating lease receivable balance and 11%, 12% and 17% its annualized rents as of and for the years ended 2016 2015 2014 December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. If this customer were to terminate its lease agreements with the Entity, the Entity may experience a material loss with respect to future rental Exchange rates: income. Mexican pesos per US dollar at the end of 20.6640 17.2065 14.7180 the period 14.9 Liquidity risk management Mexican pesos per US dollar average 18.6567 15.8546 13.2996 If the Entity is unable to raise additional debt or equity, its results of operations could suffer. The during the year Entity closely monitors the maturity of its liabilities and the cash needs of its operations. It prepares Monetary assets and provides a detailed cash flow analysis on a quarterly basis and presents it to its board Mexican pesos 515,823,400 3,982,261,268 1,592,246,030 of directors. Decisions are made to obtain new financing or limit cash investments in order to maintain a healthy projected cash balance. US dollars $ 361,656 $ 361,656 $ 229,640 Monetary liabilities The maturity of the long-term, its current portion and the accrued interest at December 31, 2016 is Mexican pesos 22,097,747 11,669,674 22,085,067 as follows: US dollars $ 38,691,165 $ 38,691,165 $ 39,820,378 Sensitivity foreign exchange rate analysis Weighted The following table details the Entity’s sensitivity to a 10% appreciation or depreciation in the US average 3 months to 1 More than 5 dollar against the Mexican peso. 10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency interest rate 1 to 3 months year 1 to 5 years years Total risk internally to key management personnel, and represents management’s assessment of the % reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only Long-term outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the 3.7 $ $ $150,000,000 $197,500,000 $347,500,000 debt period end for a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. A positive number below Accrued indicates an increase in profit or equity where the US dollar appreciates 10% against the relevant interest 3,303,562 13,397,781 57,817,780 22,618,372 97,137,496 currency. For a 10% depreciation of the US dollar against the Mexican peso, there would be a $3,303,562 $13,397,781 $207,817,780 $220,118,372 $444,637,496 comparable impact on the profit or equity, and the balances below would be negative: 14.10 Fair value of financial instruments 2016 2015 2014 14.10.1 Fair value of financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis Profit or loss impact Mexican peso 10% appreciation gain $ (2,654,782) $ (20,978,286) $ (9,698,458) The Entity’s financial assets held for trading are classified as level 1 in the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy since they are traded in an active market. Mexican peso 10% depreciation loss 2,172,094 25,640,127 11,853,671 4,381,318 14.10.2 Fair value of financial instruments carried at amortized cost U.S. dollar 10% appreciation loss (3,932,951) 3,832,950 The fair value of long-term debt and its related current portion as of December, 31, 2016, U.S. dollar 10% depreciation gain 3,932,951 (3,832,950) (4,381,318) 2015 and 2014 is $347,500,000, $357,219,742 and $328,637,868, respectively. This measurement is classified as level 2, since management uses an adjusted observable discount rate to determine fair value of debt. 14.7 Interest rate risk management The Entity minimizes its exposure to interest rate risk by borrowing funds at fixed rates, because Management considers that the carrying amounts of financial assets and other financial investment properties owned by the Entity generate a fixed income in the form of rental income liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values. which is indexed to inflation. 14.8 Credit risk management 15. Transactions and balances with related parties Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting 15.1 Compensation of key management personnel in financial loss to the Entity. The Entity has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy The remuneration of Entity’s management and key executives is determined by the remuneration counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Entity’s committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends. The remuneration of exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are monitored, and the transactions members of key management personnel during the year was as follows: consummated are entered into with approved counterparties. The Entity’s maximum credit risk is the total of its financial assets included in its statement of financial position. 2016 2015 2014 The Entity’s clients operate in a variety of industries. Its real estate portfolio is primarily Short-term benefits $ 4,244,235 $ 3,932,214 $ 3,386,779 concentrated in the food and beverage, automotive, aerospace, medical, logistics and plastics Share-based compensation expense 860,125 1,067,316 323,764 industries. The Entity’s exposure to these industries subjects it to the risk of economic downturns in $ 5,104,450 $ 4,999,530 $ 3,710,543 such industrial sectors to a greater extent than if its properties were more diversified across other industries. 134 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /135 16. Share-based payments 16.3 Compensation expense recognized 16.1 Details of the share-based plans of the Entity The long-term incentive expense for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was as The Entity has granted shares to its executives and employees under two different plans as follows: follows: i. Under the Vesta 20-20 Long-term Incentive Plan (the Vesta 20-20 Incentive Plan), 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 as approved by the Board of Directors, the Entity will use a “Relative Total Return” methodology to calculate the total number of shares to be granted. The shares granted Vesta 20-20 Incentive Plan $ 840,985 $ 773,382 $ each year will vest over the three years following the grant date. The total number of shares to be granted during the six year period is 10,428,222 shares, 2014 Incentive Plan 19,140 293,934 323,764 the shares to be used to settle this plan were issued by the Entity during January 2015; no Total long-term incentive expense $ 860,125 $ 1,067,316 $ 323,764 awards will be paid in cash. ii. The total number of shares to be granted in each of the six years ranges from 695,215 to Compensation expense related to these plans will continue to be accrued through the end of the 1,738,037 shares, at the expected performance level, to a maximum of 2,607,055 shares, if service period. the Entity’s shares perform at peak performance compared to other publicly traded entities in each year. 16.4 Share awards outstanding at the end of the year iii. The shares to be granted in each of the six years will be contributed to a trust and As of December 31, 2016, there are 1,219,837 shares outstanding with a weighted average delivered in three equal settlement dates to the executives after 24, 36 and 48 months from remaining contractual life of 32 months. the grant date, provided that the eligible executives remain in the employment of the Entity. iv. Under the 2014 Long-term Incentive Plan (the 2014 Incentive Plan), the Entity has a 17. Litigation, other contingencies and commitments share-based plan for 12 top executives of the Entity. In accordance with the terms of the Litigation plan, as approved by the Board of Directors, based on certain performance metrics, the In the ordinary course of business, the Entity is party to various legal proceedings. The Entity is not Entity executed a long-term incentive plan that will be settled by the Entity with its own involved in any litigation or arbitration proceeding for which the Entity believes it is not adequately shares which have been repurchased in the market. Under this plan, eligible executives insured or indemnified, or which, if determined adversely, would have a material adverse effect on the will receive compensation, based on their performance during 2014, settled in shares and Entity or its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. delivered over a three-year period. For this plan shares are kept in treasury and may be placed in a trust; they will be delivered to the executives in three equal settlement dates to Commitments the executives after 24, 36 and 48 months from the grant date, provided that the eligible As mentioned in Note 8, all rights to construction, improvements and infrastructure built by the Entity in executives remain in the employment of the Entity. the Queretaro Aerospace Park and in the DSP Park automatically revert back to the government of the State of Queretaro and to Nissan at the end of the concessions, which is approximately in 42 and 36 16.2 Fair value of share options granted in the year years, respectively. i. Vesta 20-20 Incentive plan Based on the performance of the Entity’s shares for the year ended December 31, 2016, the shares granted were 993,678. For the year ended 18. Financial statements issuance authorization December 31, 2015, there were no shares granted during the year under this plan; however, a share-based payment expense of $773,382 was recognized. This expense On February 14, 2017, the issuance of the consolidated financial statements was authorized by the was calculated as the grant date fair value of the awards as determined using the Monte Board of Directors, consequently, they do not reflect events occurred after that date. These consolidated Carlo model which took into consideration the probability of the performance of the Entity’s financial statements are subject to approval at the General Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, where the shares during the year. As this performance is considered a market vesting condition stockholders may decide to modify such consolidated financial statements according to the Mexican in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payments, the compensation expense, as General Corporate Law. determined on grant date, is not revised even if no awards are ultimately granted. This expense has no effect in the cash position of the Entity. ii. 2014 Incentive Plan The fair value of the share awards granted under the 2014 Plan, was determined based on a fixed amount of cash determined as per the Entity’s plan. It is assumed that executives will receive the awards after vesting date. The expense under this plan affects the cash position of the Entity. 136 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /137 CONTENT INDEX GRI G4 General Basic Content Information about the management approach and indicators Page Description Omissions ECONOMY General Economic Performance Basic G4-EC1 42 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Content Page Description G4-EC2 51, 98 Economic consequences, risks, and opportunities to the Strategy and analysis organization posed by climate change. G4-1 4 Statement from the President of the Board of Directors, CEO or equivalent about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the strategy for addressing it. G4-EC3 54 Benefit plan obligations. G4-2 32 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. G4-EC4 Financial aid received from government. In 2016 VESTA received no financial aid from Organizational profile governmental institutions. G4-3 144 Name of the organization. Market presence G4-4 12 Primary brands, products and services. G4-EC5 54 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to G4-5 145 Location of the organization's headquarters. local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. G4-6 14 Countries where the organization operates. G4-EC6 62 Proportion of senior management hired locally. G4-7 144 Nature of ownership and legal form. Indirect economic impacts G4-8 14, 16 Markets served (with geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers). G4-EC7 74 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and G4-9 54 Scale of the organization, including: total number of employees, total number of operations, net sales, total capitalization, and quantity of products or services provided. services supported. G4-10 54 Total number of employees by employment contract, type, gender, and region. G4-EC8 42 Indirect economic impacts. G4-11 54 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Procurement practices G4-12 20 Organization's supply chain. G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. The indicator is currently not available because we do G4-13 144 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership, or supply chain. not have documented information to give an appropriate G4-14 52 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. answer. We are managing to measure this indicator; it is estimated to be reported in our 2018 Annual Report. G4-15 70 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. G4-16 70 Memberships of associations in which the organization holds a position or participates. Material aspects and Boundaries Environment G4-17 46, 144 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial and equivalent statements. Materials G4-18 98 Process followed to define the report content and the aspect boundaries. G4-EN1 88 Materials used by weight or volume. G4-19 98 List of material aspects identified in the definition process of the report content. G4-EN2 88 Percentage of materials used that are recycled. G4-20 98 Aspect boundary within the organization for each material aspect. Energy G4-21 98 Aspect boundary outside the organization for each material aspect. G4-EN3 88 Energy consumption within the organization. G4-22 144 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. Does not apply. Due the nature of our business we do not G4-23 144 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. have external energy consumption. Stakeholder engagement CRE1 88 Energy intensity in buildings. G4-24 66 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. G4-EN5 88 Energy intensity. G4-25 66 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-EN6 88 Reduction of energy consumption. G4-26 66 Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. G4-EN7 84, 88 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. G4-27 66 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. Agua Report profile G4-EN8 94 Total water withdrawal by source. G4-28 144 Reporting period for information provided. G4-EN9 94 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water. G4-29 144 Date of most recent previous report. G4-EN10 94 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. G4-30 144 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial). CRE2 94 Intensity in water use per building. G4-31 145 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Biodiversidad G4-32 138 In accordance option chosen by the organization: essential or exhaustive, and GRI Context Index for the chosen option. G4-EN11 95 Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas and G4-33 144 Organization's policy and current practice regarding external assurance for the report. areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Governance G4-EN12 95 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on G4-34 46 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body and their responsible about social, economic and environmental impacts. biodiversity in protected and of high biodiversity value areas. G4-35 32, 54 Process for delegating authority for economic, social and environmental topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-EN13 95 Habitats protected or restored. G4-36 32, 54 Executive-level positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and if the holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-EN14 95 Species and habitats affected by operations, by level of G4-37 46 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, social and environmental topics. extinction risk. G4-38 46 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. Emissions G4-39 46 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer, describing his or her function within the organization's management and the G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1). The indicator is currently not available because we do reasons for this arrangement. not have documented information to give an appropriate G4-40 46 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees. answer. We are analyzing expert suppliers that help us G4-41 46, 52 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed, indicating if these are disclosed to stakeholders. quantify this indicator, it is estimated to be reported in our G4-42 46 Highest governance body's and senior executives' roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization's purpose, value or mission statements, 2018 Annual Report. strategies, and policies. G4-EN16 94 Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2). G4-43 46 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, social and environmental topics. G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3). The indicator is currently not available because we do G4-44 46 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, social and environmental topics. Indicate whether not have documented information to give an appropriate such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. answer. We are analyzing expert suppliers that help us quantify this indicator, it is estimated to be reported in our G4-45 51, 98 Highest governance body's role in the identification and management of impacts, risks and opportunities, and its role in the implementation of due diligence processes. 2018 Annual Report. Indicate whether stakeholder consultation is used. CRE3 94 GHG emissions intensity derivate from buildings. G4-46 51 Highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management processes. G4-47 51 Frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, social and environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-EN18 95 GHG emissions intensity. G4-48 46 Highest committee or position that reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered. G4-EN19 84, 94 Reduction of GHG emissions. G4-49 46 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Does not apply. Due the nature of our business we do not have GHG emissions. G4-50 46 Nature and total number of critical concerns communicated to the highest governance body, and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-51 46 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. Does not apply. Due the nature of our business, ozonedepleting emissions, Nox, Sox and other significant emissions G4-52 46 Processes for determining remuneration, if consultants are involved, and if they are independent of management. from construction do not fall on VESTA, but on a third party. G4-53 46 How stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration. G4-54 54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the highest-paid person in each country to the median annual total compensation for all employees, excluding the highest-paid person in the same country. G4-55 54 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid person in each country to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees, excluding the highest-paid person in the same country. Ethics and integrity G4-56 10, 30, 52 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms, such as code of conduct or code of ethics. G4-57 52 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as help or advice lines. G4-58 52 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 138 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /139 Effluents and waste Diversity and equal opportunity G4-EN22 94 Total water discharge by quality and destination. G4-LA12 46, 54 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of G4-EN23 95 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. employees by category according to gender, age group, G4-EN24 95 Number and volume of significant spills. minorities and other indicators of diversity. G4-EN25 95 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste Equal remuneration for women and men deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention G4-LA13 54 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste employee category, by significant locations of operation. shipped internationally. Supplier assessment for labor practices CRE5 94 Need for remediation and remediation of land for current G4-LA14 20 Percentage of new suppliers that were examined in terms of and potential use of the land, according to the relevant legal labor practice. framework. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor It is a requirement for construction companies G4-EN26 94 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water practices in the supply chain and actions taken. working in our developments to hire legally constituted bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the companies, with employer registration at the IMSS and organization's discharges of water and runoff. with security programs for works. Most of our general Products and services contractors have security supervisors, some are ISO G4-EN27 84 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of 18000 certified, or have participated in official Safe products and services. Industry programs. G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Does not apply. Due the nature of our business we do not Labor practices grievance mechanisms that are reclaimed by category. package our products and they are not reclaimed at the end G4-LA16 52 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, of its useful life. and resolved through formal mechanisms. Compliance Human Rights G4-EN29 94, 95 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Investment environmental law. G4-HR1 52 Investment agreements and contracts that include human Transport rights clauses. G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting products and other Information not available for transportation of personnel, we G4-HR2 52 Training on human rights, including the percentage of goods for the organization's operations, and transporting are carrying out the necessary management to measure employees trained. employees. this indicator, we estimate to be able to report it in our 2018 Non-discrimination Annual Report. The impacts on products and materials do not G4-HR3 52 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective apply to our business. actions taken. Overall Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-EN31 84 Environmental protection expenditures and investments. G4-HR4 52 Operations and suppliers identified in which freedom of Supplier environmental assessment association and collective bargaining may be at significant G4-EN32 20 Percentage of new suppliers that were examined using risk, and measures taken to support these rights. environmental criteria. Child labor G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental Information not available. We are carrying out the necessary G4-HR5 52 Measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. management to measure this indicator, we estimate to report labor. it in our 2018 Annual Report. Forced or compulsory labor Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-HR6 52 Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of all forms of G4-EN34 94 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, forced labor. addressed and resolved. Security practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in policies and Information not available. We are carrying out the necessary SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT procedures of the organization regarding human rights. management to measure this indicator, we estimate to report Labor Practices and Decent Work it in our 2018 Annual Report. Employment Indigenous rights G4-LA1 54 Total number and rates of new employee hires and turnover G4-HR8 52 Number of incidents of violations involving rights of by age group, gender and region. indigenous people and actions taken. G4-LA2 54 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided Assessment to temporary or part-time employees. G4-HR9 52 Total number and percentage of operations that have been G4-LA3 54 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. gender. Supplier human rights assessment Labor/management relations G4-HR10 20 Percentage of new suppliers examined using human rights G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes and Does not apply. Due to the nature of the business, 100% of criteria. specifications in collective agreements. the employees are trustworthy. G4-HR11 52 Significant actual and potential negative human rights Occupational health and safety impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. G4-LA5 62 Percentage of workers represented in formal health and Human rights grievance mechanisms safety committees. G4-HR12 52 Number of grievances about human rights impacts G4-LA6 62 Type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance absenteeism and fatalities related to work by region and gender. mechanisms. G4-LA7 62 Workers with high incidence or risk of disease related to their occupation. Society CRE6 62 Percentage of the organization that operates under an Local communities international recognized and verifiable health and safety G4-SO1 74 Percentage of operations with implemented local community system. engagement, impact assessments, and developed programs. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Does not apply. Due to the nature of the business, 100% of G4-SO2 74 Operations with significant actual and potential negative trade unions. the employees are trustworthy. impacts on local communities. Training and education Anti-corruption G4-LA9 62 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender G4-SO3 52 Number and percentage of operations assessed for risks and employment category. related to corruption and the significant risks identified. G4-LA10 62 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. G4-SO4 52 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-LA11 62 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance procedures. and career development reviews, by gender and employee G4-SO5 52 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. category. Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient. VESTA does not make this kind of contributions. 140 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /141 Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 52 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance G4-SO8 52 Monetary value of fines and number of non-monetary sanctions due to non-compliance with laws and regulations. Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-SO9 20 Percentage of new suppliers that were examined using criteria for The indicator is partially answered. impacts on society. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on The indicator is currently not available because we do not society in the supply chain and actions taken. have documented information to give an appropriate answer. We are conscious about the importance of the indicator and we will work on the necessary management to measure it. It is estimated to be reported in our 2020 Annual Report. Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4-SO11 52 Number of grievances on society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. CRE7 74 Number of voluntarily or involuntarily displaced and/or relocated persons for development, broken down by project. Product Responsibility Customer health and safety G4-PR1 12 Percentage of product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. G4-PR2 20, 52 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the Does not apply. Due the nature of our business, none of our organization's procedures for product and service information products is packaged. and labelling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. CRE8 12 Type and number of sustainability certification and classification method for new constructions, administration, occupation and modernization. G4-PR4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Does not apply. Due the nature of our business, none of our voluntary codes concerning product and service information products is packaged. and labelling. G4-PR5 16, 32 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. Does not apply. Due the nature of our business, none of our products is banned or disputed. G4-PR7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations In 2016 non-compliance with regulations related to or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, advertising or marketing was not failed. including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Customer privacy G4-PR8 52 Number of sustained complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance G4-PR9 94 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 142 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /143 GRI G4: G4-3, G4-7, G4-13, G4-17, G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-33 GRI G4: G4-5, G4-31 ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTACT As we have done for the past five years, we Estado de México, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Puebla, Corporate Headquarters Ciudad Juárez: communicate the information concerning our Queretaro, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosí, Paseo de los Tamarindos 90 Torre 2, Piso 28 Av. Paseo de la Victoria 3651-3B economic, social, environmental, corporate Sinaloa, Tlaxcala, and Veracruz. Cuajimalpa de Morelos Col. Partido Senecú governance, and financial performance Mexico City, Mexico, 05120 Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, 32469 for the period between January 1st and In order for our information to be transparent, Phone: + 52 (55) 5950 0070 Phone: + 52 (656) 378 0330 December 31st in the 2016 Integrated true, clear, timely, and precise, and in line with Annual Report for Corporación Inmobiliaria the way in which we manage sustainability Toluca I: Aguascalientes: VESTA, S.A.B. de C.V. 1 at VESTA, each division must compile the Av. de las Partidas s/n Ejido Peñuelas information for its corresponding indicators, Col. Villa de Santín Otzolotepec Carretera Panamericana Sur Km 112 This document was drafted in adherence which is subsequently consolidated and Toluca, Estado de México, 50070 Del. Peñuelas to the guidelines of the Global Reporting validated by the Sustainability division. Phone: + 52 (722) 249 7283 Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes, 20340 Initiative (GRI), G4 version, complying with Phone: +52 (449) 688 2601 the in accordance Core disclosures, and it During the period covered by this report there Toluca II: was verified by e3Consultora Ambiental. It were no significant changes in the coverage, Isidro Fabela No. 120 Silao: includes information on VESTA’s operations in scope, or valuation methods that would modify Col. San Blas Otzacatipan Av. Mineral de Valenciana # 645-D2 the 13 Mexican states where we are present: what we reported in 2015. Toluca, Estado de México, 50230 Col. Puerto Interior Aguascalientes, Baja California, Chihuahua, Silao de la Victoria, Guanajuato, 36275 Queretaro: Phone: +52 (472) 117 9120 Financial Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S.A.B. de C.V. Av. de la Montaña 100 Km 28.5 Carretera Queretaro-San Luis Potosí Tlaxcala Entities 99.99% QVC, S de R.L. de C.V. Parque Industrial Queretaro Virgen de la Caridad No. 19 Included in 99.99% QVC II, S de R.L. de C.V. Santa Rosa Jáuregui, Queretaro, 76220 Phone: + 52 (442) 240 9273 Ciudad Industrial Xicotencatl II Huamantla, Tlaxcala, 90500 99.99% Vesta Bajio, S de R.L. de C.V. Reporting 99.99% Vesta Baja California, S de R.L. de C.V. Tijuana: Phone: +52 (247) 102 4736 Blvd. Agua Caliente 10611-1201 99.99% Vesta Queretaro, S de R.L. de C.V. Centro Corporativo Centura 99.99% Proyectos Aeroespaciales, S de R.L. de C.V. Col. Aviación 99.99% WTN Desarrollos Inmobiliarios de México, Tijuana, Baja California, 22420 S de R.L. de C.V. Phone: + 52 (664) 972 9473 99.99% CIV Infraestructura, S de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% Vesta DSP, S de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% Vesta Management, S de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% Servicios de Administración y Mantenimiento Vesta, S de R.L. de C.V. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Area Principle Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; www.generadordeideas.com.mx 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Standards collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Design by: Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S.A.B. de C.V. “VESTA” is a public company listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange and under rule 144A of the US Stock Market. 144 / VESTA INNOVATING MEXICO’S INDUSTRIAL PLATFORM /145 VESTA.COM.MX 146 / VESTA
