Communication on Progress Implementing UN Global Compact Principles In the Citizen Business Insurance Public Ltd 1. Introduction Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that CB Insurance Public Ltd continues its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We uphold the values outlined in the principles and continue to include them into our workplace practices and procedures. This is our first annual Communication on Progress, and here we will describe our actions taken to integrate the principles of the Global Compact in our business strategy, workplace culture, daily operations and in the decision making process. Through integrating these principles and creating strategies for operational excellence we can create a winning culture that ensures satisfaction for all our stakeholders. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using primary channels of communication and help educate as many stakeholders as possible for a greater global impact. Yours Sincerely, U Thaung Han Managing Director 2. Our approach to the 10 principles Corporate sustainability starts with a strong framework of a value system. This can be achieved through operating in ways that meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. At CB Insurance, we have incorporated these principles into planning our strategies, policies and procedures to uphold our responsibilities and values for our customers, employees and all stakeholders. Implementing this culture of integrity and responsibility is going to set us up for long term success. We decided to implement our initiatives first among our staff ensuring their understanding on the basic human rights principles, labor principles, environmental principles and the anti-corruption principles. Next, our initiatives will be directed outside our workplace and towards our society locally. 3. Contents of CB’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy The set of initiatives that makes most sense in the context of CB is human rights, labour (employee rights) and anti-corruption policies. 3.1 HUMAN RIGHTS At CB, we treat and respect people equally regardless of race, gender, ethnicity or religion. We offer equal employment opportunity to all, do not tolerate discrimination or harassment, acknowledge and support the rights of each employee and value open dialogue with them; we provide a safe and healthy work environment for all employees and support diversity and inclusion in our workplace. Through following the ten principles of the UN Global Compact we can truly create a winning culture for all. Our code of conduct reflects these values and is published on our website to make our stance clear to all our stakeholders. GOALS We wish to continue our initiative on making our employees aware of their rights because in the Myanmar cultural context not a lot of people are aware of their rights and hope to educate as many stakeholders as possible about our support and active participation in human rights preservation. Our goal in the next one year is to: • Include a page on our website with more information about our participation in the UN Global Compact to make our stance clear on the issue of human rights. • We hope to integrate the declaration of human rights and detailed explanation on the importance of preserving human rights in our training programs to make our employees aware of the rights they have, and encourage reporting any form of violation of human rights at CB Insurance. • We will integrate the Ten Principles global compact into our manuals and company handbook which is then to be used in meetings and trainings These will help lay out a foundation for better decision making at all levels down the road and set us up for long term success. MONITORING AND EVALUATING PERFORMANCES We will set up an effective complaint system to inform us about any human rights violation at our workplace. Through our training program we will encourage as many people as possible to let us know of any suspicious acts or violations. We have no such violation incidents till date and wish that this trend continues. ACTION PLAN Below is a detailed action plan we wish to undertake at CB Insurance over the next one year (2017-2018) to integrate the ten principles into our company handbook and manuals 1) August a. Develop human rights training materials integrating the ten principles into our manuals and company handbook b. Develop social media content (CB Insurance Facebook page) about our commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact informing and educating our stakeholders on the areas of human rights, labor, anti-corruption and the environment c. Include a page on our website stating the universal declaration of human rights and the importance of human rights for operational excellence 2) September-October a. Develop manuals and company handbooks on the importance of human rights b. Conduct knowledge sharing sessions on the importance of preserving our human rights and the ways to identify and report any form of human rights violation in the workplace c. Continuous education for our employees on ways to integrate the ten principles at all levels of decision making for consistency and transparency in the decision making process 3.2 LABOUR We comply with the Myanmar legal requirements for all our functions. The labor related laws and regulations are: The Labor Organization Law (2011), The Edited Settlement of Dispute Law (September 2014), The Social Security Law (2012), The Minimum Wages Law (2013), The Employment and Skill Development Law, The Amended Law for the Leave and Holiday Law (2014), The Payment of Wages Law (Jan 2016). We are strongly against any form of child labor and forced labour. We have developed company manuals to uphold employee rights and responsibilities and clearly stated their compensation and benefits accordingly. We provide health insurance for our employees and also maintain a hygienic and healthy workspace for their well-being and motivation. GOALS We wish to continue to maintain our current practice and policies and keep up with the government regulations, and modify our operations accordingly in case of any changes in the area of labour laws or regulations. More specifically our goal in the next one year is to • Include information on labor rights into our training programs for greater awareness • Have a page on our website educating and informing our stakeholders on our practice and participation in preserving labor rights following the guidelines of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact • Conduct trainings on labor rights, making our employees aware of their rights at the workplace. MONITORING AND EVALUATING PERFORMANCE We will do periodic employee satisfaction surveys to identify areas that need improvement. Upon identifying those areas we will hold meetings to revise our manuals and introduce revisions and improvements in the company handbooks. ACTION PLAN 1. August -September a. Develop labor rights handbook and training materials on labor rights to be used in the knowledge sharing sessions b. Develop a page on our website informing our stakeholders about our stance on the issue of labor rights and the importance to preserve and protect it 2. October-November a. Continue ongoing program for new and current employees to inform and educate about labor principles. 3.3 ANTI-CORRUPTION At CB Insurance, we do not tolerate any form of corruption, bribery and extortion by any of our employees or third party representatives. Internally, we thoroughly check all our transactions and keep proper records of the information which is controlled by the finance department and is checked with the HR and administration before ultimately reaching the MD. GOALS We have had no incidents of corruption at CB thus far and hope to continue this trend. Our goals within the next one year are: • Provide trainings to all our employees on our anti-corruption commitment and have internal checks and balances to ensure consistency with our anticorruption policies. • We will have a clearly defined guidebook or manual on the different forms of corruption and ways to identify and report such practices to the management • We will have clear guidelines on the kinds of gifts that can be accepted and the kind that are prohibited to give and accept • We hope to set up anonymous channels to inform us of any suspicious activities • Monitoring and testing for compliance • Training and awareness activities • We wish to conduct periodic assessment of corruption risks and control effectiveness • Participate in more anti-corruption workshops held by other companies from home or abroad MEASURING AND EVALUATING PERFORMANCES CB Insurance has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. We have an external auditor who does an annual audit and the reports get submitted directly to the MD. ACTION PLAN 1) August-September a. Develop anti-corruption and ethics handbook for our employees and training materials to educate both new and current employees on the impacts and effects of corruption b. Set up anonymous reporting mechanisms for any suspicious activities c. Develop a page on our website informing our stakeholders about our commitment to zero tolerance to any form of corruption. d. Prepare manuals and handbook with the criteria to choose suppliers ethically and impartially e. Prepare a gift giving guideline that aligns with the Myanmar government’s guidelines and international standards of gift giving f. Educate our suppliers on our anti-corruption initiatives and policies 2) October a. Conduct anti-corruption trainings and knowledge sharing sessions on the Ten Principles Global Compact to new and current employees. 3.4 THE ENVIRONMENT Due to lax government environmental policies and low incentives to use environmentally friendly products and procedures to conduct business, we recognized that we were behind in this area among the four. However, since our commitment to follow the UN Global Compact Principles, we are now addressing this issue with as much importance as any others. We want to create a lasting positive impact on our society through effective environmental policies to be undertaken at CB Insurance that will create a ripple effect in motivating other organizations and firms to do the same. GOALS Our goals in the next one year are to: • Integrate initiatives and programs to reduce waste materials and consumption of resources (electricity, paper consumption) • Develop a page on our website informing our stakeholders of our sustainability goals • Set up paper and bottle recycling bins around our workspace • Educate our employees on the importance of achieving sustainability goals for a positive impact on our society’s future MEASURING AND EVALUATING PERFORMANCE • We hope to measure and evaluate the performance through ensuring that over time our employees form a habit of using the appropriate disposal bins for efficient recycling • We are currently using energy savings light bulbs and wish to continue using such bulbs and monitor our energy usage monthly and minimize it every month. OVERALL GOALS FOR CB INSURANCE FOR THE YEAR 2017-2018 We wish to implement all of the goals above in the areas of human rights, labor rights, anti-corruption and environment in the year 2017-2018. Through constant cooperation and coordination within the departments, we believe, it is possible to achieve all our goals in a sustainable manner. We wish to continue the trainings throughout the year to both current and new employees to make them aware of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and make them aware of their responsibility towards our company and to the broader society. We want to create a thriving culture of acceptance and ethical business where our employees uphold our code of conduct.
