Community Chest and Frasers Centrepoint Malls launched Play It Forward with the Last Bucket of Balls FRASERS CENTREPOINT LIMITED S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT 2016 First aid training at Fraser Place Manila Vertical greenery at One Central Park, Sydney, Australia “Sustainability is core to everything we do at FCL. From our mission to create value through space for today and tomorrow, to our commitment to maintain a high standard of corporate governance, environmental and social practices, to FCL’s strategic objective CONTENTS that is centred on delivering sustainable earnings. We are honoured that the Group has received numerous awards 74 GROWING SUSTAINABILITY AT FCL recognising our efforts and achievements 76 KEY HIGHLIGHTS 78 ABOUT THIS REPORT on this front. We will constantly look 79 WHAT’S IMPORTANT TO US at ways to do even better as we keep 88 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY our sights firmly on our vision to be the 90 GOVERNANCE real estate company of choice for our 93 ENVIRONMENT 101 PEOPLE stakeholders.” 121 INNOVATION 125 GRI CONTENT INDEX (G4 CORE) Panote Sirivadhanabhakdi Group CEO & Chairman of FCL Sustainability Steering Committee GROWING SUSTAINABILITY AT FCL In this report, our second, we demonstrate how our sustainability drive continues to be embedded within our strategy, and how we support sustainability in our business activities, our sector, and the local and global communities. At FCL, we are bound by a common objective across our REAL PLACES diverse geographic footprint – to develop real places for real FOR people. We aim to deliver value to our stakeholders and the REAL PEOPLE communities we serve. This is a promise we take seriously. FCL became a Founding Member FCL received our first Green Mark FCL launched our first Green Mark of the Singapore Green Building award for retail mall and office residential project, a year after Council building BCA launched the Green Mark • Causeway Point – Platinum Scheme Central Park in Perth achieved • Bedok Point – Gold • The Azure – Gold carbon neutrality • Alexandra Point – Gold 2006 2009 2011 FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S The Azure, Singapore Causeway Point, Singapore 74 Our sustainability journey began long before the publication of our inaugural sustainability report last year. We have come a long way, from our first Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark building award in 2006, to publishing our first sustainability report last year and being recognised for transparency at the Securities Investors Association Singapore (SIAS) Investors’ Choice Awards for the third year running, and we continue to grow in our sustainability practices. More recently, FCL has been FCL was ranked among the ranked among the Top 10 Top 10 brands in Singapore by Singapore Brands by Brand Brand Finance Finance with a brand value Published our first sustainability of $1 billion. report in accordance with the FCL became a signatory to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) United Nation Global Compact (G4 Core) guidelines FCL piloted Building Information Alexandra Point, Capri by Fraser Modelling-Virtual Design and OHSAS 18001:2007 certification Changi City, Singapore and Construction (BIM-VDC) on a attained for all Singapore office Causeway Point in Singapore mixed-development in Singapore properties were named among the Top 10 energy efficient buildings in their FCL dedicated August as Frasers Hospitality (FH) dedicated respective categories by BCA Frasers Health & Safety Month March as Frasers Environment Month The Ponds Shopping Centre in FPA topped the Global Real Estate Sydney became the first retail Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) One Central Park in Sydney project to achieve 6 Star Green 2016 in the global diversified was awarded winner of the Star rating by the Green Building office/industrial/non-listed funds International Green Infrastructure Council of Australia category Award by the World Green Infrastructure Congress, and Best Frasers Property Australia (FPA) FH launched 'Just One' hotel Tall Building (Asia & Australia) by achieved the first Green Star programme with World Wide the Council of Tall Buildings and Performance portfolio certification Fund for Nature (WWF) – Earth Urban Habitat in Australia Hour to raise $3 million by 2020 2014 2015 2016 A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Bedok Point, Singapore One Central Park, Sydney, Australia 75 GROWING KEY SUSTAINABILITY AT FCL HIGHLIGHTS In February this year, we became a signatory to Became a signatory to the the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We joined more than 9,000 companies and 3,000 United non-business organisations in an innovative and collaborative worldwide movement to shape a Nations Global sustainable future for the global business community through promoting responsible business practices that Compact will benefit both businesses and the society. In addition, (UNGC) we have joined Global Compact Network Singapore, the local chapter of the UNGC, as a Gold Member. We support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by countries of the United Nations, which came into effect on 1 January 2016. We are reviewing our commitments against the 17 SDGs and GOVERNANCE will focus on specific goals where, given our business, we feel we can maximise our impact on a global scale. We believe that there is strong interconnectedness Most Transparent Company, between our business practices, the community and society. We are confident of delivering value to our Real Estate Category, stakeholders in the long term, with our success rests Runner-Up at SIAS 17th on the integration of business and societal needs. Investors’ Choice Awards 2016 Our commitment to global and national agendas is crystallised through our business processes and activities. During the year, we set up new sustainability sub-committees for Environment, Health & Safety and Innovation to enable a more structured driving force of Extended coverage of sustainability initiatives. We have also implemented Environment, Health & Safety EHS policy and management ISO 14001 across some of our business units to enhance our environmental performance through the systematic systems aligned with management of our environmental responsibilities. In ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 addition, we expanded the coverage of OHSAS 18001 to our key operations and Health & Safety Management System to a wider scope corporate office of operations, and put in place policies, procedures and controls to achieve the best possible working conditions and to promote workplace health and safety. Our performance indicators provide us with a focus for Established sustainability submeasuring and reporting sustainability and compliance. committees for Environment, FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Unless otherwise stated, performance indicators Health & Safety, and are for FY2015/16. Our report is guided by the GRI Innovation (G4 Core) guidelines and indicators, in line with the material issues we need to address. WE WELCOME YOUR FEEDBACK AND SUGGESTIONS [G4-31] We seek to continuously improve our sustainability performance and your feedback is vital to us in achieving our aims. Please write to: Dr Pang Chin Hong Assistant General Manager, Corporate Planning & Chairman, Sustainability Working Committee Frasers Centrepoint Limited 76 Email: sustainability@fraserscentrepoint.com FPA topped globally in Global Real Ranked Estate Sustainability No.9 Benchmark (GRESB) on Brand Finance’s assessment for diversified office/ Singapore Top 100 industrial/non-listed category Brands 2016 ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE Ranked among the Top 10 Hospitality unit launched Energy Efficient Buildings in 'Just One' hotels programme Singapore 2016 with WWF-Earth Hour • Alexandra Point (Private Office category) • Causeway Point (Retail Mall category) Organised inaugural Frasers • Capri by Fraser, Changi Health & Safety Month in City, Singapore (Hotel August 2016 category) The first Green Star 0% Zero workplace fatalities Performance portfolio in Australia Achieved training target of 40 hours per employee Launched Brickworks Living Building Challenge design competition in Australia to create the world’s most 400 days of community sustainable retail centre service volunteered by our staff A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Reduction of • 5% year-on-year in building energy intensity • 2% year-on-year in building water intensity 77 ABOUT THIS REPORT [G4-17] This sustainability report shares detailed information Data disclosed in this report relates to the above about our material issues, and our societal and scope, unless otherwise stated, for assets that we environmental impacts from 1 October 2015 to own and/or manage, over which we have operational 30 September 2016 (FY2015/16). It follows on from control. We have included health and safety data our first sustainability report, which covered the of our principal contractors' employees working at period from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 our Singapore development sites, as we see this (FY2014/15). This sustainability report, together with as an area where we have significant influence. For the rest of the Annual Report, will play an integral data on our workforce, our report covers our global role in promoting communication and transparent operations. reporting to our stakeholders. We continue to prepare this report with reference to In arriving at this report, we have included our key the GRI (G4 Core) requirements and its Construction business divisions1 and our listed REITs, except and Real Estate Sector supplements. We intend to Frasers Logistics & Industrial Trust (FLT), which was seek external assurance on our sustainability report in listed on the SGX-ST in June 2016. Our significant the future. locations of operation, Singapore, Australia and China, are included in this report. For FY2016/17, in addition to the above, we shall expand the report scope to include FLT. GRI Principles How FCL demonstrates this Stakeholder inclusiveness We engage and communicate with our stakeholders on an ongoing basis and use our interactions to share knowledge. Sustainability context We consider the various sustainability issues in a local context, whilst maintaining a global perspective. We regularly refer to national and global agendas, such as the Sustainable Singapore Blueprint and the SDGs, to keep our sustainability activities relevant. Materiality Please refer to our materiality process on page 79. Completeness In setting the boundaries of our report, we endeavour to include all relevant factors, locations and operations where we have control and influence over the 10 identified material issues. Balance We believe honesty and transparency generate trust and respect; we have reported on all relevant aspects of our performance and kept our report balanced. Comparability We benchmark ourselves against our peers’ reports when considering what is material to us and when making our disclosures in order to stay in line with the FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S rest of the industry. Accuracy and reliability To ensure accuracy of data, we have a number of checks and controls in place. We verify hard data with various sources and benchmark this data against peers and/or external data of similar nature to ensure comparability. Timeliness We report annually within four months of the end of our financial year and our data refers to the same time period as our Annual Report. Clarity We aim to disclose clearly and have added notes, explanations and descriptions to our data in order to assist our readers to quickly understand the information they are reading. 1 Singapore, Frasers Hospitality, Frasers Property Australia, Frasers Property China, Frasers Centrepoint Asset Management Ltd, Frasers 78 Centrepoint Asset Management (Commercial) Ltd, Frasers Hospitality Asset Management Pte. Ltd. WHAT’S IMPORTANT TO US [G4-18, G4-19] For purposes of reporting, we reviewed the materiality assessment to determine environmental, social and governance issues relevant to our business and our stakeholders. The assessment was based on the international standards for materiality, GRI and AA1000 principles, as well as the application of sector-specific guidance from the GRESB and the GRI G4 Construction & Real Estate Sector supplements. From the materiality assessment, we have identified our top 10 material issues in the following categories: ECONOMIC 1 Economic and financial PERFORMANCE contribution to our business and our stakeholders (refer to Financial Highlights on page 11, Business Review on pages 30-67 and Financial Statements on pages 166-303) Workplace safety at construction site GOVERNANCE 2 Anti-corruption 3 Ethical marketing ENVIRONMENT 4 Energy use/climate change 5 Environmental compliance 6 Water use/ conservation PEOPLE 7 Health and safety 8 Labour/management relations 9 Staff retention and development 10 Local communities Bags of donated groceries were distributed to those in need during YewTee Point’s Care and Share Event 79 WHAT’S IMPORTANT TO US [G4-18, G4-19] WHAT THE SDGS MEAN TO US As a signatory to the UNGC, we are supportive of the United Nations' adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, along with the 17 SDGs. We have reviewed the SDGs against our material issues and business operations for relevance and alignment. Seven of these are goals we can contribute meaningfully to as an organisation. SDGs Material issue How FCL addresses this goal Goal 3: Health & Safety We prioritise a healthy and safe work environment for staff Good health and wellbeing across our value chain • Consideration of safety in all phases of our business activities, from design to construction and operations • Implementation of sound workplace safety policy and management system standards throughout our key operations • Organisation of year-round wellness and health-related Ensure healthy lives and programmes for staff and provision of welfare schemes promote well-being for all at • Implementation of the Building Occupants Survey all ages. System Australia for FPA’s corporate offices, undertaking Health & Wellbeing strategies in our communities and achieving National Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) Indoor Environment ratings Goal 7: Energy use/ We target to reduce energy intensity by 15% by FY2024/25 Affordable and clean energy Climate change from baseline of FY2014/15 • Monitoring of energy consumption (an indirect greenhouse gas emission) of our business activities and introduction of measures to reduce our carbon footprint • Constant upgrading of older equipment and carrying out asset enhancement initiatives (AEI) on our buildings to ensure that our facilities are energy efficient and sustainable Ensure access to affordable, • Working to achieve green building status such as the reliable, sustainable and BCA Green Mark award and Australia’s Green Star rating modern energy for all. • Installation of 1.58 MWh of solar photovoltaic cells across seven buildings in Australia • Purchase of GreenPower, a scheme to displace electricity usage with certified renewable energy, for nine of our FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S buildings in Australia Goal 8: • Economic We are a signatory to the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Decent work and economic & Financial Progressive Employment Practices (TAFEP) in Singapore growth contribution • Recruitment and selection of employees on the basis • Labour/ of merit; rewards are given fairly based on their ability, Management performance, contribution and experience relations • Provision of equal training and development opportunity for staff based on strengths and need • Provision of student internships to nurture future talents for the industry Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. 80 SDGs Material issue How FCL addresses this goal Goal 9: Economic We constantly strive to explore innovative ways to achieve Industry, Innovation and & Financial greater efficiencies and enhance the experience of users Infrastructure contribution • Piloting of BIM-VDC in the development of Northpoint City, which is the first mixed-development in Singapore to use this method • Launching of the Brickworks Living Building Challenge in Australia, a future-focused design competition to conceptualise a retail centre with rigorous green building performance standards Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation. Goal 10: Labour/ We adhere to the TAFEP agreement in Singapore, which Reduced inequalities Management includes the pledge to reward employees fairly based on relations their ability, performance, contribution and experience • No discrimination based on age, race, gender • Achievement of an almost gender-balanced workforce with a gender split of 53% male and 47% female this year Reduce inequality within and among countries. Goal 11: • Energy use/ We adhere strictly to development plans in our countries of Sustainable cities and Climate change operation and support building sustainability initiatives, such communities • Water use/ as energy and water efficiency and waste management conservation • Creation of liveable and vibrant spaces that are integrated with nature and socially inclusive through Universal Design practices Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Goal 17: • Economic We demonstrate our commitment to global environmental Partnership for the goals & Financial sustainability through partnerships and affiliations with contribution international organisations and industry bodies • Local • Signing on to the UNGC in February 2016 communities • Launching of 'Just One' hotels programme with WWF-Earth Hour by the Hospitality unit • Participation as a founding member of Better Buildings Partnership in Australia, delivering a range A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Strengthen the means of of sustainability projects and demonstrating green implementation and revitalise leadership and sustainable innovation with leading the global partnership for commercial landlords in Sydney sustainable development. 81 WHAT’S IMPORTANT TO US [G4-18, G4-19] SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS OUR REAL ESTATE VALUE CHAIN [G4-12] As a full-fledged international real estate company, we recognise that we have a long value chain of real estate activities from development and investment, to operations and sales and transactions. We deal with suppliers, contractors, consultants, business partners and customers on a daily basis. We believe that we can influence our value chain on sustainability processes. We assess each step of the value chain and consider, where practical, any sustainability opportunities and risks that may arise. SALES & OUR VALUE CHAIN DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT OPERATIONS TRANSACTION • Land acquisition • Property acquisition • Leasing • Property sales • Design & planning • Asset management • Property (Residential) MAIN ACTIVITIES • Construction management • Divestment of non• Project management • Customer service core/mature assets • Capital management $ KEY STAKEHOLDERS KEY MATERIAL ISSUES Economic & financial 4 4 4 4 contribution Anti-corruption 4 4 4 4 Ethical marketing 4 4 4 Energy use & climate 4 4 4 change Environmental 4 4 compliance Water use & 4 4 conservation FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Health & safety 4 4 Labour/management 4 4 4 4 relations Staff retention & 4 4 4 4 development Local communities 4 4 Legend Contractors / Consultants / Suppliers Local Community Customers $ Investment Community Employees Joint Venture & Business Partners 82 Regulators & Non-Governmental Organisations At the early stage of designing a development, FCL as the owner and project manager, will work closely with the architect and engineers to consider environmental and safety features to be incorporated in the development. We adopt the Design for Safety procedure to address the issues at source, and decide on the green design and technology to be adopted. When it comes to selecting the main building contractor for the construction, we impose stringent criteria, appointing only those who are certified with quality, environment and safety management systems, such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. For residential developments, we always ensure that our sales and marketing communications with homebuyers are accurate and ethical. After the homes are delivered to the buyers, we engage them through surveys to gauge their level of satisfaction. For completed properties that we manage, whether they are commercial, hospitality or industrial, we involve our staff, suppliers, tenants, guests and the community in various aspects of sustainability. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We hold regular dialogue with our various stakeholders on a number of fronts, including sustainability-related topics. We are mindful that stakeholder engagement is key to a successful sustainability journey, and will share with them our goals and vision to create a more sustainable community. Key stakeholders Form of engagement Key topics • Bilateral communication with sales agents, • Quality of services and landscaping contractors and cleaning contractors products • Safety briefings, site visits, safety declarations • Performance (construction contractors) • Safety Contractors / Consultants / Suppliers • Bilateral communication • Quality of services and • Customer service counters and centre management facilities offices • Customer satisfaction • Events • Staff performance • Surveys and feedback forms Customers • Performance appraisals on annual basis • Performance and skills • Training, including orientation programme for • Corporate policies new staff • Occupational health • Team building activities and safety • Intranet (in Australia and Singapore) • Staff bonding Employees • Annual Dinner & Dance • Family Day A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 • Half-year and full-year results briefings and earnings • Financial results $$ calls on quarterly basis • Business operations • Annual General Meeting, Extraordinary General and performance Meeting • Business strategy and • Local and overseas investor conferences and road shows outlook Investment Community • Bilateral communication, one-on-one meetings and site visits 83 WHAT’S IMPORTANT TO US [G4-18, G4-19] Key stakeholders Form of engagement Key topics • Provide feedback channels for the community • Environmental around our properties sustainability • Consultations (where necessary) awareness • Provide cash and venue sponsorship at our • Corporate social properties responsibility Local • Staff involvement in the local community and Community organisations through volunteerism • Briefings and consultations • Regulatory and • Participation in non-governmental organisations industry trends (e.g. Real Estate Developers' Association of Singapore (REDAS), REIT Association of Singapore (REITAS)) Regulators / • Participation in surveys and focus groups Non-Governmental Organisations • Bilateral communication, regular project meetings • Project planning and and site visits progress update • Marketing and sales strategy Joint Venture & Other Business Partners FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S FCL's former Group Chief Executive Officer Mr Lim Ee Seng, presented donation cheques totalling $60,000 to representatives from Punggol Group Representation Constituency 84 PARTNERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS we became a signatory to UNGC and joined the Global Compact Network of Singapore as a Gold As a major stakeholder in the real estate market, Member. In Australia, Mr Rod Fehring, the CEO of FCL has been actively engaging with various industry FPA was appointed to the board of the GBCA. With bodies, such as the REDAS, REITAS, Workplace our representation in partnerships and affiliations Safety and Health Council (WSHC), Singapore with industry bodies, we believe we can continue Green Building Council (SGBC) and the Green to influence and play a role in encouraging the real Building Council of Australia (GBCA). This year, estate sector’s sustainability initiatives. FCL is affiliated with the following industry bodies: Green Building Council of Australia Real Estate Investment Workplace Safety and Real Estate Developers' Trust Association of Health Council International Council of Association of Singapore Singapore (Singapore) Shopping Centers Australia Australia A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 85 WHAT’S IMPORTANT TO US [G4-18, G4-19] CUSTOMERS SATISFACTION categories – quality of workmanship and customer service recovery services carried out by our We build a life-long relationship with our customers. contractor. We want each customer to enjoy their experience in the homes that we build. We take care and effort This year, we again received favourable ratings to ensure that we create homes of the future which from our customers, with homeowners indicating a are aesthetically pleasing, of superb quality and higher level of satisfaction in almost all categories surpassing comfort. compared to FY2014/15. More homeowners also said they would recommend Frasers Centrepoint's In Singapore, to continually engage our customers homes to their friends and relatives as indicated and keep in touch with their needs and preferences, by an increase in ratings from 8.9 in FY2014/15 we conduct two surveys with our homeowners. to 9.3 in FY2015/16. We are pleased that these The first survey – “How was your home collection ratings reinforce the strength of our brand and our experience?” – is conducted annually with the commitment to excellence. objective of measuring our customers’ overall first impression of Frasers Centrepoint's homes, including The Head of Development & Projects, Singapore aspects such as staff service levels, quality of homes conducts CARE service standards and service and common facilities. recovery training for the team including the main contractor, site supervisors, projects and managing Overall satisfaction levels increased in FY2015/16, agent. The objective is to emphasise the importance with homeowners indicating a higher satisfaction of delivering a consistently high standard of service score both in their overall home collection experience to our homeowners. Staff training is also conducted and in each individual category. This was only made regularly to share on the important lessons learnt for possible with our staff’s commitment to improvement all projects. and attention to detail. All feedback received is discussed during weekly The second survey – “How is everything?” – meetings with the Project Team, Main Contractors, is conducted on a quarterly basis with homeowners Architect and the Managing Agent. The CARE team to obtain homeowners’ overall impression of their then follows up with the homeowners and ensures home, both on a macro level, and through individual immediate service recovery. HOMEBUYERS’ OFFICE BUILDING TENANTS’ SATISFACTION LEVEL (%) SATISFACTION LEVEL (%) 82.0 78.0 78.0 77.3 76.0 77.8 64 70 70 FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S 29 24 24 How was your home How is everything survey? FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 collection experience? FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 Satisfied to very satisfied Neutral to satisfied 86 TENANTS SATISFACTION better customer experience for our tenants, their staff and our shoppers. Such upgrading initiatives In Singapore, satisfaction surveys are conducted also serve to enhance the value and appeal of our annually with tenants of FCL’s office and business properties. space properties. The survey findings are important to us as we strive to continuously monitor and It is also heartening to note that the efforts and hard improve the customer experience for our tenants. work of our security team and operations colleagues For example, in response to tenants’ requests for have been recognised by our tenants through local, affordable cuisine in Valley Point Office Tower, compliments and commendations. The tenants’ we brought in a new retail tenant, 85 Redhill, a local satisfaction level has remained a commendable 94% ‘multiple offerings under one roof’ concept by in FY2015/16, with 70% indicating satisfaction levels Fei Siong, much to the delight of all in the vicinity. of “satisfied to very satisfied”. Improvement works in the pipeline include China Square Central, 51 Cuppage Road and Robertson Walk. These works are geared towards bringing a A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Improvement works in the pipeline include Robertson Walk (left) and China Square Central (right). Tenants, their staff and shoppers can look forward to a better customer experience when works are completed 87 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY [G4-34] At FCL, the corporate sustainability agenda is driven of various business units and departments such as by our Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC), Finance, Risk, HR and Communications. The SWC’s which is chaired by our Group CEO, Mr Panote main task is to monitor our sustainability performance Sirivadhanabhakdi. The committee comprises against our key performance indicators (KPIs), members from top management – the CEOs of all implement action plan, and communicate and report our business units, the Chief Corporate Officer and to our stakeholders. Chief Financial Officer, as well as the Chief Human Resources (HR) Officer. The SSC spearheads the During the year, we also set up new sustainability strategy and initiatives to drive sustainability in the sub-committees for Environment, Health & Safety business operations. The SSC meets quarterly to and Innovation to drive the respective aspects of review performance against each of our key material sustainability agendas that are of significance to us. issues. The SSC is supported by a Sustainability We believe this will enable more comprehensive and Working Committee (SWC), which consists of effective implementation of sustainability initiatives members from the middle and senior management on a group-wide basis. FCL Corporate Sustainability Chaired by the Group CEO; Chaired by the Assistant GM with members from the top Sustainability Steering (Corporate Planning); with management members from the senior and • Drive sustainability strategy Committee middle management in various • Review sustainability business units and departments performance against our key such as Finance, Risk, HR, material issues Communications • Approve action plans to improve • Monitor sustainability sustainability practices performance against our KPIs • Implement action plans as Sustainability Working approved by the SSC • Sustainability communication Committee and reporting FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Environment Health & Safety Innovation • Drive environment outreach and • Drive health & safety outreach • Nurture and drive the innovation awareness programmes and awareness programmes culture within the Group • Monitor environmental • Monitor safety performance • Establish the infrastructure that performance against targets and against targets and benchmarks make idea contribution effective benchmarks • Facilitate the implementation • Drive innovation-related learning • Facilitate the implementation of OHSAS 18001 Occupational and development activities of ISO 14001 Environment Health & Safety Management Management System System 88 In addition, some of our SBUs have also established their own sustainability governance committees to drive sustainability aspects which are of more relevance to their operations. For example, our Hospitality SBU has an environment committee at every property, while FPA has just developed a comprehensive sustainability strategy, A Different Way. It represents our real commitment to creating places where resources are reused, recycled and restored, and new ideas are fostered for everyone’s benefit to lead better and healthier lives. FPA's office in Perth, Australia “One key milestone for FCL over the last two years is the establishment of our Sustainability Committee at both steering and working levels. This has allowed a more coordinated approach to driving sustainable initiatives from the Group's perspective and facilitating effective communication to various stakeholders.” Dr Pang Chin Hong Assistant General Manager, Corporate Planning & Chairman of FCL Sustainability Working Committee A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 89 GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance drives good business and sets the tone from the top for good sustainability practices throughout FCL. As a signatory to the 2015 Corporate Governance Statement of Support, FCL has pledged our commitment to uphold high standards in corporate governance. We believe strongly that sustainability responsibilities should be integrated into the corporate governance structure of our business and strive to maintain high standards of integrity, accountability and responsible governance. To this end, we have put in place various corporate policies, programmes and standard operating procedures to guide the management and employees in corporate governance. We have implemented ISO14001 (Environment) and OHSAS 18001 (Health & Safety) Management Systems in our various key business operations and are expanding the coverage of the management systems to a wider scope of operations. In addition, we became a signatory to the UNGC, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, in early 2016. Together with more than 9,000 companies and 3,000 non-business organisations worldwide, FCL volunteered to pledge to adhere to the ten principles within four broad areas – Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption: HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR Principle 1 Principle 3 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S protection of internationally proclaimed association and the effective recognition of human rights; and the right of collective bargaining; Principle 2 Principle 4 Make sure that they are not complicit in The elimination of all forms of forced and human rights abuses compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 90 Our commitment towards the highest level of governance has been recognised by our receipt of the Most Transparent Company, Real Estate category, Runner-Up at the SIAS 17th Investors’ Choice Awards 2016. This is the third year FCL has been recognised for corporate transparency at the SIAS Investors’ Choice Awards. ANTI-CORRUPTION, FRAUD PREVENTION AND ETHICAL MARKETING [SO3, SO5, PR7] Good corporate practice dictates that anti-corruption, fraud prevention and ethical marketing be placed high on a company’s agenda. These factors are relevant for the locations in which we operate, and we recognise the benefits that clear policies, good management and an untarnished reputation bring to our business. FCL has a zero-tolerance approach towards corruption and fraud. In the marketing of our products and services, our residential projects and our commercial leasing or serviced apartment/ hotel room sales, we ensure that our communications and marketing are responsible, clear, timely and accurate. We adhere to the Code of Corporate Governance 2012, the Code of Advertising, Singapore's Urban Redevelopment Authority’s developer rules, and all other applicable laws and regulations. ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses are asked to support a Businesses should work against corruption in precautionary approach to environmental all its forms, including extortion and bribery challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 91 GOVERNANCE Corporate Policies Guidance on: External access Code of Business Company values, ethics and conduct in relation to: NA Conduct • Compliance monitoring • Record keeping • Information confidentiality • Conflicts of interest • Insider trading • Relations with key stakeholder Whistle-Blowing Provision of a channel for stakeholders and other Available at: Policy persons to report any concerns, including: www.fraserscentrepoint.com/ • Improprieties in financial reporting html/protection.php • Professional misconduct • Irregularities or non-compliance with laws and regulations Anti-Bribery Policy Prevention and management of bribery and NA corruption Policy for Disclosure and Declaration and approval requirements for any NA Approval of Purchase of interested persons, directors and employees of Property Projects FCL, when purchasing property developed by FCL Competition Act Compliance with the Competition Act to protect NA Compliance Manual and promote healthy competitive markets in Singapore Personal Data Protection Compliance with the Personal Data Protection Available at: Act Policy Act 2012 relating to the handling and processing www.fraserscentrepoint.com/ personal data, complaint handling procedures, html/protection.php and avenues for employees, customers, suppliers or other contact persons of FCL to report any concern that the policy may have been breached Environment, Health & Safeguarding the health and safety of all relevant NA Safety Policy stakeholders and interested parties within its premises and providing an environmental friendly and safe place for them to work in or to conduct their business FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S In safeguarding the company’s independence in Based on investigations conducted in FY2015/16 audit results, our Internal Audit Department reports with regards to complaints received through directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. whistleblower channels, one case was substantiated These independent internal audits are designed and appropriate actions were taken. to improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. For further There were no incidents of non-compliance with details on our internal audit approach, please refer regulations and industry codes concerning marketing to pages 137-165 on Corporate Governance. communications for which fines were issued to the Company. In FY2015/16, no confirmed cases with regards to bribery and corruption were reported. 92 ENVIRONMENT At FCL, we are always conscious of the environmental impacts arising from our business activities. We firmly believe that the impact can be managed responsibly in a commercially viable manner, and have therefore been unreserved in our support of the Sustainable Singapore Blueprint 2015 and more recently, Singapore’s Intended Nationally Determined Contributions submitted during the Conference of Parties 21 (COP 21). COP 21 – SINGAPORE’S PLEDGE 24 BCA Green Mark Awards in Singapore FCL’s efforts to ensure our buildings’ energy Reduce its emission intensity by 36% performance remains sustainable have been from 2005 levels by 2030 recognised on a national level by BCA. Alexandra Reduce its emissions by 16% below Point, Causeway Point and Capri by Fraser, Changi business-as-usual levels by 2020 City, Singapore were ranked in the top 10 in the BCA Building Energy Benchmarking Report in their Stabilise emissions with the aim respective Private Office Buildings, Retail Buildings of peaking around 2030 and Hotels categories for the consecutive years. Alexandra Point and Causeway Point achieved Green Mark Platinum, while Capri by Fraser, Changi We are also aligning our practices to support BCA’s City, Singapore was awarded Green Mark GoldPLUS. second Green Building Master Plan which aims for For more information, please refer to BCA Building at least 80% of the buildings in Singapore to achieve Energy Benchmarking Report 2016. the BCA Green Mark Certified rating by 2030. We incorporate energy efficiency measures into Approximately 80% of our investment properties the building design and carrying out energy audits in Australia are Green Star Performance-certified every three years. Our efforts not only helped us to and 20% are NABERS-certified. We have set the maintain our Green Mark awards, but also provided requirement for all of our new office, retail and us with the opportunity to review and improve our industrial developments in Australia to achieve a energy efficiency practices throughout the life of our minimum 5 Star Green Star Design & As Built rating, buildings. representing excellence in sustainable design. This is evident from the latest GRESB results, where our GREENING OUR BUILDINGS commercial and industrial properties in Australia were ranked first globally for diversified office/ To date, FCL has received a total of 24 BCA Green industrial/non-listed funds, and second globally for Mark Awards in Singapore, out of which two were all diversified office/industrial funds (listed and Platinum, 4 GoldPLUS, 15 Gold, and 3 Certified. All of non-listed). Our exemplar performance is our Singapore office and business space properties evident from the GRESB results with year-on-year have achieved BCA Green Mark Gold or higher, and improvement. A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 about half of our Singapore retail properties are BCA Green Mark Gold or above. Furthermore, all our office and business space properties in Singapore have been certified with Eco-Office labels by the Singapore Environment Council. 93 ENVIRONMENT CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS with city-specific competitions, our Brisbane team was runner-up for the Cleaner Communities We continue our annual participation in Earth Hour Brisbane award for their efforts. Our Australian team organised by the WWF. On 19 March 2016, over participated for the eighth time in the Schools Tree a hundred of our global properties across all asset Day this year. 106 staff, with another 53 volunteers classes switched off non-essential lights in common planted some 1,505 trees and rejuvenated some areas for an hour. As a large commercial landlord outdoor facilities across four schools. and owner-operator of hospitality assets, we have taken the extra step to encourage our stakeholders, In addition, our Australian team hosted numerous tenants, shoppers, guests and patrons of our staff engagement activities, including initiating properties to do their part. In conjunction with EnviroWeek, during which lunchtime talks on Earth Hour, FH has continued to designate March sustainability topics were organised. In conjunction as Frasers Environment Month for the third year with the World Green Building Week in September, running, during which a series of initiatives and we ran a sustainable design competition for children. campaigns were organised to promote environmental responsibility. In Singapore, we hosted our Australian sustainability team and Ms Romilly Madew, the CEO of Green Employees are also engaged through a variety of fun Building Council Australia, and her team, during the and exciting initiatives that promote sustainability Singapore Green Building Week in September. We awareness, such as the Soap Box Derby Challenge shared our sustainability practices and hosted site by the FH team in Singapore. The challenge required visits to our two BCA Green Mark Platinum buildings employees to form their own teams to build human– Alexandra Point and Causeway Point, which are sized cars using recyclable materials to participate in ranked among the Top 10 Most Efficient Private a race. Other events were also organised including Office and Retail Buildings in Singapore, respectively. the Beach Clean Up Challenge at Changi Beach and We also extended the same hospitality to a group of a visit to Semakau Landfill. Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) students and their professor from Boston University In Australia, the team carries out two major in March when they visited us as part of their EMBA environmental volunteering events every year – Clean field trip to understand the risks and opportunities Up Australia Day and Schools Tree Day. Some 90 staff within the environmental space in Asia. volunteered in the former event nationally in March, collecting about 100 bags of rubbish. In conjunction FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S FPA staff planted trees and rejuvenated outdoor facilities at four schools on Schools Tree Day 94 TOP 10 ENERGY EFFICIENT BUILDINGS IN SINGAPORE 2016 PRIVATE OFFICE BUILDING CATEGORY – ALEXANDRA POINT Alexandra Point is one of the Top 10 performing private office buildings in Singapore’s BCA Energy Benchmarking for two consecutive years. Although it is not a new building, it managed to clinch the BCA Green Mark Platinum award, with a 33% reduction in energy use (from 2013 to 2014) through the upgrading of the chilled water system (chillers, condenser pumps, chilled water pumps, cooling towers) and air handling units. RETAIL BUILDING CATEGORY – CAUSEWAY POINT The BCA awarded Causeway Point the highest Green Mark Platinum Award in 2011, after AEI works on the building significantly improved its environmental features. This is further affirmed by the BCA ranking Causeway Point as among the Top 10 most energy efficient retail malls in 2015 and 2016. HOTEL CATEGORY – CAPRI BY FRASER, CHANGI CITY, SINGAPORE Capri by Fraser, Changi City, Singapore is part of the mixed office-retail mall-hotel development located at Changi Business Park in Singapore. Awarded Green Mark GoldPLUS since 2011, Capri by Fraser, Changi City, Singapore has also won the Singapore Green Hotel Award in 2013 and 2015. In both 2015 and 2016, BCA ranked Capri by Fraser, Changi City, Singapore as among the Top 10 energy efficient hotels, which further affirmed our environmental sustainability practice. SINGAPORE’S BUILDING ENERGY BENCHMARKING 2016 A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 This is an annual publication under the BCA Singapore’s 3rd Green Building Masterplan. Energy consumption data and building-related information are submitted to the BCA on an annual basis for analysis and benchmarking. The report’s objective is to inform owners and their operation teams on how well they have performed and to spur them to initiate and implement progress to improve energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption. The report ranks the Top 10 energy efficient buildings in five categories – government office buildings, private office buildings, hotels, retail buildings and mixed developments. 95 FRASERS PROPERTY AUSTRALIA: TOP IN GRESB'S GLOBAL 1st 1st ASSESSMENT FOR OUT OF 3 OUT OF 4 DIVERSIFIED OFFICE/INDUSTRIAL/ NON-LISTED FUNDS Asia-Pacific/ Global/Diversified – Diversified – Office/Industrial Office/Industrial GRESB Health & Well-being Driving continual improvements in sustainable performance across all operations, the progress of FPA in sustainability is demonstrated by its exemplary performance in the 2016 GRESB rankings. 1st OUT OF 13 2nd OUT OF 18 FPA’s commercial and industrial portfolio is ranked first globally for diversified office/industrial non-listed funds, and second globally for all diversified office/ industrial funds (listed and non-listed). This is a great milestone for us since we first participated in the Diversified – Diversified – GRESB assessment in 2012. In terms of scoring from Office/Industrial/ Office/Industrial seven different aspects, FPA scored 75 overall in Non-listed/Global the 2016 assessment, achieving a 4 Star score from GRESB. GRESB Aspects Score (out of 100) Management 100 GRESB is an industrydriven organisation Policy & Disclosure 79 committed to assessing Risks & Opportunities 85 the environmental, social and corporate Monitoring & EMS 90 governance performance Performance Indicators 64 of real estate portfolios. It is widely known as a Building Certifications 77 global standard for assessing sustainability in real estate. FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Stakeholder Engagement 66 By participating in GRESB, a company’s The results represent a fourth consecutive year of sustainability performance is assessed based on improvement in GRESB scores for FPA, and are also the following seven aspects: testament to the strong collaboration between FPA’s 1. Management sustainability and building operation teams. 2. Policy & disclosure 3. Risks & opportunities FPA achieved the first Green Star Performance 4. Monitoring & Environmental Management portfolio certification in Australia, with 69 Green System (EMS) Star-rated building projects. We have also launched 5. Performance indicators several 6 Star Green Star industrial facilities this year. 6. Building certifications While FPA has been making substantial progress in 7. Stakeholder engagement generating sustainable outcomes for its commercial and industrial assets, we constantly strive to remain a In 2016, a record 759 real estate companies and market leader in sustainability in the real estate sector. funds participated in GRESB. 96 ENVIRONMENT ENERGY USE AND GHG EMISSIONS [EN3, EN5, EN6, CRE1, EN16, EN18, EN19, CRE3] We continue to work towards achieving a property portfolio that is energy efficient. Overall, our building 8% 5% energy consumption and energy intensity have reduced by 8% year-on-year and 5% year-on-year respectively in FY2015/16. We saw a reduction in energy intensity from the Singapore retail and Building Energy Building Energy office portfolio to our Australian office assets and Consumption Intensity global hospitality assets under management. Our carbon footprint (greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions) decreased in tandem from 136,100 to 123,500 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. In driving improvement, we focused on effective communication with our facilities management team about the Group’s sustainability goals. To demonstrate our commitment to reducing energy use, we have set a 10-year target with a 15% reduction from the baseline of FY2014/15. Singapore retail – Changi City Point “FPA is driving continual improvements in environmental performance across all our operating sectors and this year’s GRESB result validates our efforts” Paolo Bevilacqua General Manager Sustainability, FPA Fraser Suites Glasgow, Scotland, UK 97 ENVIRONMENT BUILDING ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWh) BUILDING ENERGY INTENSITY (kWh/m2) 231 234 216 250 200 150 120 119 113 100 50 0 FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 Hospitality Singapore Office Hospitality Singapore Office Australia Office Singapore Retail Australia Office Singapore Retail Group Intensity BUILDING GHG EMISSIONS ('000 tonnes) BUILDING GHG INTENSITY (kg/m2) 135 136 124 100 80 70.2 69.1 64.5 60 40 20 0 FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 Hospitality Singapore Office Hospitality Singapore Office Australia Office Singapore Retail Australia Office Singapore Retail FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Group Intensity Notes: • Energy consumption is reported for landlord area for commercial properties and total area for serviced residences and hotels • Energy and GHG data currently covers more than 70% of completed buildings that we own and/or manage with operational control, except MHDV portfolio and those that we acquired and/or managed less than one year ago • Grid GHG emission factors are from Singapore Energy Statistics 2016, Australia National Greenhouse Gas accounts, China Climate Change Info-Net, Reliable Disclosure Systems for Europe, German Association of Energy and Water Industries, India's Central Electricity Authority, and the United Kingdom's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) for Singapore, Australia, China, France, Germany, India and the UK respectively. For all other countries, emission factors are determined from trend analysis based on 98 DEFRA results for previous two years WATER USE AND CONSERVATION [EN8, CRE2] Our business operations provide us with many opportunities to play a part in conserving water use. Our buildings are fitted with water-saving 4% 2% technologies such as tap flow restrictors/regulators, dual-flush water systems, waterless urinal systems and the Public Utilities Board's (PUB) Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme approved fittings, and recycled Building Water Building Water water sources such as NEWater and air handling unit Consumption Intensity (AHU) condensate. In Singapore, we work extensively with the wider community, including public utility providers, to play our part in achieving greater waterefficiency. This year, Causeway Point, East Point Mall, use the PUB’s NEWater, which is recycled water. Northpoint, and the Centrepoint attained PUB's In our cooling towers, we use water treatment Water Efficient Building (Basic) certification, joining systems that can achieve at least seven cycles of Bedok Point, Anchorpoint and YewTee Point, which concentration. were previously certified. Overall, we have achieved a reduction in both water In Australia, rainwater is collected at most consumption and intensity across our asset portfolio development projects and connected to irrigation under management. Our total water consumption and toilet flushing systems for reuse. and water intensity have reduced by 4% year-on-year and 2% year-on-year respectively in FY2015/16. The Nearly 100% of our water comes from public utilities. reduction was mainly attributed to the Singapore We have been increasing our use of recycled water retail and Australia office portfolios. To demonstrate for non-potable applications, such as irrigation, our commitment to reducing water use, we have set washing, water features and cooling towers. We a 10-year target to reduce our water intensity by 15% collect condensate from our AHU for reuse and also on the FY2014/15 baseline by FY2024/25. BUILDING WATER CONSUMPTION (mil m3) BUILDING WATER INTENSITY (m3/m2) 2.52 2.56 2.46 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.33 1.30 1.27 1.0 0.5 0.0 FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Hospitality Singapore Office Hospitality Singapore Office Australia Office Singapore Retail Australia Office Singapore Retail Group Intensity Notes: • Water consumption is reported for landlord area for commercial properties and total area for serviced residences and hotels • The water data covers more than 70% of completed buildings that we own and/or manage with operational control, except MHDV portfolio and those that we acquired and/or managed less than one year ago 99 ENVIRONMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT [EN23] Food waste management F&B outlets in our shopping malls generate a Waste minimisation and recycling at significant amount of food waste. Consequently, FCL commercial buildings has been looking at adopting initiatives to promote In land-scarce Singapore, waste generation and the reduction and recycling in this area. At Valley disposal remain one of the top environmental Point, we are piloting the use of a food waste digester issues in the country. As a major property owner with the possibility of adopting on-site food waste and manager, FCL recognises that our commercial recycling at our other malls. We are also partnering buildings produce a significant amount of waste with NEA in its Food Waste Reduction Outreach to and we are committed to doing our part in waste reduce food waste at our malls. management. Paper recycling and conservation at corporate office FCL tracks waste disposal and recycling at our Paper comprises the bulk of waste at FCL's corporate commercial buildings, and implements initiatives office. We emphasise the management of paper to reduce waste generation. We constantly look for use in printing and photocopying, and have been ways to spread the awareness of the 3Rs – Reduce, educating staff on the need to move towards going Reuse and Recycle – in our operations. paperless. We use paper which has the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) labels, or products under the Singapore Green Label Scheme (SGLS). These products are produced based on sustainably managed forests and controlled sources. REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE To help monitoring, we track paper usage by employees at our corporate offices. In FY2015/16, In FY2015/16, 13,000 tonnes of waste were 4,591 reams of A4 paper and equivalent were generated from 14 commercial properties1 in used and we have put in place measures to reduce Singapore. The waste intensity has decreased to paper usage. Through setting default double-sided 25.5 kg/m2 in FY2015/16 from 28.7 kg/m2 a year ago. printing, discouraging the printing of materials, We will seek to improve the waste intensity in the and shifting information online, we are progressing coming years. towards a paperless environment. Recycling bins have been made available at our COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS [EN29] commercial properties to make it convenient for shoppers and tenants to recycle waste. Retail tenants Environmental and safety compliance is a key have also been encouraged to segregate their waste priority in our business processes, and we make before disposal, to improve their recycling efforts. In every effort to ensure that we comply with all rules FY2015/16, 508 tonnes of waste from 14 commercial and regulations. Despite these efforts, five of our properties were sent for recycling, with the bulk of it development projects in Singapore have been fined FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S being paper. This is an encouraging increase from the a total of approximately $70,000 with a total of 467 tonnes reported in the previous year. 15 days of stop-work orders in FY2015/16, while in Australia, the fines amounted to A$8,000. We have also invited National Environment Agency In Singapore, the fines were imposed on our main (NEA) to deliver lunchtime talks to staff and tenants contractors due to incidents such as excessive noise on waste minimisation to further encourage 3R levels, mosquito breeding and safety breaches. practices in our operations. We constantly monitor Together with our contractors, we have since taken our recycling rates and are working on improving extra measures to minimise further incidents. We will recycling efforts at our commercial properties, which strive to improve our compliance and aim for zero include ramping up recycling of other materials such incidents of non-compliance with environmental laws as plastics and metals. and regulations in the future. 1 The 14 commercial buildings comprise five office buildings (Valley Point, Alexandra Point, 51 Cuppage Road, China Square Central and Alexandra Technopark) and nine retail malls (East Point Mall, The Centrepoint, Anchorpoint, Bedok Point, Changi City Point, Causeway 100 Point, Northpoint, YewTee Point and Robertson Walk) PEOPLE an increasingly challenging environment. Strong labour and management relations help us remain nimble, and place us in a good position to tap into a wealth of experience brought about by diversity and retained talent. Our fundamental focus is to ensure that each employee remains healthy and has a safe work environment. SAFETY FIRST [LA5, LA6] At FCL, safety is a key priority. It is the foundation upon which our project development and building management processes are built. Our people are critical for the sustainability of the Group. With the rapidly changing landscape and We are mindful of the vulnerability of our business stakeholder expectations, FCL can only remain operations to safety incidents right from the onset relevant and sustainable through the concerted of the development cycle. This is due to the nature efforts and talents of a skilled and adaptable of the work which involves heavy manpower, workforce. Staff training and development remain the handling of dangerous equipment, and key priorities, as we ready ourselves to navigate commitments to meeting deadlines. Our safety criteria apply at various stages of the life-cycle of our buildings. Stage Safety criteria applied Design Carry out risk assessment using a Design for Safety procedure. The risk assessment covers design, structure, mechanical and electrical (M&E) function and landscape. Tender Require building contractors tendering for jobs to have safety standards OHSAS certification (i.e. OHSAS 18001 standard or its equivalent) in order to qualify for consideration. Construction Conduct a joint monthly safety committee meeting with our main building contractors, where health and safety issues are discussed. On a quarterly basis, our management carries out safety inspection tours at all our development sites. Pre-operation Carry out risk assessment for daily facilities management activities. (For properties under Prior to attaining the Temporary Occupation Permit, the main contractor management) and specialised contractors (e.g. M&E) jointly inspect and train the Facilities Manager (FM) in operations and maintenance procedure. Operation Conduct risk assessment and review risk areas annually. Appointed term (For properties under contractors are required to submit risk assessment prior to commencing work. management) Main building contractors who are responsible during the defect liability A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 period have to submit a revised risk assessment for facilities management. As part of day-to-day operations, the FM will carry out checks on lighting, toilets, M&E services and water/electrical meter reading for anomalies. On a monthly basis, our service providers will carry out inspections and maintenance works on air-conditioning and mechanical ventilation system, electrical system/ switch board, lift, escalator, fire protection system, sanitary and plumbing system, and landscaping. 101 PEOPLE Over the years, FCL has established a healthy Our senior management has been a leading advocate workplace safety culture that has garnered strong in the real estate industry when it comes to safety. support from the senior management. Our Head of Development & Projects, Singapore, Mr Cheang Kok Kheong, is currently the Deputy In strengthening our practices, FCL has Chairman of the Industry Committee (Construction & implemented workplace safety management Landscape) in the WSHC. In addition, Mr Cheang systems standards across various key business frequently shares his experience with industry operations to identify and control hazards, and stakeholders on Design for Safety (DFS) at workshops constantly monitor the performance and areas organised by REDAS, Institute of Engineers Singapore for improvement. For example, occupational and BCA. health and safety management systems aligned to OHSAS 18001 and its equivalent have been We endeavour to ensure compliance with the latest implemented in our Singapore office and retail malls workplace safety regulations and have in place operation, construction and project development workplace safety policies and procedures that in Australia and corporate offices. Some of our are communicated to our staff. We regularly send facilities management have also been awarded our key technical staff for training on workplace BizSafe certification by the WSHC and the Ministry safety practices. Recognising that safety is a joint of Manpower. In the near future, we have plans to responsibility, we work closely with our main expand our management systems to cover a wider contractors to ensure that construction sites are scope of our operations. conducive not only for our staff, but also the staff of main contractors, sub-contractors and suppliers, and the public where applicable. Safety talk for cleaners at China Square Central First aid training at Fraser Place Manila FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Lifting training at Hotel du Vin Cambridge Wellness training at Fraser Property China's Shanghai office 102 Smoothie Day at Fraser Suites Sydney Live Life Get Active at One Central Park, Sydney A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Healthy Walk by staff at Fraser Place Shekou Shenzhen 103 WHAT IS DESIGN FOR We pay specific safety attention to a few areas: SAFETY? Safety in design and construction has to be addressed at three levels: Planning, Programme and People. Design for safety (DFS) is the focus at all three levels, where the party creating the risk must address the issue at source. DFS therefore goes • Safety in design to reduce dangerous practices beyond the architects and engineers to include the contractors, sub-contractors and workers • High risk activities such as working at height implementing sequence of works, formworks, • Materials handling and traffic management tip-enhanced Raman spectroscopy and gondolas. • Personal protective equipment However, the focus and effectiveness of DFS is at the planning stage, particularly at concept design and design development. Planners, architects, engineers and contractors are most effective We are proud that in FY2015/16, our construction when design risk assessment is front loaded. sites in Singapore recorded zero fatalities. During the financial year, we had seven projects under The guideline in DFS helps reduce accidents construction. The total lost-time injury rate was 1.2 and fatalities by addressing risks from design incidents per million man-hours worked and the development through construction, to usage severity rate was 23.2 lost-days per million manand maintenance. hours worked. FCL, in partnership with its building consultants Our Australian in-house construction operations and contractors, seeks improvements in experienced 12 lost-time injuries during the year, productivity through the processes, which which translates to a lost-time injury rate of 2.2 per mitigates design risk, improves labour efficiency, million man-hours. The number of lost-days totalled reduces construction risk and cost with an to 201 days, which resulted in a severity rate of 36.2 efficient sequence of work, and improves quality per million man-hours. This was due to two incidents and workmanship. involving a worker falling from a three-metre height and another worker injuring his finger. Our staff on the ground regularly communicate with and report to both FPA’s Board and Management, and continue to FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S address safety issues and mitigation areas. 104 PEOPLE Completed Buildings Corporate FY2015/16 Office Singapore China Australia Hospitality Number of fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Number of lost-time injuries 0 3 1 1 32 Number of lost-days 0 98 4 6 970 Lost-time injury rate (per million man hours) 0 1.4 1.3 78.7 5.5 Severity rate (per million man hours) 0 44.1 5.0 472.1 165.6 Note: Our health and safety data has been aligned to the Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower requirements with the definition of lost-time injury being more than three days’ medical leave due to injury For the completed properties that FCL manages, We will continue to improve our safety processes there was some variances in the safety performance. across our various business units and departments. For our Singapore commercial buildings, there was Led by senior management, we have begun refining an increase in the lost-time injury rate to 1.4, from the Group’s safety policies by first understanding 0.4 a year ago, while the severity rate jumped to 44.1 and assessing how each business unit currently from 3.0 a year ago. The increase in severity was practices health and safety management, both on due to three injury cases. There were also several site and at each property. Our aim is to implement a injuries reported at our Hospitality SBU. Although the comprehensive set of policies across all our business number of lost-time injuries is lower at 32, compared units and training to share workplace safety best to last year, the lost-time injury rate (5.5 per million practices across the Group. To further emphasise the man-hours) and severity rate (165.6 per million manimportance of health and safety, we organised our hours) are higher than a year ago. We note that the inaugural Frasers Health & Safety Month in August majority of incidents reported by our Hospitality SBU 2016, and will make this an annual event. involved staff who were injured when they tried to lift certain items or they slipped and fell. It is imperative that we put in place processes and provide safety training to keep such incidents to a minimum and we have since embarked on several initiatives to drive home our commitment to workplace safety. FRASERS HEALTH & CORPORATE OFFICE OUTREACH PROGRAMME Frasers H&S Carnival was held at FCL’s corporate office, where SAFETY MONTH 2016 it featured H&S awareness activities and a bazaar with vendors selling healthand wellness-related merchandise. A free health screening was also offered to all staff where blood tests and body assessments (e.g. blood pressure, body mass index) were carried out. Staff were then given individual consultations on steps to take to improve their health. PROPERTY-LEVEL PROGRAMME To ensure that all staff were engaged in the H&S month, all SBUs carried out H&S activities relevant to their operations at each property/project under management. Activities included: • Workplace safety workshops • First aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, fire extinguisher training • Emergency and fire drills • Health screening and wellness talks • Fitness and sports events • Workplace H&S quiz and discussion • Massage sessions for staff • Non-routine safety checks FRASERS GLOBAL RUNNING CHALLENGE The Frasers Global Running Challenge was organised as a group-wide activity. The Challenge required staff to accumulate their running mileage for the month of August for submission. The inaugural competition was well received with 114 staff from Our inaugural Frasers Health & Safety the Group’s properties worldwide participating in the event. Month was organised in August Together, they logged a total distance of 4,139 km. 2016 with the aim of reinforcing the importance of health & safety (H&S) Through the inaugural H&S outreach programme, we successfully in the corporate culture, as well as engaged approximately 5,200 staff (including contractors’ staff). raising awareness of H&S issues among To further enhance the H&S culture, we have designated every staff. The inaugural theme was “See August to be Frasers Health & Safety Month. Something, Do Something”, which revolves around the broad messages of raising awareness among staff, for everyone to take ownership of safety FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S TOUR DE FRASER – around them while taking steps to stay A VIRTUAL TOUR healthy. One of the more interesting activities organised by our staff A H&S programme was rolled out during this year would be Tour de the month, which included activities Fraser by Fraser Suites Glasgow. for the staff across the globe such as The team used a stationary bike the Frasers Global Running Challenge. and cycled 825 km, the distance Property-level events like safety between all Fraser properties inspections and talks, fire drills, first aid in the UK. This was aimed at demonstrations and fitness sessions were promoting both teamwork and also organised. exercise. The team achieved the distance in 30 hours, burning an impressive 15,500 calories (the equivalent of 60 Big Macs). 106 PEOPLE Fire evacuation drill at Fraser Place Tianjin Planting Day at Capri by Fraser, Ho Chi Minh City Frasers Health & Safety Carnival at FCL's Safety talk at FPA corporate office in Singapore PEOPLE ENHANCING STAFF WELL-BEING We believe in the importance of taking care of our staff's well-being. Our Corporate Wellness Committee planned a year-round programme around the themes of team building, personal development and health. This programme was founded on our motto “Make Wellness Part of Your Life: Regular Exercise. Eating Right. Staying Positive”. During our inaugural Frasers Health & Safety Month in August 2016, staff were engaged through a series of events and activities to improve their understanding and awareness of health and safety at FCL. The Frasers Centrepoint Bursary Award is part of our holistic approach towards promoting staff wellbeing. For the last three years, we have been providing financial assistance to children of our staff to help with their education expenses. Staff activities and programmes in FY2015/16 included: SOCIAL & FAMILY EVENTS FITNESS PROGRAMME SPORTS EVENTS • Annual Staff Dinner & • Kpop X Fitness • SGX Bull Charge Charity Dance • Zumba Run (Official T-shirt Sponsor) • Family Day at Gardens By • Marathon subsidies • Bowling Tournament The Bay • REDAS Bowling Friendly • Eat with Your Family Day • Walk/Jog sessions • Health Screening • Frasers Global Running • Mental Health and Wellness Challenge Talks • Healthy Cooking Class • Counselling Hotline and E-Articles • Health Advisory EDMs FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S • Frasers Centrepoint Bursary Awards • Back to School with Dad Five-year long-service award recipients at the Staff D&D 2016 108 In Singapore, a joint Staff Dinner & Dance (D&D) In Australia, the focus remained on employee wellwas held with our sister companies, Fraser & Neave being. Staff activities including health checks, Family Limited, Times Publishing, F&N Foods and InterBev, Day activities, Employee Assistance Programme/ at Marina Bay Sands this year. The event saw a total Counselling, Mindful Employer Training, flexible of 840 attendees from FCL. The theme for the night work practices, matching of fundraising for events was “Back to the Future”and staff came dressed as involving staff participation, SBU team building and various retro and futuristic movie characters. During planning activities were organised over the course the D&D event, long-service awards were presented of the year. We also expanded our partnership with to a total of 141 FCL staff who have served from five Medibank Private for discounts in private health years to 40 years. In China, FCL staff from offices insurance and the establishment of an online health across Shanghai, Chengdu and Suzhou gather every portal for FPA staff. year for a company trip to various parts of China. In 2016, our colleagues chose Jilin, Xuexiang and Harbin for a five-day trip, which also involved a day of team-building activities. FCL staff orientation held in Singapore Frasers Suites Sydney staff at the Colour Run 2016 PEOPLE SUPPORTING STRONG FAMILY BONDING TAFEP. We also draw guidance on good practices from the Singapore National Employer Federation, of We believe that nurturing strong family bonds is the which FCL is a member. key to greater work-life harmony for our staff. We organise various activities each year that involve our We are proud that we have maintained a healthy staff and their families. In May this year, we brought workforce that is diverse in terms of age, gender more than 1,600 staff and their family members to and skill sets. With operations in more than 80 cities Gardens By The Bay for the FCL Family Day. We also across 26 countries, FCL’s workforce is made up supported Eat With Your Family Day by granting our of people of different nationalities. Following the staff early release to spend time with their families. acquisition of the Malmaison Hotel du Vin group, During Chinese New Year, Group HR brought cheer which comprises 29 boutique hotels, in 2015, and well-wishes by delivering goodie bags to each the UK is currently home to our largest workforce. staff located at various premises in Singapore. Our statistics show an almost equal gender balance with a male to female ratio of 53:47. We also have a STAFF MANAGEMENT [LA4] relatively young workforce, with 53% in the core age group of 30-49 years old. Non-executive staff make Staff management is an important aspect of business up 75% of our workforce, due to the labour-intensive management. When handled well, it can have a nature of our property management services at retail positive impact on the company’s sustainability. malls, office buildings and serviced apartments/ With human capital being a critical element of FCL’s hotels operations. business model, it is important for us to pay close attention to this area. FCL is a signatory to the TAFEP Having a diverse talent pool encourages growth, in Singapore and is committed to adopting fair innovation and inclusivity, all of which contribute employment practices and principles as guided by positively to business performance and the community. As laid down in our Code of Business Conduct, FCL is committed to providing equal employment opportunity based on meritocracy and the elimination of discrimination in support of diversity. FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S FCL Family Day at Gardens By The Bay 110 13 2 25 25 34 BY AGE BY BY BY 47 53 GROUP (%) GENDER (%) TYPE (%) 47 COUNTRY (%) 20 53 75 6 <30 years old Male Executive Singapore 30-49 years old Female Non-Executive Australia >50 years old China UK/Europe Note: The data covers all 4,266 FCL staff globally Others STAFF RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT We treasure and appreciate our employees by [LA1, LA9, LA11, S04] providing a range of benefits and welfare that are aligned with the industry. These include retirement Employee retention continues to be an important plans (where applicable), parental leave and medical area of focus for us, as our people drive our success. insurance, bonuses and share plans (for relevant We seek to retain our knowledge pool, while staff) in addition to basic salaries. We constantly introducing a managed stream of new talent and benchmark our remuneration packages with the skills. market to stay competitive. We also support employees who wish to stay in their jobs post As of 30 September 2016, we have a total of 4,266 retirement, in accordance with the Retirement and employees globally, which is an increase from 4,062 Re-employment Act in Singapore. employees a year ago. Our headcount grew, largely due to expansion of our operations in Australia and NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, NEW HIRES AND acquisitions by our Hospitality SBU. Our hiring rate of TURNOVER 47% was higher then our turnover rate of 40%. The hiring rate and turnover rate for Singapore were much 4,266 4,062 lower at 20.7% and 17.2% respectively, well below the national average turnover rate of 22.8%. 2,350 2,023 1,700 A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 4,266 1271 1,038 572 421 Employees Globally No. of employees New hires Turnover FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 111 PEOPLE We are committed to continually investing in and Total Learning Hours 60% developing our people. We believe that having strong innovative leadership and a dedicated workforce are key in driving and sustaining our growth and success. Our in-house training team creates and provides FY2015/16 FY2014/15 training for all staff, offering a wide range of courses through our learning directory. Employees may also 103,697 64,670 initiate requests for specific training needs. Through our onboarding programme and regular email updates, employees are kept cognisant of updated staff training activities. On average, we achieved policies and procedures. For example, we conducted the target of 40 training hours per employee, which a training course on “Changes to Companies Act” we had set a year ago. Approximately 56% of and “Prevention of Money Laundering & Financing of total training hours were clocked by non-executive Terrorism” for all executive staff from our Singapore employees, while executives accounted for 44%. We business units in FY2015/16. are committed to raising the quality of training and performance next year. We continue to allocate 2% BUILDING CAPABILITIES AND DEVELOPING of our payroll costs for training and development OUR PEOPLE purposes. We have continued to demonstrate our commitment We have also introduced a new SkillsFuture Learning to building capabilities and enhancing competencies leave policy for all Singaporean employees in FCL. for our employees. In FY2015/16, the total learning All Singaporean employees are given two days of hours invested in employees across our global learning leave which they may apply for to attend operations increased to 103,697 hours. This is a a SkillsFuture course. This is in support of the remarkable 60% jump from 64,670 hours clocked in Singapore government’s SkillsFuture Credit initiative FY2014/15 due to concerted efforts to enhance our to encourage Singaporeans to develop themselves. TRAINING HOURS1 TRAINING HOURS BY EMPLOYEE TYPE (%) 40 27 26 44 56 FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S 45,778 64,670 103,697 Executive Non-executive FY13/14 FY14/15 FY15/16 Hours Per staff 112 1 The training data do not capture those from MHDV staff In FY2015/16, a series of leadership talks was management skills of participants, it also provided introduced for all our senior leaders to learn from participants with a platform to interact with fellow external business leaders and subject matter experts. managers, exchange ideas, and learn from each At this learning platform, the latest in business other. practices, trends and thought leadership are shared. Our speakers were given opportunities to interact In Australia, FPA has committed to training all with these leaders who have significant corporate/ relevant staff in sustainability or innovation by 2017. commercial experiences. Topics shared included mega trends and leadership responses, technology STRIVE FOR SERVICE EXCELLENCE trends and how they are shaping businesses, corporate governance trends and challenges and Every year, we send our frontline staff for training to cultural diversity. A total of four talks were organised, improve the service quality. Our efforts have shown which were attended by 127 leaders and managers. good results as seen in the number of our employees who received the Excellent Service Award (EXSA) by We also continue to nurture our middle management SPRING Singapore. The award is given in recognition through our annual Leadership Excellence and of individuals who have delivered quality service Development Programme (L.E.A.D). Over a course of nationally. In total, there were 118 award recipients six months, some 20 middle managers went through from FCL in 2016, comparable to 119 recipients in a series of customised leadership modules which 2015 and 108 in 2014. helped sharpen their mindset and strengthened their commitment to the Group. Besides enhancing the L.E.A.D. Programme participants A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 113 PEOPLE LOCAL COMMUNITIES this wide range of activities, we hope to address the varied needs of different sectors of the local As landlords and developers, we regularly interact with communities and make a real difference to those our local communities which include tenants, shoppers, who have been key to our business success. homebuyers as well as members of the public. We are aware that our day-to-day operations may affect them, Globally, the Group has adopted Wellness as directly or indirectly. FCL, therefore, strives to make our focus for community initiatives. In Australia, those impacts and interactions as positive as possible. through three categories – Restoring Resources, Progressive Thinking and Community Focus – we We endeavour to give back to our communities articulate our commitment to environmental and through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) social sustainability, and document our intentions efforts and to play a part in the development of our for the future. Increasing the social value of our communities. Our CSR initiatives include fundraising, communities is one of these goals, and we are contributing space for events and outreach activities, now developing a shared value measurement tool. engaging with our neighbours, supporting the arts and In Singapore, the Group launched the Frasers actively participating in community projects. Through Centrepoint Wellness Grant for tertiary institutions. Site visit by our Australian sustainability colleagues and the GBCA team at Alexandra Point FCL staff volunteered at and participated in RUN@SUTD, funded by the FPA staff volunteering for A ReaL MeaL in Melbourne Frasers Centrepoint Wellness Grant Starting with the Singapore University of Technology Fun Suzhou whereby registration fees were donated and Design (SUTD), FCL provided seed funding for to charitable causes. Staff from the FCL corporate student-driven community projects. We plan to extend office participated in RUN@SUTD as runners and the grant to more tertiary institutions over time. volunteers. Registration fees for the run were donated to the Singapore Disabled Sports Council. Involving our people We strive to engage communities through employee Raising global environmental awareness interaction and volunteerism. Our staff are therefore In support of global environmental sustainability encouraged to volunteer their time in support of awareness, FH, together with WWF-Earth Hour, events and activities that would positively impact launched the ‘Just One’ hotels programme this year. their local community. Our staff contributed a total Under this programme, guests are invited to support of 400 volunteer days in FY2015/16. Volunteerism WWF's critical climate projects by contributing an activities included FH staff helping to clean beaches, additional $1 for every night spent at participating celebrating Ramadhan with children from the Rumah FH properties. Through ’Just One’, FH aims to Amal Limpahan Kasih Welfare and Education Centre raise at least $3 million by 2020 for WWF as a in Kuala Lumpur, and participating in the Run for commitment towards environmental conservation. FCL's team at the SGX Bull Charge Charity Run 2016 A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Earth Hour celebration at Fraser Residence FPA staff participated in Clean Up Australia Day in Queensland Kuala Lumpur 115 ‘JUST ONE’ HOTELS PROGRAMME – PIONEERING A CLIMATE ACTION PROGRAMME WITH WWF-EARTH HOUR Demonstrating its continued support for global environmental sustainability awareness, FH, together with WWF Earth Hour, launched the ‘Just One’ hotels programme. Under this pioneer programme, guests are invited to support WWF's critical Having piloted the programme in July 2016 at all Singapore climate projects. By adding an additional properties, ‘Just One’ will be rolled out progressively in 2017 $1 for every night spent at participating in Australia and the UK. The restaurants in the hotel will be the FH properties, guests will be donating key venue of collecting donations. Adding to the list will be towards protecting the habitats of properties from the Middle East, China and the rest of Southeast millions of wildlife around the world. Asia. The funds raised will contribute to WWF climate projects such as WWF's Through ‘Just One’, FH aims to raise at least $3 million by 2020 for Education programme, which seeks WWF as a commitment towards environmental conservation. As a to make environmental education an pioneer of the programme, FH also hopes to be an advocate for integral part of the school's curriculum. similar environmental commitments within the sector. is a registered charity delivering an annual worldwide movement in March under the Earth Hour brand to turn off non-essential lights for one hour. FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Having started in Sydney in 2006, the brand has grown exponentially over the past decade and has now achieved participation from over 170 countries. World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) is an international non-governmental organisation working towards the “We are grateful to Frasers Hospitality for their protection of nature and the planet. support and commitment towards our vision of collectively creating a better future for our shared The organisation partners foundations, governments, businesses and home – planet Earth, for ourselves and generations communities in conserving the world’s to come.” most ecologically important regions and reducing Man’s ecological footprint. As Siddarth Das an associate of WWF, Earth Hour Global Executive Director, Earth Hour Global, WWF 116 PEOPLE Providing financial assistance This year, we sponsored $130,000 towards various charitable activities and causes. They included the SGX Bull Charge Charity Run in support of the Asian Women’s Welfare Association, Autism Association of Singapore, Fei Yue Community Services and Shared Services for Charities. We also raised a total of $1 million for various causes and activities. The launch of ‘Play It Forward’, a joint initiative of Frasers Centrepoint Malls and the Community Chest, saw $145,000 raised for Family Service Centres. These community-based focal points of family resources provide social support for families facing difficulties. This year-long initiative involves inviting shoppers to give back to families in need by donating a minimum sum of $5 to experience 15 minutes of play time in a charity ball pool. Frasers Centrepoint Malls matches shoppers’ donations Staff of Frasers Centrepoint Malls and Community Chest at the dollar-for-dollar up to $30,000 to spread cheer to Launch of ‘Play It Forward’ families and individuals in need. Through the Frasers Property Foundation, FPA The Fiona Wood Foundation, Kids’ Camp and donated $85,000 to 24 charities this year, in a Anglicare Western Australia, raised funds in excess combination of corporate donations and matching of A$460,000. Step Up for MS, one of the iconic funds raised by staff members. Many of FPA’s events for the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Western initiatives launched in previous years are still going Australia, raised funds totalling A$92,879, with the strong. The Central Park Plunge now in its second Central Park management team making a donation of year, held in support of the Ronald McDonald House, A$10,000 towards the cause. A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Central Park Plunge, Perth 117 PEOPLE Sharing our space employment opportunities for people from all walks We continue to support the community by of life. Funds are earned through the sales of food contributing our spaces for various charitable and items at the atrium to support the beneficiaries' outreach events. We believe that our commercial education as well as their families. Anchorpoint also spaces are where people gather and present shared its atrium space in support of the awareness opportunities for social engagement. campaign for the Special Olympics, a grassroots community movement dedicated to empowering Several outreach events were held at our malls this and transforming the lives of people with intellectual year, including awareness sessions conducted by disabilities. Hair for Hope 2016, Children's Cancer non-profit organisations. Valley Point extended Foundation's signature fundraising event was also complimentary usage of atrium space to Privilege held at Waterway Point. Enterprise Group, a social enterprise which creates A magic show at Northpoint's Children's Day party Performances at the Singapore Youth Festival held at Causeway Point FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Republic Polytechnic's National Pushcart Challenge at Causeway Point 118 Connecting with our neighbours in the fun. Key events included the Mid-Autumn FCL believes that social inclusivity is valued in FCL Walk at Bedok Point organised with the People's as we believe that it is a fundamental block of social Association and Kampong Chai Chee Community cohesion. As part of the Yellow Ribbon Project, Centre in Singapore, as well as the Cockburn Billy Changi City Point arranged for a travelling exhibition Cart Festival and Chinese New Year celebrations at to educate the public about the rehabilitation and Queens Riverside in Australia. In China, our Baitang re-integration of ex-offenders into mainstream Neighbourhood Committee in Suzhou held the annual society. The campaign seeks to inspire potential Mid-Autumn Festival celebration on 9 September for volunteers and to reach out to the public. Baitang One residents. Our Suzhou office provided space at Baitang One Retail Street Mall (Parkville Point) Encouraging social interaction during festive for the event. Besides being a venue sponsor, we also seasons creates positive memories and helps sponsored prizes worth approximately RMB10,000 for foster a greater sense of community. We organised the event’s lucky draw. neighbourhood celebrations during various festivals and invited members of the community to join Mid-Autumn Festival celebrations at Bedok Point Chinese New Year celebrations at Queens Riverside, Perth A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Performances by musicians with special needs at VSA Annual Donated groceries to those in need within the community at Art Exhibition at Changi City Point YewTee Point's Care and Share Event 119 PEOPLE Supporting the Arts and Heritage and Juliet – Singapore Repertory Theatre; Hotel We continue to take a keen interest in promoting – Wild Rice Limited; and Rent – Pangdemonium local arts and heritage. This year, we supported the Theatre Company Limited. PAssion Arts Festival where some 50,000 residents created artworks which were attached to the sides We are also active in the arts scene in Australia, of public housing blocks and condominiums across with FPA jointly sponsoring and hosting the VIVID Singapore. We also hosted An Ecstatic Vision at Arts Festival and Sydney Architecture Festival as Changi City Point, an art exhibition organised by well as BEAMS Arts Festival with Sekisui House. For Very Special Arts (VSA) Singapore to showcase more the fourth consecutive year, Central Park Perth held than 100 pieces of artwork by artists with special the As We Are art exhibition, featuring the works of needs. FH provided close to $300,000 worth of disabled artists from Perth. The inspiring exhibition accommodation for performing arts groups for a this year provided good exposure for the artists, number of productions in Singapore, including with the biggest turnout to date and the largest KidsFest 2016 and Seussical the Musical – ABA number of attendees on its opening night. The event Productions Limited; Shakespeare in the Park, Romeo successfully raised A$9,000 from the artworks sold. Shoppers appreciating artwork at VSA Annual Art Exhibition at Changi City Point VIVID Arts Festival 2016, Central Park, Sydney FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Sydney Architecture Festival, Central Park, Sydney BEAMS Arts Festival 2016, Central Park, Sydney 120 INNOVATION What we do today determines our success in the future. Our strategic investment in our people through staff development programmes and managing a talent pool with the right skill sets helps to future-proof our business. SETTING STANDARDS IN DESIGN AND FEATURES We have reaped tangible results from the non-financial investments we made. In 2008, FCL was the first developer in Singapore to introduce dual-key apartment units when we launched the Caspian Condominium project, which was since replicated in our other projects including 8@Woodleigh and Esparina Residences Executive Condominium. This year, we piloted Building Information Modelling – Virtual Design and Construction (BIM-VDC) modelling in the project management of one of our developments, Northpoint City. VDC allows us to virtually explore innovative ways to enhance efficiencies in the built environment, while improving construction quality – a win-win solution with positive impacts to the bottom line, the environment and the retail experience. In the development of new properties, we look to create vibrant and liveable spaces to live, work, and play in. These spaces are not only socially inclusive, but also integrated with nature and heritage. We therefore strive to achieve the following in the design of new projects to ensure that our developments cater to the varying needs and users' diverse needs: • Seamless connectivity to transport infrastructure and neighbouring developments (e.g. streets, walkways, buildings, parks) • Intuitive way-finding and enhanced accessibility of amenities and features for users with diverse abilities and mobility • Creation of communal spaces that are conducive for all age groups and persons of diverse physical abilities • Incorporation of natural and/or cultural heritage into communal areas of the development A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 Esparina Residences Executive Condominium, Singapore 121 INNOVATION Watertown was designed as the Coastal Town in a regenerative future to re-imagine the possibilities of the 21st Century in Singapore, harnessing the for the sustainable shopping centres of tomorrow. historical and natural beauty of Punggol Waterway The Living Building Challenge is the world’s most while providing seamless 24/7 connectivity to aspirational and rigorous green building performance the Waterway and Promenade. The mixed-use standard and its certification acts to rapidly diminish development integrates transport infrastructure, the gap between current limits and the end-game family-oriented amenities and the greenery of positive solutions. With this design competition, we the Punggol Waterway into its design, ensuring hope to create an opportunity for the world’s most accessibility to people of varying mobility and passionate people in sustainability to conceptualise a age groups while creating community spaces for retail centre design that shifts all our thinking forward. public interactions. In recognition of its user-centric and socially inclusive design, Watertown has been We believe we have made the right decision in awarded the Universal Design Mark GoldPLUS (Design) choosing to ride on the spirit of innovation to create Award by BCA. a distinct brand differentiation and are excited to see what else the future brings for us as we continue on We continue to embrace Universal Design practices our journey to build a sustainable company. in the development of Northpoint City, which has taken a similar approach. When completed in 2018, LITTLE THINGS THAT MAKE THE DIFFERENCE IN Northpoint City will provide barrier-free access and HOSPITALITY seamless transport connectivity with transportation networks, while integrating public and private spaces As part of our commitment toward ”Living The for the convenience of users. The development will Vision”, FH created a system which encourages also weave nature into its design, infusing vibrancy staff from all our properties to submit innovative into the Yishun suburb. ideas to improve guest experience, staff experience and profitability. The result of this initiative was the CREATING THE WORLD’S MOST SUSTAINABLE implementation of ideas such as the creation of a RETAIL CENTRE ”culture wall” to motivate and provide a warmer ambience for the back-of-house at various properties. In Australia, we are proud to have partnered the Another staff-initiated activity is the free Mandarin Living Future Institute of Australia and launched the lessons they offer to guests to not only teach the Brickworks Living Building Challenge. It is a futurelanguage but also impart knowledge about Chinese focused design competition that calls on design culture. teams, professionals, students and anyone interested FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S Watertown, Singapore 122 VIRTUAL DESIGN an on-ground experience of the actual construction process, improving predictability before project execution and enhancing AND CONSTRUCTION project efficiency. MODELLING FOR GREATER BUILDING Improved risk awareness: Through visualisation of the construction process, possible clashes on site were detected EFFICIENCIES early and prevented. Actual work was better planned resulting in smoother and safer execution. Time efficiencies: With need for re-work minimised and coordination among the team improved, FCL achieved three In developing new properties, FCL is days of lead-time reduction that was useful in supporting other constantly seeking new technology and activities. innovative ways to enhance efficiencies in the built environment, while improving Resource efficiencies: Reduction in energy use and material construction quality. FCL takes pride wastage during construction and building management was in being one of the first two private achieved, consequently reducing the impact on the environment. developers in Singapore to adopt the Building Information Modelling-Virtual To share our learnings with the industry, we shared our Design and Construction (BIM-VDC) experience in the use of VDC with the industry, by presenting the modelling in the project management case study at the REDAS BIM Symposium in September 2016. of one of our developments, Northpoint City. It is also the first mixed development in Singapore to adopt VDC, which is the advanced module of the BIM. While it has become common for developers in Singapore using the BIM to integrate construction information across various disciplines, FCL took a step further with BIM by utilising VDC to create a virtual prototype of the building design and construction. The prototype provides designers and engineers with Northpoint City is an exciting integrated development located in the heart of Yishun. Featuring the largest mall in the North of Singapore, Northpoint City will also contain Singapore’s first Community Club within a shopping mall. A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 A town plaza the size of 10 basketball courts, an air-conditioned bus interchange, and North Park Residences, a 12-block residential development comprising 920 residences, completes the iconic development. The development will also offer seamless connectivity to public transport and a cycling network to support the government’s plan to go car-lite. 123 CREATING THE In an effort to redevelop and regenerate the former Burwood Brickworks site in Melbourne, FPA has dedicated a new retail project at WORLD’S MOST the site targeting the Living Building Challenge (LBC) standard, one of SUSTAINABLE RETAIL the most stringent green building certifications in the world. Together CENTRE with Living Future Institute Australia, the Brickworks LBC design competition was launched, with the aim of unlocking new possibilities in sustainable design in retail. The project prides itself in being the world’s most sustainable retail centre in the making. Winning design by dwp|suters for the Brickworks Living Building Challenge To achieve the “Living Building” title, strategies for Brickworks were laid down by FPA in relation to LBC’s performance areas. Performance Area Strategies Place • Increase the ecological value of site The LBC is a sustainable • Dedicate 20% of site for food-growing building certification • Set aside land away from project in perpetuity programme created by • Be car-lite the International Living Future Institute in 2006. Water • Achieve a 100% closed loop water system It is a performanceEnergy • Achieve net positive energy (105%) without combustion based standard where Health + • Have operable windows in regularly-occupied spaces each development Happiness • Implement volatile organic compounds limits on has to comply with 20 interior building product, cleaning protocol using general imperatives environmental products and indoor air quality testing arranged under seven • Include elements that nurture the human-nature performance categories connection FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S before achieving the LBC Materials • Specify, select & install non-red list products certification. Known as • Calculate and offset embodied carbon one of the world’s most • Use 30+ ‘Declared’ products and the Forest exacting green building Stewardship Council timber throughout • Use ‘Local’ materials, products, consultants standards, only 11 “Living • Ensure infrastructure is provided for recycling Buildings” have been successfully certified. Equity • Limited exposed car parking • Minimise impact to local fresh air, natural waterways • Donate a portion from every dollar invested to a charity of choice • Engage/encourage consultants and sub-contractors to undertake JUST certification Beauty • Introduce public art • Have public education about the operation and performance of the project 124 GRI CONTENT INDEX (G4 CORE) The report is prepared in accordance to the guidelines laid out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core. The table below summarises our disclosure level with reference to GRI indicators. Fully met Partially met Not covered GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Page Reference Level STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionChairman's Statement maker of the organisation about the relevance p. 24-26 of sustainability to the organisation and Group CEO's Statement, p. 27-29 the organisation’s strategy for addressing Sustainability Report, p. 73 sustainability ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation FCL Group At A Glance, p. 3 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services FCL Group At A Glance, p. 3-5 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters About This Report, p. 78 G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation About This Report, p. 78 operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Notes To The Financial Statements, p. 190-303 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Our Global Presence, p. 6-7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the organisation FCL Group At A Glance, p. 3-5 Staff Retention And Development, p. 111 G4-10 a. total number of employees by employment Staff Retention And Development, contract and gender p. 111 b. total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender No substantial work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as c. total workforce by employees and supervised self-employed. there is no significant workers and by gender variation in employment numbers. d. total workforce by region and gender e. report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 industries) G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining There are no collective bargaining agreements agreements in place. G4-12 The organisation’s supply chain Our Value Chain, p. 82 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Added Thai operations with the regarding the organisation’s size, structure, purchase of a stake in Thailand's ownership, or its supply chain Golden Land and etc. Please refer to our announcement in SGX. 125 GRI CONTENT INDEX (G4 CORE) G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or Governance, p. 90-92 principle is addressed by the organisation FCL does not specifically refer to the precautionary approach when managing risk, however, our management approach is risk-based, and underpinned by our internal audit framework. G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental Governance, p. 90-92 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Environment, p. 73-100 to which the organisation subscribes or which it People, p. 101-120 endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry Stakeholder Engagement, p. 83-84 associations) and national or international Partnerships And Affiliations, p. 85 advocacy organisations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 All entities included or not included in About This Report, p. 78 organisation’s financial statements G4-18 Process for defining report Content What's Important To Us, p. 79-82 Please refer to our previous report for details of our process for defining report content. G4-19 The material aspects identified in the process for What's Important To Us, p. 79-82 defining report content G4-20 For each material aspect, aspect Boundary within All the 10 identified material issues the organisation have impact both inside and outside the organisation, with the exception of Labour/management relations and Staff retention and development, which are internally focused. Health and safety are of particular importance to construction activities, and as such, we focus on influencing safer operations related to FCL developments, through our construction contractors. G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation All the 10 identified material issues have impact both inside and outside FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S the organisation, with the exception of Labour/management relations and Staff retention and development, which are internally focused. Health and safety are of particular importance to construction activities, and as such, we focus on influencing safer operations related to FCL developments, through our construction contractors. G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information No restatements provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes periods in the scope and aspect Boundaries 126 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Stakeholder Engagement, p. 83-84 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Our Value Chain, p. 82 stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder Engagement, p. 83-84 We have selected Stakeholders based on their interest in our business. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including Stakeholder Engagement, p. 83-84 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through Stakeholder Engagement, p. 83-84 stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided About This Report, p. 78 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Our previous sustainability report was published for our last financial year 2014/15. G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report, p. 78 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report We Welcome Your Feedback And or its contents Suggestions, p.78 G4-32 Report on ‘In accordance’ option, Gri Content About This Report, p. 78 Index, reference to external assurance G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking About This Report, p. 78 external assurance for the report GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation Managing Sustainability, p. 88 Governance, p. 90-92 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Governance, p. 90-92 concerns about ethical and lawful behaviour, Anti-corruption, Fraud Prevention And and matters related to organisational integrity, Ethical Marketing, p. 91-92 such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 127 GRI CONTENT INDEX (G4 CORE) SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Group CEO's Statement, p 27-29 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Highlights, p. 11 Financial Statements, p. 167-303 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit Staff Management, p.110 plan obligations Employees are covered by Singapore’s mandatory social security savings plan, the Central Provident Fund (CPF). Across all of our significant locations of operation, we provide our employees with retirement plans (where applicable). CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Environment, p. 93-100 Energy Use And GHG Emissions, p. 97-98 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Energy Use And GHG Emissions, p. 97-98 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Energy Use And GHG Emissions, p. 97-98 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Use And GHG Emissions, p. 97-98 Baseline of 2015 selected as this was the first year that we formally began to monitor energy (or something similar). G4-CRE1 Building energy intensity Energy Use And GHG Emissions, p. 97-98 ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Environment, p. 93-100 Water Use/Conservation, p. 99 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Use/Conservation, p. 99 G4-CRE2 Building water intensity Water Use/Conservation, p. 99 ASPECT: EMISSIONS FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Environment, p. 93-100 Energy Use And GHG Emissions, p.97-98 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Energy Use And GHG Emissions, (scope 2) p.97-98 Main emissions source monitored is electricity, therefore, CO2 is the only gas included. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Energy Use And GHG Emissions, p. 97-98 128 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Energy Use And GHG Emissions, p. 97-98 G4-CRE3 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity from Energy Use And GHG Emissions, buildings p. 97-98 ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Environment, p. 93-100 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Waste Management, p.100 method ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Environment, p. 93-100 G4-EN29 Non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance With Regulation, p. 100 environmental laws and regulations CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach People, p. 100-120 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires People, p 111 and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Breakdown by age group and gender are not available. We aim to report this next year. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Labour/Management Relations, p. 110 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Temporary or part time employees are not a significant part of FCL’s workforce. ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach People, p. 100-120 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Staff Management, p. 110 changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements. this is currently not This is currently not covered in groupcovered in group-wide collective agreements wide collective agreements. The notice period varies. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach People, p. 100-120 G4-LA5 Workforce represented in formal joint Managing Sustainability, p. 88-89 management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Safety First, p.101-105 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and There were no incidences of by gender occupational diseases. We do not measure absenteeism. A NN U A L R E P O R T 2 01 6 restateG4Percentage of the organisation operating in Safety First, p.101-105 CRE6 verified compliance with an internationally recognised health and safety management system We are implementing ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 systems across our organisation. 129 GRI CONTENT INDEX (G4 CORE) ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach People, p. 100-120 G4-LA9 Training per year per employee by gender, and by Building Capabilities And Developing employee category Our People, p. 112 Breakdown by gender not available. We aim to report this next year. G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Staff Retention And Development, learning that support the continued employability p 111-113 of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Employees receiving regular performance and Staff Retention And Development, career development reviews, by gender and by p. 111-113 employee category 100% of staff receive annual performance appraisals. SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Local Communities, p. 114-120 G4-SO1 Operations with implemented local community Local Communities, p. 114-120 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-CRE7 Persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced FCL only builds on land tendered and/or resettled by development, broken down or selected by the respective by project governments for this purpose. We rely on the relevant authorities to solve any potential issues of resettlement or displacement before we start our construction projects. ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Governance, p. 90-92 G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Anti-corruption, Fraud Prevention And and the significant risks identified Ethical Marketing, p. 91-92 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Anti-corruption, Fraud Prevention And taken Ethical Marketing, p. 91-92 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management approach Anti-corruption, Fraud Prevention And Ethical Marketing, p. 91-92 FR A S E R S C E NT R E P O I N T L I MI T E D & S U B S I DI A RI E S G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Anti-corruption, Fraud Prevention And with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Ethical Marketing, p. 91-92 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes 130
