CSR REPORT 2017 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Continuously contributing to fulfilling lifestyles as a mainstay of information and culture All of us within the Toppan Group will recognize the issues facing society and work with stakeholders to find solutions. United Nations Global Compact CSR Report 2017 The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary The Toppan Group considers stakeholders’ interests and reports its policy initiative through which businesses and ­corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities in line with the seven core organizations enlist their participation in the estabsubjects set under the International Organization for Standardization lishment of a globally recognized practical frame(ISO) 26000 standard, a globally recognized set of guidelines on social work under which every business and organization responsibility. commits to the vision of sustainable development by implementing responsible, creative leadership IP  eriod Covered: This report mainly covers activities in fiscal 2016 (from initiatives and acting as a responsible member of April 2016 to March 2017), though information on prior and later years society. Toppan participates in the United Nations is also included in parts. Global Compact, supports its 10 principles in the IS  cope and Boundary: Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and its Group entities four areas of human rights, labour, environment, consolidated for accounting purposes. The information on personnel and anti-corruption, and implements those principrincipally applies to personnel within Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., the ples in its own corporate activities. ­parent company. The environmental performance data covers Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and 15 manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan. Human Rights IP  ublication Dates (English version) Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Previous report: November 2016 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Current report: December 2017 Next report: November 2018 (planned) Labour IR  elated Information Principle 3: B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective CSR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr.html recognition of the right to collective bargaining; *Including Toppan CSR Report 2017: Detailed Data Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; IR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ir.html Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and IG  uidelines ­occupation. This report was edited according to the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version) issued by the Ministry of the ­ Environment ­Environment of Japan. The report also presents information in line with Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environGeneral Standard Disclosures required by the Global Reporting Initiative mental challenges; (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and IC  ontact Information Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly CSR Promotion Department, Public Relations Division technologies. Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan) Email: csr@toppan.co.jp Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTENTS Special Boosting the Spread of 08 Report 1 Sustainable Packaging P. Group Business Outline  02 Executive Message  04 Toppan’s Corporate Social Responsibility Activities: Digest 2016  06 Special Report 1  08 Boosting the Spread of Sustainable Packaging Special Report 2  12 Supporting Reconstruction in Kumamoto with Cutting-edge Technologies that Preserve Cultural Heritage for Future Generations Special Report 3  14 For Greater Independence and Special Social Participation of Persons with Disabilities Report Supporting Reconstruction in 2 Kumamoto with Cutting-edge Technologies that Preserve Toppan’s CSR  16 Cultural Heritage for Future Generations P.12 Content Index in Line with Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 & the SDGs  18 Organizational Governance  19 Human Rights  22 Labor Practices  24 Fair Operating Practices  28 Consumer Issues  32 Community Involvement and Development  36 The Environment  38 Toppan’s Environmental Activities  38 Environmental Management Activities  38 Special Report For Greater Independence Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Environmental Impact  40 Eco-protection Activities  40 3 and Social Participation of Persons with Disabilities P. 14 Eco-creativity Activities  44 Environmental Communication Activities  44 Independent Assurance  46 Independent Assurance Report  47 Sustainable Development Goals  48 Labels  49 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 01 Group Business Outline Corporate Profile Business Fields Corporate name Information & Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Communication Providing solutions to enHead office hance the value of informa1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, tion and deliver it effectively Tokyo 101-0024, Japan to customers who require Phone +81-3-3835-5111 smooth communication. Established 1900 President & Representative Director Shingo Kaneko Number of employees (nonconsolidated) 9,551 (as of the end of March 2017) Number of employees (consolidated) Living & Industry 50,705 (as of the end of March 2017) Providing a wide range of products and services to Capital (nonconsolidated) create living environments 104.9 billion yen that offer comfort and peace of mind. Group Profile The Toppan Group (“the Group”) comprises Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) and 175 related companies (150 subsidiaries and 25 affiliates) ­engaged in manifold businesses in three fields: Information & Communication, Living & Industry, and Electronics. Electronics Detailed information on related compaUsing advanced technolnies can be found in the financial stateogy and manufacturing ments posted on the Toppan website capabilities to develop (http://www.toppan.co.jp/ir/material/ products related to disreport.html [in Japanese]). plays and semiconductors. 02 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Group Business Outline DATA n Net Sales n Net Sales by Business Field n Net Sales by Region 1,431.5 billion yen (billion yen) Information & (billion yen) (billion yen) ■ Consolidated ■ Nonconsolidated Electronics Communication Asia, excluding Japan Other regions 2,000 147.8 (10%) 883.7 (62%) 142.0 (10%) 57.7 (4%) 1,502.3 1,532.0 1,526.9 1,474.6 1,431.5 1,500 1,000 819.9 815.7 845.4 781.5 773.6 500 Living & Industry Japan 0 400.0 (28%) 1,231.7 (86%) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) n Operating Income n Net Income n Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) 51.6 billion yen 32.5 billion yen 1,997.9 billion yen / 1.7% (billion yen) ■ Consolidated ■ Nonconsolidated (billion yen) (%) (billion yen) ■ Consolidated ■ Nonconsolidated 60 2,500 4.0 51.6 48.5 35 35.2 32.5 2,000 1,994.6 1,876.5 1,997.9 3.0 45 40.8 30 1,633.0 1,712.3 35.7 22.8 32.0 25 20.6 19.2 1,500 1.8 2.0 30 20 18.515.1 1.2 1.2 1.7 15 1,000 1.2 1.0 11.1 15 10.1 12.7 10 7.7 6.5 500 0 4.4 6.8 5 0 0 0 –1.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 –5 –1.4 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) n Net Assets & Return on Equity (ROE) n Capital Expenditure n R&D Expenses 1,171.9 billion yen / 3.3% 64.9 billion yen 19.3 billion yen (billion yen) (%) (billion yen) (billion yen) 1,250 1,171.9 5.0 100 25 1,082.8 1,066.8 20.6 76.8 76.1 19.8 19.0 19.3 1,000 888.4 913.1 3.8 4.0 80 72.1 20 17.9 63.2 64.9 3.3 750 2.5 2.7 3.0 60 15 2.7 500 2.0 40 10 250 1.0 20 5 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) n Number of Employees n Number of Employees by 50,705 Business Field (consolidated) Company-wide positions ■ Consolidated ■ Nonconsolidated 1,275 50,705 50,000 48,878 48,751 48,999 46,705 Electronics Information & 9,721 Communication 40,000 28,175 30,000 20,000 Living & 8,587 8,604 8,900 8,993 9,551 10,000 Industry 11,534 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 03 Executive Message Contributing to Fulfilling Lifestyles The speed with which the various economies around the Evolving as a Corporation that Grows world recovered varied in 2016. Growth in the U.S. picked Steadily with Society up after plateauing in the first half, while China and the emerging markets that depend upon it grew at a slow pace. In parallel with these economic growth strategies for tomorRecovery in Japan was moderate in general in fiscal row, I am convinced that we will have to execute a rigorous 2016, with business earnings and employment and income sustainability strategy to fulfill our social responsibility as a environments showing signs of improvement. The domestic corporation committed to solving social issues and driving economy was clouded, however, by uncertainties in the our growth in step with all of society. world economy, volatile financial and capital markets, and Toppan has been participating in the United Nations other unpredictable elements. Global Compact and supporting its 10 principles on human While corporate advertising expenditure expanded rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption since ­primarily online, slackened demand for paper-based printSeptember 2006. I will continue espousing the United ing businesses and other negative trends continued to Nations Global Compact and directing our corporate social constrain markets in the printing industry. responsibility (CSR) activities based on this global policy In spite of a slight decline in net sales amid this initiative. ­challenging environment, our operating income increased As an invaluable guideline to fulfill our social responsi­y ear-on-year in fiscal 2016, exceeding our published bility, we incorporated the International Organization for forecasts. Standardization (ISO) 26000 Guidance on Social Respon­ As the President & Representative Director, I am develsibility (globally recognized standard for organizations) into oping a constellation of initiatives to achieve the three main our CSR management practices in fiscal 2011. We have management challenges of our Group: “advancing our been pushing forward with CSR activities accordingly by Group-wide structural reform,” “creating new businesses piecing together a clear picture of the social issues we and new markets,” and “accelerating global business should help solve and the social responsibilities we should expansion.” In fiscal 2016 I took a step to further our endeavfulfill. The ISO 26000 standard condenses various social ors for creating new businesses and new markets. issues to address. Our measures to tackle these issues correspond to the requirements of the United Nations Designing Infinite Possibilities Global Compact. At the United Nations (UN) Headquarters in September We position TOPPAN VISION 21 as the foundation for all 2015, the countries of the UN adopted a series of of our corporate activities. This vision consists of a Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as core steps for Corporate Structure (the Corporate Philosophy, Corporate “Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Creed, and Conduct Guidelines defining the values and Development.” We will be analyzing how our Group’s busistandards we should respect) and a set of Business Fields nesses are relevant to the 17 SDGs in order to identify based on the Corporate Structure. material issues to target more assertively in our ongoing In fiscal 2016 we redefined our business fields. CSR activities and to plot out a clear roadmap towards Specifically, we set out our Technology & Expertise based achieving those targets. on resources in five business segments and established four growth fields on which to focus in terms of Markets & Solving Diverse Social Challenges Customers: Healthcare & Life Sciences, Education & Cultural Exchange, Urban Space & Mobility, and Energy & Among the 17 SDGs, environmental challenges mainly perFood Resources. This has been conceptualized as “designtinent to Goals 12, 13, and 15 have tremendous significance ing infinite possibilities,” our management theme for 2017. for our Group. In Packaging & Converting, one of our five “Infinite possibilities” represent “value for tomorrow,” while business segments, we have been developing sustainable “designing” broadly embodies the processes of planning packaging and engaging in businesses to p ­ ropose new and creativity. We will grow as a corporation that creates value-added creation using sustainable packaging. social value by designing infinite possibilities—discovering Good examples are new forms of packaging made with the value of the future and making it real with planning GL BARRIER, a transparent film with barrier performance and creativity. rivaling that of aluminum-based packaging materials. Toppan is now proposing GL BARRIER-based packaging as a sub04 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Executive Message stitute for bottles and cans. Although bottles and cans can strategy focused on human asset diversity. We are working store contents for long periods, their heavier weights push for the employment of persons with disabilities as part of up costs and CO2 emissions during transportation. Our GL these efforts. Toppan’s special subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan BARRIER packaging contributes to sustainable societies by Government (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd., provides reducing CO2 emissions and food waste. workplaces and support to persons with disabilities to Back in 1997, we also began archiving digital images facilitate their self-reliance and seamless participation in of precious cultural properties to be sustained as legacies society. Prepress Toppan is committed to designing workto posterity. Our archiving system applies core technologies place environments and arranging various other infrastrucfor high-definition digitalization, color management, and tures and initiatives to enhance the self-reliance of all a host of other long-held technologies we have developed persons so as to enable them to develop their skills with through printing processes. In 2011 we created Kumamotojo: others and explore their individual potential regardless of Unraveling the mystery of the invincible castle, a VR the types of disabilities they live with or how seriously their ­recreation of Kumamoto Castle, an important heritage site disabilities affect their lives. in Japan that suffered serious damage in the earthquakes of April 2016. The VR production is a compendium of With Our Stakeholders high-definition archived data compiled from thousands of digital photographs of the castle tower structures, from the At Toppan we would like to continue disclosing information stone walls to the details of the donjon. From June to July through this CSR report, one of our most valuable tools 2016, the Tokyo National Museum (TNM) and Toppan for communicating with our stakeholders. I am eager to Printing Co., Ltd. jointly held charity screenings at the hear your candid opinions about this report. TNM & TOPPAN MUSEUM THEATER. The full proceeds We will keep up our work towards the creation of fulfilling from the screenings were donated to the Kumamoto lifestyles in a sustainable society. We rely on your ongoing Earthquake Donations for Rebuilding Kumamoto Castle, a support and guidance. fund started to support Kumamoto City’s castle reconAugust 2017 struction efforts. I value our employees as precious “human assets” of Shingo Kaneko the Toppan Group and have been accelerating diversity President & Representative Director management endeavors in the hope of actualizing a growth Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 05 Toppan’s Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Digest 2016 The Toppan Group engages in corporate social responsibility (CSR) Human Rights P. 22– activities in line with action points and targets established based on Action Points the seven core subjects under ISO 26000. IH eightening awareness of the I W  orking for equal opportunity in The following two pages enumerate importance of respecting individual career development the main activities undertaken under basic human rights and helping employees pursue IP roviding an open their own career paths the core subjects. environment and information IS  upporting second careers for for recruitment retired employees IP roactively appointing female I P  romoting the employment of employees to higher positions persons with disabilities I Supporting para-sports Main Results in Fiscal 2016 Number of female Average monthly number of managerial and page views of SPORTRAIT, supervisory staff Toppan’s para-sports (nonconsolidated) information website 5,781PVs *April 2016–March 2017 348 (excluding August– September 2016) *As of April 2017 Organizational P. 19– Labour Practices P. 24– Governance Action Points Action Points I Developing CSR management based on ISO 26000 IS upporting work-life balance IR einforcing countermeasures I Facilitating business continuity management (BCM) activities IC reating a better working against disasters environment through partnerships IP romoting healthcare and between labor and management health enhancement IE nsuring occupational health and IA rranging measures for safety and reinforcing mental healthcare countermeasures against fires ID eveloping and fostering human assets* Main Results in Fiscal 2016 Main Results in Fiscal 2016 Reduction in the number of Ratio of males among employees who 7 directors through the have taken childcare leave introduction of an executive officer system 57.7 % 20,519 Ratio of employees who have undergone stress Number of employees who checks 96.9 have completed e-learningbased, Group-wide basic education on BCM % *Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets.” 06 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Toppan’s Corporate Social Responsibility Activities: Digest 2016 The Environment P. 38– Consumer Issues P. 32– Action Points Action Points I Reduce CO2 emissions IE  nsuring consumer safety through the strict prevention of qualityI Reduce final landfill waste disposal related accidents I Reduce VOC emissions into the atmosphere IE  valuating environmental impact (disclosing CFP) IE  stablishing a management structure towards the complete elimination of information security accidents Achievement rate for the reduction target for final landfill waste disposal Main Results in Fiscal 2016 Achievement rate for the 125.6 achieved % Main Results in Fiscal 2016 Number of products registered in CO2 emission reduction Disposal the carbon footprint of products 14 target target (CFP) system Emission target 550 130 tons kilotons Number of regular training Actual Actual emissions sessions on information 97 disposal security management 371 tons 561 kilotons 98.1 % achieved Community Involvement Fair Operating Practices P. 28– P. 36– and Development Action Points Action Points IH eightening awareness of laws, regulations, and the Conduct IA rranging social contribution programs to Guidelines help solve social issues IC omplying with transaction-related laws and regulations IP romoting CSR initiatives in the supply chain Main Results in Fiscal 2016 Main Results in Fiscal 2016 Number of employees who have Cumulative total donations raised worked as Conduct Guidelines by the Toppan Charity Concert series, Promotion Leaders a fundraising activity to support 8,322 *Cumulative total from fiscal 2004 to education to improve literacy in developing countries fiscal 2016 ABC Number of employees who have participated 1,053 21.33 in training sessions on compliance with the Subcontract Law of million yen Japan *Cumulative total from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2016 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 07 Special Report 1 Boosting the Spread of Sustainable Packaging Containers and packaging are indispensable in daily life. The Toppan Group is making them sustainable in collaborative partnerships with stakeholders throughout the value chain. The Various Roles of Containers and Containers and packaging are also helping to reduce food loss, a form of waste that has been drawing significant Packaging attention in recent years. They can preserve freshness for Containers and packaging are used in daily life for longer periods and extend best-before dates thanks to a wide-ranging functions. One major role is to protect packcombination of container and packaging technology with aged products against the external environment. Others food processing technology. Small portions and individual include the packaging of products conveniently in smaller packages, meanwhile, allow consumers to purchase and portions to make them easy to carry or sell and the display use only the amounts they need. of information on product usage or precautions. Despite their manifold functions, containers and packThe Global Challenge of Reducing the aging must be disposed of as waste once the products Environmental Burden of Containers and they contain are used or consumed. Broad sections of Packaging society, therefore, require manufacturers to develop ­containers and packaging that minimize their impacts on The European Union (EU) now places a new model called the global environment without sacrificing safety or the “circular economy” at the core of its growth strategy. convenience. The Circular Economy Package adopted by the European Commission in December 2015 is a collection of major n Containers and Packaging Account for 54.7% of action plans to achieve the circular economy. Five priority the Volume of All Household Waste areas are assigned: plastics, food waste, critical raw Papers: 10.7% ­materials, construction and demolition, and biomass and Containers bio-based materials. The EU is calling on each member and state to set targets and develop necessary legislation for packaging: 54.7% implementation towards the fulfillment of the goals. Other than containers Plastics: 38.1% and packaging: n EU Waste Reduction Targets in Circular Economy 45.3% Package I Recycle 65% of municipal waste by 2030 Other: 0.0% I Recycle 75% of packaging waste by 2030 Metals: 3.8% Glasses: 2.1% I Reduce landfill to a maximum of 10% of municipal waste by 2030 Source: Press release issued by the European Commission Source: S  tudy on the Use and Discharge of Containers and Packaging 2016 from Japan’s Ministry of the Environment 08 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Special Report 1: Boosting the Spread of Sustainable Packaging Toppan’s Vision for Sustainable Packaging Containers and Packaging for a Sustainable Sustainable packaging at this level can be achieved only through cooperation with various stakeholders in the value Society chain. Outside the scope of design and production, Toppan Toppan has a vision for containers and packaging. At the is organically linking manufacturers, distributors, consumvery least, they must serve all necessary functions expected ers, and other stakeholders to facilitate the shift to susof packaging without using materials in excessive volumes tainable packaging in terms of products and systems. The or of unduly high quality for the products being packaged. Group will remain dedicated to the creation of a sustainable Toppan’s ideal containers and packaging also ensure safety society by building up and refining its efforts to make the and security for every user and reduce environmental burfinite infinite. den to the minimum possible levels. Toppan is confident n Vision for Containers and Packaging that targeting such containers and packaging will contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. Attuned to a recycling-oriented Sustainable Packaging: society A Scheme to Make the Finite Infinite Minimize environmental Packaging optimization—the process of maintaining and burden Low cost, little Security, safety, improving packaging functions while reducing raw mateburden people-first rials consumed—has been a global issue in recent years. Minimize total costs Duly consider users Toppan continues tracking this international trend and developing proposals for sustainable packaging based on the Group’s own guidelines in line with the concepts of Appropriate the ISO 18600 series standards on Packaging and the packaging Complete Environment. Avoid using materials functions in excessive volumes or The Group proposes packaging designs optimized to of unduly high quality Serve all necessary functions the entire lifecycles of products marketed by customer for the product being companies. Quality preservation and water and energy packaged consumption during use are carefully controlled with no Source: Japan Packaging Institute sacrifice of packaging functions through excessive reductions of packaging weight. In designing sustainable packn Toppan’s Vision for Sustainable Packaging aging, the Group also pursues the effective use of inexhaustible and recycled resources and the sustainable Content use of forest resources for the procurement of paper. The Distributors Environment Sustainable society Shift to sustainable manufacturers Toppan Group designates these policies as the Guidelines for Environmentally Friendly Packaging and offers Toppan Society eco-packaging proposals accordingly. packaging Raw Consumers material manufacturers Economy Collaborative partnerships in the value chain n Guidelines for Environmentally Friendly Packaging Design encompassing the entire lifecycle of products Use of sustainable resources Optimize design focused on quality preservation, energy consumption, Use of biomass resources Packaging optimization etc. during use without sacrificing packaging functions through excesPropose packaging focused on the sive reductions of weight Effective use of recycled effective use of inexhaustible and resources recycled resources and the sustainReduce, replace Promote 4R design of packaging able use of forest resources to encourage the effective use of Use of properly procured Reuse, recycle resources paper Evaluate environmental burden by life-cycle assessment (LCA) methods TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 09 Technologies and Innovations for Sustainable Packaging GL BARRIER: A World-class Transparent Barrier Film Each year, about 1.3 billion tons of unconsumed food— to North American and European packaging manu­ leftovers, food past its consume-by date, etc.—goes to facturers, the U.S. plant will lower transportation costs waste on our planet. Toppan harnesses its packaging and guarantee a steady supply of the transparent barexpertise to combat the global challenge of reducing rier films. food waste. GL BARRIER, a transparent barrier film from Toppan, offers world-class barrier performance in food packaging rivaling that of aluminum foil. The film protects packaged food from degradation due to oxygen, aridity, and ­moisture, enabling longer periods of quality-preserving storage compared to containers lined with other protective materials. While the prolonged storage periods reduce material procurement costs and inventory-related loss, the streamlined layer structure lightens the packaging weight, which lowers energy consumption in transportation. In April 2016, Toppan completed a new plant in the U.S. State of Georgia in anticipation of growing demand A film suitable for printing, lamination, and other treatments, developed for transparent barrier films. By supplying films directly with Toppan’s original coating and clear vapor deposition technologies Mechanically Recycled PET Film: A PET Film Produced from Used PET Bottles Mechanical recycling is a method to obtain a high-quality reproduced resin by eliminating impurities from a recycled material through the cleaning and crushing of used ­ polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles followed by high-temperature, reduced-pressure treatment for a given length of time. Toppan calls the PET film it produces from mechanically recycled PET resins “mechanically recycled PET film.” The film is now applied as a printing base or as a barrier material for various pouches. Mechanically recycled PET film is composed of 80% recycled resin, a percentage unsurpassed in almost any other recycled PET film ever made. The film matches the transparency and other physical properties of conventional petroleum-based PET films but emits about 24% less CO2 in the pre-manufacturing stage. Assessments based on the guidelines from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan verify that mechanically GL-AR-NF, one of the GL BARRIER films developed by Toppan. A recycled PET film satisfies performance levels of quality mechanically recycled PET film is used as the substrate of this transand safety required for use in food packaging. parent barrier film for use in retort pouches. 10 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Special Report 1: Boosting the Spread of Sustainable Packaging BIOAXX®: Packaging Series Using Biomass-based Plastics Biomass-based plastic is a packaging material made from renewable plant-derived resources instead of exhaustible fossil resources. The absorption of atmospheric CO2 ­during plant growth is estimated to offset any CO2 emissions from incineration of the packaging. Toppan has been developing and commercializing packaging composed of biomass-based plastics since 1991, including BIOAXX®, a series of laminated packaging materials made from plant-derived raw materials. Toppan developed a biomass polyethylene (PE) film with a ­thickness of less than 40µm in 2012. This material is adaptable for the flexible packaging of s­ undry products from non-food products to foods and medicines. Adaptable for sundry products from stand-up refill pouches for ­toiletries to foods, medicines, and paper cups Cartocan®: A Paper-based Beverage Container Produced with Lumber Harvested from Forest-thinning Operations In pursuing the environmentally responsible use of paper, involved in forest maintenance throughout Japan. Cartocan® society expects businesses to principally use pulp derived is also collectable through the same recycling routes as from recycled paper. When a business uses virgin pulp, the beverage cartons and can be recycled into toilet paper. desired choices are environmentally friendly paper such as forest-certified paper, tree-free paper, or paper made from pulp derived from lumber harvested from thinning or other forest maintenance operations. The Toppan Group established Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Forest Resources in September 2011. Cartocan®, Toppan’s paper-based beverage container, was placed on the market in 1996. The container uses GL BARRIER, Toppan’s original transparent barrier film, and is produced from pulp derived from at least 30% lumber from Japanese forests, including lumber from forest-thinning operations. The assertive use of domestic lumber promotes forestal cycles and sounder forest ­nurturing across Japan. Toppan donates some of the proceeds from Cartocan® Aseptic filling enables the shipping and storage of Cartocan® at room container purchases by beverage manufacturers to the temperature and sales through various channels such as mail order Green Fund, a program that funds volunteer organizations and vending machines TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 11 Special Report 2 Supporting Reconstruction in Kumamoto with Cutting-edge Technologies that Preserve Cultural Heritage for Future Generations The 2016 Kumamoto earthquakes caused tremendous damage to valuable cultural properties along with local infrastructure. The Toppan Group is committed to contributing to the restoration of Kumamoto’s historic landmarks for future generations. Daitenshu, a greater donjon of Kumamoto Castle, as of May 2017 (Photo courtesy of Kumamoto Castle Office) Devastating Kumamoto Earthquakes Toppan VR and Digital Archiving for the Two major earthquakes struck Kumamoto on April 14 and Restoration and Reconstruction of Cultural 16, 2016. This was the first time for two successive quakes Properties to register a score 7, the highest rating on the Japan Toppan has been digitalizing precious cultural properties Meteorological Agency (JMA) Seismic Intensity Scale, since in high-definition images using archiving technologies the current JMA seismic degrees were adopted. The damdeveloped based on its long-held printing technologies. At age was catastrophic. About 180,000 people were forced the core are techniques for high-definition digitalization, to stay at evacuation centers immediately after the earthcolor management, and three-dimensional geometric quakes. As of April 2017, about 47,000 people remain in measurements. These digital archiving technologies make temporary houses or other facilities awaiting reconstruction up the framework for Toppan VR (virtual reality), a tool for of essential infrastructure and their former homes. presenting digital archive data to the world. Toppan VR Kumamoto Castle, a symbol and spiritual pillar of generates realistic images in real time, delivering a freely ­Kumamoto, was not spared from the earthquakes. The moveable virtual experience of unparalleled presence and severe damage led to the complete or partial collapse of all immersion—the feeling of actually “being there.” Toppan 13 of the castle structures registered as important cultural has digitally archived dozens of precious cultural properties properties of Japan. Kumamoto Castle is one of the three and world heritage sites around the globe. In 2011, Toppan most impressive castles in Japan, along with the Nagoya produced Kumamotojo: ­ Unraveling the mystery of the Castle in Aichi Prefecture and Osaka Castle in Osaka invincible castle, a VR r­ecreation of Kumamoto Castle in Prefecture. Kiyomasa Kato, a local warlord renowned for his the form it once took during the Edo Period (1603–1867). skill in designing medieval fortresses, built the original castle The Uto Turret and other castle structures that have on the hilltop of Mt. Chausu in the center of Kumamoto ­survived the centuries have been captured in detail by City from 1601 to 1607. The castle has much to offer vishigh-definition photography, while the structures no longer itors, with graceful outer contours and massive stone walls existing are reproduced under the scholarly guidance of thought to be the sturdiest ever built in a Japanese fortress. experts on the castle and its history. The VR production is The reconstruction of Kumamoto Castle has been accelerbased on about 40,000 detailed digital photographic ated as a project emblematic of quick recovery for the images of the castle tower’s stone walls, Uto Turret, donjon, ­ citizens of Kumamoto City and Prefecture. Donations Honmaru Goten Palace, and other structures. streamed in from across Japan to fund reconstruction after the earthquakes. Toppan is working to support the restoration of Kumamoto alongside many others. 12 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Special screening of Kumamotojo: Unraveling the mystery of the invincible castle, a VR production, at TNM & TOPPAN MUSEUM THEATER, Tokyo National Museum Kumamotojo: Unraveling the mystery of the sections. Tens of thousands of stones and stone fragments invincible castle, a VR Production Specially fell from the walls during the earthquakes, leaving about a third of the walls damaged. The first phase of the restoraScreened at Tokyo National Museum tion project will focus on identifying the original positions From June 22 to July 10, 2016, Tokyo National Museum of the collapsed stones and replacing them as they were. (TNM) and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. arranged special The works will require sufficient pre-quake photographic screenings of the VR production Kumamotojo: Unraveling images of the walls to locate the placement of the stones, the mystery of the invincible castle at the TNM & TOPPAN followed by a long series of complicated operations to MUSEUM THEATER in the Tokyo National Museum. Proceeds identify the original positions using these images. Toppan from the screening were donated to support the restoration and researchers from Kumamoto University are now develof Kumamoto Castle from the serious damage caused by the oping a stonewalling identification system to model the earthquakes of April 2016. The VR production presented original stone placement in the wall structure. The system Kumamoto Castle’s well-fortified structure in a different combines a computer vision technology from Kumamoto arrangement from the earlier production screened at the University with Toppan’s image-processing technology Wakuwakuza History and Cultural Experience exhibit in and some 40,000 digital images detailing the stone walls, Sakuranobaba Johsaien, the tourist facility next to the castle. Uto Turret, and other structures photographed before the The VR production was screened at the museum theater 42 earthquakes to create the VR production of the castle. This times for 2,488 visitors over a period of two weeks, each time identification system will serve as a key tool in the stone with an opening video message from Kazufumi Onishi, Mayor wall restoration works in the decades to come. of Kumamoto City. TNM and Toppan donated 1,244,000 yen, the full proceeds from audiences, to the Kumamoto Earthquake Donations for Rebuilding Kumamoto Castle, a fund set up by Kumamoto City, Kumamoto Prefecture. Joint Efforts with Kumamoto University to Restore the Stone Walls of Kumamoto Castle Full-fledged reconstruction to restore the severely affected Kumamoto Castle has just begun. By current estimates, the restoration works may continue for more than twenty or thirty years. The stone walls of the castle, known for their beautiful A portion of the documentary photography rising musha-gaeshi curves, have collapsed in about 50 Presenting a register of donations to Kazufumi Onishi, Mayor of Kumamoto City (left) Screenshots in the stonewalling identification system TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 13 Special Report 3 For Greater Independence and Social Participation of Persons with Disabilities The Toppan Group provides workplaces and support for persons with disabilities to facilitate their enhanced independence and seamless participation in society. Pursuing Diversity Management pride in their work as a form of social participation. Prepress Toppan is realizing these ­ideals by enhancing many aspects The Toppan Group’s broad-ranging businesses centered of the workplaces it provides. around printing technology take in orders for products and Its facilities, for example, are designed to provide full services from more than 20,000 customers from sectors accessibility for orthopedically impaired employees with and industries of every kind. Toppan relies on a diverse floor plans that allow many people with severe disabilities workforce to respond flexibly to the demands and to work. The working environments are comfortable for ­expectations of its huge and varied customer base. This individuals of all kinds, with ample workplaces, spacious is why the Toppan Group is committed to diversity common areas, and accessible features such as sliding management. doors with sensors and restrooms at floor level (without The employment of persons with disabilities is part of steps) for the passage of wheelchairs. Prepress Toppan, this effort. Toppan is working to employ persons with meanwhile, works to maintain the mental and physical ­disabilities across the Group in cooperation with its spehealth of employees by arranging monthly visits and healthcial subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan Government (T.M.G.) care consultations by industrial physicians, mental health­Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. care services from industrial counselors, and much more. Prepress Toppan is a joint public-private venture of For employees with hearing impairments, the company Tokyo Metropolitan Government, Itabashi City, and Toppan is stepping up initiatives to facilitate communication, includPrinting Co., Ltd. The company was founded as a special ing an application to automatically convert voice to text in subsidiary of Toppan in June 1993. workplace meetings, and a five-minute assembly held each morning in sign language. Based on the Philosophy of Normalization Enhancing the Independence of People As a practitioner of equal opportunity under the philosophy with Disabilities of normalization, Prepress Toppan provides workplaces and support to persons with disabilities to enhance their Prepress Toppan runs a primary business in prepress, a independence and participation in society. Physical limitaseries of processes encompassing the desktop publishing tions should never confine a person’s abilities or ­possibilities. (i.e., typesetting and editing) of various printed materials All individuals can learn work, develop technical skills, (books, magazines, photography books, brochures, flyers, and constantly upgrade themselves with a positive, foretc.) and the development of automatic software for typeward-looking mindset. They can also take pleasure and setting. Apart from its primary business, the company is 14 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Special Report 3: For Greater Independence and Social Participation of Persons with Disabilities also entrusted with document digitization and various other n Composition of Employees in T.M.G. Prepress kinds of back-office operations by the parent company, Toppan Co., Ltd. Toppan Printing. The parameters of employees’ disabilities Number of Persons with are taken into account to enable all employees to realize Type of Disability Headcount Severe their full abilities in positions right for them. Disabilities The personnel evaluation system is wholly based on Limb or trunk dysfunction 44 34 competency. Whether an employee has a disability, or the Internal dysfunction 3 2 degree of an employee’s disability, is disregarded. Of the Persons Hearing impairment 10 8 with seven managerial positions established at Prepress Toppan, disabilities Visual impairment 1 – three (two males and one female) are occupied by persons Mental disability 7 – in wheelchairs. Intellectual disability 14 6 The company’s employees take part in the Tokyo Persons with disabilities in total 79 50 Abilympics (skills competition for persons with disabilities) Persons without disabilities 21 – every year. Competitors from Prepress Toppan won silver Total number of employees 100 medals in website creation in 2016 and in desktop pub(As of June 1, 2017) lishing and PC data entry in 2017. The company is pressing forward with measures ■ Employees with Disabilities: 79 focused on the self-reliance of persons with disabilities, Male 56 Female 23 including fire-extinguishing training for in-house firefighting 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 teams and first aid workshops using automatic external defibrillators (AEDs) at annual emergency drills. Prepress Toppan strives to create high-quality products ■ Average Age of Employees with Disabilities through mutual cooperation among employees while Male: 38.9 enhancing their skills, empowering each to overcome indiFemale: 39.1 vidual difficulties and explore individual potential regardless 10 20 30 40 of whether his or her experience is any way influenced by disability. The Toppan Group will continue improving work envi■ Service Years of Employees with Disabilities (by gender) ronments for people with difficulties and investing greater Less than 5 years: efforts into the employment of persons with disabilities. 12 14 23 employees 9 20 years or over: 20 32 employees 10 5 to 9 years: 12 10 employees U Male U Female 2 10 to 19 years: 14 employees Office floor with ample space Hallway wide enough for wheelchairs to easily Mirror that can be lowered by persons in wheelpass each other chairs Five-minute morning assembly held in sign Award ceremony for Tokyo Abylimpics Fire-extinguishing drill by an in-house firefightlanguage ing team TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 15 Toppan’s CSR Evolving as a Corporation that Creates recognized standard for organizations. ISO 26000 encourages organizations to address seven core subjects: organSocial Value izational governance, human rights, labour practices, the TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concepts and environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, direction for the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group in and community involvement and development. harmony with society and the global environment. The vision consists of a “Corporate Structure” and a set of n Committing to Achieving SDGs “Business Fields.” Japan and 192 other countries adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of shared global develn Corporate Structure opment agendas, at the UN General Assembly held in The Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: September 2015. The SDGs encompass 17 goals and 169 Toppan’s Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and targets focused on social issues for the international comthe Conduct Guidelines. The Corporate Philosophy specmunity to commit to achieving by 2030. Private businesses ifies ideals and the most important values and concepts around the world are expected to join policy initiatives to for the Group. The Corporate Creed expresses the standhelp solve the social issues under the SDGs. Toppan is ards to be kept foremost in mind when performing business making headway in its journey to evolving as a corporation operations. The Conduct Guidelines set out the basic conthat creates social value by incorporating the SDGs into cepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees both the Group’s CSR activity targets. as businesspeople and as members of society. n Material Issues n Business Fields Based on the seven core subjects under ISO 26000, The Toppan Group redefined its Business Fields in fiscal the Toppan Group has assessed CSR-relevant issues 2016, dividing them into two categories: “Technology & according to two criteria, the “influence on stakeholder Expertise” and “Markets & Customers.” The former cateassessments and decisions” and “Toppan’s economic, gory encompasses accumulated Toppan knowledge and environmental, and social impacts.” The Group has iden­technologies classified into five resource-based segments. tified the following as issues expected to become more The latter focuses on four key fields for growth: Healthcare material: human rights, human resource development and & Life Sciences, Education & Cultural Exchange, Urban diversity, the environment, promoting social responsibility Space & Mobility, and Energy & Food Resources. in the value chain, and privacy (personal information protection). Toppan will be reviewing the 17 SDGs to select material Toppan’s CSR Activities issues for the Group to target by analyzing the relevant The Toppan Group undertakes corporate social responsiconnections between the SDGs and the business activities bility (CSR) activities in accordance with the principles of and newly designed Business Fields of the Group. The the United Nations Global Compact and the guidelines of Toppan Group plans to develop a clear roadmap in fiscal the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility, a globally 2017 to achieve these targets. n Toppan’s New Business Fields Markets & Technology & Customers Expertise Four Growth Fields Five Segments Four fields on which to focus Toppan resources classified into five different segments Healthcare & Life Sciences Creative Communication Information Management Packaging & Converting Performance Materials Electronic Devices Education & Cultural Exchange Urban Space & Mobility Energy & Food Resources 16 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Toppan’s CSR n Toppan’s Approach to CSR Sustainable societies A corporation that creates social value Corporate Structure Corporate Philosophy Customers Business partners Corporate Creed (client companies, consumers) Conduct Guidelines Markets & Technology & Customers Expertise Shareholders and Employees Four Growth Fields Five Segments investors Business Fields TOPPAN VISION 21 http://www.toppan.co.jp/ Communities english/corporateinfo/vision/rinen.html Principles guiding the CSR activities United Nations Global Compact Universal principles to be espoused by corporations 10 principles in four areas Guidance on CSR activities CSR activity goals ISO 26000 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Globally recognized standard on 17 action goals for the realization of social responsibility sustainable societies Seven core subjects n Material Issues based on ISO 26000 Issues Expected to Become More Material I Human rights I Promoting social I Human resource responsibility in the development and value chain diversity I Privacy (personal Influence on I The environment information protection) stakeholder assessments Issues Judged to be Fundamentally and decisions Material for Toppan as a Group of Companies I Labour practices I Community involvement I Fair operating practices and development I Consumer issues Toppan’s economic, environmental, and social impacts TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 17 Content Index in Line with n 17 Goals Encompassed by the SDGs*2 *2 S  ee page 48 for detailed information on the United Nations Sustainable Seven Core Subjects under Development Goals (SDGs). ISO 26000 & the SDGs *1Detailed information on results in fiscal 2016 and future targets and measures can be found in the Toppan CSR Report 2017: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website (http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/csrreport.html). Seven Core Subjects and Issues For Details SDGs*2 Pages I Corporate Governance  12 16 Organizational governance I CSR Initiatives I Risk Management Structure  12 IB  usiness Continuity Management  13 P. 19– IR  especting Basic Human Rights  8 10 Human rights IC  ollective Labor Agreement  8 10 IW  orking for Equal Opportunity Issue 1: Due diligence Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights and Eliminating Discrimination  5 8 10 Issue 2: Human rights risk situations Issue 8: F  undamental principles and Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity rights at work P. 22– Issue 4: Resolving grievances Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights IB  asic Approach Regarding Labour practices Human Assets IL  abor-Management Partnership  8 Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships I Supporting Work-Life Balance  8 Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection IO  ccupational Health and Safety  3 8 P. 24– Issue 3: Social dialogue IM  easures for Mental Healthcare  3 8 Issue 4: Health and safety at work ID  eveloping and Fostering Issue 5: Human development and training in the workplace Human Assets  4 8 ID  isseminating the Conduct Fair operating practices Guidelines  5 10 IT  oppan Group Helpline  10 16 Issue 1: Anti-corruption IC  ompliance Education  10 16 Issue 2: Responsible political involvement IP  romoting CSR Procurement  8 10 12 16 P. 28– Issue 3: Fair competition Issue 4: Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Issue 5: Respect for property rights IA  ssuring Product Safety and Consumer issues Quality  9 IP  rotecting Consumers by Issue 1: F air marketing, factual and unbiased Issue 4: C  onsumer service, support, and Safeguarding their Personal information and fair contractual complaint and dispute resolution Information P. 32– practices Issue 5: C  onsumer data protection and IU  niversal Design Initiatives  12 Issue 2: P rotecting consumers’ health and privacy IC  ontributing to Sustainable safety Issue 6: Access to essential services Consumption  2 9 12 Issue 3: Sustainable consumption Issue 7: Education and awareness IC  ommunity Involvement and Community involvement and development Development  3 4 5 17 Issue 1: Community involvement Issue 6: Health Issue 2: Education and culture Issue 7: Social investment Issue 3: E mployment creation and skills P. 36– development Issue 4: Technology development and access Issue 5: Wealth and income creation IT  oppan’s Environmental Activities The environment IE  nvironmental Management Activities  4 Issue 1: Prevention of pollution IT  oppan’s Environmental Burden Issue 2: Sustainable resource use and Environmental Impact  12 P. 38– Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation IE  co-protection Activities  12 15 Issue 4: Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats IE  co-creativity Activities  12 IE  nvironmental Communication Activities  12 18 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Organizational Governance goal is to lay weight on managerial efficiency in business deciCorporate Governance sion-making. Toppan put in place a new corporate governance structure in fiscal 2016 by introducing an executive officer Organizational Governance Toppan operates corporate activities under the purview of an system and establishing an advisory committee to deliberate Audit & Supervisory Board. The supervisory functions of the on the nomination of directors and the remuneration they receive. Board of Directors and audit functions of the audit & supervisory board members ensure the legality of the execution of n Audit & Supervisory Board, Board Members, the operations of the directors. Toppan has strengthened and Audit Firm governance in corporate management in keeping with the As of the end of March 2017, Toppan has five audit & superBasic Policy on Corporate Governance established on visory board members, including three external auditors, of November 26, 2015. The Toppan Group, meanwhile, practices whom two are independent officers. Along with their own governance aimed at maximizing the corporate value of the board meetings, the board members attend various meetings, entire Group under the Related Company Administration including meetings of the Board of Directors and Management Regulations prescribed for the advancement of fair manageCommittee and important meetings on risk management. They ment for the Group. In structuring corporate management, systematically carry out audits for operational sites and Group Toppan has appointed three external directors (including two companies in close cooperation with the audit firm and internal independent external directors) to reinforce supervisory funcaudit-related departments of the Company. By these means, tions. These external directors provide pertinent advice and they audit and advise the Company from a preventive perinputs independently from the management. spective to ensure the legality of the operations of the directors and departments and smooth and appropriate corporate mann Directors, Board of Directors, and Various Meetings agement in line with company policies and regulations. They Toppan has 19 directors, including three external directors, on also regularly convene a meeting of audit & supervisory boards its board (as of the end of March 2017). Board meetings are held from related companies to improve the effectiveness of the monthly and whenever a pressing matter requires action or delibaudits by board members across the Group. eration. Especially important matters are deliberated beforehand Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of the by the Management Committee, a body made up of directors Company’s accounts through audits to enhance the r­ eliability appointed by the President & Representative Director. The and transparency of the Company’s financial information. n Corporate Governance Structure (as of March 31, 2017) Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing External directors (including two independent directors) Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Advisory Committee for Selecting or Special Committee Advising Supervising Advising Nomination and Remuneration dismissing (for defending against takeover bids) and counseling Crisis Management Committee President & Representative Director Executive Officer Committee Management Committee Audit & Supervisory Board Investment & Legal Review Council Directors in Charge Executive Officers in Charge Audit Firm Auditing Monitoring Management Monitors and verifies the legality and Auditing Business Divisions and appropriateness of operational activities Audit Office guiding Group Companies Spearheads, monitors, and verifies the Reporting Independently check, evaluate, Compliance strict observance of business-related Department laws and regulations and the establishment and make improvements under Office of the Audit & of ethical business practices the direction of departments responsible for laws, regulations, etc. Oversees, monitors, and verifies Ecology Center environmental activities across the Group Guiding Instructing Supervisory Board Members National Conduct Guidelines Assisting Promotion Supervisors (in Japan) Other organizations for control Chief Information Security Manager Safety and Health Committee TPM National Conference (in Japan) National Eco-protection Committee (in Japan) Working together The latest information on corporate governance can be found on the Toppan website (http://www.toppan.co.jp/ir/management.html [in Japanese]). TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 19 n Strengthening Audit Functions basic education for employees at the Company and main The Management Audit Office is a body established indeGroup companies (20,276 persons completed the course in pendently from the business divisions of the Company. fiscal 2016). Working from legal and rational viewpoints, the office conducts fair and objective audits on the administrative and operational systems and practical status of the Company’s management Risk Management Structure activities. The office provides feedback to the relevant departments on problems, proposes measures for improvement, and Toppan manages risk comprehensively to avoid risk and reports the audit results to the President & Representative ­minimize loss incurred when an event at risk of occurring actuDirector, directors in charge of relevant departments, and audit ally occurs. & supervisory board members. The office carried out 30 The Rules on Risk Management have been established to ­management and operation audits in fiscal 2016. It also conaddress matters regarding risk avoidance and the minimization ducted maintenance and operational evaluations of internal of loss when a potentially damaging event occurs. In accordcontrols over financial reporting for all business divisions and ance with these rules, the Company has set up a risk manmain subsidiaries. agement structure under which the responsibilities for risk The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs & management are allotted to specific divisions in the head office Intellectual Property Division spearheads the Company’s inibased on the types of risk involved. Under this structure, the tiatives to ensure the strict observance of laws and regulations directors in charge of each relevant division are responsible and to firmly establish ethical business practices. The departfor taking measures to prevent, avoid, and correct each type ment facilitates the complete awareness of the Conduct of risk. Guidelines, organizes employee education on compliance with Toppan reviews various types of risk to be managed once applicable laws, and implements internal audits on information a year and examines countermeasures to be taken in line with security (➞PP. 28, 32). The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing the rules. The Company also holds a regular Risk Management Management Division oversees environmental activities across Liaison Meeting for the persons in charge of risk management the Group, conducts internal audits at operational sites, and in the head office divisions in order to share information on a monitors the progress of their improvements (➞P. 38). continuous basis and respond to risk practically. n Remuneration to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Business Continuity Management In fiscal 2016 the total annual remuneration to directors was 1,083 million yen and the total annual remuneration to audit To prepare for the possible occurrence of a wide-scale disas& supervisory board members was 114 million yen. Please ter, the Toppan Group institutes business continuity managerefer to the section on corporate governance, etc. in the ment (BCM) activities under the Basic Plan for Countermeasures ­securities report (in Japanese) for details on the method against Earthquake Disasters. These activities aim to minimize used to determine remunerations and remuneration-related damage to the Group and maintain a steady supply of prodinformation. ucts and services to customers. The Toppan Group repeats various BCM drills at every site to enhance Group-wide competence for business continuity. CSR Initiatives In fiscal 2016 Toppan held e-learning-based, basic training for all Group employees in Japan (completed by 20,519 persons) n Promotion Mechanism to ensure awareness among employees on business continuity The divisions of the head office work in collaboration with each management. other to promote CSR activities under the President & The lessons learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake ­Representative Director and the Director in charge of CSR. disaster of 2011 have renewed the Group’s awareness of the Each division confirms the materiality of action points in importance of a stable supply chain for effective BCM. In fiscal line with the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000. The 2016 the Group surveyed the business continuity competendivisions devise action plans and carry out measures based cies of 184 material suppliers by questionnaire to ascertain on shared information about the issues they are addressing their current BCM measures. An expert was also invited to the and the progress they are making. The head office divisions head office to lecture at a training session for 23 business also coordinate and share information with Group companies partners on business continuity management. to advance Group-wide CSR initiatives. The Toppan Group seeks to coexist with communities Every year Toppan organizes a training course on CSR through ongoing BCM activities. management for new employees (324 persons completed the course in fiscal 2016) and e-learning-based, Group-wide 20 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n CSR Promotion Structure n Types of Risk to Be Managed and the Relevant Head Office Divisions in Charge President & Representative Director Types of Risk to Be Managed Product accidents or Product accidents or quality-related accidents (Manufacturing Organizational Governance product liability Management Div.) Director in charge of CSR Accidents related to main computer systems (ICT Management Div.) Occupational accidents, traffic accidents, or other accidents involving employees (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) CSR promotion departments Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable (Finance & Accounting Div.) Accidents or disasters Administration Legal problems with orders received (Legal Affairs & Intellectual Property Div.) related to company operations Leakage of personal information, internal confidential information, etc. Public Relations Division (Legal Affairs & Intellectual Property Div.) Accidents or disasters related to fires or explosions (Manufacturing Management Div.) Secretary Office Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, management of dangerous chemicals, etc. (Manufacturing Management Div.) Corporate Planning Damage to the company’s internal computer system due to cyber terrorism, Division illegal access or use of company information, or leakage of personal Defamation, slander, or information, internal confidential information, etc. (ICT Management Div.) Personnel & Labor other criminal damages Acts of violence against the company (threats, kidnapping, or robbery) Relations Division (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Legal Affairs & Intellectual Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations or transactions Relationships with Property Division conducted between business partners and antisocial organizations antisocial organizations (Legal Affairs & Intellectual Property Div.) Finance & Accounting Material losses or personal accidents suffered by customers or the Division Natural disasters company due to earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning, etc. (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Manufacturing Risk in business Shareholder derivative lawsuits or hostile takeovers (Legal Affairs & Management Division management Intellectual Property Div.) Unlawful activities related Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan or illegal transactions with Business Development to external contracts business partners (Manufacturing Management Div.) & Research Division Infringements of intellectual Infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights (Legal Affairs & property rights Intellectual Property Div.) Violations of environmental laws, regulations, or standards or illegal Environmental problems disposal of industrial waste (Manufacturing Management Div.) Product accidents, environmental problems, fires or natural disasters, or Risk in overseas business damage to human or physical resources caused by international activities conflicts, terrorism, etc. (Corporate Planning Div.) BCM drill (Fukuoka Plant) BCM training session for business partners Comprehensive disaster-preparedness drill (Akihabara) Countermeasures against Disasters The Toppan Group takes comprehensive disaster-preparedness measures throughout the operational sites across Japan under the Basic Plan for ­Countermeasures against Earthquake Disasters. The basic plan specifies that Toppan employees are to: 1) take safety-first actions based on the concept of respect for people; 2) fulfill social responsibilities by maintaining steady supplies of products and services that society needs most; and 3) cooperate with governments and communities to minimize damage and provide aid for affected people. In fiscal 2016 the Toppan Group adopted a further practical approach to the possible occurrence of a wide-scale disaster based on the experience of responding to the earthquakes that struck Kumamoto Prefecture in April 2016. The Group prepared two wide-scale disaster scenarios: one hitting eastern Japan and the other hitting western Japan. Inter-operational-site drills were organized in March 2017 to enable staff in one region to verify the safety of all Group employees across the areas potentially stricken by disasters in another region. In conjunction with these drills, Toppan built a system for the head office to purchase supplies for Group-wide deployment in the event of a disaster by confirming the current status of stockpiled emergency supplies in real time. The head office site in Akihabara and other main Group sites also organize regular comprehensive disaster-preparedness drills to rehearse the actions to be taken during actual wide-scale disasters: the initial damage assessment and safety verification, the evacuation procedures, the employees’ journeys back home from their workplaces on foot, and the distribution of stockpiled supplies. The regular repetition of these drills will keep all Toppan employees on alert and provide them with the know-how necessary for dealing with emergency situations quickly and properly. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 21 Human Rights Respecting Basic Human Rights Working for Equal Opportunity and Eliminating Discrimination The Toppan Group operates business under the foundational concept of respect for people. The Conduct Guidelines, which Toppan pursues diversity management to innovate and create set out behavioral norms for Toppan personnel, call for value by engaging diverse human resources and nurturing respecting basic human rights (such as respecting personal their competence to its full potential. qualities and individuality; prohibiting discrimination and ­harassment; and prohibiting child labor and forced labor n Positive Action [➞P. 31]). Based on The Toppan Group Declaration on the Toppan promotes positive action to bring out the full potential Global Environment and the Basic Policy on Biodiversity, the of individual employees and assign them to more diverse posiGroup promotes environmental conservation initiatives to avoid tions regardless of gender. Women play important roles in wider ­negative impacts on the lives of people living near its operaarenas as the Company has appointed more female employees tional sites (➞P. 38). to managerial positions based on their skills and motivation. Toppan has been carrying out education on human rights through CSR training for new employees and e-learning-based n Self-determination on the Career Path / In-house Staff programs on CSR and the environment for all employees of Recruitment / Second Careers the Group. To disseminate initiatives for respecting human Toppan has established the Challenging Job System, a self-dirights throughout the entire supply chain, the Group sets forth rected program to encourage employees to report their median article on respecting basic human rights in the Toppan um-to-long-term career development plans. The combined Group CSR Procurement Guidelines and asks business effects of the Challenging Job System and an in-house staff ­partners to comply with this article (➞P. 30). recruitment system nourish a problem-solving, can-do mindset Toppan has also set up dual hotlines through which to facilitate the placement of the right person in the right posi­employees and business partners can promptly report human tion across the Company. Toppan has also implemented varrights issues or violations. ious career development measures, such as a training program to help employees consider their own career paths going forward. For retired employees in their second careers in company Collective Labor Agreement life, the Company offers working options well suited to their knowledge, experience, skills, and motivation. Seventy-one of The Toppan Printing Labour Union and the management have 85 employees who retired in fiscal 2016 were reemployed. concluded a collective labor agreement in order to stabilize labor-management relations, maintain and improve working n Employment of Persons with Disabilities conditions, and secure the corporate concord. The agreement Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities in colsets forth a fundamental policy between labor and managelaboration with a special subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan ment, the rules governing union activities and labor-manageGovernment (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. Toppan and ment negotiations, and employment conditions such as wages T.M.G. Prepress Toppan maintain the hiring and employment and working hours. of persons with disabilities by devising procedures and rouAs a fundamental policy between labor and management, tines adjusted to their capabilities to empower them to perform Article 1 of the collective labor agreement, the General wide-ranging jobs in the workplace. Principles, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute to society through business operations and collectively n Providing an Open Environment for Recruitment work for the benefit of the Company and long-term stability Toppan hires diverse persons of both genders and of many of the livelihood of employees. Labor and management both nationalities, ages, and levels of physical and mental ability uphold this policy as a common goal. Article 2 of the agreethrough recruitment channels such as the regular hiring of new ment clearly states that the union has all the rights established graduates from universities and high schools and the hiring of by law, specifying that the Company shall respect the union’s persons with disabilities and experienced personnel in the rights to organize and collectively bargain and act. middle of their careers. To make contact with diverse persons, The Toppan Printing Labour Union is run by members from Toppan publicizes its working styles in company orientation Toppan and nine Group companies. The union and the mansessions and via the Company website and other media. agement have concluded an agreement to impose a uniform Toppan also holds multiple job-specific screenings in Japan set of liability-related clauses (rules governing union activities to offer recruits a wider choice of employment opportunities and labor-management negotiations) on all 10 companies. in accordance with their own aspirations and vocational aptitudes. In fiscal 2016 the Company ran internship programs with practical training sessions for 92 students. 22 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n Initiatives for Respecting Basic Human Rights Participating in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan participates in the global policy initiative and respects basic human rights in a proactive manner. Respect for people A universal concept highly valued by Toppan Establishing and disseminating Working for equal opportunity Organizing training the Conduct Guidelines and eliminating discrimination and education ( PP. 28, 31) Toppan specifies respect for basic human Toppan respects personal Human Rights rights in the Conduct Guidelines—its qualities and individuality, and hires Toppan carries out education on human listing of behavioral norms for and treats employees without rights in rank-based training. employees—and disseminates this discrimination of any kind. principle across the Group. Promoting CSR procurement Operating hotlines Contributing to society ( P. 30) ( PP. 28, 30) ( P. 36) Toppan cites respect for basic Toppan supports people’s livelihood Toppan operates dual hotlines human rights as a guiding principle in mainly through educational cooperation through which both employees and its CSR procurement guidelines and and the donation and supply of money business partners can report asks business partners to comply and goods throughout the world, human rights issues or violations. with the guidelines. especially in developing countries. In fiscal 2016 Toppan participated in working groups on due diligence for human rights organized by the Global Compact Network Japan. Toppan gathered information and held opinion exchanges with other members on respect for basic human rights. n Female Managerial and n Number of Recruits Supervisory Staff Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 ■ Female supervisory staff (as of April) Sales, Male 88 98 105 Regular recruit■ Female managerial staff administration, etc. ment of new Female 50 73 65 350 348 graduates from universities and Male 102 102 115 300 299 Technical graduate schools Female 40 35 36 250 251 233 Regular recruitment of new graduates Male 5 3 1 267 from high schools and colleges of 200 Female 21 33 33 technology 226 150 192 Total number of regular recruits 306 344 355 181 (percentage of women) (36.3%) (41.0%) (37.7%) 100 Mid-career recruitment of experienced Male 27 56 — 50 personnel Female 29 20 — 59 73 81 52 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 (year) n Employment of Persons with Recognized in the Health & Productivity “White 500” Category Disabilities Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. was recognized as an outstanding organi2015 2016 2017 zation engaging in health and productivity management under the Employees 247 250 253 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization RecogPercentage nition Program operated by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade of total 2.10% 2.07% 2.06% and Industry (METI). METI established this program in 2017 to highlight workforce* excellent enterprises advancing health and productivity management. *The percentage is calculated based on the The ministry’s aim is to facilitate an environment where these entertotal number of regular employees (as of June prises gain enhanced public recognition for their strategic health and 1) as a denominator. The total number was productivity management practices to safeguard and maintain their presented in the Disabled Persons Employemployees’ health from a management perspective. ment Report in accordance with Article 8 of Toppan was recognized in the large enterprise category (“White the Japanese Law for Employment Promotion, 500”) under the program in 2017. etc. of the Disabled. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 23 Labor Practices Management Promotion Council. The council engages in conBasic Approach Regarding Human Assets structive arguments on healthcare measures from various aspects under the direction of representatives from the Group Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets” and and health insurance union. The healthcare guidance provided understands how deeply it depends on them. From this perin the Health Management Handbook for Group employees spective, the Company supports the motivated, vigorous, and illustrates the diverse outputs from the council. earnest work of the Toppan workforce. The Company keenly Toppan will develop measures for the health maintenance understands the importance of the motivation to take on new and enhancement of Group employees in cooperation with challenges, the drive to work vigorously with a healthy body the labor union, operational sites, clinics, and other organizaand mind, and an earnest commitment to follow through on tions instituted in the Group. tasks to completion. When employees are vigorous, earnest, and have strong motivation, Toppan is convinced that their n Supporting Work-Life Balance true abilities come through in full force. Senior management, managers, and employees have been jointly implementing measures to shorten working hours with a view to achieving better work-life balance and maintaining Labor-Management Partnership employee health. They have steadily reduced overtime hours by adjusting operations within departments and improving Toppan’s labor union and management respect each other’s operating effectiveness through reviews of the ways individuals positions as partners with shared ideals. They have been working work and management administrates. together on various issues on an equal footing. Business councils At the ongoing business councils and labor-management comare convened as Company-wide and operational site forums to mittees, labor and management exchange opinions and deliberate discuss wide-ranging managerial issues. Several special commeasures to further shorten overtime working-hours and comply mittees are also convened to deliberate pertinent issues of the with the revised Labor Standards Act of Japan. They also analyze day. Standing committees meet to discuss longstanding issues actual overtime practices and review the use of newly introsuch as working hour reductions, wages, and health and safety. duced working systems. Labor and management at each Individual labor-management committees meet when necessary operational site have been discussing approaches to create more to discuss specially designated subjects such as the creation of accommodating workplace environments that encourage employa working environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction. ees to take leave. The measures they have devised and impleToppan has adopted a union shop system. In principle, all mented are tailored to the actual working conditions at their sites. non-managerial employees belong to the labor union as members. n Efforts to Support Employees with Children Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which Committing to Health Management employees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so by providing systems for childcare and nursing care leave, Based on the long-held fundamental concept of respect for reduced working hours, higher family allowances for dependpeople, the Toppan Group is active in launching various measents, and employee benefits of other forms. ures for employee healthcare in cooperation with the Toppan From fiscal 2015 Toppan began paying a full salary for the first Group Health Insurance Union. five days of childcare leave taken by male employees, in order In October 2015 the Group announced a Health Manage­ to support employees with children by encouraging the use ment Declaration to clarify future health management policies of the childcare leave system. In fiscal 2016 the eligibility period for maintaining and enhancing the health of Group employees. for preferential work shifts such as reduced working hours for From a viewpoint of health and productivity management, this employees with childcare responsibilities was extended to the end declaration visualizes and reorganizes health promotion measof a child’s fourth year of elementary school (surpassing the ageures and action plans previously organized by the Group and three requirement imposed under the applicable Japanese law). the health insurance union independently. Toppan has also been gradually enhancing the “Hagukumi The Health Management Declaration enunciates dual (nurturing) Program” since fiscal 2012. This program supports focuses. The first is to promote enhanced health for employees the wellbeing of employee parents by providing therapeutic and their families through various approaches such as activities activities for parents on childcare leave, activities to share the to support work-life balance. The second is to contribute to know-how necessary for maintaining good balance between society through health-related businesses that support comworking and raising children, and activities to give employees munity health promotion activities around the world. in various positions opportunities to learn about and consider The Group has also formulated a health management prothe importance of work-family balance. The Hagukumi motion structure by putting the President & Representative Program received the Minister of State for Gender Equality Director in charge of health management and creating a Health Award at the Kids Design Award 2016 in Japan. 24 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n Number of Personnel (as of March 31) Management Total Average Average Sum Total Part-time Dispatched Directors Supervisors Class Employees Tenure Age Employees Workers Staff Male 26 1,933 1,826 7,586 15.1 42.6 Fiscal 2014 8,900 681 112 Female 0 52 180 1,314 9.8 34.0 Male 26 1,989 1,843 7,576 15.4 42.9 Fiscal 2015 8,993 562 203 Female 0 59 192 1,417 9.8 34.2 Male 18 2,158 1,932 7,930 15.1 43.4 Fiscal 2016 9,551 502 237 Female 1 71 224 1,621 9.3 34.3 n Reasons for Leaving*1 n Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Personal reasons 204 (48) 184 (39) 206 (54)*2 Average paid leave 8.3 8.6 9.6 used (days) Retirement 86 ( 5) 94 ( 0) 85 ( 1) 3 Average ratio* 43.3% 45.1% 50.8% Requested by the 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) company *3 Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted Other 83 ( 0) 92 ( 3) 83 ( 3) Total 373 (53) 370 (42) 374 (58) Turnover rate 4.1% 4.0% 3.8% Labor Practices *1 T he number of female employees who left the Company is shown in ­parentheses. n Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave *2 Six female and 26 male employees took advantage of Toppan’s support system for employees who pursue new careers after leaving the Company. Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Employees taking 81 85 105 maternity leave n Average Annual Salary Employees taking Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 136 (3) 295 (160) 300 (173) childcare leave*4 Average annual *4 T  he number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in 6,647,468 yen 6,697,391 yen 6,956,597 yen salary parentheses. n Hagukumi (nurturing) Program n Structure for Health Management Promotion I To provide therapeutic activities for parents on childcare leave A scheme to support the IT  o share the know-how necessary for maintaining good Head of health management General affairs wellbeing of employee parents ­balance between working and raising children (President & departments at Hagukumi Program IT  o give employees in various positions opportunities to learn Representative Director) operational sites about and consider the importance of work-family balance Toppan Printing Health management Labour Union promotion supervisor (Director in charge of personnel Hagukumi Art Salon Hagukumi Seminar Hagukumi Circle and general affairs departments) Safety and (from fiscal 2012) (from fiscal 2013) (from fiscal 2014) Health Committee Collaborating in implementing IT  o strengthen bonds To learn and enhance unTo build a network of workmeasures Industrial between parents and derstanding about good ing parent employees who physicians children balance between work and wish to discuss their conIT  o stimulate interaction parenting throughout the cerns about work and paramong employees workplace enting and share ideas and Health Management Clinics and currently on childcare tips on work-family balance Promotion Council medical specialists leave Health insurance union and IT  o cope with anxieties personnel and general about returning to work affairs departments at Industrial the head office counselors Collaborating Collaborating Departments Public relations involved in healthcare department businesses Collaborating Detailed information on Toppan’s main leave systems and family benefits is shown in the Toppan CSR Report 2017: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website (http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/csrreport.html). TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 25 n Efforts to Support Employees Bearing Nursing Care vation to take on new challenges, an ambition to work vigorResponsibilities ously, and an earnest commitment to follow through on tasks Toppan’s labor union and management employ systems to help to completion. employees maintain good balance between work and care at Toppan undertakes various measures to prevent mental home. These systems create an environment where employees health problems at work. For example, the Company provides can concentrate on work without worrying about care for family a stress check system and e-learning-based programs to help members at home. By reviewing the results of employee quesemployees better perceive and cope with the stresses affecting tionnaires on nursing care, Toppan has relaxed the eligibility them; operates Art Salon, a workshop to refresh employee requirements for nursing-care-related systems, designed ways minds and bodies through the work of artistic creation; organto enable employees to more flexibly adjust their working hours izes rank-based training and distributes handbooks to prevent for care, enhanced financial support during nursing care leave, or promptly detect and treat mental problems; opens counand provided more information on work-care balance. Along seling rooms where employees can receive advice from with system enhancements in these four areas, the Company in-house counselors; and concludes advisory agreements with allows care-giving employees to commute to and from work mental healthcare specialists. Employment regulations defining by Shinkansen bullet train in certain cases. rehabilitation programs to support employees returning from mental healthcare leave also enable employees to return to work more seamlessly. Occupational Health and Safety Toppan recognizes that the most effective strategy to administer fundamental prevention measures for mental health probBack in 2010, Toppan formulated a Basic Policy on Health lems is to enhance job satisfaction by giving employees better and Safety that enunciated a “safety first” principle as the top means to understand themselves and communicate more priority in business operations. The Group has been working skillfully. The Company has been organizing mental healthcare to completely eliminate occupational accidents since. Safety programs such as workshops arranged in cooperation with masters, safety engineers (SEs), and other safety experts have workplaces. been deployed to operational sites across Japan to build safety promotion systems. Toppan has also upgraded the intrinsic safety of machines and equipment and organized full-fledged Developing and Fostering Human Assets safety education of various types centered around foreman training. Through these and other safety efforts, the total numn Concept of Human Asset Development and Fosterage ber of occupational accidents was reduced at Group sites in Mindful of how deeply it depends on its employees, Toppan fiscal 2016. Employees, however, were still prone to accidents fosters individuals with ambition and integrity who will go on in work areas, and the number of accidents requiring leave to become the driving force towards the realization of TOPPAN increased. A severe accident regrettably occurred at a Group VISION 21. Toppan would like to contribute to society as a company in autumn of 2016. corporation blessed with human assets with excellent comToppan will redouble its efforts in safety promotion activities, munication skills and heightened awareness and sensibilities. risk assessment activities, and other safety initiatives and provide more guidance from safety masters and SEs. The Group will n Various Programs to Develop Human Assets continue taking steps to organize education for improved safety Toppan has set up a human asset development platform called awareness among employees onsite, eliminate prohibited the Toppan University. This platform is striving to foster top leadactions at the workplace, renovate workshops to better accomers while supporting the skill improvement and career enhancemodate older employees, and pursue various other safety ment of employees through basic and special programs, a measures. Anzen Dojo safety training facilities outfitted to simleadership program, and a personal empowerment program. ulate dangers and alert employees at the workplace have been The Toppan Business School (group training) and Challenge set up at the Takino Plant in Hyogo Prefecture and Fukuoka School (correspondence learning courses), meanwhile, offer Plant in Fukuoka Prefecture, in addition to the original facility at self-development training for employees. A cumulative total the Kawaguchi Plant in Saitama Prefecture. Toppan is planning of 9,367 people trained under these programs in fiscal 2016. similar initiatives for Group overseas sites in the years to come. Employees also have ready access to basic, Group-wide education via the e-learning system. A cumulative total of 110,293 people took part in e-learning programs in fiscal 2016. Measures for Mental Healthcare To foster human assets for global business, the Company operates a trainee system to provide employees with practical The maintenance of employee mental health is a keystone for training in day-to-day business activities overseas. Eighty Toppan to propel corporate activities. The Company defines employees have been deployed as trainees under the system a healthy employee as a person sustained by a strong motisince fiscal 2011. The selective training on globalization 26 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 launched in fiscal 2010 has supported a cumulative total of to bolster employee commitment to solving social issues in 585 candidates for overseas assignments. Since fiscal 2012, Minamisoma City, Fukushima Prefecture, an area seriously 15 employees have attended advanced short-term open affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. Toppan programs at the International Institute for Management ­ employees have also worked as Japan Overseas Cooperation Development (IMD) in Lausanne, Switzerland, one of the Volunteers for the Japan International Cooperation Agency world’s top-ranked business schools. (JICA) to help address social issues for the international comToppan has been organizing specialized training since 2014 munity while developing themselves as individuals. n The Four Approaches Applied in Toppan’s Employee Support Systems to n Occupational Health and Safety Maintain Good Balance between Work and Care at Home 2014 2015 2016 Deaths from All eligible members from employee families are in need of long-term care or occupational 0 0 0 support under one of the following conditions: accidents Eligibility I“In need of long-term care” as specified in the Child and Family Care requirements for Leave Act of Japan Frequency rate*1 0.05 0.05 0.000 nursing-careI“In need of long-term care” as specified in the Long-term Care Severity rate*2 0.000 0.001 0.000 related systems Insurance System of Japan I“In need of support” as specified in the Long-term Care Insurance *1 N umber of occupational accidents requirSystem of Japan ing employee leave, per million cumulative actual working hours (reflects the frequency INursing care leave of occupational accidents) IReduced working hours for nursing care (reduced working hours, *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence flexible work schedules, reduced number of prescribed working days of occupational accidents, per thousand Ways to more per week) cumulative actual working hours (reflects the flexibly adjust *Nursing care leave and reduced working hours for nursing care can be taken Labor Practices working hours for severity of occupational accidents) in installments. care *Employees are allowed to switch between the two systems. IDays off for nursing care ICommuting by Shinkansen bullet train for family care reasons Financial support during IAllowance for nursing care leave (40% of the employee’s average wage) nursing care leave IEntitlement for paid days off for nursing care ILaunch of a website to provide information on work-care balance This site provides employees with general knowledge about work-care balance and information on support systems available at the Company, public nursing-care-related systems, and so on. Provision of ILaunch of a nursing-care consultation desk by outside experts information on The Company commissions an external professional body to offer unlimitwork-care balance ed, free-of-charge nursing-care consultation to employees on a contract basis. Employees can also use fee-based agency services such as watch-over visits or administrative processes handled by dedicated staff Anzen Dojo at care facilities and hospitals. Strengthening the Environment to n Overview of Mental Healthcare Activities Develop Human Assets Line Care (by Care Using Care Using Toppan has established training centers in Self-care managers and Resources within Resources outside Kawaguchi City, Saitama Prefecture and Yugawara Town, Kanagawa Prefecture to supervisors) the Workplace the Workplace nurture human assets. These centers are I Assertion I Dialogue skills IParticipation in IParticipation in venues for various training sessions and Fundamental I Career ITarget in-house external interaction between Toppan personnel. prevention development management seminars seminars The Company also operates an education IOperational management system to help employees Creation of job reform and enhance their abilities and skills. E-learning satisfaction programs are arranged and employees improvement can review the records on their own trainI SelfIAttendance IParticipation in IParticipation ing online. Training tools and information development management rank-based in external on learning courses are also provided. Primary IImprovement of training programs seminars Toppan launched the Human Resource prevention workplaces IActivities by the Development Laboratory, a research base Safety and Health established in April 2017 to develop new Prevention Committee personnel training programs that apply brain and neurosciences. This laboratory Test administration will be used as a platform to design and Stress check Improvement of Interviews and and understanding implement programs that foster human system workplaces guidance of current conditions assets with excellent communication skills and heightened sensibilities. The Company I Early counseling IRecommendaIConsultation IHospitals and Secondary and consultation tion for early with industrial EAP*3 plans to improve individual productivity and prevention facilitate the individual development of the consultation physicians and Toppan workforce via this platform. Early detection public health and early response nurses Tertiary I Ongoing IReturn-to-work IPeriodic ITreatment by treatment program interviews by a general prevention IPersonnel industrial physician Steps to limit severity reassignment physicians and prevent recurrence *3 E  mployee assistance program (EAP): The EAP shown above refers to a program of counseling and training sessions by an external specialist body under contract with the Company and the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union. Human Resource Development Laboratory TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 27 Fair Operating Practices Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines Endeavors for Strict Compliance In June of the year 2000, the centennial of Toppan Printing n Training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Co., Ltd., Toppan established the Conduct Guidelines, a set As in previous years, Toppan held group training for Conduct of normal standards of behavior based on the Corporate Guidelines Promotion Leaders in fiscal 2016. The training was Philosophy and legal compliance (➞P. 31). scheduled in two phases. In the first, 614 Leaders were trained In November 2010 Toppan completely revised the guidein 47 sessions across Japan from May to September 2016. lines into the Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines, a set of In the second, 523 Leaders were trained in 42 sessions from common principles that all Group companies around the world November 2016 to March 2017. are required to observe for the assurance of strict compliance. The Group devises ways to enhance the effectiveness of training These Group-wide guidelines are reviewed every year to adjust at the sessions through activities such as group discussions to changes in business environments, social conditions, and using case methods describing actual incidents and accidents. other circumstances relevant to the Group. n Compliance Seminar n Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System In fiscal 2016 Toppan invited an outside lecturer (Mr. Tadashi The Toppan Group operates a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Kunihiro, T. Kunihiro & Co. Attorneys-at-Law) to lead a seminar Leader system. In this system, every Group site assigns a on the theme of “making compliance into a company strength.” Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor (the “Supervisor”) and Seven hundred and forty-eight Group personnel attended in Leaders (the “Leaders”) for disseminating the Conduct Guidelines total, mainly directors and managerial staff. A poster with a and ensuring full guideline compliance. Supervisors and Leaders message from the management highlighting the importance implement ongoing activities directly connected with their daily of compliance was also produced. business operations. Seven hundred and forty-one Leaders were deployed across the Group in fiscal 2016, including 82 women n Compliance with Transaction-related Laws and Regulations (11.1% of the Leaders). A cumulative total of 8,322 employees Toppan regularly organizes transaction-related training, and have worked as Leaders since the system was launched in 2004. monitors and audits how business transactions are being hanThe Leaders organize Conduct Guideline read-throughs, facilitate dled in Japan. Both activities are key to preventing improper discussion using concrete cases, and implement other measures import and export transactions and ensuring compliance with to activate compliance awareness among their colleagues. the Subcontract Law. In fiscal 2016, a total of 149 employees participated in group sessions focused on export controls n Tools to Promote the Conduct Guidelines under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act; 1,053 Toppan gives every employee in Japan a Conduct Guidelines employees were trained on compliance with the subcontract Casebook, a Q&A style casebook describing situations that law; and 8,432 employees took a course on export controls can arise in daily work. The casebook is used in various guidevia the e-learning system. The Group also audited the obserline promotion activities. The Leaders, for example, use it to vance of export controls in 15 departments and compliance disseminate the guidelines at their workplaces. with the subcontract law in 34 departments. The Group also posts regular Conduct Guideline Notifica­tions on themes relevant to the guidelines in order to heighten employee n Anti-Corruption awareness and call attention to compliance-related issues. Toppan participates in the United Nations Global Compact and conforms to its anti-corruption principle by stipulating the “prohibition of bribery and inappropriate entertainment pracToppan Group Helpline tices” in the Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines. In fiscal 2016 the Group established a set of anti-bribery rules and formuWhen an employee discovers a legal violation or improper conlated a compliance framework led by the Director in charge duct somewhere in the Toppan Group, he or she is to report of Legal Affairs as the chief anti-bribery manager. Group it to his/her superior for deliberation as a basic rule. If the employees will be apprised of further intensive actions against employee’s superior fails to resolve the problem, the employee bribery through internal training sessions developed in coopis encouraged to call the Toppan Group Helpline, the Group’s eration with relevant departments. internal reporting system. The helpline is open for use by all Group employees, including dispatched staff and part-time n Briefing on Compliance workers. The Helpline was used in two cases in fiscal 2016, Toppan was not involved in any serious incidents or violations including one involving power harassment. Both cases were of laws or regulations in the course of business in fiscal 2016. properly handled and followed up with necessary countermeasures to prevent recurrence. 28 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n Structure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Affairs & Intellectual Property Division Business divisions Head office divisions Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Senior General Manager of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors Legal Affairs & Person in charge of management: Business Strategy Department GM Intellectual Property Division Person in charge of education: General Affairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines in sales and planning in administrative in manufacturing Promotion Leaders departments departments departments Supervisors from Supervisors from Supervisors or educational Supervisors from each department each department leaders from each department each department Employees Employees n Toppan Group Helpline Fair Operating Practices Communicator When the problem Any Group employee remains unresolved Reporting and consultation Reporting on Lecturer at the compliance seminar Superior progress and results, follow-up communication Internal reporting Poster promoting compliance (an email or sealed document sent (in Japanese) in the name of an employee) Approach to Intellectual Property Receiver President & Representative Director Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial issue for or Senior Member of the Audit & Supervisory Board Toppan, a group of companies operating in the three fields of Information Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. & Communication, Living & Industry, and Electronics. The Group devotes strict attention to measures to prevent the infringement of copyrights, Instructions Reporting trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties while obtaining patents for its own technologies and business models. Apart from in-house special training, Toppan holds regular training sessions for employees of the Toppan Group and its business partners. Department responsible for Participants in these sessions acquire basic legal knowledge on intelinvestigation and countermeasures lectual property rights by reviewing case histories in design work and other operations involving intellectual property issues within the Group. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 29 n Verifying the Legality of Lumber as a Paper Material Promoting CSR Procurement The Toppan Group promotes the sustainable use of forest resources by monitoring paper suppliers (business partners) The Toppan Group implements CSR initiatives in cooperation to ensure that the lumber they use for paper production is and collaboration with business partners throughout the entire legally obtained. The Group surveyed 26 sites of 20 business supply chain. The Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines partners around the world in fiscal 2016 and confirmed that are a set of principles the Group observes to drive this all of the procured lumber was obtained legally. In yen terms, endeavor. These guidelines consist of the Basic Procurement these 26 partner sites supplied 99.6% of the paper used by Policy, a conceptual framework to be closely observed by Toppan in fiscal 2016. every Toppan employee involved in procurement operations, and the CSR Procurement Standards, a set of requirements n Promoting Compliance in Procurement Departments to be satisfied by every business partner. In January 2014 the The Toppan Group regularly monitors whether its procurement Group revised them into guidelines stipulating standards of departments operate properly in accordance with the Basic action pertaining to human rights, labor, the environment, and Procurement Policy in their transactions with business anti-corruption, the four issues globally emphasized in CSR partners. initiatives. By fiscal 2015 Toppan had briefed 2,068 business The Group asked 10 business partners to fill out questionpartners on the guidelines. The Group held briefing sessions naires in fiscal 2016 (a cumulative total of 96 partners since for another seven partners in fiscal 2016. 2008) and used the results to improve compliance in procureTurning to the environment, the Toppan Group promotes ment operations. Toppan has also set up the Supplier Hotline*, CSR procurement in line with specific standards such as the a portal for receiving reports from business partners, on its Standards for the Management of Chemical Components of website. Raw Materials and the Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Forest Resources. *http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/supplier_ hotline.html n Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Basic Procurement Policy I We fairly and impartially offer opportunities to all business partners and I We pursue QCD (Quality, Cost, Delivery) in order to meet the needs of the potential business partners. market. I We comply with domestic and overseas laws and regulations and conduct I We work to foster mutual cooperation and build relationships of trust with fair business transactions based on corporate ethics. business partners. I We strictly control the information obtained through procurement activities. I We promote CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. I We work to conserve the environment and reduce impact on the ­environment. CSR Procurement Standards 1. Basic Procurement Standards 2) Labor 1) Maintenance and improvement of quality (1) Prohibition of forced labor 2) Appropriate pricing (2) Prohibition of child labor 3) Stable supply (3) Non-discrimination 4) Product safety (4) Prohibition of harassment 5) Management of information (5) Respect for workers’ rights 6) Compliance with laws and social norms (6) Ensuring occupational health and safety 7) Fair business activities (7) The payment of appropriate wages 8) Protection of and respect for intellectual property rights (8) Management of appropriate working hours 9) Protection of people reporting improper conduct (9) Consideration for job security and fulfillment of the obligations of an 10) Disclosure of information employer 2. P  rocurement Standards Concerning Human Rights, Labor, the Environ3) The Environment ment, and Anti-Corruption Business partners should comply with local environment-related laws 1) Human Rights and regulations and work to prevent pollution of the atmosphere, water, Business partners should respect the human rights of all people related and soil. They should also continuously measure and assess the use and to their business activities. They should also ensure that their activities discharge of resources and work to reduce impacts on the environment. do not infringe human rights directly or indirectly. 4) Anti-Corruption Business partners should prohibit and prevent conduct such as bribery, corruption, inappropriate provision or receipt of profits, extortion, and misappropriation. 30 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Conduct Guidelines Basic Principle 1: Respecting basic human rights Basic Principle 4: Avoiding all links with antisocial groups 1. Recognizing the diverse values of individuals and respecting personal qual1. Prohibition of any dealings with antisocial groups ities and individuality 2. Prohibition of involvement in antisocial activities 2. Prohibition of discrimination of any kind 3. Prohibition of provision of unjust benefits 3. Prohibition of sexual and power harassment Basic Principle 5: S  triving to improve quality and providing creations Basic Principle 2: H  aving high ethical standards and acting as that contribute to customer satisfaction a responsible member of society 1. Making our best efforts for the customer and building a relationship of trust In the conduct of business 2. Striving to improve quality in every process 1. Acting with pride as a member of the Toppan Group 3. Fully ensuring the safety and security of products and services 2. Prohibition of tacit approval of illegal conduct and rule violations 4. Prohibition of the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others 3. Respect for foreign cultures and customs In our private lives Basic Principle 6: R  ecognizing the importance of information related 4. Prohibition of conduct that causes distress to other people to business and managing it appropriately 5. Prohibition of drink-driving 1. Protecting information regarding customers 6. Prohibition of the possession and use of illegal drugs 2. Protecting the company’s confidential information 7. Prohibition of gambling 3. Appropriate handling of personal information 4. Striving for the appropriate management of information and records Basic Principle 3: C  omplying with laws and company rules and conducting fair business operations Basic Principle 7: P roactively undertaking conservation of the global Legal compliance environment 1. Prohibition of collusion and cartels 1. Striving to reduce the environmental burden of business activities 2. Prohibition of improper conduct in dealings with business partner c ­ ompanies 2. Promoting businesses with consideration for the environment 3. Prohibition of improper conduct against competitors 4. Prohibition of false transactions Basic Principle 8: Embracing change and taking on new challenges 5. Respecting business partners’ standpoints and building appropriate rela1. Making proposals that embrace change to customers tionships with customers 2. Advancing technical development that meets the needs of customers 6. Prohibition of bribery and inappropriate entertainment practices 3. Having an awareness of problems and striving to improve the status quo 7. Prohibition of illegal political contributions or donations 4. Striving to enhance one’s knowledge, skills and techniques Fair Operating Practices 8. Prohibition of insider trading 5. Securing and using intellectual property 9. Prohibition of illicit import and export transactions 10. Prohibition of child labor and forced labor Basic Principle 9: B  uilding trust from society through social 11. Compliance with international rules and local laws in overseas business contribution activities and appropriate disclosure Compliance with company rules of information 12. Maintaining discipline and order in the workplace 1. Proactively participating in the company’s activities to contribute to society 13. Prohibition of other work without the company’s permission and local communities 14. Prohibition of conduct that causes a conflict of interests with the company 2. Contributing to the development and passing on of skills and culture 15. Prohibition of receipt or provision for personal gain or rebate 3. Disclosing information appropriately and enhancing the transparency of 16.  Appropriate management of assets entrusted to the company by business activities ­customers 17. Appropriate management and use of company assets Basic Principle 10: B  ringing together individual strengths to fully 18. Prohibition of prejudicial treatment of persons that have reported problems exploit the integrated strength of the group via the appropriate procedure 1. Striving to create a lively and vibrant workplace 19. Fulfilling duties with integrity 2. Striving to create a safe and clean workplace 20. Reporting promptly and appropriately 3. Taking pride in the Toppan Brand and striving to cultivate it 4. Group companies working together to maximize integrated strength Established in June 2000 Revised in November 2010 Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security As a group of companies operating in the information communication industry, each of us at the Toppan Group carries out Group-wide information security management in the recognition that the management of information necessary for business is a significant managerial challenge for us as a means to reciprocate our customers’ trust and promote the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group. 1. We manage information necessary for our business appropriately in observance of our in-house rules, the law, and the principles of social order. 2. We collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate methods. 3. We safely manage the information entrusted to us by customers in order to reciprocate our customers’ trust. 4. We are deeply aware of the risks to the information assets we handle, such as illegal access, loss, damage, falsification/manipulation, and leakage of information, and take necessary and reasonable safety measures against these risks. We deal with and rectify any problems that occur promptly and in an appropriate manner. 5. We establish, operate, maintain, and continuously improve information security management systems. Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on August 1, 2011 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 31 Consumer Issues Assuring Product Safety and Quality Protecting Consumers by Safeguarding their Personal Information Quality assurance for products at the Toppan Group is a concern for every department, not only the departments directly Toppan has solidified safeguards to prevent leaks and outflows responsible for production. The departments involved in of the ever-diversifying forms of personal information handled ­marketing, R&D, planning, design, sales, and shipment all within the Group by restricting the handling of personal inforcontribute to quality. This is why Toppan describes quality mation to tightly secured areas that satisfy rigorous criteria for assurance as a total activity (“total quality assurance”) and qualification audits. The Group has also worked for thorough strives to improve product quality and manage product safety security control in operation design and quality assurance with throughout the Group. safe, secure systems and processes designed to manage personal information. n Product Safety The Toppan Group has established a Basic Stance on Product n Monitoring the Handling of Personal Information Safety Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety In fiscal 2016 Toppan expanded the number of tightly secured Management to secure the safety management of the prodareas to 73 throughout the Group. Toppan’s audit criteria now ucts it manufactures. Every Group site continues improving include new items associated with the individual i­dentification its quality management system (ISO 9001) to bolster product numbers recently established under the Social Security and safety management. Two hundred and twenty employees took Tax Number System of Japan. With updated criteria, the part in training sessions for internal auditors in fiscal 2016. Toppan Group audits both of the sites that handle individual identification numbers. Day-to-day inspections are also carried n Certified Approval System for the Production of out across the Group to detect abnormal behaviors through Food Packaging the sorting of various operation logs (records) of individual Food packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety operators in chronological order. and sanitation. The Toppan Group has adopted a certified approval system to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan n Protecting Personal Information against Cyber Attacks and partner companies can manufacture containers and Two specialized organizations are in place at the Toppan Group ­ packages only after undergoing audits with checklists in to enhance ICT security measures: TOPPAN-CERT (the com­conformance with the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food puter emergency response team) and the anti-virus task force. Packaging. Toppan audited packaging operations for 16 sites In fiscal 2016 Toppan scaled up security drills for defense inside and outside the Group in fiscal 2016. against a series of targeted email attacks to cover all Group sites. The drills sought to heighten awareness on security n Reinforcing Food Defense dangers among employees and fully inform them of how to The Toppan Group has worked to ensure food safety by prerespond effectively to targeted email attacks. venting contamination of food during packaging production processes. In recent years the Group has been reinforcing food n Completing Internal Training defense to secure safety from hazards that can be deliberately The Toppan Group promotes awareness of the importance of exploited to contaminate food products using toxins or other information security management through face-to-face group harmful substances. The Group refines incoming security training for each and every employee. checks, installs more security cameras to monitor food processTo comply with the amended Act concerning Protection of ing operations, deepens communication between management Personal Information to be partially enforced in Japan in 2017, and employees, strengthens food defense training, and so on. Toppan cataloged various issues facing the Group and provided training sessions for the relevant Group personnel in n Controlling Chemical Substances in Products fiscal 2016. The Toppan Group intensively promotes product safety ­management in all production processes from raw material n Enhancing Corporate Value for Customers through procurement to product shipment by controlling various chemBPO Solutions ical substances whose use is prohibited or restricted. While The Toppan Group is accelerating business process outsourcadhering to green procurement standards prescribed by client ing (BPO). Toppan’s BPO business supports a wide range of companies, the Group has established its own set of Green operations, including the handling of personal information for Procurement Standards attuned to the features of products customers, mainly companies and municipalities, at service manufactured at plants across its business fields. The Group sites such as administration and contact centers. In fiscal 2016 controls chemical substances in products throughout the the Group established the BPO Square Asaka as a core base entire supply chain. for next-generation BPO solutions for clients. 32 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n Basic Stance on Product Safety n Number of Domestic Sites with Tightly Secured Areas Designated Management for the Handling of Personal Information (as of March 31, 2017) We promote product safety management throughout the Group by securing safety and Hokkaido (4 areas) improving the quality of our products based on the Kansai (14 areas) Basic Principles of Conduct Guidelines and the principles of corporate social responsibility as Chugoku & Shikoku (3 areas) Tohoku (5 areas) a protector of user safety and health. Kyushu (2 areas) Kanto (43 areas) n Audits for the Food Filling/Packing Businesses Chubu (2 areas) Audit Points • Agreements with client companies • Quality assurance systems • Management of equipment and inspection devices • Management of safety and sanitation • Steps to prevent the admixture of different products • Steps to safeguard against insect infestations • Steps to prevent the admixture of foreign n Tightly Secured Areas at Toppan Group Companies with substances ISO/IEC 27001 Certification (as of March 31, 2017) • Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products I Information & Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; ICT Infrastructure • Steps to prevent contamination Technology Center, ICT Management Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; Toppan • Traceability Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd. • Food defense *The “TOPICA server hosting service,” a service certified from December 2001, was • Education and training integrated into the coverage for the above certification on February 17, 2017. • Maintenance of systems and frameworks for I Kyushu, Chugoku & Shikoku Team and ISMS Promotion Committee, Information product safety and quality Security Management, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. I Kansai Production Department, Toppan Graphic Communications Co., Ltd. Operational Sites Audited I Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Food filling/packing businesses I Takino Plant, Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Takino Manufacturing • 4 sites run by manufacturing subsidiaries Department, Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.; Production Technology Team, Technology, • 12 sites run by production business partners Kansai Information & Communication Subdivision, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. n Protecting Personal Information against Cyber Attacks n BPO Bases across Japan Consumer Issues Anti-virus Honjo TOPPAN-CERT (Tokyo) Task Force Hamura Sakado (Tokyo) (Saitama) I Investigate and take action I Expedite the creation of when an incident occurs an environment that is I Collect and analyze exterboth virus-resistant and Information rigorously protected by Hiroshima Sapporo nal information (vulnerability BPO exchange virus shields information, security trends, etc.) and report the results I Respond to virus-related Square to related departments Coordination incidents and issues Asaka across the Group using anti-virus software Fukuoka Sendai I Exchange information and coordinate with computer security incident response Takino Nagoya teams outside the Group (Hyogo) Osaka Monitor and protect computer systems with two specialized organizations to defend against cyber attacks and other security threats Cyber attacks Viruses Toppan Group ICT Environment Systems for Internal systems Plants client companies TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 33 Universal Design Initiatives Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Universal design (UD) is one of the primary corporate social The Toppan Group markets environmentally friendly prodresponsibilities for Toppan, a group of companies that have ucts and services designed to contribute to sustainable been designing and producing attractive, easy-to-use packconsumption. aging and communication tools for as many people as possible. In keeping with the Toppan Declaration on Universal n EP-PAK Fold & Tear: Paper Container Easily Design and Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design, ­Disassembled after Use the Group promotes UD initiatives that assign greater weight Toppan’s paper-based liquid container, EP-PAK Fold & Tear, to sensory values and customization while also emphasizing won the Chairperson’s Award from the Eco-Products Awards functions such as understandability and usability. Steering Committee at the 13th eco products awards in 2016. http://www.toppan.co.jp/ud/ (in Japanese) The container is easily broken down for recycling after use. The original EP-PAK with Toppan’s unique spout preserves liquid content with outstanding reliability, enabling long-term n Examples of UD Initiatives storage at room temperature. Segregation of used cartons for Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. has been working with Mirairo Inc. disposal, however, has been hampered by EP-PAK’s tough since fiscal 2015 in a business alliance to distribute a Universal body and tightly sealed structure. The properties most requiManners Test (operated by the Japan Universal Manners site for preserving the quality of packed liquids have posed Association) and offer consultations to client companies who challenges in the recycling process. seek to develop products and services that accommodate the EP-PAK Fold & Tear offers improved recyclability while viewpoints of persons with disabilities and the elderly. More retaining the advantages of the original EP-PAK. The container than 280 Group employees have passed the Universal can now be easily separated into two halves by hand by folding Manners Test Grades 2 and 3 as of April 2017. In August 2016 back and forth along the perforated line formed on the upper Toppan invited Toshiya Kakiuchi, President of Mirairo Inc., to portion with the spout. The Eco-Products Awards Steering host an employee seminar entitled “‘Barrier Value’ for the Committee recognized this highly recyclable EP-PAK Fold & future: UD for a 40-million-consumer market.” Toppan also Tear as a product designed in anticipation of the coming held similar seminars at Group-produced exhibitions at cus­sustainable society. tomer sites to facilitate enhanced awareness on the significance of universal manners. Beyond these educational n Quantifying CO2 Emissions Associated with Events activities, the Group is working to offer society proposals and and Applying for Carbon Offset Certifications by product development focused on universal manners. Proxy to Help Clients Mitigate Global Warming In the realm of food packaging, S & B Foods Inc., PIJIN Toppan methods for carbon footprint of products (CFP) Co., Ltd., and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. received the 41st assessments are now employed to quantify CO2-equivalent Kinoshita Prize in Packaging Technology for the “Meisho greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and prepare applications (craftsman) Series,” a lineup of tube spice products sold by for carbon offset certifications associated with events. The S & B Foods. This award is organized by the Japan Packaging scope of this quantification and application service previously Institute (JPI). Packages of the Meisho Series are printed with covered products and services, but not events. The Group QR Codes* to direct consumers to product information in any has developed a unique approach to quantifying GHG emisof four languages: English, Chinese, Korean, or Japa­nese. A sions associated with events, covering difficult-to-quantify quick scan of the code with a smartphone a ­utomatically emissions associated with the movement of participants. The retrieves the information in the same language set for the service adopting this approach was applied to educational phone. With this multilingual packaging provided by PIJIN and events for Group employees in model cases before being proToppan, food manufacturers in Japan can use their products vided to clients. Toppan purchased a carbon-absorption credit to deliver information on traditional Japanese food culture in from forests owned by Kumamoto Prefecture to offset GHG multiple languages. emissions at the events and support the recovery of Kumamoto *QR Code is a trademark of DENSO WAVE Incorporated. from the earthquake disaster of April 2016. Toppan’s carbon offsetting services now extend beyond printed materials to the use of various other means to help advance activities to mitigate global warming. In fiscal 2016 Toppan conducted CFP quantifications on the CO2-equivalent GHG emissions of 14 products and services and applied for carbon offset certifications for eight products and services, including a quantification and certification for the educational events described above. 34 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design 1. Design products and services that are more responsive to people with 5. D esign products that are safe to use procedurally, functionally, different physical abilities and perceptions. ­structurally, materially, and environmentally. 2. Facilitate communication using multiple channels for communication, 6. Provide products at a reasonable price and in the amounts required including visual, aural, and tactile channels. by society. 3. Make products easier to use by making them easier to understand. 7. Engage in design that appeals to the senses with consideration for 4. Make products that are easier to move, easier to approach, and comfort, enjoyment, and beauty. require less strength (remove the physical burdens). Established in 2001 Revised in April 2010 No scissors! Can be separated by hand Simulation of the experience of the elderly Multilingual packages for Meisho Series EP-PAK Fold & Tear in the Universal Manners Test tube spice products n Framework for CFP and Carbon Offsetting Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) Quantify CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout the entire life cycle ( – ) of a product and display the CFP data on printed materials Consumer Issues brochures shop brochure collection box Raw material Use and Disposal and procurement Production Distribution maintenance recycling Carbon Offsetting Partially or completely “offsetting” difficult-to-reduce GHG emissions with equivalent credits (GHG-emission reduction values and/or GHG absorption values) earned elsewhere. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 35 Community Involvement and Development for Book Report Drawings, an annual contest that cultivates Community Contribution and Involvement the reading and creative skills of children by encouraging them to express their impressions of books by drawing. The judges The Toppan Group has supported the communities in which of the 28th competition in 2016 received 701,239 picture it operates by addressing local issues and contributing to susentries from 6,955 schools. Toppan produced and distributed tainable development. Domestic and overseas sites in the a calendar decorated with the prize-winning works to schools Group have engaged in contribution activities forged through and other educational facilities across Japan. The schools of dialogues with neighboring communities. Their dialogue is the prize-winning students also received replicas of famous sustained through manifold activities, including collaborative Japanese-style paintings produced with Toppan’s technology. works in organizations that bring together the opinions of comA Group company called Froebel-Kan Co., Ltd. operates munity members. the Froebel Kodomo Plaza, a space for preschool-aged children to enjoy. Froebel-Kan facilitates communication in the n Dialogues with Communities community by providing the Plaza as a secure space where Toppan sites take part in the meetings and activities of various children can play freely in safety. community organizations. Group sites have shaped business activities and community contribution activities by sounding n Employment Support out opinions from their communities. Conferences are also Toppan Group sites organize workplace-training programs held at the sites to inform neighborhoods of production operacross Japan to give students working experience and help ations and environmental initiatives, to answer questions from them cultivate working values. A site in Osaka City arranged community members, and to elicit opinions. The Group sites a program for computer science students from vocational also offer local residents facilities such as meeting rooms and technical schools in fiscal 2016. The workshop encouraged playgrounds. students to explore the possibility of working in the printing In fiscal 2016 an operational site in Meiwa Town, Gunma industry by considering their own occupational aptitudes and Prefecture invited students from neighboring elementary future career trajectories. schools on plant tours to learn about the packaging manufacturing process and participate in a tree-planting event organized by the Meiwa workforce. Toppan personnel engaged Cooperating with International in productive exchanges with the local residents and were Communities to Address Social Issues asked to arrange similar meetings in the future. Convinced that cooperative solutions to global issues are vital n Fostering Future Generations and Contributing to for its community contribution activities, Toppan has been Education organizing the Toppan Charity Concert series since fiscal 2007. Many operational sites at the Toppan Group organize proThis series aims to support global initiatives to raise literacy grams to foster the children and young people who one day rates in developing countries. Literacy is the ability to read, will be sustaining society and communities. Japanese sites write, and calculate with proficiency sufficient to function well arrange various activities such as plant tours, work experience in daily life. programs, internships, and off-site lectures. Upon completing the 10th Toppan Charity Concert series Group sites in Bunkyo and Itabashi Cities within Tokyo in fiscal 2016, Toppan had donated an accumulated total of cooperate with local elementary schools by organizing the 21,332,183 yen to the Office of the United Nations High “Printing School,” a workshop class where students create Commissioner for Refugees and the Asia-Pacific Cultural guidebooks to promote the shopping districts in their towns. Centre for UNESCO (ACCU). The funds provided to the Younger employees from Toppan lecture on efficient methods ACCU have been used for literacy education and classes on to mine and edit data. The students learn more about work-­ maternal and child health for mothers raising young children oriented mindsets by interviewing shopkeepers and gain in Cambodia. From fiscal 2015, Toppan has been inviting ­exposure to the challenges of phrase-making and persuasive ­personnel from a Cambodian NGO working on the literacy expression in their work by editing the guidebook content. The initiative to greet the concert audiences and engage in disguidebooks are published and delivered in and around the cussion on the operation of the classes in the years to come. local shopping streets. The Printing School workshop received A Toppan site in Thailand, meanwhile, contributed funds the Kids Design Association (KDA) Chairman’s Award at the to an organization operating support projects for HIV carriers. 10th Kids Design Award sponsored by Japanese non-profit organization KDA. Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. has worked for many years with the Japan School Library Association and The Mainichi Newspapers Co., Ltd. as a cosponsor of the Central Contest 36 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Cleanup around the site (Hokkaido) Traffic safety campaign (Niigata) Plant tour for elementary school students (Gunma) Local portable shrines on display in the site lobby Printing School for students from elementary Award certificate received for the Printing School (Tokyo) schools, a workshop class to make guidebooks at the 10th Kids Design Award (Tokyo) for local shopping streets (Tokyo) Central Contest for Book Report Drawings Calendar with pictures expressing impressions of Froebel Kodomo Plaza (Tokyo) books Community Involvement and Development The TSUKEMEN trio at the Toppan Charity Discussion with Cambodian NGO members Contribution to support projects for HIV carriers Concert (Thailand) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 37 The Environment evaluates and verifies the data and reports the results to the Toppan’s Environmental Activities Board of Directors and other management bodies. Points of improvement for the continuous upgrading of environmental n Four Environmental Activity Areas management are proposed and implemented throughout the The Toppan Group promotes environmental initiatives based entire Group. on The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment, The environmental audit follows a three-stage screening a basic philosophy for the environmental conservation activities process: a management system audit by an ISO 14001 regof the Group. istrar, an internal audit by the Ecology Center, and another Toppan’s environmental activities are divided into four internal audit at the individual site. Toppan underwent areas—Environmental Management, Eco-protection, Eco­management system audits for 39 systems and carried out creativity, and Environmental Communication. The Group internal audits at the 58 sites in fiscal 2016. Necessary proenacted a set of five bylaws to strengthen the Eco-protection cedures were taken to correct the deficiencies pointed out Activities performed to minimize environmental burden assoduring the audits. ciated with the Group’s corporate operations: the Bylaw on Global Warming Mitigation, the Bylaw on the Building of a n Improving Environmental Literacy Recycling-oriented Society, the Bylaw on Chemical Substance The Toppan Group implements various measures to improve Management, the Bylaw on Pollution Control, and the Bylaw the environmental literacy of its employees based on social on Biodiversity. The Toppan Group has taken steps to contrends related to the environment, priority topics for year-by-year serve the global environment in each of the areas based on environmental activities, and other environment-related issues. the five bylaws. In fiscal 2016 Toppan held sessions for rank-based training, optional training, and internal auditor training, along with Group-wide e-learning-based training. Ongoing group training The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment in rank-based education is arranged in conjunction with As responsible members of international society, e-learning programs focused on Eco-creativity Activities for we who work within the Toppan Group employees in sales departments. strive to realize a sustainable society through forward looking corporate activities with consideration for the conservation of the global environment. n Calculating Scope 3 Emissions The Toppan Group calculated its scope 3 emissions (entire Basic Principles value chain greenhouse gas [GHG] emissions) in fiscal 2016 1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to to identify the categories of corporate activity that represented the environment. larger sources of GHG emissions and to establish priority 2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of limited resources and the reduction of all types of environmental ­targets in its emission reduction strategy. This calculation burden. showed that category 1 (manufacturing of products purchased 3. W ith foresight, we promote the development and widespread use by Toppan), categories 4 and 9 (transportation and distribution of products that show consideration for the environment, and of products purchased and sold by Toppan), category 12 (endcontribute to the environmental activities of customers. 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a of-life treatment of products sold by Toppan), and other wide range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and ­categories related to raw material consumption collectively strive for mutual understanding. accounted for the largest share of the Group’s GHG 5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation emissions. in corporate activities in international society. The Toppan Group will continue monitoring and evaluating Established in April 1992 GHG emissions across the value chain and work to reduce Revised in April 2009 environmental burden incurred throughout the life cycle and production process of every product. Environmental Management Activities n Readjusting the Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 Through intensive measures undertaken up to fiscal 2015, the n Operating Environmental Management Systems Toppan Group’s medium-and-long-term environmental targets The Toppan Group operates established environmental managefor reducing CO2 emissions and final landfill waste disposal ment systems based on its environmental management rules. were achieved five years in advance of the 2020 deadline. The Fifty-eight Group sites in Japan undertake environmental previous targets were a 20% reduction of CO2 emissions comactivities to achieve the targets set under the Eco-protection pared to the fiscal 2008 level and an 87% reduction of final Activity Plan. The Ecology Center collects environmental landfill waste disposal. The Group is now pursuing the new ­performance data as the organization responsible for overgoals of reducing CO2 emissions by 30% and final landfill seeing the Group’s environmental activities. The center then waste disposal by 95% compared with fiscal 2008. 38 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 Action for building Conservation of the Mitigation of global warming a recycling-oriented society atmospheric environment I Reduce CO2 emissions by 30% IR  educe final landfill waste disposal by IR  educe VOC emissions into the compared to the fiscal 2008 level 95% compared to the fiscal 2008 level atmosphere by 70% compared to (751 kilotons 530 kilotons: –221 kilotons) (1,584 tons 80 tons: –1,504 tons) the fiscal 2008 level (7,326 tons 2,198 tons: –5,128 tons) n Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2016 and Environmental Target Values for Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2016 Environmental Management Environmental Targets Target Achievement Target Values for Indicators Results Evaluation Values Rates Fiscal 2017 M  itigation of global 550 561 I Reduce CO2 emissions I CO2 emissions 98.1% B 550 kilotons warming kilotons kilotons Action for building IR  educe final landfill IF  inal landfill waste 130 97 125.6% S 100 tons a recycling-oriented society waste disposal disposal tons tons Conservation of the IR  educe VOC emissions IV  OC emissions into 3,400 3,403 99.9% B 3,200 tons atmospheric environment into the atmosphere the atmosphere tons tons Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets (achievement rate [%] 105); A, Targets achieved (100 achievement rate [%] < 105); B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved (70 achievement rate [%] < 100); C, Activities insufficient (achievement rate [%] < 70) Achievement rates: 200 – (values actually achieved / target values) × 100 [%] n Calculating Scope 3 Emissions n Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 I Extraction of raw materials Other categories* Category 12 Scope 2 Category 9 I Consumption of Suppliers, etc. electricity supplied by entities Category 4 I Production of raw outside the reporting company materials, etc. I Consumption of heating and cooling supplied by entities outside the reporting Scope 3 3,878 kilotons company 3,826 kilotons Scope 1 Category The reporting 1 company itself I Transportation and I Fuel combustion distribution of raw I Emissions from industrial materials, etc. processes I End-of-life treatment of sold products and I Employee commuting goods I Sales activities, business Scope 2 345 355 travel kilotons kilotons Scope 1 206 The Environment 209 kilotons kilotons Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 *Categories 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 I Transportation and Users of products distribution of sold and goods products and goods I Use of sold products and goods TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 39 business operations, along with assurances of the effectiveToppan’s Environmental Burden and ness of the activities; second, prolonged initiatives significantly Environmental Impact reducing the Company’s environmental impact over the previous 10 years, along with assertive disclosure of the results The Toppan Group applies the LIME* life-cycle assessment of the initiatives; and third, environmental assessments of (LCA) method to consolidate INPUT and OUTPUT data on the Company’s new plants, intensive environmental impact environmental burden associated with business activities into assessments applying various schemes such as a water foota single index of environmental impact. print (WFP) measurement, and efforts to enhance the availaThis assessment provides a holistic view of the environbility of lumber from forest-thinning operations. mental impact of all of the Group’s business activities as a *Life-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling benchmark for establishing medium-and-long-term environ(LIME): A version of the damage-oriented environmental impact assessment method adjusted for application in Japan based on the domestic mental targets and checking the effectiveness of environmental environmental background. Damage derived from impact categories is measures. Toppan has managed to reduce its environmental quantified for each part of the environment to be protected (e.g., human impact every year through the ongoing Eco-protection health, biodiversity). Once the damage is quantified, the environmental impacts of multiple factors are integrated into a single index. Activities. In fiscal 2016 the Group attained a 42% reduction compared to the fiscal 2006 level. Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. received the Encouragement Prize from the Life Cycle Assessment Society of Japan (JLCA) Eco-protection Activities at the 13th LCA Society of Japan Awards held in fiscal 2016. The JLCA Awards commend companies, organizations, and n Mitigating Global Warming and Saving Energy researchers who make intensive efforts in applying LCAs to The Toppan Group has been reducing total emissions of reduce environmental burden. This was the second prize ­carbon dioxide (CO2) to help mitigate global warming. Toppan has received from the society, following the JLCA In fiscal 2016 Toppan controlled peak power demand in Chairman’s Award in fiscal 2012. The JLCA awarded Toppan summer using the nationwide demand-monitoring system the mainly in recognition of three points: first, comprehensive enviGroup operates in Japan. The head office set targets for power ronmental activities based on solid LIME-based quantifications demand values in January 2016 to enable individual sites to of environmental impact associated with the Company’s overall control electricity consumption year round through energy-­ saving measures. To reduce unnecessary or nonessential use n Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field of electricity, the Group has redressed demand-and-supply 100% imbalances and suspended the use of any equipment that Other stays running continuously during vacations. Other Other Toppan also attained a significant energy-saving effect by rearPhotochemical ranging the air piping at the Ranzan Plant in Saitama Prefecture. 80% oxidants In spite of these efforts, rising production volumes pushed the Group’s CO2 emissions up to 561 kilotons in fiscal 2016, a level higher than the targeted limit of 550 kilotons for the Environmental impact 60% year. The Toppan Group will bolster energy-saving activities Global Global to unfailingly achieve the target in the years to come. warming warming Global warming 40% n Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the Toppan Group, is working with shippers from Toppan Group companies to reduce the energy consumption per unit of 20% transport volume by company vehicles and the total volume of CO2 emissions from transport. Resource Resource Resource consumption consumption consumption Energy consumption per unit of transport volume in fiscal 0% 2016 was 58.73 kL/million ton-kilometers, a 0.2% reduction Information & Living & Industry Electronics from fiscal 2015, missing the year-by-year reduction target of Communication 1% prescribed by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Note: E  very business field shows comparatively high global warming effects from energy consumption for electricity used for power and air-conJapan. CO2 emissions, meanwhile, totaled 34,611 tons, a ditioning and for natural gas used for heat sources. The Living & 3.2% increase from the fiscal 2015 level. Industry field shows significant impacts from photochemical oxidants, Toppan Logistics will work to accomplish the targets for pollutants formed by reactions between sunlight and VOCs released into the atmosphere. The Toppan Group includes these indicators fiscal 2017 by optimizing transportation conditions and further among medium-and-long-term environmental targets and has taken improving transportation efficiency. steps to reduce environmental impacts of these types. 40 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n Major Types of Environmental Burden by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) INPUT Material Input Total Energy Consumption Total Water Consumption Total PRTR Handling Information & Information & Information & Information & Communication Communication Communication Communication 714,652 (57.4%) 3,209 (25.0%) 775 (11.6%) 398 (9.0%) Living & Industry Living & Industry Living & Industry Living & Industry 504,542 (40.5%) 5,527 (43.0%) 1,557 (23.2%) 1,942 (43.9%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 25,661 (2.1%) 3,490 (27.2%) 4,029 (60.1%) 2,083 (47.1%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 0 (0%) 616 (4.8%) 338 (5.1%) 2 (0.0%) Total 1,244,854 (Unit: tons) Total 12,842 (Unit: 1,000 GJ) Total 6,699 (Unit: 1,000 m3) Total 4,424 (Unit: tons) OUTPUT Total Waste Discharge CO2 Emissions Total Effluent Discharge Total PRTR Release Information & Information & Information & Information & Communication Communication Communication Communication 106,025 (46.6%) 135,896 (24.2%) 420 (8.2%) 28 (19.6%) Living & Industry Living & Industry Living & Industry Living & Industry 101,011 (44.4%) 259,470 (46.3%) 872 (17.0%) 111 (78.7%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 16,731 (7.4%) 140,285 (25.0%) 3,525 (68.9%) 2 (1.3%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 3,806 (1.7%) 24,879 (4.4%) 302 (5.9%) 0 (0.4%) Total 227,573 (Unit: tons) Total 560,530 (Unit: t-CO2) Total 5,119 (Unit: 1,000 m3) Total 142 (Unit: tons) Notes: I E nergy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. Some of the material inputs are calculated from estimated values based on production values. I “ Waste” in this report includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). IT  otal energy consumption is the quantity of electricity and fuels consumed. IT  otal values may not exactly match the sum totals of individual values, as decimals are rounded up or down. n CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO2) 1,000 Note: CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guide751 lines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses 750 (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) of Japan. The 593 561 CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption, however, are 554 500 calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh.  CO2 emissions in fiscal 2016 totaled 685,303t-CO2 when calcu250 lated using the effective emission factor from another MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of 0 Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified 2008 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015). The Environment JLCA Awards Air piping rearrangement (Ranzan Plant) LED lights installed on high ceilings (Satte Plant) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 41 n Building a Recycling-oriented Society n Controlling Chemical Substances In a drive to use limited resources more effectively, the Toppan The Toppan Group has striven to reduce the consumption of Group works to reduce the discharge of waste, increase chemical substances in order to mitigate the impacts of these the recycling rate, and apply appropriate waste treatment substances on the environment. The Group continues reducmethods. ing the consumption of chemical substances designated under Waste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) law of Information & Communication and Living & Industry fields Japan and introducing safer substitutes by setting priorities in makes up the largest portion (73.3%) of the total waste disterms of both the type and range of application. In spite of charged at Group sites. This is followed by waste plastics from these measures, the rise in production volumes in fiscal 2016 plants in the Living & Industry field and waste acid from the increased the amount of PRTR-designated chemical subElectronics field. The Group has striven to increase the material stances handled by the Group by 13% compared to the fiscal recycling rate by processing waste paper into recycled paper, 2015 level. separating waste plastics and processing composite plastics Group production sites have also been appropriately coninto pellets, and implementing other recycling methods. Waste trolling chemical substances based on established manageacid, meanwhile, has been treated in-house to lower volumes ment procedures. for disposal. These measures reduced the final landfill waste disposal in fiscal 2016 to 97 tons. n Controlling Water Risk The Toppan Group will continue reducing waste discharge The Toppan Group conserves water resources by operating and promoting material recycling. wastewater recycling systems to recover and reuse wastewater at Electronics plants that discharge effluents in significant n Preventing Pollution amounts. The Group also monitors the amounts of water conThe Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Group site sumed in office buildings, welfare facilities, cafeterias, and in Japan sets in-house control standards more stringently than other premises to reduce the levels of water consumption and the regulatory standards require. By complying with these effluent discharge. Through these efforts, water consumption standards, the Toppan Group works to reduce environmental per unit of sales totaled 7.59 m3/million yen in fiscal 2016. burden and prevent pollution. To prevent atmospheric pollution, the Group controls boilers n Approach to Environmental Compliance and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by Toppan used its in-house environmental database for Group ­managing operations under appropriate combustion condisites in Japan to identify any risk of exceeding the limits stiptions. The Group enhances the efficiency of effluent-gas treatulated under laws, ordinances, agreements, and other appliment in plant facilities subject to requirements under the Air cable regulations in fiscal 2016. Preventive measures against Pollution Control Act by reusing recovered solvents and preunduly high risks were taken to ensure that none of the regucisely controlling combustion facilities. While toluene emissions latory limits would be broached. As a consequence, no excesinto the atmosphere remained almost unchanged in fiscal sive levels relative to the regulatory standards were recorded 2016, atmospheric VOC emissions were reduced from the throughout the Group in fiscal 2016. As a preventive action fiscal 2015 level. against environmental pollution, the Group also reviews drills To prevent water pollution, the Group has installed wastefor coping with potential emergencies and accidents during water treatment facilities designed to cope with specific water production operations whenever necessary. consumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. Communities around Toppan plants filed three complaints Wastewater recycling systems have also been installed at at three sites in fiscal 2016. Two involved noise and the other Electronics plants that discharge effluents in significant involved inconvenience to community members related to amounts. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these odor. The Group has responded by reviewing the operational systems, the plants have been working to reduce the levels rules for plant facilities responsible for noise and instituting a of water consumption and effluent discharge. stricter regime for maintaining and inspecting facilities. To The Toppan Group also checks plant facilities subject to ­ control odor, the Group has reinforced maintenance and the Water Pollution Control Law in compliance with the reguinspection procedures for deodorizing equipment. Toppan latory regime for facility structures. The Group will monitor will continue enhancing the quality of environmental manageevery facility, including those not subject to the law, to prevent ment through earnest dialogue with residents in surrounding groundwater pollution caused by the leakage of chemicals communities. and other liquids. Any equipment or components with undue wear will be replaced. 42 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 n Total Waste Discharge and n VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere*1 Final Landfill Waste Disposal (tons) VOCs Toluene (1,000 tons) ■ Total waste discharge (left axis) (1,000 tons) 10,000 ■ Final landfill waste disposal (right axis) 350 2.5 313.8 7,500 7,326 280 2.0 242.2 231.1 227.6 1.6 5,000 210 1.5 3,935 3,684 3,403 140 1.0 2,500 70 0.4 0.5 362 162 126 128 0.2 0 0.1 2008 2014 2015 2016 0 0 (fiscal year) 2008 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) *1 E  missions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). n Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate n Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law*2 (%) Recycling rate (recycling / total waste discharge) (tons) Total handling Total transfer Total release Material recycling rate (material recycling / total waste discharge) 100 6,000 98.8 99.6 99.7 99.7 95 4,463 4,424 4,500 3,917 90 93.0 92.4 91.8 90.8 3,000 85 1,895 1,654 1,402 1,500 80 185 139 142 0 0 2008 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) *2 Dioxins are excluded because of a difference in the calculation unit. n Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Operational Site Detail Current Progress*3 Itabashi Plant (Itabashi City, Tokyo) Groundwater pollution by hexavalent chromium and toluene Continuously monitored Niigata Plant (Shibata City, Niigata) Soil pollution by fluorine and fluorine compounds Continuously monitored n Soil Pollution Remediation for Redevelopment in Conformance with Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Ordinances Operational Site Chemical Substances Subject to Remediation Remediation Measures Current Progress*3 Itami Plant (Itami City, Hyogo) Lead, fluorine and fluorine compounds Excavation and removal Remediation partially completed *3 As of March 2017 The Environment TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 43 n Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity Biodiversity Conservation at Operational Sites Eco-creativity Activities The Fukaya Plant in Saitama Prefecture has promoted biodiversity conservation within its premises in collaboration with n Developing and Approving Environmentally the Environmental NPO “SHU” since fiscal 2012. The NPO and Friendly Products plant worked together in the 9-10th phases of their wildlife-­ Toppan has established the Toppan Standards for Environ­ support project in fiscal 2016. Children participating in summer mentally Friendly Products, a set of criteria covering five stages learned about diverse forms and shapes of leaves gathered of the product life cycle. A total of 87 products were registered from the woods by tracing the contours of the leaves and then as “environmentally friendly products” as of the end of stamping the outlines on fabric in various colors to make March 2017. ­“stencil towels.” In the following winter, participants cleaned The Company has approved and registered eight “excepup birdhouses for woodpeckers and Japanese Tits and tional environmentally friendly products” (as of the end of ­surveyed the nesting rate at birdhouses installed a year earlier. March 2017) that are recognized by third-party organizations A high rate of about 80% was confirmed. or that have undergone life-cycle assessment for quantification Recognizing these conservation activities at the plant, the of environmental burden across the life cycle. Association for Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) commended the Fukaya Plant with n Environment-related Businesses at an Excellent Prize, the top prize awarded at the 1st ABINC Group Companies Awards in 2016. Employees at the Fukaya Plant commemoLike Toppan itself, the companies of the Toppan Group rated the achievement by planting spiketail seeds and seeddevelop, produce, and market eco-friendly products in line lings taken from the northern Tone River basin. with standards they formulate themselves in consideration of Personnel from a site in Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture also social demands. planted orange seedlings obtained from Mikkabi, a town The total sales of environment-related businesses—includfamous for the production of mandarin oranges in Shizuoka, ing, most notably, sales of environmentally friendly products the prefecture neighboring Aichi. Swallowtail butterflies flying satisfying the in-house criteria of the Toppan Group—were nearby the site are expected to use the orange bush as an 509.4 billion yen in fiscal 2016. egg-laying area. Biodiversity Conservation outside Operational Sites Environmental Communication Activities Toppan Group employees in Hokkaido Prefecture tuned in to the sights, sounds, smells, and textures of the woods in n Presenting at Eco-Pro 2016 Asahiyama Memorial Park in Sapporo City. They revisited the The long-held “Eco-Products” fair was reborn as “Eco-Pro” in urban park in fiscal 2016 to document their perceptions of the December 2016. The Toppan Group, an exhibitor at Eco-Pro rich natural environment through various activities, including 2016, set up a section focused on four topics covering a workshop to craft birdcalls from fallen trees gathered in the expanded themes: Healthy, longer lives of tomorrow; Comfort, woods. smart communities of tomorrow; Global-connecting living of Toppan employees and their families have also been tomorrow; and Non-consuming lifestyles of tomorrow. The observing aquatic life at Yanase River in Saitama Prefecture booth was also outfitted with a virtual reality (VR) dome, since 2013. In fiscal 2016 guides from the Saitama Ecosystem ­augmented reality (AR) system, and platform stage. Toppan Conservation Society instructed participating families how to presented products and services jointly developed, marketed, watch organisms in water from the river surface using and operated by the Group in collaboration with client glass-bottomed hydroscopes. Methods to collect aquatic ­companies, organizations, and other entities. Visitors to the organisms were also taught. After one society member showed booth experienced Toppan products and services designed the way to drive a casing net, a selected group of participants for tomorrow. tried to harvest water creatures with the net. Once the organisms were collected, the families transplanted them to a n Issuing Site Eco Reports mini-aquarium where creatures of about twenty different speToppan Group’s ISO 14001-certified sites in Japan issue Site cies, some of them rare, were identified. Participants learned Eco Reports directed towards local municipalities and resithat freshwater fish (lake and river fish that never migrate to dents in surrounding communities. Thirty-seven reports from salt water) and amphidromous fish (fish that migrate from fresh 49 sites were issued in fiscal 2016. water to salt water) both inhabit streams far away from the sea. The Toppan Group will continue conserving biodiversity throughout Japan 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Creating stencil towels (Fukaya Plant, Saitama) Swallowtail butterfly’s larva on the leaf of a tree Eco-Pro 2016 planted in Nagoya, Aichi Studying the woods in Asahiyama Memorial Making a mini-aquarium at Yanase River in Eco-Pro 2016 Park in Hokkaido Saitama n Toppan Standards for Environmentally Friendly Products Toppan Standards for Environmentally Friendly Products Life Cycle Stage Large Categories Small Categories Reduced use of hazardous substances Reduced use of hazardous substances and volatile solvents (excluding banned substances) Use of waste paper Use of recycled materials Use of recycled plastics Use of materials with lower Raw material Reduced consumption of energy and water environmental burden procurement Resource-saving efforts Reduced use of materials in production Use of lumber from forest-thinning operations, use of forest-certified paper, use of tree-free paper Use of sustainable resources Alternatives to petroleum-based materials and mineral resources Effective use of biomass resources Reduced energy consumption in Reduced energy consumption through changes in product design and production production processes (excluding reduction through changes in equipment) Use of recyclable energy Use of green electricity Implementation of carbon offsets Same as left Production Reduced water consumption in Reduced water consumption through changes in product design and production production processes (excluding reduction through changes in equipment) Reduced generation of waste in Waste reduction (excluding reuse of waste inside plants) production Improvement in transport efficiency Product design for improved loading ratio Distribution Optimization of transportation Selection of more environmentally friendly transportation Reduced release of chemical Reduction of chemical substances potentially released from products substances during use Use Extension of product life Prolonged product life through improvement in durability and enhancement of functions Reduced environmental burden Reduced consumption of energy and water during use during use Improvement in reusability Reuse Easy separation and disassembly for reuse The Environment Improvement in recyclability Recycling Easy separation and disassembly for recycling Disposal & recycling Recyclability through existing recycling routes (excluding waste paper collection routes) Environmentally friendly disposal Reduced emissions of hazardous gases during disposal Use of recyclable materials that can be degraded and returned to nature (biodegradability, Use of biodegradable materials photodegradability, etc.) Proof of environmental Visualization of environmental burden Carbon footprint of products (CFP), life-cycle assessment (LCA), water footprint (WFP) friendliness Labeling with environmental logos Examples: Eco Mark, Forest Thinning Mark, etc. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 45 Independent Assurance Over several years Toppan CSR Reports presented results SDG standpoints. We believe that information on the results and future targets & measures of the Group’s corporate social of these endeavors in future reports will effectively show responsibility (CSR) activities in line with the core subjects set Toppan’s contributions to achieving specific SDGs on which under ISO 26000. The CSR Report 2017 stretches the envethe Group focuses. lope to cover the link between the activities implemented by Since fiscal 2011 the Toppan Group has been pursuing the Group and the individual goals encompassed in the United three medium-and-long-term environmental targets to be Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). achieved by fiscal 2020. The Group achieved two of the three This expanded coverage clearly demonstrates the connecgoals well in advance of their deadline and readjusted those tions between the initiatives Toppan has been developing and targets into more ambitious values in fiscal 2016. We comthe social issues the international community is called upon mend Toppan for its determination to keep up the progress in to address by achieving the SDGs. Toppan is expected to go setting targets. further in reviewing the material issues to be addressed in the Group’s CSR activities vis-à-vis the SDGs and identifying the Tomonori Yoshida business fields where the Group can create shared value from KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Indicators in this Report Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Pages Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider 22 Number of retired employees; number of reemployed employees Number of female managerial and supervisory staff Human Rights 23 Number of employees with disabilities; percentage of employees with disabilities Number of Recruits Number of Personnel Reasons for Leaving 25 Average Annual Salary Annual Paid Leave Used Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Labor Practices Number of employees who participated in the Toppan Business School Number of employees who learned in basic, Group-wide education programs via the e-learning system 26 Number of employees deployed overseas under the trainee system to acquire practical training in overseas businesses Number of employees who participated in selective training on global business 27 Occupational Health and Safety Number of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; ratio of female Leaders Number of employees who participated in training sessions for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders 28 Number of employees who participated in training sessions on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan Fair Operating Practices Number of employees who participated in training in group sessions or via the e-learning system on export controls under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act of Japan 30 Number of business partners surveyed to verify the legality of lumber used for paper production Number of employees who participated in training sessions for internal auditors Consumer Issues 32 Number of operational sites audited for their packaging operations using the quality audit checklist Number of systems that received management system audits; number of operational sites that received 38 internal environmental audits Environmental target values and results for fiscal 2016 39 Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 40 Energy consumption per unit of transport volume; CO2 emissions from transport Major Types of Environmental Burden by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) 41 CO2 Emissions Number of production sites that recorded levels exceeding applicable regulatory standards The Environment 42 Number of complaints from communities around Toppan sites Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate 43 VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Number of approved and registered environmentally friendly products 44 Total sales of environment-related businesses Some data in the Toppan CSR Report 2017: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website are also assured by the assurance provider. Toppan is authorized to attach the mark on the left as a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented in this report. Any report bearing this mark meets the Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria established by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. 46 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Independent Assurance Report TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 47 Sustainable Development Goals One hundred and ninety-three countries gathered for the community to commit to achieving by 2030. Companies are United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Summit at the expected to contribute to the 15-year SDGs through their UN General Assembly held in September 2015 unanimously corporate activities and business enterprises in collaborative adopted “Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for partnerships with various other stakeholders. Sustainable Development.” The Sustainable Development Toppan is addressing the SDGs as inclusive targets for Goals (SDGs) are set under the 2030 Agenda, an action plan initiatives to fulfill its corporate responsibilities as a social for people, planet, and prosperity. The SDGs encompass 17 ­benefactor committed to helping solve pressing challenges goals and 169 targets on social issues for the international for global sustainable development. Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development Goal 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Goal 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 48 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 Labels *Every label shown here is a sample. Name Logo Meaning Management Organization A Green Purchasing Network (GPN) Green Purchasing Network of Logo for Green member or a company engaged in green Japan Purchasing Network purchasing in compliance with GPN’s http://www.gpn.jp/english/ Printing Services Ordering Guidelines for Printing Services index.html FSC® trademark A product (wood product, paper, etc.) Forest Stewardship Council ® (Forest Management made from lumber, etc. harvested from www.fsc.org certification system) responsibly managed forests Internationally recognized carbon offset credits provided by the Gold Standard Foundation*. Available to institutions as a mechanism for contributing to climate Logo for Gold security and sustainable development on The Gold Standard Foundation’s a high level in association with the UN Standard credits Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) headquarters https://www.goldstandard.org/ *An organization established in 2003 by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and operated with more than 80 NGO supporters as of 2017 A printed material, product, etc. recognized by the Color Universal Design Organization as a creation that conforms with Color Universal Design color universal design principles incorpoOrganization CUD logo rating eye-friendly displays in considerhttp://www2.cudo.jp/ ation of as many different types of people wp/?page_id=1936 as possible, regardless of individual differences in color perception Toppan’s environmental logo TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2017 49
