General Period covered by ENGAGEO Communication on Progress (COP) From: 15/12/2014 To: 17/02/2017 Statement of continued support by Olivier GEHIN, ENGAGEO Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Dear Stakeholders, ENGAGEO is an IT service companies of 5 millions € turnover. ENGAGEO decided in 2011 to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor standards, protection of environment and anti-corruption and to advance those principles within our company. We are today happy to confirm our continued support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Sincerely yours, Olivier GEHIN Chairman & CEO Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Human Rights is expressly part of ENGAGEO values. ENGAGEO requires its suppliers to adhere to this principle before starting a partnership. All employees have been informed about our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and what it means. Implementation Employees and third parties can use any tool to report potential claims, such as hierarchy, employee representatives, external auditors, public authority. An “ENGAGEO Code of Conduct” is implemented since end of 2016. Measurement of outcomes No claim regarding Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. 50% of our suppliers signed a Human Rights attestation in 2016 compared to 30% in 2012. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Labor Standards is expressly part of ENGAGEO values. Business Partners and Suppliers of ENGAGEO are requested to adhere to this principle. ENGAGEO is compliant and apply labour rights and labour representation. Implementation ENGAGEO values good labor relations and ensure that a continuous communication with employee exists. ENGAGEO fully respects labour rights and policies, health and safety rules according to French laws. A manual risk assessments of employees has been developed in 2014. Measurement of outcomes No claim regarding breach of Labour principles was reported in the period covered by the COP. 50% of our suppliers signed a Labour principles attestation in 2014 compared to 30% in 2012. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Environment is expressly part of ENGAGEO values. ENGAGEO ensures sustainability in the management of all its activities and is committed to minimize its impact on the environment. Implementation As examples of its “Green ambition”, ENGAGEO adopted in 2011 a no company car policy; a no paper company policy was put in place through dematerialization software (electronic vendor invoice/ electronic customer invoice); a waste management policy ensuring that collection, storage, transportation and disposal of waste was properly managed and recycled as far as possible; Usage of BIO product for offices cleaning; Remote conferencing technologies. Measurement of outcomes No claim regarding Environment was reported in the period covered by the COP. 40% of our invoices to customers are only sent electronically. 100% of our employees pay slip are only sent electronically. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Protection of Internationally recognized principles including combating corruption, is expressly part of ENGAGEO values. Implementation ENGAGEO values anti-corruption principles and ensure that a continuous communication with employee exists on this subject. Our suppliers are requested to sign a no corruption official report. Measurement of outcomes No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP.
