Zircon Marine Sustainability Report Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT Contents 5 CEO’s Message 7 WORKING TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE MODEL 9 LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION 13 ENVIRONMENT 15 SAFETY 17 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & INTERNAL CONTROLS 21 CSR INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 2 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT 3 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT INTRODUCTION Chief Executive Officer’s Message 4 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT CEO’s Message services company in West Africa, we recognise and appreciate In industries like ours, where opposition from local communities the importance of a sustainable model of business and corporate presents a significant risk of disrupted operations, it is too easy governance. Accordingly, we are constantly working to understand to undertake technical training and capacity building as CSR and respond adequately to the expectations, needs and concerns initiatives simply to improve relations with host communities. of those who influence and are influenced by our business However there is a much greater value beyond risk mitigation. activities. Improving workforce capacity and capability would improve the quality of goods and services we produce which would in turn Last year, over 3,800 migrants and refugees died crossing the lead to increased GNP and eventually to an improved economy, Mediterranean Sea, which according to international migration for everyone. This is why women development and education, in organisations, makes 2016 the deadliest year on record for particular the education of the girl-child, are some of the objectives migrants and refugees trying to reach Europe from Africa and of the Innocent Okoye Foundation, founded by Zircon in memory of the Middle East. Refugees mostly travel by boats operated by our late founder, Ikechukwu Okoye. smugglers with no compulsion to comply with basic maritime safety procedures. But it is not merely the failure to observe safety At Zircon, we take a serious interest in the skills development procedures that has precipitated one of the more distressing aspect of national development because it is in our interest to do tragedies of our time. It is the fact that many of those crossing so. And because at the end of the day, sustainability goes beyond that sea were merely seeking to escape conflict and poverty. a series of CSR initiatives, it is about a systematic sharing of value with all our stakeholders. For Zircon, sustainability is not merely The business of tackling unemployment and poverty, or of a word, it is an attitude; because success is not only measured ‘creating’ employable citizens’ is not for governments alone. by what we do but how we do it. This is why we are committed Beyond the traditional wealth creation role of contributing to to supporting, implementing and upholding the ten (10) business Gross National Product, more and more businesses need to principles of the UN global compact on Human rights, Labour, orientate their operations to contributing to improving workforce Environment and Anti-Corruption in our everyday business capacity. It is not enough to be an employer of labour or to train operations. a couple of staff on a semi-regular basis. All employees, and potential employees, need to be more competitive in the skills they Finally, we recognize the importance of transparency and can offer and companies need to realise, and act on, their social communication and we will endeavour to provide annual progress responsibility to contribute to human capital development on a reports detailing the current and future policies, actions and national scale. measures we adopt to continually integrate the Global Compact Zircon Marine is contributing to the development of a skilled in our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Adopting national workforce by adopting inclusive business practices which a formal regular reporting process is one way of formalising our marry business development with maximizing social impact and sustainability model. And is just one more way in which we are empowering people to seek financial independence through a first mover in Nigeria’s maritime industry. I hope our efforts Acting responsibly is a balance between economic, environmental employment. Besides providing continuous professional training will encourage others in the maritime industry as well as other and social objectives. At Zircon marine, we are proud that our for staff career advancement and employee engagement, we sectors, indigenous firms in particular, to do the same. economic success as a company has been supported largely by have committed to supporting women and youth empowerment our people, ambition and sustainable practices. In pursuit of our initiatives as a way of building value for our communities and Oluseyi Ajibola vision to be the number one internationally recognised marine other stakeholders. MD/CEO ZIRCON MARINE LTD June 2017 5 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT WORKING TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE MODEL 6 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT WORKING TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE MODEL Zircon Marine supports and is a proud participant in the UN Global Compact which sets out ten principles for responsible business covering human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Every day, every year, we strive to enact these principles across all areas of our business. Thus, our sustainability model focuses on working conditions of our employees as much as the external environmental impact of our business. We have taken out time to formally identify our stakeholder groups (clients, employees, shareholders, host communities etc) and review our approach to how we engage with them on issues of concern to ensure that on all topics we are responding appropriately, but most importantly, that we are acting fairly, transparently and accountably. While it has been argued that sustainability is less about charity and more about securing competitive advantage, we have founded the Innocent Okoye Foundation (IOF), a non-governmental philanthropic organisation, in honour of our late founder IK Okoye, who was passionate about improving lives. Through the Foundation we are involved in a number of ‘charitable’ initiatives to empower people and promote balanced development. 7 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS 8 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS At Zircon, we recognise that attracting and retaining the right talent Additionally, we have implemented several strategies to tackle Finally, at Zircon Marine we believe in the value of all individuals is fundamental to building a profitable and sustainable business that any form of discrimination. As an example, we emphasise the and their rights as contained in the Universal declaration of Human will outlast challenging economic conditions. Our people, and their repercussions of harassment or any form of bullying in our rights. We conduct all our business activities in a manner which attitude and skills, are key to our very distinctive, delivery focused Employee Handbook and the disciplinary policy, which can lead promotes trust, respect, dignity and value of each individual whilst culture. By living our values, they set us apart from our competitors, to suspension or termination, a practice which aligns with the making maximum efforts to ensure human rights are upheld in allow us attract and retain clients and enable us to earn differential UN Global Impact 6th principle. Also we have a dedicated human every activity. We also focus on dealing fairly with all our employees margins. That is why we are constantly striving to create the right resource management complaints platform where employees can and clients, striving by all means possible to provide and maintain a environment and establish the right conditions to attract the kinds report issues of discrimination or harassment. safe and healthy work environment for everyone. Zircon’s code of of employees we require. conduct clearly sets out our expectations of everyone who works for us and with us, requiring them to demonstrate respect for fundamental human rights. Since our establishment, Zircon has been and remains an equal opportunity employer, in recognition of the dignity of labour and in line Zircon Marine makes it a priority to obey all laws with regards to with Principle 6 of the UN Global Compact which requires business employment in Nigeria. We do not simply hire, we are invested in the to eliminate discrimination in employment. Accordingly in recruiting development of the people we employ. We have put structures in we do not discriminate based on religion, gender and ethnicity. place to help employees stay engaged and thrive in their respective This allows us implement diversity in our recruitment processes by roles, while supporting them to take on increased responsibility in evaluating candidates based on merit and competency, and thereby line with an agreed career progression plan. These structures include focusing on employing the best candidates. We have several female a robust performance appraisal system which sets challenging but employees occupying technical and managerial roles, including achievable targets, valorises honest feedback from employees senior management positions, as well as on the Board of Directors. and supervisors and fairly rewards performance. It also involves a training component which assesses the job training needs As an organisation we have focused on creating a suitable (technical, function-specific, leadership, and core competency) of environment where all employees are free from all forms of individual employees and addresses them through mentorship, discrimination or harassment and are treated equally in employment secondments and external training, including profession specific as in recruitment. All judgments relating to remuneration, working certifications. Additionally, we have developed and are now conditions and training are based on relevant objective criteria. implementing a system to assess employee satisfaction to further improve our retention rate. 9 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT ANTI-CORRUPTION In order to achieve our business ambitions, it is important for us as a corporate entity to be seen as an ethical company. We therefore strive to instil the highest ethical and legal standards amongst our employees, and also track compliance by screening our business practices against applicable local and international laws relating to corruption, bribery and anti-competitive behaviour such as the Corrupt Practices and Other Offences Act of Nigeria and the UN Convention Against Corruption. We utilise our anti-corruption policy as an ethical set of criteria to govern our behaviour and our interactions with stakeholders. This is how we implement the UNGC Principle 10 on anti-corruption. Zircon Marine operates a zero tolerance policy on bribery, collusion, extortion, fraud and other forms of improper and unethical conduct for corporate or personal gains. In line with the UN global compact, no Zircon Marine employee or representative shall give or offer unjustified benefits to any public or private sector employees, nor shall employees solicit or receive such benefits. We have established disciplinary measures for defaulting employees which may result in outright dismissal. Furthermore, Zircon Marine would not knowingly engage in business relations with any company who has a track record of corrupt practices and would blacklist clients and partner companies that are found to engage in unethical practices. Finally, we have maintained an excellent internal check and balance system managed by the finance, administrative and HR departments, with records showing exactly where funds are allocated to and how they are managed by the different divisions or individuals. We review previous and ongoing transactions to ensure that there are no indiscretions and have implemented an annual external financial audit in order to detect corruption or distrustful transactions. 11 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT ENVIRONMENT 12 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT ENVIRONMENT At Zircon, part of our vision relates to improving the marine We keep employees updated on best practice in this area by in energy saving low-carbon infrastructure. We are contributing environment by protecting it. As we pursue expansion and a more training them on preventing pollution and the importance of to cutting carbon emissions in practical ways, like reducing our profitable business, we are conscious of the need to reduce to regular inspections. Furthermore, our anti-corruption policy spells dependence on generators (which emit very high levels[ A 2012 the barest minimum the impact our operations may have on the out penalties for involvement in any corrupt practices aimed at estimate put the number of generators in use in Nigeria at 9 million, environment. Accordingly we have implemented various policy perverting inspections. These efforts have been made in furtherance with a total carbon dioxide emission of 29 million metric tons measures to ensure safe and effective operations. These include of implementing Principle 8, which involves undertaking initiatives to annually.]) by paying more to access power from embedded grids ensuring all equipment is in good working order and adequate promote greater environmental responsibility. We have also taken and supporting our grid supply with inverters and increasingly the instructions are given to employees and contractors on all actions to implement Principle 9 of the UNGC aimed at encouraging installation of solar panels. Additionally we are currently looking aspects of their work, specifically those hazardous to Health and the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly into the acquisition of vessels with more modern technology which Environment, and ensuring constant monitoring and reporting on technologies, by not running the engines of our generators and make them more fuel efficient and therefore lower emissions and HSE performance. By implementing all these policies, we are able marine assets 24/7 and by ensuring regular servicing of our engines are less harmful to the environment. to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges in order to reduce emissions. Overall, we ensure we meet and which aligns with Principle 7 of the UNGC. surpass national legislation and best practices in all our activities. However we recognise that there is still a lot more that needs to be done. As much as Zircon marine can achieve unilaterally, yet a The marine environment is the source of the foremost global lot more can be achieved when efforts are replicated across board resource – the oceans, which provide our rain water, drinking water, nowhere is the power of collective action in the marine industry a lot of our food and even the oxygen we breathe. They are also more important than with regards to environmental sustainability. essential as transportation routes. In recognition of the importance We are therefore using the medium of this report as a collective of our oceans and waterways, Zircon marine has adopted call to action for like-minded forward thinking actors in the industry operational strategies to reduce pollution and waste and mitigate to come together to forge a collective strategy to protecting and spills and leaks. These include proper training of crew and other sustaining our marine environment. employees, regular inspections and the use of navigational aids and on board equipment. Regarding waste management specifically, we are sensitising employees to reduce the use of disposable consumer products, and adopting measures around safer waste Additionally, Zircon Marine complies with existing laws and transportation and better waste disposal at all our facilities. We are regulations on protection of the marine environment, for example, also happy to support education and promotional programs around the Environmental Guidelines and Standards for the Petroleum marine litter and support beach clean-up efforts. Industry in Nigeria (EGASPIN)[ Issued in 2002 and revised in 2013] which establishes the guidelines on environmental and pollution Modern shipping by its very nature, results in high emissions of management and their enforcement based on the petroleum greenhouse gases (GHG). Beyond simple mitigation tactics like industry laws and regulations. We also support and are aligned with speed reduction, hull cleaning and optimal routing, we are working the efforts of agencies like the Nigerian Maritime Administration on adopting more technical strategies like water flow optimisation, and Safety Agency (NIMASA) to control and prevent pollution in the waste heat reduction, efficiency lighting and engine retrofits. We are marine environment. also acting deliberately to reduce our carbon footprint by investing 1 Issued in 2002 and revised in 2013 2 A 2012 estimate put the number of generators in use in Nigeria at 9 million, with a total carbon dioxide emission of 29 million metric tons annually. 13 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT SAFETY 14 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT SAFETY Protecting the health and safety of employees, our clients and only do we want to have skilled people working for us, but investing In the last year, we have developed and documented a standard host communities is one of the main strengths of our corporate in educating others is in line with our commitment to broader skills operating procedure regarding equipment maintenance and safety citizenship and we are committed to providing them a healthy and building for our communities and the general public. which is administered by a dedicated Maintenance officer. It safe environment in which to work and live in line with prevailing functions as a comprehensive safety framework for our equipment regulations. We are proud to report that we have not had any safety Compliance – Zircon engineers have been trained to adhere to and applies to all staff and contractors. It involves: incident in the past year. Our safety policy, adheres to global safety safety procedures and safe working conditions at all times. Safety standards, and is rooted in three key pillars Training/ Equipment/ rules and best practices in doing heavy work or operating machines • Obtaining timely certifications of equipment and carrying Compliance. are predominantly displayed at all work sites. Internal safety audits out routine inspections to ensure availability and operational are conducted regularly to assess employee compliance with best functionality practices and additional established measures. Our commitment to • Ensuring preventive maintenance cycles are observed by excellence is demonstrated in our membership of the British Safety personnel on board and monitoring contractors to ensure Council which provides health and safety training and advice and maintenance work is effectively and promptly conducted also administers a full suite of health and safety qualifications. • Maintenance of an inventory record of equipment (vessels, fender, hoses) and scheduling repairs Equipment – Modern and reliable equipment is fundamental to our • The provision of daily reports to the Maintenance Coordinator successful operations. Our equipment are fully insured, certified on the status of equipment and communicating maintenance and serviced regularly to ensure they constantly operate at full requests with a view to resolving them punctually capacity. We have specially selected all of our equipment – fenders, hoses, ropes, and support crafts – to ensure they are suited to the We apply these same standards and our framework in ensuring the operations for which they are required, and hired by our customers. best for those clients which we assist with the procurement and For example, our fenders and cargo hoses, specially obtained maintenance of marine equipment; in this way we have contributed from Yokohama and Goodyear, meet ISO standards and have to improving safety standards and ensuring compliance with global been pressure tested to ensure durability. Besides having trained benchmarks across the marine industry in Nigeria and West Africa. Training At Zircon, safety begins with staff. All our personnel, personnel handling and maintaining our equipment, detailed logging We continue to comply with the Oil Companies International Marine not just our engineers, are required to attend specialized training procedures ensure that faulty or malfunctioning equipment are Forum (OCIMF) published recommended standards for marine programs adapted to their work descriptions and responsibilities, registered for repair or replacement before even a deleterious event operations since we work primarily with the oil and gas industry. as well as generalised training sessions. Trainings are not a one-off takes place. sessions but a on a rolling (continuous) basis with refresher courses built into the schedule to ensure that at all times, employees are up to date and comply with the best standards in occupational health and safety. Trainings range from understanding general health risks and basic first aid to advanced certification in Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Management. We have evolved to a point where we are now considering offering training to others in the marine industry, as well as the oil and gas industry which we service. Not 1 Issued in 2002 and revised in 2013 2 A 2012 estimate put the number of generators in use in Nigeria at 9 million, with a total carbon dioxide emission of 29 million metric tons annually. 15 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION 16 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION As a responsible corporate citizen, we take pride in our economic contribution to society in the countries in which we operate. Our contribution is the overall economic value (gross revenue, financial income etc) engendered as a result of our operations and activities operating costs, the revenue we generate for government, the employment opportunities we create and wages we pay. Employment – We now employ over 50 people directly, thereby supporting some 50 plus homes, and actively support their savings towards retirement by enrolling them in a pension scheme. But we also create employment for a much larger number of people indirectly , for example through our network of suppliers. Going even further, we are currently reviewing our CSR initiatives and overarching strategy to explore how our employees can integrate our sustainability values in the communities in which they live – a sort of community engagement and giving back – with incentives for ‘bestparticipating’ employees. The aim is to get all our employees actively volunteering or in other ways participating in our CSR initiatives. Taxes One of the most important civic duties Nigerians owe their government is the prompt payment of their taxes. This is equally true for corporate citizens. At Zircon marine, we understand that being a socially responsible company extends to the prompt payment of all fairly assessed tax levies. Zircon pays both direct taxes company income tax and personal income tax via employee remunerations and indirect taxes – VAT and import duties on the machinery and equipment which we bring into the country. In this way, our total tax contribution, in terms of both taxes borne[ Owing to the number and nature of the items we import (heavy machinery, specialized equipment), Import duties constitute the largest share of our taxes borne.] and those collected on behalf of government, annually runs into millions of Naira. But our tax contribution to the government purse actually goes beyond the prompt payment of our allotted taxes; it extends to the tax remittance of every supplier or subcontractor we engage and every client firm we service satisfactorily. That is why valid tax returns constitute part of the due diligence requirements for our suppliers and contractors. 3 Owing to the number and nature of the items we import (heavy machinery, specialized equipment), Import duties constitute the largest share of our taxes borne. 17 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & INTERNAL CONTROLS 18 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & INTERNAL CONTROLS Proper corporate governance is one of the fundamentals of a Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the Head of sustainable business model. Our corporate governance structure Operations. Our Human Resources department is responsible for the is designed to ensure efficiency and transparency in the way we transparent management of our Board and employee remuneration operate and contributes to our sustainability as a business. processes. The remuneration of Board members in particular is determined based on recommendations by the Human Resources Our Board of Directors, responsible for overseeing Zircon’s business department which assesses the average remuneration ceiling for and management, is made up of competent and savvy business Directors in comparable institutions. In the same way employee leaders from various backgrounds, but all with several years of compensation levels are determined based on comparisons with experience and track records of excellence in running the affairs of those of other leading companies in the industry and naturally, on established companies, which have been brought to bear in directing Zircon’s performance from year to year. the affairs of Zircon. Moreover we have undertaken regular briefings and specific trainings for Board members to improve knowledge and Finally, to ensure good corporate governance is thoroughly keep them abreast of local and international developments in the embedded in our corporate culture and internal controls are marine and oil and gas industries to enhance the leadership they respected and complied with, we always ensure all decisions, provide. policies and programs issued or adopted at management level are properly cascaded to every last employee. Accordingly we have In compliance with extant laws[ Corporate Affairs and Allied Matters established a Code of Conduct and Business Practice that sets out Act, 1990.] regarding our corporate affairs, the Board meets at the ethical standards all our employees and business partners are least once a quarter and it features two independent non-executive required to meet. In line with Principle 10 of the UN Global Compact, directors. We have put in place a rigorous but transparent board we have also developed an anti-corruption manual outlining the appointment process as well as a clear succession policy to company policies and procedures that must be adhered to regarding diminish risks associated by unplanned or unforeseen departures. certain activities or situations that present a compliance risk. These We are also strictly compliant on issues of financial accounting and manuals apply to all directors and employees of the company, and reporting (auditing, disclosures, preparation of financial statements, also to our business partners, suppliers and other representatives. filing of annual returns) and engage external auditors to review our accounts and financial statements. To ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are protected, our Board reviews and is responsible for approving our corporate social responsibility strategy and planned initiatives, just as it is the responsibility of our management team to develop the strategy and drive and oversee its implementation. The day to day running of the company is carried out by the Management Team which consists of the Managing Director and 4 Corporate Affairs and Allied Matters Act, 1990. 19 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT CSR INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 20 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT CSR INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Our key CSR initiatives are channelled through the IK Okoye Foundation, a non-governmental charitable organisation established by Zircon in honour of our late founder, IK Okoye, a philanthropist passionate about improving lives. Under the umbrella of the IK Okoye Foundation, our efforts are focused on three principal categories • Arts and Culture • Sports • Education The empowerment of women and the promotion of long-term sustainable (and balanced) development are overarching themes that run through our efforts under these three categories. Arts & Culture Zircon Marine Art Energy Our primary platform for the development of arts and culture is the Zircon Marine Art Energy exhibition, an This year, we sponsored Modupeola Fadugba, a Togo-born Nigerian annual event aimed at positioning Africa, and Nigeria in particular, as multi-disciplinary artist, to the second edition of the Dakar Biennale a destination for trade and investment by showcasing the continent’s de l’Art Africain Contemporain, or Dak’Art which took place in finest art work. We have leveraged the International Petroleum Week Senegal in May 2016. The Dak’Art Biennale is a major contemporary organised by the Energy Institute in the United Kingdom to promote art exhibition created and promoted by the Senegalese government the event, and when it was first launched in 2013 it immediately and which has taken place in Dakar every other year since 1989. became one of the most attended events at the IP week. Fadugba’s work focuses a lot on education, which resonates with our Impact: The event has served as a platform to celebrate talented strategic focus and put her on our radar leading to her participation artists, including unknowns who have thereby received a boost to alongside three other artists at the Art Energy exhibition in 2015 in their career. It has also helped promote links between the energy London. The previous year she had won the Outstanding Production sector and the visual arts, supported by the affiliation with the Prize at the National Art Competition for an installation called “The Energy Institute. Most importantly it serves to showcase Nigeria People’s Algorithm” which features a human-scale board game as a trade and investment destination, as the exhibition receives inside a giant Rubik-like cube. In line with the competition’s theme visitors from Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Based on feedback of “Interventions” the installation presents as an intervention into from stakeholders, we are currently exploring institutionalising a Nigeria’s education and unemployment challenges, employing play framework promoting one young and upcoming (unknown) artist as a strategy to demystify complex issues. every year by instituting an award for such new talent and using Our support contributed to Fadugba obtaining a residency at the the Exhibition as one of several fora to showcase and promote the Cite Internationale des Arts in Paris as part of the program of the artist’s work. 21 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT Institut Francais, and this ultimately led to her participation in the a cultural renaissance through first exhibition of Africa in France known as the ‘The Institut Francais film, literature and performing du Nigeria’. This exhibition has contributed greatly to launching a arts. In partnership with the journey for her artwork in Paris. She had since had a solo exhibition African Film Festival New York, of her work “Prayers, Players & Swimmers” in the Gallery of the Cité it is committed to exposing Internationale des Arts from March 28 to April 3, 2017, curated by African and global audiences Katherine Finerty. The People’s Algorithm has gone on to receive to good quality independent international recognition and critical acclaim. Besides being awarded African cinema as a way of the Grand Prize of the Minister of Communication at the Dakar encouraging discourse about Biennale, it is currently featured in the ongoing exhibition Afrique African issues and experiences. Capitales: Cape Of Good Hope Here We Come at the Gare Saint In 2015, we committed to a fiveSauveur, Lille, France, which runs until September 2017. year sponsorship because we support the festival’s objective of providing a nurturing environment Lights, Camera, Africa! – We also support Lights, Camera, Africa!, an for creative expression. annual film festival staged by The Life House that aims to promote African filmmakers are also enjoyed by African audiences that may The 2016 edition, themed ‘Music Makes the People’ was held in ordinarily not have the opportunity of viewing them. Recognition Lagos at the end of September and dedicated to celebrating music and appreciation of the program has grown to a point where it has received the support of nonprofits to develop a film appreciation and education agenda. in film as an art form. Impact: Life House’s film program, to which the Festival is attached, has been credited with ensuring that quality films by 22 Z I R C O N M A R I N E | S U S TA I N A B I L IT Y R E P O RT Sports the relationship between education and sport, notably through inculcating in the student‘s skills and values like leadership, IK Okoye was a consummate sportsman who excelled in squash, teamwork and strategic decision making. We are currently working snooker and card and board games like chess and scrabble. on expanding the initiative to include more schools in more geographic regions as well as specific programs, such as snooker academies, for young Nigerians from disadvantaged areas. Education CSR Impact: Promoting a reading culture in young people while also instilling in them values like cultural pride. Emperor’s Cup – We committed to a five year renewable sponsorship of an annual cue sports competition at the Ikoyi Club in Lagos, which has expanded from snooker to include pool and billiards. The competition runs for a period of about two weeks, with three winners in the three categories usually announced on the last day. Zircon Marine provides donations on behalf of the winners to secondary schools attended by Mr. Okoye King’s College and Federal Government College, Ijanikin, both in Lagos. This year’s competition took place from 16th May to 1st June 2017, with finals Our CSR efforts around education are geared towards supporting played on Saturday 2nd June. the education of the girl-child in Nigeria and women empowerment. We were able to combine both goals in our most recent initiative Secondary schools snooker – The Foundation supports the which sponsored the publishing of a book, ‘Pride of Nigeria’, by promotion of snooker, and sports more broadly, at selected Constance Omawumi Kola-Lawal, a specialist in business and HSE secondary schools in Lagos through the donation and maintenance who has written a children’s book series on safety and environment. of snooker tables and other sports accessories, and also conducting We have donated 500 Zircon Marine branded copies of the book to periodic sports clinics. at least seven schools in the Apapa area of Lagos state including Army Children’s school, Baptist Primary School, Muslim Nursery and Impact: The initiative has been constructive in strengthening Primary school and Corona. 23 Address: 158, Sinari Daranijo Street, Victoria Island Annex, Lagos, Nigeria. Tel: +234 (0)709 800 3863 Email: info@zirconmarine.com, operations@zirconmarine.com Web: www.zirconmarine.com
