Corporate Responsibility www.j-lauritzen.com 2016 Annual Report 2 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Table of Contents CEO Statement CEO Statement 2 Publication of this Corporate Responsibility (CR) report is strong coordination are necessary conditions for achieving Highlights and Outlook 3 made at a time when J. Lauritzen and the shipping industry at sustainable results. J. Lauritzen Overview 4 large are challenged not only by weak earnings, but also by Human and Labour Rights 5 ailing global trade growth and emerging restrictions to free We support such global initiatives and always strive to seek Environment and Climate 6 trade. industry collaboration where deemed appropriate as a means Anti-Corruption 7 to share challenges, mobilise resources and create combined Value Chain Responsibility 8 Our CR commitment remains unchanged, however, and we leverage to ensure progress. Lauritzen Bulkers 9 remain committed to the United Nations Global Compact. J. Lauritzen Kosan 11 Lauritzen became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2011 This also remains the basic philosophy behind our participaand since then, the ten principles of Global Compact have tion in industry partnerships such as the Maritime Anti-Corguided our responsibility efforts and helped us identify our ruption Network, Trident Alliance and IMPA Act. business impacts We look forward to continue our efforts towards more responResponsible business conduct is an essential part of deliversible business practices within J. Lauritzen and the shipping ing quality maritime transportation services. Accordingly, corindustry in general, and we are confident that the ten principorate responsibility is strategically important to us. ples UN Global Compact will continue to guide us in the right direction. Despite the fact that marine transportation is the most environmentally friendly mode of transportation, the shipping inI hope that you find this report interesting. dustry has a responsibility to reduce emissions in line with other sectors of the global economy. About this report Mads Peter Zacho This report has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements The International Maritime (IMO) is the sole global authority CEO, J. Lauritzen A/S Act (Sec. 99a) and the UN Global Compact’s annual requirements for communicaregulating the maritime industry. On that background, J. Laution on progress. The scope of our reporting is determined by our commitment to ritzen believes that only the IMO is capable of ensuring effithe UN Global Compact and an assessment of materiality. The main aim of this recient regulation of the maritime industry’s climatic and enviport is to give our internal and external stakeholders an overview of our corporate ronmental impacts. Regional regulation is neither in the responsibility policies, actions and performance. interest of the maritime industry nor the climate and environment since such regulation does not encompass the entire world fleet. Humanitarian issues, corruption and transparency are other key challenges facing our industry and challenges that cannot be solved by companies individually. Global initiatives and 3 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Highlights and Outlook Our corporate responsibility (CR) efforts build on our core valmeans to push for global rather than regional or national reguues and are aligned with our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on lation. ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 Business and Human Rights. Responsible ship recycling Increased attention is being paid to ship recycling, mainly due We continuously work for increased integration of our corpoto the nature of some ship recycling practices which are assoRelative cut in CO2 rate responsibility efforts into our business strategy and dayciated with unsafe labour practices and unsatisfactory enviemissions of 31% to-day business operations. ronmental standards. from operated fleet HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Consequently, a new policy on responsible ship recycling was since 2012 During 2016, we have focused our efforts on continuous huapproved in 2016. The policy acknowledges the known severe man rights due diligence as well the continuous implementaimpacts involved in some recycling practices and commits J. tion of our energy-efficiency projects, our anti-corruption Lauritzen to ensure recycling of owned vessels in compliance compliance programme and our responsible supply chain with the requirements of the 2009 Hong Kong Convention for Anti-corruption training of 95% of management programme. the Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships and in our shore-based personnel and ALL respect for human rights. senior officers CO2 working group In 2016, we participated in a working group in the Danish Recognising a responsibility that often goes beyond owned Shipowners’ Association (DSA) which set out to draft a new vessels, the policy further commits us to take action to prevent climate policy and decide on a DSA suggestion for realistic and mitigate severe impacts when selling vessels for further and ambitious CO2 reduction targets. trade. 5 suppliers have been The policy was launched in November 2016, and is based on a To ensure adoption of the new recycling policy and assist emengaged in dialogue study undertaken during the year, which establishes solid and ployees in complying with the policy, i.e. when selling vessels well-argued reduction targets based on proposed technical, for further trade, a set of internal guidelines have been devellegal and economic reduction mechanisms. oped. The working group was assembled in light of COP21 which OUTLOOK 2017 failed to commit the IMO, the sole global regulator of shipIn 2017, we will take our corporate responsibility efforts to a ping, to establish ambitious CO2 reduction targets to ensure new phase of integration with our business strategy and thus that international shipping delivers its fair contribution to the our overall value creation. Focus will be on the further impleUN target of staying below a 2˚C temperature rise. The work of mentation of our corporate responsibility programmes. Furthe DSA working group is intended to provide essential docuthermore, we will encourage business partners to respect the mentation in future international climate negotiations as a UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 4 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 J. Lauritzen Overview J. LAURITZEN FACTS 2016 Owned by the Lauritzen Foundation 100% 195 32% employees 68% ashore 549 seafarers onboard owned vessels J.Lauritzen has been serving the maritime trade since 1884 supramax segments of dry bulk shipping with main presence and has ever since been engaged in a range of different segin the handysize segment. Average controlled ments of the shipping industry. fleet of 128 vessels Lauritzen Kosan specialises in transportation of petrochemical Today, J. Lauritzen is a global provider of seaborne transportaand liquefied petroleum gases (LPG) a segment of the shiption of dry bulk cargoes as well as petrochemical and liquefied ping industry characterised by complex technical and operaInvested capital petroleum gases. tional requirements. year-end USD 379m We offer our services through our operational business units Offices worldwide Lauritzen Bulkers and Lauritzen Kosan. Headquarter in Copenhagen, Denmark and overseas offices in Singapore, China, the Philippines, the United States and Spain. Revenue Lauritzen Bulkers operates bulk carriers in the handysize and USD 420m 5 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Human and Labour Rights We consider respect for human and labour rights as part of Our human rights due diligence has been quality assured by our heritage and our commitment to the UN Global Compact. external experts on business and human rights. DUE DILIGENCE As shipowner and operator, we face human rights challenges Human rights at sea Our human rights due diligence is an ongoing process ashore as well as at sea, and we use the UN Guiding Principles At sea, our human rights efforts are closely linked to our designed to help us address actual and potential adon Business and Human Rights as a blueprint to our endeavhealth, safety and security policies and procedures, which are verse human rights risks and impacts that are linked to our to respect the human rights. managed within each business unit in accordance with legisour business activities. lation, regulations and the nature of the operations. We apply Managing human rights risks the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 (MLC) when assessing We perform human rights due diligence aligned with the exour impacts on board our vessels. pectations of the UN Guiding Principles to help us identify Identification how our business may impact people’s enjoyment of their human rights and how actual and potential impacts can pose a risk to our business. In addition to human rights due diligence ashore and at sea, Communication Action we manage our human rights risks as part of our health and safety and risk management systems anchored in our two business units along with the Group’s anti-corruption compliance programme and responsible supply chain management programme. Tracking Human rights due diligence ashore We have conducted human rights assessments of our human Aligned with the UN Guiding Principles, our due dilirights risks and impacts at our offices in Copenhagen and Singence process covers human rights assessment, includgapore, which included assessments of our corporate policies ing identification and assessment of our adverse huand procedures. man rights impacts, actions to prevent and mitigate identified impacts and to address relevant policies and All human rights outlined in the International Bill of Human procedures, a system for tracking milestones and folRights, including the International Labour Organisation’s Declowing up on action plans, and a mechanism for comlaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, were municating how we adress identified adverse impacts assessed to decide which ones are salient to our company to relevant stakeholders. given our geographical and business context. 6 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Environment and Climate We acknowledge the environmental impacts of our operaYou can read more about our environmental efforts and retions and the risks these pose to the environment, mainly in sults in the environmental statements of Lauritzen Bulkers and EXAMINING SHIPPING’S FAIR regards to emissions to air and water. Thus, we assume reLauritzen Kosan respectively. See p. 10 and 12, wherein emissponsibility to always work towards minimising our environsion figures are also disclosed. SHARE OF REDUCTIONS mental footprint. Following shipping’s exclusion from the Paris AgreeBallast water ment, which came into force in November 2016, J. LauWe are committed to mitigating emissions by establishing relIn 2016, the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention reritzen has throughout the year participated in a work evant operational procedures, to follow the development of ceived sufficient ratification by the world’s flag states and will group in the Danish Shipowners’ Association (DSA) that new technologies relevant to our business and to disclose our thus take effect from September 2017. set out to examine shipping’s fair share of global CO2 environmental performance. reductions. J. Lauritzen has over the past years been working to ensure The pivot of the work group has been a scientific study Focus on reducing emissions timely compliance with the requirements of the convention, undertaken by external consultants which set out to esDuring the year, we continued our energy efficiency efforts for example by screening market solutions, collaborating tablish specific and time dependent reduction targets to with the aim of reducing fuel consumption and reducing emisacross the business units and testing new systems on board ensure that the shipping industry reduces its emissions sions through technical and operational initiatives. selected vessels. in pace with the rest of the global economy to achieve the Paris Agreement’s goal of staying below a 2˚C temBy working with environmental performance in a structured The choice of ballast water treatment system will be decided perature rise. manner, both business units strive to stimulate a performancein the coming months in due time for when the IMO convenIn late 2016, the results of the project were presented oriented culture both at sea and ashore. tion takes effect. along with a new DSA climate policy, proposing an ambitious and realistic CO2 approach for the global shipDue to the nature of our business, many of the environmental Strengthened focus on performance management ping industry. challenges we meet are industry-related, and thus we prioriFrom 1. January 2017, a joint performance management detise engaging in partnerships with different stakeholders to partment was established within J. Lauritzen, combining the Update in J. Lauritzen’s policy identify the most effective solutions. two previously separate performance departments in LauritIn the 2015 Corporate Responsibility report, we stated zen Bulkers and Lauritzen Kosan respectively. that J. Lauritzen’s environmental policy would be reIn 2016, we embarked on the second year of the Blue INNOviewed and updated during 2016. ship partnership, through which we show our support to the The purpose of the joint performance management departDue to the work in DSA, it was decided to await the development of green and energy efficient solutions for the ment is to streamline vessel performance management across results of the study to ensure alignment with the new Danish maritime industry. As part of our commitment to the J. Lauritzen and increase opportunities for knowledge sharing DSA Climate Policy and a fair contribution to the propartnership, we actively engage in a work group seeking to with the aim of identifying additional opportunities for improvposed reduction targets. Thus, work is in progress to develop an industry standard for performance monitoring to ing our fleet’s energy efficiency and reducing the environmenexamine how J. Lauritzen can ensure a fair contribution promote more energy efficient operations and thereby reduce tal impacts of our operations. to the proposed reduction targets and to update our enemissions. vironmental policy accordingly. 7 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Anti-Corruption Being one of the largest financial and human challenges at training remain updated on our anti-corruption policy and sea and in global business, corruption, primarily demands for practices. In 2017, we aim to embed the training tool within FOCUS ON TRADE facilitation payments, pose a serious risk to our business and our existing HR software to increase efficiency. to the economic and social development in some countries. Working proactively to eliminate facilitation payments continSANCTIONS IN 2016 We work against corruption in all its forms, and our Anti-Corues to be a core element of our anti-corruption policy and our ruption Policy provides guidance for both shore based and compliance training, and we strongly encourage our crews to Operating in a highly international business environsea-going personnel. The policy is in line with the principles of report any demands for facilitation payments. Despite inment, we are subject to increasingly complex and the United Nation’s Convention against Corruption along with creased efforts to improve communication between vessel changeable sanctions regulation. various national laws and is anchored in our compliance proand operations, the amount of demands for facilitation paygramme which is rooted with our Board of Directors and Exments being reported remains scarce. We will continue to Compliance with applicable trade sanctions is essential ecutive Management. work actively to encourage crews to report demands for facilito responsible business conduct. We have intensified tation payments as it is the only way to gain insight into our efforts to increase trade sanction transparency and Since 2014, internal and external stakeholder have been able whether we are successful in reducing facilitation payments. ensure continuous compliance with the various to anonymously report concerns of compliance violations sanctions. through our whistleblower portal. However, no reports have Partnering on industry challenges been made to date despite efforts to increase awareness of We continue our active participation in the Maritime Anti-CorOur efforts include face-to-face training on sanctions the whistle-blower portal. ruption Network (MACN), a global business network working compliance, procedures for vetting of counterparties towards a maritime industry free of corruption enabling fair and on-line country and cargo compliance checks. Training and awareness trade to the benefit of the society at large. Through MACN, we As part of our compliance programme, we conduct training meet with other representatives from the industry to discuss for both shore based and sea-going personnel. The training is and share best practice. conducted as face to face seminars focusing on compliance and anti-corruption. In 2016, we further participated in a MACN working group that focuses on challenges in the dry cargo sector such as During 2016, the remaining shore based employees received clearance of dry cargo holds by port officials. training that also included fraud prevention, anti-trust, rules for gifts and hospitality and other related compliance topics. Thus, we have completed training of all officers in both business units as well as all relevant shore based staffs, with the exception of newcomers. Follow-up training will be implemented from 2017. We are working on the implementation of online training to ensure that employees who have already received formal 8 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Value Chain Responsibility As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we cycling facilities that adequately manage their adverse imIn 2017, we will engage in dialogue with another five first-tier recognise our role in the long and sometimes complex value pacts on the matters referenced by the ten principles of the suppliers. chains we are part of. To mitigate the risk of negative impacts Global Compact. on human rights, including labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption principles occurring within our value chain, we Responsible procurement always strive to advance the principles of the Global Compact Responsible procurement continues to be a core element of within our sphere of influence. the Group’s corporate responsibility efforts focusing on cooperating and engaging in dialogue with suppliers to ensure deUpdated Corporate Responsibility Policy cent social and environmental conditions in our supply chain. In 2016, an amendment was made to J. Lauritzen’s Corporate Responsibility Policy committing us to always, when possible, We continue to support the IMPA ACT programme when strive to include a new standard corporate responsibility working with suppliers as we wish to contribute to uniformity clause when negotiating contracts and agreements on behalf in the industry and avoid suppliers having to comply with difof J. Lauritzen or one of our business units. ferent expectations from different owners. The scope of the clause reflects our commitment to the UN By engaging in close dialogue with selected suppliers, we Global Compact and the purpose of its implementation is to work towards aligning expectations within human and labour clarify J. Lauritzen’s ethical and Corporate Responsibility stanrights, environmental performance and anti-corruption. dards to our business partners and to encourage these to follow the same internationally recognised minimum standards The centre of the dialogue between J. Lauritzen and our supfor responsible business conduct. pliers is a Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines our minimum expectations to suppliers regarding establishing policies Ship recycling and procedures to help them identify, prevent and mitigate In 2016, a recycling policy was adopted by the Board. Alpotential impacts on human rights, labour rights, protection of though J. Lauritzen’s vessels are commonly sold before they the environment and anti-corruption. reach the end of their operational lives, owned vessels are recycled in accordance with applicable law and regulation, speThrough closer dialogue and stronger relations with suppliers, cifically in compliance with the requirements of the 2009 we aim at increasing transparency throughout our supply Hong Kong Convention for the Safe and Environmentally chain. Sound Recycling of Ships and in respect for human rights. Each year we select a number of suppliers to engage in further As signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are dialogue, and in 2016, we engaged in dialogue with five new further committed to ensuring that vessels are recycled at resuppliers, selected from our largest suppliers based on spend, dependency and frequency as well as known risk. 9 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Lauritzen Bulkers Lauritzen Bulkers operates bulk carriers in the handysize and ported during Port State Controls. This is a decrease of 40% supramax segments of dry bulk shipping. With a main presence in the handysize segment, our operations are based on a compared to 2015. Simultaneously, no severe observations were made during the four inspections conducted on board HIGHLIGHTS IN 2016 large homogeneous fleet of owned and long-term time-chareach vessel by either Lauritzen Bulkers, our technical managtered vessels, vessels committed by partners as well as a subers or an external auditor during the year. Average age of vessels stantial number of short-term time-chartered vessels. Security Fleet management When entering high-risk areas, we follow J. Lauritzen’s secuTechnical management, including crewing for our owned rity guidelines. The guidelines state that before scheduling a fleet, is performed by New Century Overseas Management voyage into a high-risk area, a risk assessment must be conOperated fleet Industry average Inc., Manila and Synergy Maritime Pte., Singapore who producted by an independent external party, and the necessary vide safe, reliable and cost-effective operations in close collaboration with our in-house technical department. precautions must be taken. 4.2 years 8.3 years With ship management outsourced to external service providers, our in-house technical department specifies requirements, aligns expectations and monitors performance on On average 229 achieving safe, reliable and efficient operations. seafarers onboard Health and safety our owned fleet Operational transparency is essential to the safety of our people, our vessels and our clients’ cargo, and thus building and maintaining open and strong relations with our external managers and crews as well as the continuous development and training of our crews are at the core of our health and safety 14% cut in CO2 strategy. emissions since 2012 We measure our safety performance through various parameters to obtain a broader indication of how we are progressing with our safety efforts. These parameters include the amount of Lost Time Injuries (LTI) and reports from various internal and external inspections, among others. 11 transits in high-risk areas with NO incidents In 2016, only four lost time injury (LTI) were reported onboard our owned fleet, and an average of 1.3 deficiencies were re10 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Our seafarers Environment Table 1: Emissions pr segment g/ton-miles Within Lauritzen Bulkers, increasing efforts are put into conAt year-end 2016, our core fleet consisted of 38 owned vesSegment Emission 2016 2015 2014 tinuously strengthening communication between our office sels and long-term time charters with an average age of 4.2 staff, seagoing personnel and technical managers to ensure years, which is considerably below the global industry averHandysize crew development and satisfaction and thus a continued high age. CO2 11.80 11.85 12.35 retention rate amongst our seafarers. Nox 0.30 0.30 0.32 We continuously endeavour to work more structured with Sox 0.19 0.20 0.21 Again in 2016, these efforts included our annual officer semiday-to-day performance analysis of both our technical and opSupramax nar attended by 70 officers as well as bimonthly newsletters erational activities with the objective of reducing emissions. CO2 8.50 8.34 9.59 distributed to both our owned and operated fleet, through We work with our internal processes and organisation to stipwhich topics related to health & safety, energy efficiency and ulate and strengthen our performance culture and increase Nox 0.22 0.21 0.25 the day-to-day work with technical and operational challenges awareness of energy efficiency onboard our vessels and Sox 0.14 0.14 0.17 were discussed. amongst our staff ashore. Total fleet CO2 10.51 11.11 11.86 We also consider Lauritzen Bulkers’ Major Disaster Assistance During 2016, efforts have been focused on data and data qualNOx 0.27 0.29 0.30 Fund important to our seafarers’ job satisfaction and commitity as a means to identify and address lower performing and ment to J. Lauritzen. The fund was set up in the wake of Tythus less energy efficient vessels in our core fleet. These efSox 0.17 0.18 0.21 phoon Yolanda, which hit the Philippines in 2013, to provide forts have included a more structured approach to collecting EMISSIONS NOTE our Filipino seafarers with financial assistance to recover any and monitoring data from vessels, as well as increased colEmission figures are reported per segment and based on acproperty damage caused by Yolanda or future natural disaslaboration with the owners of chartered vessels. tual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and ters. No seafarers applied for donations from the fund in 2016. are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Whereas our efforts regarding technical improvements can Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as During 2016, an average of 250 seafarers were working ononly be applied to our owned vessels, we also strive to optithe overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have apboard our owned fleet, and again this year, our technical manmise the operational performance of our total operated fleet of plied the operational control approach as defined in the agers upheld a high retention rate of 98% and 93%, respecbulk carriers to improve energy efficiency. Optimisation is GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our tively. achieved through continued focus on voyage optimisation, business, our economic bottom-line and our environmental day-to-day operations and weather routing. responsibility. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions Additionally, we see that the average officer sails with Lauritand include all operated vessels. zen Bulkers for approximately three years, which indicates An ongoing focus on fuel-savings, operational excellence and success in our efforts to ensure crew satisfaction and build a energy efficiency has enabled reductions of the total environsolid and loyal workforce at sea. mental footprint of our dry cargo operations over the years, and compared to 2012, we have managed to cut the relative CO2 emissions related to our transport work by 14% across our operated fleet, cf. table 1. 11 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Lauritzen Kosan Lauritzen Kosan specialises in transportation of petrochemical sider reporting on near-misses essential to improving safety and liquefied petroleum gases a segment of the shipping inmeasures and contributing to an overall safer working enviHIGHLIGHTS IN 2016 dustry characterised by complex technical and operational reronment. quirements from regulators and clients. We will continue to focus on strengthening a culture of emFleet management bracing safety until we reach our goal of incident-free opera14% cut in CO2 Technical management of our owned fleet is primarily contions and ultimately operational excellence – and with a Lost emissions since 2012 ducted in-house, and top priority is always devoted to the Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) of 0.3 in 2016, we both exceeded health and safety of our seafarers and to protection of the enour target of maximum 0.9 and remained below industry avervironment and our clients’ cargo. To ensure alignment and diage. In early January 2017, we reached an LTIF of 0 and thus rection throughout the organisation, we work strategically we had a complete year without any LTIs in our fleet. Frequency of accidents lower than target with our value proposition “Chasing Operational Excellence” amongst shore and sea personnel, and we work proactively Security LTIF of LTIF of 0.3 0.9 with regulators to ensure that we are always at the forefront of A significant part of the liquefied and petrochemical gases the regulatory framework, which is becoming increasingly decarried onboard our vessels is transported through some of manding in terms of cost and complexity. the high-risk regions of the world. The risk to our crews and clients’ cargo due to piracy or violent activity in certain parts of 2015 Target Health and safety the world has our strictest attention. Health and safety is a top priority for us and our stakeholders, and we always work to strengthen our safety culture in an enTo mitigate exposure to this type of risk, our anti-piracy counvironment often characterised by demanding circumstances. ter-measures include close internal dialogue, monitoring risk patterns and the use of external experts’ risk assessments. The seafarer retention In 2016, we integrated our Safety Management System (SMS) rate was 93.4% for into our fleet management system, which provides greater In 2016, Lauritzen Kosan had 63 transits in high-risk areas, flexibility and dynamics in our day-to-day work with safety compared to only 20 in 2015. officers and 98.4% management. This enables us to make in-time updates in the for ratings system to ensure that we are always up-to-date on current safety risks and that we continuously monitor our current safety performance. 63 transits in high-risk areas with NO We launched several campaigns at sea to increase safety incidents awareness of different high-risk areas. This included a campaign on the risks associated with entry into enclosed space, which remains an area where the industry experiences fatalities, as well as a campaign on near-miss reporting as we con12 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Table 2: Emissions pr segment g/ton-miles Our seafarers of our energy-efficiency initiatives in the ship specific Ship EnOur seafarers are our most valuable assets at sea, and without ergy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP). Segment Emission 2016 2015 2014 skilled seagoing personnel we would not be able to deliver a Ethylene safe and efficient service of highest quality. Compared to 2012, we have managed to cut the CO2 emisCO2 90.43 78.65 74.66 sions related to our transport work by more than 14% across Nox 2.31 2.01 1.92 We recognise the challenges of working at sea over longer peour operated fleet, and we continue to scrutinise our operariods of time, and thus we have strong focus on continuously tions to further limit our environmental footprint, cf. Table 2. To Sox 1.39 1.11 1.26 improving welfare on board, and we undertake various initiakeep motivation for energy efficiency efforts amongst landF/P tives to ensure well-being both on and off the job. based and sea going personnel high and to improve operaCO2 167.60 136.12 143.71 tional transparency, we work with an elaborate KPI structure NOx 4.27 3.47 3.67 During the year, we initiated competence mapping courses for which clearly outlines our progress. Sox 2.18 1.84 1.93 junior deck officers in order to identify and map any discrepancies and training needs, support a more strategic approach to In 2016, we continued the implementation and integration of S/R competence development and enable best practice sharing. different operational efficiency initiatives, including intensified CO2 108.01 98.99 101.34 weather routing efforts and strengthened communication beNOx 2.74 2.51 2.59 A fair and reasonable relationship between hours of rest and tween land and sea to increase crew awareness of energy-effiSox 1.16 0.97 1.38 hours of work on board our vessels is vital for the safety and ciency. Both initiatives were implemented via SEEMP. Total Fleet well-being of our crews, and at our biannual crew seminars, CO2 99.99 89.84 89.47 we discussed topics related to fatigue and rest hours to inFurther developments were made to our data platform and Nox 2.55 2.29 2.29 crease crew awareness of the risk related to rest hour violamost of the monitoring is now generated automatically, minitions. mising the risks of human errors when recording, reading, and Sox 1.37 1.15 1.35 logging data manually and reducing the work load on-board. EMISSIONS NOTE In 2016, we also initiated the process of strengthening the inEmission figures are reported per segment and based on acternet speed on board our vessels by installation of new hardDuring 2015-16 we carried out project assessments related to tual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and ware and software to improve connectivity and speed. We do ballast water management to help us identify and select the are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ not only expect this to increase operational effectiveness, but right system for ballast water treatment. The project will conCirc. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as also to benefit our seafarers’ well-being as it will allow more tinue into 2017, where decisions will be made regarding the the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have apfrequent communication with their families at home. choice of system in time for when the IMO Ballast Water Manplied the operational control approach as defined in the agement Convention will enter into force in September 2017. GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our Environment business, our economic bottom-line and our environmental Our commitment to minimise our environmental footprint responsibility. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions through our performance programmes remains strong. Durand include all operated vessels. ing the year, our performance management department refined our monitoring programme and has now included most FINANCIAL YEAR CHINA SPAIN 1 January 31 December J. Lauritzen Shanghai Co. Ltd. Gasnaval S.A. No. 1003 Guangfu West Road PAE Ibarrabarri HEAD OFFICE Blk 8 Level 4 Edificio A-1 J. Lauritzen A/S Putuo District, Shanghai C/Iturriondo 18 15 Tuborg Havnevej China 200063 E-48940 Leioa, Vizcaya 2900 Hellerup, Denmark Phone: +86 21 6358 0066 Spain Phone: +45 3396 8000 Fax: +86 21 6358 0077 Phone: +34 94 479 5600 Fax: +45 3396 8001 Fax: +34 94 416 7316 Website: www. j-lauritzen.com PHILIPPINES CVR: 55 70 01 17 Lauritzen Kosan Manila ROHQ Unit-B 6th Floor Glass Tower Building USA OWNER No. 115 Don Carlos Palanca Jr. Street J. Lauritzen (USA) Inc. Lauritzen Fonden Legaspi Village, Makati City 1229 4 Landmark Square, Suite 150 Tranegaardsvej 20 PHILIPPINES Stamford, CT 06901 2900 Hellerup, Denmark Tlf: +63 2 856 7929 USA Phone: +45 3396 8425 Phone: +1 203 961 8661 Questions regarding this report or J. Lauritzen’s Fax: +45 3396 8434 SINGAPORE Fax: +1 203 964 0350 Corporate Responsibility activities, please Email: lf@lauritzenfonden.com J. Lauritzen Singapore Pte. Ltd. contact: 1 Harbourfront Avenue AUDITORS #16-18 Keppel Bay Tower Dorte Rolff Ernst & Young Singapore 098632 Group General Counsel Oswald Helmuths Vej 4, Phone: +65 6275 8000 Legal, Insurance & Compliance 2000 Frederiksberg, Denmark Fax: +65 6275 7208 Phone: +45 7323 3000 Phone: +45 3396 8418 Fax: +45 7229 3377 Email: dor@j-l.com
