CSR Report 2016 Mission and Vision LibanPost is committed to providing high quality postal services and products exceeding customer expectations in reliability, accuracy, consistency, innovation and affordability, as well as generating profit and creating value for its shareholders. LibanPost has the vision to maintain the organization as one of the most developed, diversified and active postal operators in the Middle East and as one of the industry’s references around the world. Values People Leadership Integrity  he interests of the Company and •T • We all have a clear vision of •W  e work together as one •W e always act as good citizens, the individuals working in it are where we are going team, in confidence, trust, contributing to the development inseparable. Doing what is right cooperation and support of of our country and the for the business, with dedication, • We focus our resources on each other, sharing the same communities in which we live integrity and in respect of the achieving our objectives and vision and objectives across and work law, will lead to the success of are committed to delivering the departments, units, businesses LibanPost and its employees expected results despite any and geographies • We always try to do what is right obstacles or challenges •W  e will identify, attract and •W e respect our colleagues and retain the best people in their • We always strive to exceed the our customers and treat them as respective fields. We will reward expectations of our external and we would like to be treated and promote individuals based internal customers on no other consideration than • We are honest with each other their performance • We continuously search for better ways to do our job by •W  e value social, religious and increasing our efficiency and political differences in individuals productivity, improving our processes, and learning from our •W  e firmly believe that people are successes and failures and will always remain the most valuable asset of the Company Environmental Ongoing 2016 Activities Activities Activities  ecognized •R by Lebanon Opportunities’ Green Business Initiative for our commitment •R  aising awareness and acting to corporate environmental on the efficient use of water and responsibility as being one of electricity in all our offices the signatories of the Green • Organized  a competition Pledge. • Increasing the use of electrical called Environmate in bicycles for letter carriers in the partnership with the UNGC,. •S  ponsored NGO events and city It is an environmental communicated these events •U  sing Segways for letter carriers accelerator with the main in our offices. A few examples in malls objective to find, fund of 2016: Saradar Foundation, and foster young student Tareq Sikias, Heartbeat, Red •R  ecycling paper and plastic in entrepreneurs who have big Cross, Yaduna, CAP Ho and our offices in partnership with ideas that address today’s Chance Arc en Ciel most urgent energy and environmental challenges in •W  e recycle paper, plastic and •R  educing paper use by providing Lebanon. glass in all of our branches and electronic receipts headquarter in collaboration •P  urchasing environmental with ARCENCIEL. friendly raw material Human Rights Ongoing 2016 in need happy. W distributed Activities gifts and engaged in activities Activities Activities with kids from Dar el Aytam el Islamiyat and Village SOS. •W  e cover all the Lebanese  • We support different NGOs • Also  during Christmas time, we territory such as Himaya, Heart Beat, partnered with LiveLoveBeirut Children Cancer Center and •W  e have a no smoking policy on and ABC GrandCinemas to Chance all premises ditribute postal cards from customers to their loved ones, • We  participated in an online •We offer equal employment giving them a chance to donate initiative done by Himaya at opportunities regardless of to orphan organizations. region, culture, religion, and the end of 2016. We were gender (276 females – 693 males) asked to contribute with a photo showing our support •W  e provide a cafeteria open to to the children, saying “we’ve all employees with reduced and got your back”. The photo was affordable prices online and showed our support. •W  e encourage gender equality • For  International Women’s by giving women access to Day, we showed our support positions that are traditionally to our only female letter carrier reserved for men. Also, we are open to recruitment of people by sending her flowers and with disabilities depending on thanking her for all her efforts the position required • During Christmas time, we partnered with Association G to make orphans and children 2016 •O n Mother’s Day, we Labor Ongoing encouraged customers in malls to print a picture of themselves Activities Activities Activities and send it through LibanPost to their moms. It made mothers happy and showed our care. •W  e enhance employee •O n Father’s Day, kids were awareness on social responsibility asked to come surprise their •E  mployees participated in dads at work. We made it a •W  e encourage employees to the Beirut Corporate Games huge event and dads were interact with each other through of 2016: 30 employees happy to see their children football teams and other sports attended9 medals won: 3 surprise them at the workplace. tournaments (marathons and corporate games) Gold, 4 Silver and 2 Bronze • We involved our fleet in •A  football game took place in becoming advocates of •W  e continuously organize September 2016: 1 team of 12 their company by creating a internal events as well as trainings (in a category called people competition on social media and “Just 4 You”) to motivate our encouraging them to post selfies employees •E  mployees participated all over Lebanon (since they tour in the Beirut Marathon in the country to distribute mail. November 2016: around 120 Engagement was huge (reaching employees attended. We also more than 1000 likes and lots of had a booth at the marathon, comments). This motivated our offering juices and a place to letter carriers to continue on relax to racers delivering. •E  mployees participated in the Rally Paper event in April 2016 Anti-corruption Ongoing 2016 Activities Activities •Recognized for our Innovative Activities Daily Life Facilitator Service by • We issued a collection of •W  e are a trusted intermediary Euromed in Malta March 2016 stamps commemorating the between the government and Men Of Lebanese Independence. citizens, removing the need for Families of these Men were other intermediaries and using •W  orld Post and Parcel Award invited to an event we held in monitoring tools to enhance the June 2016 our Riad el Solh branch, where quality of service provided to they were honored citizens •W  e constantly issue new •L  ibanPost operates a quality stamps and commemoratives management system which and engage in philatelic complies with the requirements of activities ISO 9001:2008 certified procedure and quality assurance since 2011 •S  et system to measure performance (SLA, KPI) •P  ublic sector development. LibanPost supported the government with the public reform. We won the following awards in 2016: • For Independence Day, we
