Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Contents 04 Ι. Message from the CEO 28 V. SOCIETY 56 VIII. ENVIRONMENT 1. Economic Growth 30 1. Air Quality and Energy 58 2. Society Support 31 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste 61 3. Water and Liquid Waste 64 06 3. Responsible Procurement 34 4. Objectives 2016 35 4. Objectives 2016 65 ΙΙ. Overview 36 66 08 VI. EMPLOYEES IX. Summary 1. Human Resources 38 1. About this Report 66 2. Health and Safety 39 2. Summary Data 67 3. Equality and Diversity 41 3. Global Compact, Sustainable ΙΙΙ. Attica Group Development Goals, ISO26000 4. Training and Development 44 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry 9 and GRI Tables 73 5. Objectives 2016 45 2. About Attica Group 10 4. Glossary 79 5. Feedback Form 81 14 ΙV. MANAGEMENT 46 VII. PASSENGERS 1. Corporate Governance 16 1. Safety and Security 48 2. Corporate Responsibility 19 2. Responsible Communication 51 3. Materiality and Stakeholders 22 3. Satisfaction 52 4. Objectives 2016 27 4. Objectives 2016 54 ATTICA GROUP 3 Ι. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Dear Readers, As the economic situation in Greece continues to remain Regarding EMPLOYEES, we commit to cultivate a workplace unfavorable and challenging, we witnessed a decrease in the focused on respect, equality, safety and merit, as well as offer number of passengers and vehicles transported from the training opportunities to our employees, in order to facilitate country’s ports compared to 2014, despite an increase in the their personal and professional development. For this reason, number of tourists within 2015. we employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts. Nevertheless, at Attica Group we continue our steady pace and strive to develop our industry and the domestic economy. Our The 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report, which has been success as a constantly developing organization is directly developed according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 related to our approach to operate responsibly, following our Guidelines, displays our philosophy, our priorities and our principle to create value not only for our shareholders, but achievements related to Corporate Responsibility. However, we for all our Stakeholders as well. For this reason, we respond recognize that there are areas for improvement, since there are to our commitments in five areas of Corporate Responsibility: further issues we need to focus, in order to fully meet the needs Management, Society, Employees, Passengers and Environment. and requirements of all our Stakeholders. As a closing remark, I would like to thank everyone who contributed to achieving our Regarding MANAGEMENT, we commit to adopt responsible business objectives, within a challenging year for everyone, policies and practices in our operations and to harmoniously while at the same time following consistently our Principles. cooperate with our Stakeholders, in order to create mutual longterm value. Indicative of this commitment, is the fact that we have Have a pleasant reading, communicated relevant Codes of Conduct to all our employees. Spyridon Paschalis Regarding PASSENGERS, we commit to safeguard the health Chief Executive Officer Attica Group and safety of our passengers and offer them the best possible travel experience, in order to meet their needs and expectations during their journey. Responding to our indisputable obligation to ensure our passengers’ health and safety, we were subject to 87 inspections from local authorities onboard our vessels, for food hygiene and safety. Regarding ENVIRONMENT, we commit to integrate sustainable development in our operations and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental impact. Within this context, we invested approximately €4.3 million for programs related to environmental protection. Regarding SOCIETY, we commit to combine our business success with our country’s and partners’ development, as well as support local communities affected by our operations, in order to contribute to improving the quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. Aligned with our priority to extensively contribute to society, we increased the total value of our societal support activities by 30.3%. ATTICA GROUP 5 ΙΙ. OVERVIEW ΑΤΤΙCA GROUP 20 years of continuous presence in our Seas We operate 13 modern vessels SOCIETY We distributed over €58.7 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €56.2 million for taxes (including VAT), €15.6 million to agents (for commissions), €117.3 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services) and €1.1 million for investments We trained 83 employees of our sales network, for a total duration of 1,744 training hours MANAGEMENT We increased the total value of our societal support activities by 30.3% We have communicated a Code of Conduct to 100% of our employees We allocated 100% of sponsorships and donations to local communities No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred We collected 256 blood units through our voluntary blood donation programs No violation cases concerning our Codes in the last three years of Conduct occurred We welcomed 617 young people from We informed 100% of our employees schools and universities visiting our facilities on our anti-corruption policies and procedures We supported the development of 118 students in Merchant Navy’s officer We informed 7 Management Executives academies on legislative competition issues The percentage of procurement expenditure We increased by 88.5% the number to local suppliers reached 71.2% of GRI indicators and by 60.8% the number of quantitative indicators We increased the percentage of purchases we make reference to within the Report from rural suppliers by 9.7% 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEES We employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts 100% of employees in Director/Manager positions are of local nationality We conducted internal trainings on Health and Safety issues to 100% of marine employees The entry level wage of office and marine employees is higher than the minimum wage by 28% and 21% respectively 82.8% of our employees received their annual leave, as initially planned We increased training hours by 40.4% PASSENGERS ENVIRONMENT We conducted internal trainings on We reduced our total carbon dioxide passenger safety procedures to 100% emissions by 2.5% (equal to 18,309 of marine employees tonnes of CO2), compared to 2014 The overall performance of our vessels We produced 41,760 KWh of electricity in the Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines from renewable energy sources increased by 5% and 4% respectively We reduced the total quantity of refrigerant We were subject to 87 inspections materials used by 34.8% from local authorities for food hygiene We informed 4.3 million passengers on and safety Corporate Responsibility issues, such as We dispatched 2,262 notifications environmental protection to serve passengers with particular We used 39% recycled paper for printing requirements to our vessels, out of which and copying at our offices and vessels 257 for passengers with reduced mobility and 21 for passengers with sensitivity We reduced the paper used for commercial to allergens purposes by 20.5% We increased the members in our loyalty We transported from Islands free-of-charge and reward program by 18.9% over 179 tonnes of materials for recycling ATTICA GROUP 7 ΙΙΙ. ATTICA GROUP The leader in passenger and freight units maritime transportation in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea WE ARE 20 years of presence 800,000 vehicles annually 1.2 million miles annually in our seas (55 times around the Earth) 4 million passengers annually 13 modern vessels in our fleet 1,296 employees WE OFFER WE FOLLOW PRINCIPLES We serve over 40 destinations in Greece and abroad (on the Greece – Italy routes), through our Superfast Ferries Honest, fair and transparent transactions. and Blue Star Ferries brands, which are known PRINCIPLES for their high level of service. Quality and competence in the provision of services. Business growth and operation driven by healthy competition. Meritocracy to issues regarding employee recruitment and selection of business partners and suppliers. Respect for the environment and increased environmental awareness. Full compliance with Greek, European and international laws and regulations pertaining to our business activities. 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry About the Industry The industry demonstrates intense seasonality regarding Passenger shipping is one of the most important industries in the transportation of passengers and private vehicles, as there is higher Greek economy, as the country’s island formation requires the use transportation volume during July to September and reduced of passenger and car-passenger vessels to connect islands with the transportation volume during November to February. On the other mainland, as well as to connect Greece with Italy. hand, there is lower seasonality regarding transportation of freight units, as their transportation volume is equally distributed throughout the year. However, despite the intense seasonality and the reduced transportation volume of passengers and private vehicles during the winter season, the domestic lines maintain adequate and consistent shipping services throughout the year, in cooperation with local authorities and the relevant Ministry. Seasonality of passengers and vehicles transportation 3 January 4 7 3 February 3 6 5 March 4 7 6 April 6 10 Passengers (%) Private vehicles (%) 9 Freight units (%) May 8 9 59% 59% 10 June 8 10 40% 17 July 16 11 21 August 25 10 11 September 10 9 7 October 6 Source: Hellenic Statistical Authority 8 4 November 5 7 4 December 5 6 ATTICA GROUP 9 2. About Attica Group Who we are Our history Our Group is active in the passenger shipping industry and operates Incorporated as “General on the Cyclades, Dodecanese, North-East Aegean islands and Crete 1918 Company of Commerce and domestic routes and on the Greece – Italy routes, through our Industry of Greece” Listed on the 1924 subsidiaries and commercial brands Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Athens Stock Exchange Ferries respectively. The Group is listed on the Athens Stock Exchange, 1992 Change of ownership is a member of the international investment holding company Marfin and name to Investment Group (MIG) and its offices are located in Athens. “Attica Enterprises S.A.” Establishment of later renamed to “Attica subsidiary “Attica Enterprises Holding S.A.” Shareholder structure Maritime S.A.”, later renamed to 1993 “Superfast Ferries Maritime S.A.” Shareholder Share Order of the first Superfast MIG Shipping S.A. 77.8% Ferries in Germany, being Marfin Investment Group 11.6% first fast conventional cruise 1995 Delivery and routing of Superfast I Other Shareholders 10.6% ferries worldwide and Superfast II in the Patra Ancona route, reducing sailing Data refer to 31/12/2015. time by 40% Launch of Patra 1998 Igoumenitsa Bari route 1999 Acquisition of “Strintzis Lines Shipping S.A.” and rebranded to Blue Star Ferries Entrance in Baltic Sea 2001 market connecting Germany and Finland. Sailing time reduced Launch of the Superfast Ferries to 22h from 32-34h 2002 North Sea route between Scotland and Belgium Entrance in the RoRo 2005 market with the acquisition and routing of two RoRo vessels between Germany 2007 and Finland Marfin Investment Group (MIG) acquires majority shareholding Sale of RoRo fleet and stake of Attica Group 2008 exit from the Baltic and North Sea market Superfast ANEK Joint Venture 2011 for Ancona and Herakleio routes 2014 (2011) expanded to Bari, Venice and Chania (2014) Superfast Ferries celebrated 2015 20 years since its first journey Superfast Ferries celebrated 20 years since its first journey, in a special event onboard SUPERFAST XII for our Group’s employees, marking an important milestone for 2015. Since SUPERFAST I’s first departure 20 years of continuous presence from Patra to Ancona in 1995, Superfast Ferries has transported over in our Seas 12,000,000 passengers, 2,500,000 private vehicles and 2,500,000 freight units in Adriatic, Baltic and Northern Sea. The company’s future objectives are to expand its operations to new destinations, build new vessels and continuously offer high quality services. 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Our fleet The way we operate Our fleet consists of 13 car-passenger (ro-pax) vessels (9 Blue Star We utilize products and services from our suppliers, both for the vessels and 4 Superfast vessels), all registered in the Greek ship operation of our offices (materials, equipment, services and knowregistry, out of which 12 are privately-owned, while one is operated how), as well as for our vessels (fuels, materials and equipment). with a long-term charter contract. Specifically for the Crete and Adriatic Sea routes, our vessels jointly operate with ANEK LINES’s vessels, Passengers purchase travel services (tickets for passengers, private within the context of the ‘ANEK S.A. SUPERFAST ENDEKA (HELLAS) INC. vehicles and freight units) through our extensive sales network, which & Co. Joint Venture’. includes: The corporate websites www.bluestarferries.com and www.superfast.com, as well as mobile applications. 34 Premium Sales Agents. Port agents at every port of departure. Central reservation system linked to International Reservations Networks (such as FORTH CRS and START), which offers direct integrated services to more than 20,000 travel agencies around the world. The members of the International Union of Railways (UIC) for maritime transportation of passengers from trains (200 members from 92 countries in 5 continents). At the same time, we closely collaborate with port authorities and the local communities in the departure and arrival ports of our vessels. We operate 13 modern vessels Transportation volume 2013 2014 2015 Difference 2015-2014 Passengers (million) 3.76 4.13 4.5 +9% Private vehicles (thousand) 503.42 537.65 576.76 +7.3% Freight units (thousand) 258.82 263.96 270.39 +2.4% ATTICA GROUP 11 Our Sales Network RUSSIA NETHERLANDS UNITED KINGDOM POLAND BELGIUM GERMANY CZECH REPUBLIC AUSTRIA FRANCE SWITZERLAND PRISTINE/ KOSOVO BULGARIA F.Y.R.O.M. ITALY TURKEY GREECE CYPRUS ISRAEL In order to provide our services in 2015, we used: 10 vessels in the Domestic lines, out of which four vessels in the Piraeus-Cyclades routes, three vessels in the Piraeus-Dodecanese routes, two vessels in the Piraeus Crete routes and one vessel in the Piraeus N.E. Aegean islands route. During the summer months, we also provided transportation services to Cyclades from the port of Rafina. MYTILENE 3 vessels in the Adriatic Sea lines (Patra-Igoumenitsa Ancona and Patra-Igoumenitsa Bari, with an intermediary approach in the port of Corfu during the summer months). PSARA CHIOS PIRAEUS TINOS MYKONOS PATMOS SYROS NAXOS DONOUSA LIPSI PAROS KOUFONISIA LEROS SCHINOUSSA KALIMNOS IRAKLIA IOS AMORGOS KOS ASTYPALAIA TILOS SYMI SANTORINI ANAFI NISSYROS RHODES CHANIA HERAKLION KASTELLORIZO 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Our Value Chain Main Offices Materials Equipment Travel Services Services Know-how Information Systems Local Suppliers Passengers Ports Communities Information Travel Systems Services Sales Network Fuels Materials Equipment ATTICA GROUP 13 IV. MANAGEMENT Incorporate Responsibility into our daily Management practices WE ARE 5 pillars of Corporate 11 Stakeholder groups “C re” level Report, according to GRI G4 Responsibility Guidelines 24 quantitative objectives 66 GRI indicators in the Report in the Report WE COMMIT TO WE FOLLOW “ Adopt responsible policies and practices in our operations and Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact “ to harmoniously cooperate with our Stakeholders, in order to create mutual long-term value. PRINCIPLE Work against all forms of corruption, 10 including extortion and bribery 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 WE FOCUS Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials Water & Liquid & Solid Waste Waste Environment Human State NGOs Safety & Resources Security ENVIRONMENTAL Health IMPACT Passengers & Safety RESPONSIBLE Equality & Employees MANAGEMENT Sales Responsible Diversity Network CommuniEMPLOYMENT Shareholders VESSEL cation CONDITIONS SAFETY Media SOCIETY Training & SUPPORT Development Satisfaction Citizens Associations & Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Responsible Growth Procurement Societal Support WE ACHIEVED We have communicated No bribery incidents related No violation cases concerning a Code of Conduct to 100% to our employees occurred. our Codes of Conduct occurred. of our employees. We informed 100% of our We informed 7 Management We increased by 88.5% the number employees on our anti-corruption Executives on legislative of GRI indicators and by 60.8% the policies and procedures. competition issues. number of quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report. ATTICA GROUP 15 1. Corporate Governance We operate based on Corporate Governance practices If requested by shareholders representing 1/20 of the share capital, We have defined our corporate governance practices within our the BoD discloses remuneration and any benefits paid in the last Corporate Governance Code, which is aligned with the Hellenic two years to each BoD member or managers at the General Meeting Federation of Enterprises’ Corporate Governance Code for Listed of shareholders, unless there is substantial reasoning for nonCompanies, the relevant provisions of Greek legislation, as well as the disclosure, which is recorded in the proceedings (Law 2190/1920, general corporate governance principles applied by European Union article 39, paragraph 4). countries. The BoD is supported by the Audit Committee, which is elected by the General Meeting of shareholders and consists of two independent non-executive members and one executive member. The Committee Corporate Governance Code oversees compliance with legislation and regulatory requirements, ensures the transparency of corporate operations and evaluates the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems. According to our Internal Regulation Code, the Corporate Governance Department (whose Director reports directly to the Board of Directors) is responsible to adhere to, update and implement the Corporate Governance Code, according to the provisions of the legislation in force. Dependency Relationships for BoD Members According to our Corporate Governance Code, we consider that According to our Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Directors a dependency relationship exists for candidate and actual BoD (BoD) is responsible to decide on all strategic aspects, manage members, when the member: corporate affairs and approve the Group’s long-term strategic and Maintains business or other professional relationship with operational objectives. the Group or an affiliated company, which affects its business activity. Board of Directors Is BoD President or manager within the Group or (besides the above) executive BoD member in an affiliated company, or Name Role Executive Independent with any kind of employment or paid relationship. Member Member Is up to second-degree relative or spouse of an executive BoD Kyriakos Mageiras President member or a manager or a shareholder who holds the majority Michael Sakellis Vice-President share capital of the Group or an affiliated company. Spyridon Paschalis Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Hercules Simitsidellis Member George Efstratiadis Member Conflicts of Interests Emmanouil Xanthakis Member Alexandros Edipidis Member As described within our Corporate Governance Code, BoD mem* Data as of 29/06/2016. bers and any other person with delegated BoD responsibilities are prohibited to pursue personal interests which conflict with The Board of Directors consists between three to nine members, who business interests. In case such personal interests exist, they are elected by the General Meeting of shareholders for two years. shall inform other members for actual or potential conflict of BoD members elect the President, Vice-President and Chief Executive interests with the Group’s or any affiliated company’s interests Officer, as well as the Authorized Director, if deemed necessary. while performing their duties. In any case, the General Meeting Responsibilities of the President and the Chief Executive Officer are of shareholders is responsible to approve any action of BoD separate. members and managers on their behalf or on behalf of third At the moment, there are no processes for consultation between parties or participate as equal partners in companies which Stakeholders and the BoD on sustainability issues. pursue objectives similar to those pursued by our Group. The BoD is responsible for the Chief Executive Officer’s performance evaluation, who evaluates managers’ performance on an annual basis. Evaluation criteria include achievement of their objectives, their contribution to cultivate an excellent workplace and their personal characteristics. Remuneration for executive members is associated with the corporate strategy and achievement of pursued objectives, while remuneration for non-executive members is associated with their employment time and responsibilities, without being directly associated with business performance, in order to encourage freedom of opinion regarding taking increased business risks. 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We apply Principles and Codes of Conduct Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct: We have communicated our Accepting Gifts Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct to all office employees, who have signed for its receive and acceptance. The Code is also part of the According to the Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct, introductory material provided to new hired employees and outlines employees and first-degree relatives are strictly prohibited the principles and rules which govern all our business activities on the to directly or indirectly engage in any kind of bribery (such following topics: as giving or receiving any gift, financial incentive, loan, Confidentiality Privacy. commission, reward or other incentive) towards or from Professional Behavior: Behavior towards customers, any person, as an incentive to conduct their tasks and Behavior among colleagues. responsibilities in a non-appropriate manner. Professional Appearance. All employees are obliged to report any received gift of high Conflict of interests. value to the Human Resources Department. Corruption Bribery. In case of confirmed bribery incident, we immediately Engaging with Other Work Activities. terminate the employment relationship. Processes for Meritocracy. Transparency of Activities. Respect for Property and Provided Resources. No bribery incidents related Group Representation in Media Publications Public Views. Information Security Insider Information. to our employees occurred Report of Illegal Activities and Violations. Corporate Social Responsibility. Reporting Violations All employees with permanent and temporary employment contracts are obliged to follow the Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct, while Any employee who becomes aware of any violation of the Code non-compliance with its principles is considered as an occupational of Ethics & Professional Conduct, such as fraud, theft or any misconduct and may lead to termination of employment or even legal other illegal activity, should report the incident to his/her sanctions. It must be noted that: manager who informs the Human Resources Department or All employees can seek advice or guidance on the principles of the the Internal Audit Department, in cases of fraud or expected Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct from the Human Resources financial losses. At the same time, marine employees can Department or their Director, in case they consider that there might report potential violations through the established procedure be a conflict of interest. No such cases have been reported within for submitting complaints. It must be noted that all employees 2015. can contact the competent authorities directly for any We prohibit any manager-employee personal relationship within the violations, instead of going through the formal corporate same Department. Instead, we recommend that related employees procedures. At the moment, there is no provision for employees are employed in different Departments. to anonymously report violation cases concerning our Codes of Conduct, since all reports have to be submitted by name. Code of Conduct: We have communicated a Code of Conduct to all marine employees, which outlines main rules of professional behavior towards colleagues and customers. No violation cases concerning our Codes of Conduct occurred We have communicated a Code of Conduct to 100% of our employees ATTICA GROUP 17 We apply internal control and risk management systems We contribute to anti-corruption Internal Control: We apply an effective internal control system, in Within the context of our efforts to combat and eradicate corruption, order to comply with the legislative requirements and provide reliable we have accepted and signed the UN Global Compact’s ‘Call for Action’ financial information. The Board of Directors monitors, assesses initiative and commit to implement policies and practices to effectively and ensures the adequacy of the internal control system (including tackle corruption and bribery incidents. It must be noted that within financial statements), which includes: 2015: The Audit Committee. We made no donations to political parties in Greece. The Internal Audit Department, which reports directly to the BoD and There were no corruption incidents or pending lawsuits related to is supervised by the Audit Committee. The Department operates as corruption or relevant sanctions imposed by respective authorities. an independent body and audits functions and procedures, in order There were no legal accusations of corruption filed or pending to ensure our effective and efficient operation, as well as monitor the accusations of corruption or fines imposed. Internal Regulation Code’s implementation and enforcement. The Internal Regulation Code, which is aligned with the legal provisions regarding Corporate Responsibility (Law 3016/GG 110We informed 100% of our employees 17/05/2002, Law 3693/GG 174-25/08/2008 and Law 3873/GG 150on our anti-corruption policies 06/09/2010) and defines: Divisions’ structure, their responsibilities and the relationship and procedures with the Group’s management. Responsibilities of BoD members. Recruitment and performance evaluation process for managers. Assessment of Operations and Activities Monitoring of transactions from BoD members, managers and persons with insider information. During 2015, we assessed our operations according to the Public disclosure of significant transactions. Transparency International’s anti-corruption principles and the Principles for transactions between affiliated companies. United Nations’ Global Compact principles, in order to identify strengths and weaknesses and set priorities. Throughout the assessment, we examined: Stock Trading Monitoring Procedure Corruption issues related to our anti-corruption policies and procedures, as well as certain areas of high risk for corruption According to provisions of Law 3340/10-05-2005 (article 12) and bribery incidents. and Decision 3/347-12/07/2005 of the Hellenic Capital Market Human Rights issues in offices and vessels, which included: Commission, we have compiled a list of people with access to Health and Safety. privileged information, which is provided to the Commission upon Work hours, Salaries and Leaves. request. Within the context of transparency in our transactions, Fair Treatment. we inform each person in the list for the obligations defined by Impacts on Society. legislation, as well as potential sanctions in case of information Product / Service Stewardship. misuse. Forced Labor. Child Labor. Risk Management: We follow a comprehensive approach to categorize Discrimination. potential risks related to financial, social and environmental issues, according to their probability of occurrence and the impact on our operations. Within this context, we update the Risk Registry at least once a year, while the Board of Directors assesses these risks and approves necessary actions to address them. Through this approach, we have identified the following main risks and uncertainties that can potentially affect our financial results: Continuous recession of the Greek economy and the reduction in the available income. Fluctuation of fuel prices. Intense competition in domestic and abroad shipping lines. Seasonality of operations due to tourism. Need to maintain sufficient liquidity. Restrictions imposed by capital controls. 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We follow fair competition rules We are committed to comply with the applicable international and We informed 7 Management Executives national legislation, follow fair competition rules and do not adopt on legislative competition issues practices which violate them. Within this context: We do not make negative comments about our competitors publicly. We do not enter new markets and customer segments as a result of concluded agreements with competitors. We do not adhere to cartel agreements for price fixing or market sharing. We do not allow our employees to discuss future plans that are not publicly known or salary issues, as well comment about our vessels or competitors. We conduct ad-hoc briefings on legislative competition issues for our Management Executives. Within 2015: There was one complaint filed to the Hellenic Competition Commission for anti-competitive behavior on behalf of one Group company from We comply with legislation an applicant ticket sale agent, who did not received the respective As our main goal is to comply with the regulatory and legal framework sale license. The complaint is currently pending and is expected to be we operate within, we closely monitor the provisions related to our rejected as unfounded. activities. It must be noted that within 2015, there were no significant There were no relevant fines or other sanctions imposed by the fines (over €20,000) or other sanctions imposed by respective respective authorities. authorities. 2. Corporate Responsibility We utilize appropriate organizational structures Responsible Company To manage topics related to our responsible operation, we have created an organizational structure, as described in the figure below. This According to the results of 133 telephone interviews between Noorganizational structure is also used to collect data, which are used vember-December 2015, 89.3% of local authority members and internally to evaluate our performance, and Stakeholders to do the same. 97% of employees believe we are more responsible as a company, Managing Corporate Responsibility compared to other companies in the passenger shipping industry. Level ATTICA GROUP Corporate Responsibility Our approach to Corporate Responsibility aims to align Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer our business operations with the needs of society and the environment. Therefore, we design and implement initiatives to prevent potential negative impacts due to our operations Management Corporate Responsibility Team: and respond to opportunities through interaction with our Legal & Corporate Affairs Stakeholders. Department Sales & Marketing Department Human Resources Department Marine Operations & Technical Department At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has the overall responsibility for Corporate Responsibility issues, including principles, policies and objectives. At Management level, the Corporate Responsibility Team is responsible to coordinate our overall Corporate Responsibility strategy. The Team consists of executives from the Legal & Corporate Affairs Department, the Sales & Marketing Department, the Human Resources Department and the Marine Operations & Technical Department and cooperates with other Departments, in order to diffuse practices related to responsible operation. ATTICA GROUP 19 Global Compact Principles Corporate Responsibility Review Our commitment to the 10 Principles of the United Nations’ Within 2015, we reviewed our performance in four areas of Global Compact is associated with our belief that we should Corporate Responsibility (society, labor practices and human contribute to address current social and environmental rights, marketplace, environment), in order to: challenges. Therefore, we have included their acknowledgement Identify and record policies, actions and results in main and acceptance to our Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct, Corporate Responsibility issues. in order to further integrate them in the way we operate. Identify strengths and weaknesses. Determine main areas to further focus on. As a result, we assessed our performance related to policies, ‘European Enterprise Manifesto 2020’ actions and results as moderate, good and fair respectively, and we also determined our strategic focus on Corporate In 2015, we signed the European Enterprise Manifesto 2020, part Responsibility issues, which include: of the joint initiative ‘Enterprise 2020’ of the Hellenic Network Comprehensively manage Corporate Responsibility issues. for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas), the European Retain and develop our human resources. Business Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Reduce our environmental impact. Europe) and 42 CSR Networks across Europe. The Manifesto Responsibly manage our suppliers. promotes cooperation and initiatives in three strategic areas: Promote transparency and protect human rights. Enhance employability and social inclusion. Promote new sustainable production and consumption methods, as well as improve living conditions. We operate based on Management Systems Increase transparency and respect for human rights. We use the following certified Management Systems for our business operations, in order to respond to long-term challenges: International Safety Management (ISM) Code. ISO 9001 Quality Management System. ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System (contractors). HACCP Food Hygiene and Safety Management System (contractors). SAP Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP). We are members in national and international organizations We are members in the following institutions and organizations: INTERFERRY. High Level Ferry Group of the ECSA (European Community Shipowners' Associations). Greek Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships (SEEN). The VicePresident of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are President of BoD and Vice-President of International Routes in the BoD of SEEN. Hellenic Chamber of Shipping (HCS). The Vice-President of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are BoD Members of HCS. Greek Tourism Confederation (SETE). Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas). Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association (HELMEPA). Travel Technology Initiative. Sustainable Mobility Group of the International Union of Railways (UIC). EURAIL Group GIE. United Nations’ Global Compact. 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Our efforts are recognized We consider the recognition of our efforts related to Corporate Responsibility as an important moral award, which also highlights our commitment to continue our relevant practices and initiatives. In 2015, we were proud to receive: The ‘True Leader’ award in ICAP Group’s ‘True Leaders 2015’ as the leading company in the passenger shipping industry and among the business groups with the highest number of employees. A double distinction in Ethos Media S.A.’s Apps Awards 2015, receiving: The Gold Award in the ‘Best Tourism and Travel app’ category for the ‘Blue Star Bookings’ mobile applications, which informs users for all scheduled routes and ticket prices of Blue Star Ferries and allows them to book and purchase their tickets online. The Silver Award in the ‘Best Tourism and Travel app’ category for the ‘Blue Star Islands’ mobile applications, which provides users with useful information and photographs of Greek islands and enables them to network and chat with other users. The Silver Award in Energy Mastering Awards 2015 in the ‘Energy Efficiency Management – Public Transportation’ category, for our ‘Blue Star Ferries Innovative Renewable Energy Sources’ project, which featured the pilot installing and operating a photovoltaic panel unit onboard Blue Star Delos. ATTICA GROUP 21 3. Materiality and Stakeholders We identify Material Topics We have created the following Corporate Responsibility Framework, as a result of an internal analysis and interaction with our Stakeholders, in order to systematically organize and manage Corporate Responsibility issues. Corporate Responsibility Framework Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials Water & Liquid & Solid Waste Waste Environment Human State NGOs Safety & Resources Security ENVIRONMENTAL Health IMPACT Passengers & Safety Employees RESPONSIBLE Equality & MANAGEMENT Sales Responsible Diversity Network CommuniEMPLOYMENT Shareholders VESSEL cation CONDITIONS SAFETY Media SOCIETY Training & SUPPORT Development Satisfaction Citizens Associations & Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Responsible Growth Procurement Societal Support In each one of the areas of Corporate Responsibility, we focus on Material Topics, identified through a respective Materiality Analysis, during which: We identified potential topics, based on the industry’s regulatory framework, current global conditions and practices and future trends, developing a pool of over 90 topics to be considered. We analyzed the associated risk for each topic, based on: Their potential impact (for our Stakeholders). Their probability of occurrence. We utilized our Stakeholders’ expectations as far as our responsible operation is concerned, by taking into consideration their input from relevant surveys we conducted. We combined the associated risk and Stakeholders’ expectations for each topic. 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 The Materiality Analysis was approved by the Corporate Responsibility Team and the Chief Executive Officer, who also approved the current Report. Through this Analysis, we have identified the following Material Topics for 2015 (all Topics that were not deemed Material are not referenced in detail): Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis High Sea Pollution Vessel Safety Vessel Responsible Buying Accident Impact Vessel Work Conditions Responsible Communication Risk (impact on Materiality) & Sales Anti-competitive Behavior Fuel Spills & Leakages Energy Use CO2 Emissions Labor Relations Effluent Handling at Sea Responsible Buying Products & Services Affordability Supplier Assessment for Local Buying Labor Practices Waste Handling Products & Services Quality Supplier Human Rights Equality & Fairness Vessel Health & Safety Assessment Rippling Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Passenger Satisfaction Water Consumption Products & Services Health & Safety Hazardous Waste Job Security Employee Training Material Consumption In Human Rights Effluent Handling at Land SO2, NOX & PM Emissions Community Impact Corporate Volunteering Donation & Sponsoring Sea Biodiversity Management Environmental Investment Society Training & Development Office Work Conditions Land Biodiversity & Land Use Employees Noise Pollution and Air Quality Passengers Environment Refrigerants Use (ODP) Low Environmental Grievances Environmental Compliance Material Topics of high importance Material Topics of medium importance Material Topics of moderate importance Non-Material Topics Low Expectations (concern to Stakeholders) High ATTICA GROUP 23 We interact with Stakeholders The way we operate, as well as decisions, affect a wide range of Within 2015, we identified our Stakeholders’ expectations related to our people, groups and organizations, who comprise our Stakeholders. The responsible operation, mainly through surveys that included: following table describes our Stakeholder groups, which influence or are A Greek Domestic Lines Survey, with personal interviews to influenced by our operations, the methods we apply to continuously 2,300 passengers (in the Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines) and communicate and interact with them, the main topics raised by them, 200 professional drivers (in the Adriatic Sea lines) between Mayas well as the sections within our Report, where we respond to these September 2015. topics. A Quantitative Corporate Responsibility Survey, with telephone interviews to 133 employees and 57 local authority members between November-December 2015. A Qualitative Corporate Responsibility Survey, with 29 individual interviews to employees, local authority members and passengers between November-December 2015. Stakeholder Engagement Methods of interaction through Main issues of interest Stakeholder continuous activities (reference in Report) DIRECT Qualitative and Quantitative Corporate Responsibility Job Security (VI-1) Survey (annually) Training & Development (VI-4) EMPLOYEES Events / Meetings Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2) Training Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Performance Appraisal Equality & Fairness (VI-3) Negotiations with Employee Unions Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Employee Training In Human Rights (VI-4, V-2) Vessel Safety (VII-1) General Meeting of Shareholders Community Impact (V-2) Websites SHAREHOLDERS Meetings Corporate Responsibility (IV-2) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Corporate Governance (IV-1) Qualitative Corporate Responsibility Survey (annually) Vessel Safety (VII-1) Greek Domestic Lines Survey (annually) Products & Services Quality (VII-1) Customer Services and Loyalty Division Products & Services Health & Safety (VII-1) PASSENGERS Websites Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Satisfaction / Complaints Questionnaires Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) Social media Passenger Satisfaction (VII-3) Information leaflets Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Events / Meetings Vessel Safety (VII-1) Information systems Products & Services Quality (VII-1) SALES NETWORK Travel agents’ online portal Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) Websites Passenger Satisfaction (VII-3) Supplier evaluation Responsible Buying (V-3) SUPPLIERS Meetings Local Buying (V-3) Contracts INDIRECT STATE Discussion with representatives at local and national level Vessel Safety (VII-1) (e.g. Ministries, Meetings / Presentations Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Local Authorities, Participation in organizations and associations Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) Public Services, Vessel inspections Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Port Authorities) Formal communication Corporate Governance (IV-1) Participation in associations ASSOCIATIONS & UNIONS Vessel Safety (VII-1) Meetings / Presentations (e.g. Industry Associations, Products & Services Quality (VII-1) Discussion with representatives at local and national level Hoteliers’ Associations) Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Formal communication 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Methods of interaction through Main issues of interest Stakeholder continuous activities (reference in Report) INDIRECT Community Impact (V-2) Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) CO2 Emissions (VIII-1) Effluent Handling (VIII-3) Qualitative and Quantitative Corporate Responsibility Waste Handling (VIII-2) LOCAL COMMUNITIES Survey (annually) Hazardous Waste (VIII-3) (e.g. islands) Meetings / Presentations SO2, NOx and PM Emissions (VIII-1) Local events and programs Noise Pollution and Air Quality (VIII-1) Environmental Grievances (VIII-1) Environmental Compliance (VIII-1) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) Corporate Volunteering (V-2) Vessel Safety (VII-1) Products & Services Quality (VII-1) Energy Use (VIII-1) Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Websites Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) CITIZENS Social media CO2 Emissions (VIII-1) Material Consumption (VIII-2) Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) Effluent Handling (VIII-3) Waste Handling (VIII-2) Water Consumption (VIII-3) Sea Biodiversity (VIII-3) Land Biodiversity & Land Use (VIII-3) NON-GOVERNMENTAL Collaborations Noise Pollution and Air Quality (VIII-1) ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs) Meetings / Presentations Refrigerants Use (ODP) (VIII-1) Environmental Grievances (VIII-1) Environmental Compliance (VIII-1) Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Equality & Fairness (VI-3) Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Vessel Safety (VII-1) Products & Services Quality (VII-1) Community Impact (V-2) Press releases Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) MEDIA Press conferences Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) Websites Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) ATTICA GROUP 25 State Le NGOs v el of Co Environment nt ro l Citizens Local ComEmployees Sales Passengers munities Shareholders Network Suppliers Media Associations and Unions 26 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We focus on quantitative data and results We focus to continuously include and publish more quantitative indicators and objectives, in order to respond to our Stakeholders’ requirement for greater transparency and their need to be able to evaluate our performance. Quantitative data within the Corporate Responsibility Report 185 56 2015 10 24 115 35 2014 0 We increased by 88.5% the number of GRI 0 indicators and by 60.8% the number of 85 quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report 37 2013 11 0 Quantitative indicators (number) Fully covered GRI indicators (number) Partially covered GRI indicators (number) Objectives (number) 4. Objectives 2016 We aim By To restructure the Group’s Management and Organizational structure. 2016 To create a Quality Assurance and Environment Department. 2016 To train the Corporate Responsibility Team in Report development. 2016 To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process on issues related to Corporate Responsibility. 2017 To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s responsibilities within its members’ formal job descriptions. 2017 To conduct trainings or briefings related to the Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct. 2017 ATTICA GROUP 27 V. SOCIETY We support prosperity of Society WE ARE €277.6 million turnover 88% economic value €2.1 million social contribution distributed 84,764 free and discount tickets 82 blood units from volunteer blood donators WE COMMIT TO WE FOLLOW “ Combine our business Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact success with our country’s and partners’ development, as well as support local communities affected PRINCIPLE Support and respect protection by our operations, in order to 1 of internationally proclaimed “ human rights contribute to improving the quality PRINCIPLE of life and prosperity of our Ensure not to be complicit 2 in human rights abuses society in general. PRINCIPLE Eliminate all forms of forced 4 and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5 Abolish effectively child labour PRINCIPLE Promote greater environmental 8 responsibility 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 WE FOCUS Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials Water & Liquid & Solid Waste Waste Environment Human State NGOs Safety & Resources Security ENVIRONMENTAL Health IMPACT Passengers & Safety RESPONSIBLE Equality & Employees MANAGEMENT Sales Responsible Diversity Network CommuniShareholders EMPLOYMENT VESSEL cation CONDITIONS SAFETY Media SOCIETY Training & SUPPORT Development Satisfaction Citizens Associations & Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Responsible Growth Procurement Societal Support WE ACHIEVED We distributed over €58.7 million We increased the total value of our We supported the development to employees (for salaries, benefits societal support activities by 30.3%. of 118 students in Merchant and insurance payments), €56.2 Navy’s officer academies. million for taxes (including VAT), €15.6 million to agents (for commisWe allocated 100% of sponsorships sions), €117.3 million to suppliers and donations to local communities. The percentage of procurement (for purchases of goods and services) expenditure to local suppliers and €1.1 million for investments. reached 71.2%. We collected 256 blood units through our voluntary blood donation We trained 83 employees of our sales programs in the last three years. We increased the percentage of network, for a total duration of 1,744 purchases from rural suppliers by 9.7%. training hours. We welcomed 617 young people from schools and universities visiting our facilities. ATTICA GROUP 29 1. Economic Growth We achieve financial results With over 90 years presence in Greece, we achieve positive financial results, which are indicatively presented below for the years 2013-2015 (additional financial information can be found in our Annual Financial Reports at www.attica-group.com). Financial results 2013 2014 2015 Turnover (total sales with VAT) (million €) 260.16 266.66 277.63 Operating costs (million €) NR 193.6 174.09 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (million €) 27.15 42.35 80.7 Profits after taxes (million €) (10.13) 4.27 33.18 Corporate taxes (thousand €) 54 148 69 Total taxes (including VAT and port taxes) (million €) 45.46 48.35 56.21 Payments to suppliers (million €) 148.13 145.63 117.38 Cost of employees (including salaries, benefits and insurance payments) (million €) 58.09 55.53 58.7 Commissions to agents (million €) 18.33 16.09 15.67 Investments (million €) 0.42 37.73 1.15 Economic value distributed (%) 100 98.4 88.05 Economic value retained (%) 0 1.6 11.95 NR: Not reported The improved 2015 financial results can primarily be attributed to Economic value distribution reduced operating costs, as a result of: Efficient management of vessel routes, which improved transportation volume per route and resulted in significant fuel s** savings. Taxe illion Reduced fuel prices. .2 m s €56 lier n Efforts to reduce operating expenses. pp illio Su .3 m 17 €1 Agents It must be noted that during 2015, the total financial compensation received from the Greek State and financial support from the European Turnover Union amounted to €16.47 million, due to: € 277.6 Public service contracts awarded, as Blue Star Ferries participated €15.6 million million in open public tenders by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy Inv to operate shipping routes which connect remote islands with the €1 estm mainland. .15 en Emp mi ts llio €58 loyees* Contribution of Blue Star Ferries in refugee related programs operated n by the Hellenic Republic. .7 m Our Group’s participation in programs funded by the European Union. illion *The amount refers to gross salaries, benefits and insurance payments. **The amount refers to total taxes, including VAT. We contribute to economic growth Our business operations ensure we return significant economic value back to our Stakeholders, mostly through purchases (towards our We distributed over €58.7 million suppliers), commissions (towards our agents), salaries, benefits and to employees (for salaries, benefits insurance payments (towards our employees), taxes (towards the and insurance payments), €56.2 million State) and investments. for taxes (including VAT), €15.6 million to agents (for commissions), €117.3 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services) and €1.1 million for investments 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We help our sales network develop The current challenging economic situation in the local market makes every effort to create direct and indirect job positions particularly important. Therefore, we contribute to our network’s commercial success by developing their employees’ skills, through: Training on issues, such as: Customer management. Familiarization with new features of existing reservation programs. Familiarization with new reservation programs. Presentations-briefings for new products and services. We trained 83 employees of our sales network, for a total duration of 1,744 training hours 2. Society Support Societal Support Activities According to a survey conducted to 36 local authority members, providing free and discount tickets is the Group’s most widely known societal support activity, especially regarding sport events and teams (39%), support of local communities (33%) and cultural events (22%). We support society Within the context of our wide societal contribution, we supported over We increased the total value of our societal 50 charitable and non-charitable organizations in 2015, focusing on support activities by 30.3% local communities of islands we serve, through: Provision of discount and free tickets. Donations to charitable organizations through collection boxes in our Society support vessels. Programs and initiatives to improve the life of residents in islands. Monetary sponsorships and donations. 2015 2,186,348 84,764 It is estimated that during 2015, we offered over €56,000 to various social groups and sport associations, out of which over €22,000 to charitable organizations, with the following indicative examples: 1,677,153 2014 The Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses. 85,757 Sport Associations, such as Kolossos Rhodes BC and Kalloni FC. The educational and cultural programme ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’. 1,139,258 2013 50,329 Social contribution Value of societal support activities (€) 2013 2014 2015 Free and discount tickets (number) Value of discount and free tickets (€) 1,109,258 1,599,431 2,115,612 Value of donations from passengers Sponsorships and donations to charitable organizations through 1.8% collection boxes in vessels (€) NR 4,641 3,634 Cultural Sports Value of implemented programs Social 0% Environmental and initiatives (€) NR 15,446 11,000 Other 16.9% Value of sponsorships and donations (€) 30,000 57,635 56,102 44.8% NR: Not reported 36.5% ATTICA GROUP 31 Provision of Discount or Free Tickets Donations to Charitable Organizations We offer discount or free tickets to various NGOs, associations, As part of our contribution to sensitive and underprivileged local authorities and communities, in order for them to attend social groups, we support various charitable organizations sport, cultural or educational activities outside their islands or which: local activities and events. Indicative examples include: Are committed to support children, especially children with The Naxos Festival ‘Aion’. disabilities. The Paros Summer School, organized by the University of the Have limited resources. Aegean. Therefore, we place collection boxes at the Reception desks The Patmos International Film Festival 2015. onboard our vessels with the name of the supported organization The Syros International Aegean Festival 2015. indicated, in order to collect donations from passengers. Each The 2nd Child and Puppet Theatre Festival in Crete. month, we gather these donations and deposit them into the The European Music Day. organization’s bank account. The Hermes cup 2015 tournament for academies in Syros. The activities of Syros Anima Festival. Within this context, we supported the following charitable The Rhodes Marathnon. organizations in 2015: The 27th Meeting of the Aegean Amateur Theatrical Groups. Smile of the Child. Amnesty International. It is estimated that during 2015, we offered approximately 84,764 Lions Club Rhodes, to support hospitals and Health Centers discount and free tickets for sport, cultural and educational in small islands. activities and additionally benefitted thousands of citizens who Furthermore, we collaborate with the 2 Blue Tomatoes company participated or attended those events and activities. to sell t-shirts in vessel shops, which feature unique and original printed stamps which promote local traditional foods and recipes. The total value of 187 units sold in vessel shops First Aid Training Courses reached €3,647 and 2 Blue Tomatoes offered part of their revenues to the non-profit organization ‘Desmos’ (http:// In collaboration with the Volunteer Crisis Rescue Team (EDOK), desmos.gr), to support the organization to create sustainable we organize First Aid Training Courses for residents in local solidarity networks and cultivate social and humanitarian islands, in order to: responsibility. Provide First Aid assistance in cases of injuries. Respond to emergency situations. Create local rescue teams composed of permanent local ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ residents. Following the first training courses to 120 people in Tilos and To ensure participation of small island residents in educational Amorgos in 2014, we organized training courses in Paros and and cultural events, we supported the ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ Santorini within 2015, with the participation of 197 people. programme for the 9th consecutive year, which is the largest educational and cultural program of remote Aegean islands. The programme featured approximately 10 creative workshops (such as Robotics, Pottery, Puppet Theatre, Jewelry, Kung Fu, Guitar, Piano and Violin) in Patmos, Iraklia, Leipsoi, Koufonisi, Amorgos and Schinoussa, with the participation of approximately 228 children and 56 adults. 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Support to Underprivileged Social Groups ‘Blood Ties’ An important aspect of our social contribution is our collaboration Since 2009, we implement a voluntary blood donation program with NGOs, specialized authorities and organizations to support called ‘Blood Ties’, in order to respond to needs of remote various social groups in need. Since September 2012, we support Greek island residents and to personal emergencies of our the Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses, to provide meals to employees and their families. Within 2015, we implemented two sensitive social groups, by purchasing required raw materials for voluntary blood donation programs at our offices and vessels, food rations. in cooperation with the ‘G. Gennimatas’ General Hospital, and gathered in total 82 blood units, all of which were utilized for our employees’ needs. Provision of meals to underprivileged citizens Voluntary blood donation 15,000 2015 Value of raw materials 22,000 purchased (€) 2015 82 Corresponding food rations We collected 256 (number) blood units through 2014 69 2014 16,250 our voluntary blood 23,900 2013 donation programs 105 in the last three 41,000 Blood units (number) years 2013 60,000 We support professional growth of young people We focus on educational contribution and supporting professional growth of young people, as we: Welcome students from schools and universities, in order to inform We allocated 100% of sponsorships them about career prospects in the shipping industry and employment and donations to local communities opportunities in the passenger shipping industry, as well as promote their environmental awareness. At the same time, we actively participated in efforts to assist refugees, Participate in student internship programs of the Merchant Navy’s as Blue Star Ferries chartered a vessel to the Greek government and officer academies (for Engine and Deck cadets), who are required to transported over 61,000 refugees from the Eastern Aegean islands to successfully complete a one-year internship onboard a vessel prior the mainland within 2015. to their graduation, in order to familiarize themselves with their future tasks. Implement internship programs for university students and graduates, We cultivate the importance of volunteer contribution in order to acquire professional experience and develop skills and We believe that it is our responsibility to cultivate the importance competencies which advance their personal and professional of volunteer contribution to our employees, in order to integrate the development. concept of responsibility in their behavior. Participate in employment programs for unemployed young people organized by the Manpower Employment Organization (OAED), in Employee participation in Societal Support Activities order to train them and acquire professional experience, as well as fill potential job openings. 148 2015 11.6 We welcomed 617 young people from schools and universities visiting our facilities 178 138 We supported the development of 118 2014 11.5 students in Merchant Navy’s officer academies 312 163 2013 18.5 234 Employee volunteers (number) Employee volunteers participation (%) Volunteering hours (number) ATTICA GROUP 33 We care for the impact of our operations To transform our commitment towards society into practice, we ensure We have developed a ‘Crisis Communication Plan’, in order to ensure that our operations do not have significant actual or potential negative seamless information flow during emergencies and responsible impacts on local communities. For this reason: communication to interested parties, beyond what is already specified We strive to minimize the potential impacts on local communities, within the ISM crisis and emergencies management Code. through practices such as maintaining reduced speeds within ports and complying with legislation regarding port emissions, as well as It must be noted that, within 2015: monitor and assess our security system. Only minor accidents occurred within our vessels, except for one We conduct security risk assessments when deemed necessary, which incident of damages in SUPERFAST II’s cargo, due to extreme weather include human rights violation risk by security employees. conditions. We outline tasks related to security in job descriptions. We did not receive any complaints regarding impact on society. We design and implement corrective actions in cases of potential No relevant significant fines (over €20,000) were imposed. negative impacts due to our operations, through regular trainings to marine employees on procedures such as the Emergency Plan, which includes measures to deal with negative impacts (e.g. pollution). 3. Responsible Procurement The percentage We give priority to local suppliers Purchases and suppliers of procurement Our suppliers are over 1,130 throughout Greece and abroad, with 74.3% of them being local suppliers. Based on their turnover, we consider 108 expenditure to local of them as major suppliers, out of which 85 are local suppliers. 1,130 suppliers reached 2015 924 71.2% Supplier categories 71.2 2.6% Shipping fuels and lubricants 2,100 Vessel repairs, spare parts and 8% consumables 2014 849 Agency services 6.9% Port services 28.3 General services and products Insurance services 9.1% 2013 50.6% 1,029 850 22.8% 27.5 Suppliers (number) Local suppliers (number) In order to support local market development, we conducted 74.3% Procurement expenditure to Local suppliers (%) of total purchases through local suppliers, while the percentage of We increased procurement expenditure to local suppliers reached 71.2% in 2015, the percentage compared to 28.3% in 2014. of purchases from rural suppliers Allocation of purchases per region by 9.7% Abroad (%) 2015 25.7 62.5 11.8 Local Urban (%) Local Rural (%) 2014 18.9 79 2.1 2013 17.4 78.1 4.5 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Indicating our commitment to meet our contractual obligations The performance evaluation process utilizes specific criteria in four regarding payments to suppliers, in 2015: areas, based on which we approve our suppliers: The average supplier payment time remained at 120 days, as in 2014. Quality. 100% of payments were made according to the terms in our contractual Cost. agreements. Availability. Service Support Adaptability. We responsibly select our suppliers As our suppliers play an integral part of our operations and impact It must be noted that: our activities, we fully acknowledge our moral obligation to positively For each tender we require at least three offers, except for direct influence our supply chain and monitor our suppliers’ responsible selection cases, either because they exactly match our technical operation. specifications or only one unique supplier exists. Prior to our collaboration we assess the performance of new For this reason, a Quality Assurance & Environment Questionnaire is suppliers, according to available and applicable criteria. Within 2015, sent to suppliers, which documents and assesses issues, such as: we initiated collaboration with 307 new suppliers. Food safety assurance, from production to consumption (use of ISO We utilize all above criteria for exclusive representatives of 22000). manufacturing companies, although we do not discontinue our Development and implementation of a quality management system collaboration, since there is no option to substitute. (use of ISO 9001). We inform suppliers with low scores they need to improve their Processes to identify and manage environmental impacts (ISO performance, in order to continue our collaboration, as they will 14001). otherwise be rejected. Processes to manage defective and returned products. We immediately re-evaluate a supplier’s performance and proceed Processes to purchase raw materials. with necessary actions in case a supplier provides unsuitable or dangerous products, demonstrates unethical behavior or does not So far, we have not identified any significant actual or potential negative fulfill our cooperation agreement. environmental, labor practices and human rights impacts or impacts We select suppliers for materials or services among approved on society throughout our supply chain. Furthermore, we evaluate our suppliers, based on the performance evaluation conducted. It must suppliers performance with an annual spending of over €10,000 at be noted that we send product samples to a certified laboratory least once a year. two to three times per year, in case we cannot determine whether product specifications match the ones agreed with the supplier, in order to analyze and verify their specifications. Responsible Vessel Buying Our main goal is to collaborate with renowned and modern shipyards to buy and build new vessels, following the most recent and highest safety regulations, without however ignoring potential future safety regulations, which may affect their operation. At the same time, we focus on vessels’ energy efficiency and strive to implement innovative technologies. Regarding vessel buying: Our respective divisions conduct thorough assessments of features and aspects. Our representatives conduct onboard inspections and we seek assistance from external authorities (such as consultants and classification societies), if deemed necessary. 4. Objectives 2016 We aim By To establish a single Procurement Process. 2016 To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. 2016 To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, including selection criteria to become a supplier. 2017 ATTICA GROUP 35 VI. EMPLOYEES We establish positive Employment Conditions WE ARE 1,296 employees 12.6% women 100% of employees with full time employment contracts 1,240 training hours 100% of employees subject to additional benefits WE COMMIT TO WE FOLLOW “ Cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, safety and merit, as well as offer training opportunities to our Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact “ PRINCIPLE employees, in order to facilitate Support and respect protection of their personal and professional 1 internationally proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLE development. Ensure not to be complicit in human 2 rights abuses PRINCIPLE Recognize freedom of association 3 and right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory 4 labour PRINCIPLE Abolish effectively child labour 5 PRINCIPLE Eliminate discrimination in respect to 6 employment and occupation 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 WE FOCUS Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials Water & Liquid & Solid Waste Waste Environment Human State NGOs Safety & Resources Security ENVIRONMENTAL Health IMPACT Passengers & Safety Employees RESPONSIBLE Equality & MANAGEMENT Sales Responsible Diversity Network CommuniEMPLOYMENT Shareholders VESSEL cation CONDITIONS SAFETY Media SOCIETY Training & SUPPORT Development Satisfaction Citizens Associations & Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Responsible Growth Procurement Societal Support WE ACHIEVED We employ 100% of our employees We conducted internal trainings 82.8% of our employees received with full time employment on Health and Safety issues to 100% their annual leave, as initially contracts. of marine employees. planned. 100% of employees in Director/ The entry level wage of office We increased training hours Manager positions are of local and marine employees is higher than by 40.4%. nationality. the minimum wage by 28% and 21% respectively. ATTICA GROUP 37 1. Human Resources We sustain job positions Human Resources Our business success is directly associated to our employees, therefore our main goal is to create job positions and career opportunities, as well as lessen unemployment. Our business activity supports hundreds of 1,296 indirect job positions throughout our value chain and the passenger 2015 169 shipping industry in general. It must be noted there are seasonal variations in employment numbers onboard our vessels, as the 263 number of marine employees during spring and summer months was higher by 16.2% compared to the autumn and winter months (1,115 1,192 employees compared to 959). 2014 105 134 Employees (number) Turnover (number) New hires (number) Human Resources Employment Type Permanent Temporary Full time Part time 218 (16.8%) Employees (number) 1,078 (207 marine employees) 1,296 0 (20 women) Gender Female Male Employees (number) 164 1,132 Age <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 158 961 177 Categories Nationalities Disabilities Foreigners Number 2 0 5 Education Level Public School – High School Academic Education Postgraduate Education Employees (number) 920 344 32 New Hires Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 22 241 114 130 19 Permanent Turnover Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 21 148 84 72 13 Permanent Turnover Permanent Resignations Permanent Redundancies Other Turnover reason (%) 89.9 7.7 2.4 Employment Tenure <5 years 5-10 years >10 years Employees (%) 19.4 48.9 31.7 Working Place Offices Vessels Employees (number) 181 1,115 Hierarchy Chief Executive Officer / Top Management Directors/Managers Employees Total Employees (number) 21 87 1,188 1,296 *Data for vessels refer to 31/08/2015. We employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 It must be noted that: The average age of office and marine employees is 42 and 37 years respectively. The average employment tenure for office and marine employees is 13 and 9 years respectively, and the employment onboard our vessels for 100% of employees in marine employees is 8 months. Director/Manager The permanent turnover rate of office employees was 6% (out of which 5.5% redundancies and 0.5% resignations) and 4% for marine employees positions are of local (out of which 1% redundancies and 3% resignations). nationality The permanent turnover rate of marine employees prior to completing 12 months of employment was 3%, without any respective office employees. The permanent turnover rate of female office employees compared to male office employees is lower by 20%. The majority of our employees are from Attica and the percentage of marine employees from local islands is 16.6%. The number of freelance professionals working within the Group during 2015 was 2. 2. Health and Safety We ensure Health and Safety onboard our vessels Our main commitment is to create a safe work environment for our Do not include Health and Safety issues in our employment contracts, marine employees. Therefore, we: since respective issues are covered by national or industry collective Comply with applicable laws and relevant Health and Safety agreements and international hygiene, accommodation and safety regulations, as described in the ISM Code and the Maritime Labour agreements, which have been incorporated in the relevant national Convention (MLC). legislation. Have established Quality, Safety and Hygiene Committees in all Require marine employees to hold competency certificates vessels, which consist of all managers and represent all marine in training areas regarding vessel safety, rescue equipment, employees. The Committees discuss Health and Safety issues and firefighting and first aid, prior to their employment onboard our notify the Group regarding their findings. vessels, in accordance with the respective legislation. At the same time, we encourage them to regularly renew their certificates, in order to continuously adjust to the relevant legal requirements. Continuously train our marine employees on Health, Hygiene and Safety issues and response to emergency situations. Provide the necessary personal protective equipment to all marine employees and monitor its proper use. Ensure proper employment conditions, such as temperature, ventilation, lighting and sanitation. Record and monitor accidents and Health and Safety incidents, in order to take corrective actions and eliminate respective risks. Replace immediately injured and sick marine employees with other employees to cover their position onboard. Record and investigate vessel accidents with no injuries, in order to improve our Health and Safety procedures. No such accidents have occurred within 2015. ATTICA GROUP 39 We ensure Health and Safety in offices Besides creating a safe work environment for marine employees, Conducted office evacuation exercises every six months. we are also committed to ensure Health and Safety for our office Installed loudspeaker system to signal evacuation in emergency employees. Within this context, we have: situations. Developed a comprehensive Security Measures Plan for offices. Ensured that emergency exits are clear of obstructions and are Created an Safety & Security Division, which is responsible to clearly marked. properly implement security measures. Installed anti-slip membranes in staircases. Communicated specific instructions via e-mail for emergency Established favorable employment conditions to support susceptible situations, such as: employee groups, such as pregnant employees (to whom we provide Fire. Sabotage. parking space in our main offices) and employees working in night Earthquake. Arson. shifts (for whom we ensure additional security measures). Bomb threat. First Aid. Robbery. Heat wave. The following table summarizes our overall Health and Safety Hostage situation. Flood. performance. It must be noted that there are no employees with high incidence or risk of disease associated with their work and there were Communicated instructions for emergency situations and preventive only minor accidents with minor injuries involving our employees, protection measures. Within this context, we trained 8 employees except for one accident of serious employee injury onboard Superfast I, from the Hygiene and Safety Division on emergency situations. for which legal action is still pending. Defined and communicated office evacuation plan with predetermined assembly points, in order to safely evacuate office Although no employee fatal accidents occurred within 2015, we regret to employees, visitors and external collaborators. inform that there was one employee loss due to natural causes onboard Defined Floor Leader and Safety & Security Team, which consists of Blue Star 2, while being docked in Piraeus port. the Safety & Security Manager, the Security Shift on duty and the Reception’s desk security shift on duty, as well as Evacuation Officer, who receives updated alphabetic employee lists for each floor on a monthly basis. We conducted internal trainings on Health and Safety issues to 100% of marine employees Health and Safety 2014 2015 Employees’ fatal accidents (number) 0 0 Collaborators’ fatal accidents (number) NR 0 Accidents (number) 17 20 Men 16 19 Women 1 1 Accidents with absence <3 days (number) NR 0 Accidents with absence >3 days (number) NR 20 Absence from work due to accidents (hours) NR 0 Injury Rate (rate)* 1.4 1.28 Men 1.39 1.4 Women 1.66 0.5 Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (rate)** 71.53 65.6 Men 70.83 71.3 Women 85 25.9 Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases (rate)*** 715.34 633.73 Men 708.33 700.19 Women 850 226.06 *Injury Rate (IR): Number of injuries x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. ** Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (LDR): Total work days lost x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. *** Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases (AR): Total absent work days x 200,000 work hours / Total work days. NR: Not reported 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 3. Equality and Diversity We commit to meritocracy Our commitment towards meritocracy follows the principle to treat all our employees equally, which enables their professional development to depend solely on their performance and skills. We do not allow any kind of discrimination due to race, gender, color, origin, age, religion, participation in employee unions, disability, sexual orientation, political beliefs, pregnancy or marital status regarding any work aspect (e.g. salaries). Furthermore, we do not allow any comments among employees for all issues above, in order to prevent any form of harassment (e.g. sexual). As a result of our focus on the equal treatment of women: The percentage of women in Director/Manager positions is 2.3% Approximately 95% of marine employees participate in the (11% for office employees), without any women in Top Management Panhellenic Seamen’s Federation (PNO) and in employee unions positions onboard our vessels, and the percentage of women in related to their specialization. Also, one office employee is an elected overall workforce is 12.6%. member of the Panhellenic Federation of Shipping and Tourism The percentage of female office employees with temporary Employees (PASENT). employment contracts compared to male office employees is lower 100% of employees are covered by individual agreements, based on by 27.3%. national or industry collective agreements. The percentage of female office employees participating in The minimum notice period regarding operational changes for performance appraisal compared to male office employees is higher marine employees is 3 days, with a minimum notice period of 24 by 20%. hours for Domestic lines and 7 days for Adriatic Sea lines included in employment agreements. We follow, as a minimum, the relevant It must be noted that no complaints or grievances regarding labor regulatory requirements regarding operational changes for office practices were filed and no discrimination incidents occurred within employees. 2015. 100% of our marine employees participated in four strikes and lock-outs within 2015, due to strikes organized by the Panhellenic We do not tolerate child, forced and compulsory labor Seamen’s Federation (PNO), with the time lost due to strikes being 7 We respect the internationally recognized principles of human rights, mandays. as described within the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact we have signed. At We ensure confidentiality of personal data the same time, we are certified and audited for human rights issues We respect the right of employees to safeguard their personal data, according to the Maritime Labour Convention’s respective principles. as personal data security is a fundamental factor towards privacy Based on these principles, we are committed not to: protection. Indicating our commitment to implement a wide range of Employ any person below the legal age work limit (as defined by the technical and organizational measures: Greek legislation). We comply with the provisions and requirements of Law 2472/1997 Encourage or tolerate any forced and compulsory labor in any of our regarding ‘Protection of individuals from Processing of Personal premises. Data’. Employ any person through organizations or agencies involved in We have authorized the use of specific surveillance systems to trafficking or other forms of forced labor. monitor crucial access areas to our offices (such as staircases, outside perimeter, central cashier and parking garage), which include In 2015: CCTV system with cameras and security cards to monitor access to There were no significant investment agreements and contracts with areas such as servers and UPS. We do not monitor any work areas clauses on human rights. or collect any personal data under any circumstances, and we only There were no complaints or grievances regarding human rights allow employees from the Hygiene and Security Division to access violation. the surveillance footage. We require written consent on behalf of employees, in case we We respect the right of employees to participate in disclose personal data to any person with preferential relationship (such as doctors or lawyers). employee unions and strikes We do not withhold personal documents (such as identification cards, Although there is no employee union within our Group, we respect passports or any other personal papers), without which employees the right of employees to freedom of association and participate in cannot resign from their position. employee unions, while no operations in which the respective rights may be at significant risk have been identified. It must be noted that: As a result of our practices we did not receive any formal employee complaints in 2015 regarding privacy issues or personal data security. ATTICA GROUP 41 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We offer competitive salaries We handle work-life balance We strive to maintain our employee salaries and wages above the We believe we have an obligation to support our employees and legal minimum salary and attract highly-skilled workforce, despite the maintain work-life balance, especially considering the continuous recession of the Greek economy. At the same time, we compensate increase of time pressure. Therefore: all employees within the agreed time period and we do not deduct We ensure that all employees receive their entitled leaves (such salaries due to disciplinary offenses or other deductions except those as paid leaves and sick leaves), according to the provisions of the stipulated by law. applicable Labor Law. At the same time, we provide paid leaves to temporary or part time employees according to their employment It must be noted that in 2015: time, proportionate to the entitled leaves of full time employees. The minimum salary was in all cases higher than the legal basic We record and monitor work hours for all marine employees. salary, as defined by local legislation. We review our payment system and bonuses, in order to ensure that The average salary for male office employees, Directors/Managers all paid fees allow decent livelihood, without the need to resort in and Top Management positions compared to female office employees overtime work. is higher by 49.3%, 8% and 11% respectively. We compensate overtime work and do not force employees to work The ratio of annual total compensation for our highest-paid individual overtime, under the threat of salary reduction, dismissal or any other to the median of annual total compensation for all office employees sanction. (excluding the highest-paid individual) is 15%. There was no increase in the annual total compensation for our As a result, in 2015: highest-paid individual, while the median of percentage increase in 100% of marine employees worked at least once beyond the typical annual total compensation for all office employees is 1%. work hours and there was no overtime work on behalf of our office employees. The average overtime work for marine employees was 2 hours. All 3 women who received their maternity leave, returned and The entry level wage of office and marine continued their work within our Group. employees is higher than the minimum 10 female employees were granted reduced working hours due to wage by 28% and 21% respectively raising a child. We offer additional benefits Besides legally regulated benefits, we offer a number of voluntary 82.8% of our employees received their annual benefits to all employees, regardless of their employment type or leave, as initially planned employment tenure. All our employees and collaborators’ employees working on behalf of our Group are covered by health insurance, for which we spent €114,300 in 2015. We transparently inform our employees Regardless of their employment type, we inform all new hired office Additional benefits employees about: Marine Office Our organizational structure and culture. Employees Employees Our Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct. Expanded life insurance to all employees, Our Internal Regulation Code. their spouses and their children The Emergency Situations Response Plan for offices. The terms and conditions of the Group Insurance program. Coverage against disability/incapacitation Main work issues and procedures, such as leaves and absences, Postgraduate program support training, communication and performance appraisal. Christmas cheques for every child up to 14 years old Furthermore, it must be noted that: Our employment contracts include documents which describe the Annual Christmas festive event way we expect employees to behave (e.g. corporate manuals). Provision of free passenger and private vehicle Prior to their employment, all employees receive their employment tickets and meals onboard our vessels contracts. (upon availability) Discount for passenger and private vehicle tickets As a result, all employees have been informed at least once regarding for first-degree relatives (upon availability) Corporate Responsibility issues and we conducted 4 internal communication activities regarding Corporate Responsibility issues to Discount for certain items from vessel shops all employees in 2015, compared to 6 in 2014. ATTICA GROUP 43 4. Training and Development We develop our employees Internal Advancements: Our priority is to support our employees’ The following table summarizes the results of our training practices and development and cover job openings from existing employees. As overall performance. It must be noted that data for marine employees a result of this policy, the percentage of permanent job openings in do not include internal trainings conducted onboard our vessels, but offices and vessels covered by internal candidates reached 1% and 5% only marine employees who renewed or received new competency respectively within 2015. certificates, in order to be eligible for employment onboard our vessels. Within 2015: Job Rotation: We have established a job rotation program for office We conducted 40 training programmes with the participation of 393 employees, in order to keep them motivated and offer the opportunity employees. to acquire additional knowledge and experience, with 2 job rotations Total duration of training programmes was 1,240 hours, compared to taking place within 2015. 883 hours in 2014. We conducted training programmes on Corporate Responsibility Job Descriptions: In our attempt to ensure individual and issues, with the participation of 4%, 2% and 1% of office employees, organizational effectiveness, as well as maximize employee Directors/Managers and Top Management executives respectively. satisfaction, we record in written job descriptions and Total cost of training programmes was €56,822, compared to responsibilities for all employees. As a result, a detailed job €45,852 in 2014. description is available for 60% and 100% of marine and office employees respectively. Employee training Averages 2013 2014 2015 We train our employees Office employees Training Programmes: To design our annual Training Plan, we Training per employee (hours) 2.5 3.3 5.5 consider: Identified training needs. Training per male employee (hours) NR 3.9 8.1 Responsibilities and requirements for every job position. Training per female employee (hours) NR 2.8 3.2 Changes in the shipping industry (e.g. legal framework). Training per employee in management positions (hours) NR 3 9 We deliver a wide range of training programmes for our marine and Training per employee in office employees each year. In 2015, we conducted programmes and administrative positions (hours) NR 3.4 10.8 seminars in the following main areas: Marine employees* Marine employees: Safe work practices onboard our vessels. Training per employee (hours) NR 0.2 1.4 Marine Environmental Awareness. Training per male employee (hours) NR 0.2 1.2 Vessel functions risk management. Training per female employee (hours) NR NR 0.2 Navigation certification (ECDIS). Training per employee in Educational film library. management positions (hours) NR 1.3 0.9 Office employees: Training per employee in administrative positions (hours) NR NR 1.5 Shipping. Finance. * Average training hours for marine employees refer only to the renewal of their competency Labor/Insurance issues. certificates in training areas and do not include internal trainings conducted on vessels. NR: Not reported Management issues (e.g. human resources). Customer service. Safety. We increased training hours by 40.4% 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We appraise our employees We implement a three-phase Performance Appraisal System for our The Performance Appraisal System consists of 5 main areas: office and marine employees, in order to identify their strengths and 1. Performance Criteria. areas for improvement and improve their overall performance: Personal Objectives. Performance Standards (one of which is Compliance with Procedures). 1 Attributes (Common Attributes and Team Leading Position Attributes). 2. Appraisal Summary. 3. Employee Professional Requirements. Performance Performance 4. Training and Development Activities. Plan Management 5. Comments. / Guidance It must be noted that in 2015, we assessed 53% of our office 2 employees, compared to 69% in 2014 (with managers being assessed reaching 60%, compared to 53% in 2014), as well as 100% of our marine 3 Annual employees. Assessment 5. Objectives 2016 We aim By To conduct performance appraisal for 100% of office employees. 2016 To conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey. 2016 To train 600 marine employees on Management issues. 2016 To include Corporate Responsibility in the information material of new hired employees. 2017 To train all Managers on Corporate Responsibility. 2017 ATTICA GROUP 45 VΙΙ. PASSENGERS We ensure our Vessel Safety WE ARE 5,000 journeys annually 219,700 total calls to Customer Services and Loyalty Division 87 vessel inspections from local authorities 144,697 members in the Passenger Loyalty (for food hygiene and safety) & Reward program SeaSmiles 1,096 questionnaires in vessels WE COMMIT TO WE FOLLOW “ Safeguard the health and Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact safety of our passengers and offer them the best possible travel “ experience, in order to meet their needs and expectations during their journey. PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Promote greater environmental responsibility 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 WE FOCUS Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials Water & Liquid & Solid Waste Waste Environment Human State NGOs Safety & Resources Security ENVIRONMENTAL Health IMPACT Passengers & Safety Employees RESPONSIBLE Sales Equality & MANAGEMENT Responsible Diversity Network CommuniEMPLOYMENT Shareholders VESSEL cation CONDITIONS SAFETY Media SOCIETY Training & SUPPORT Development Satisfaction Citizens Associations & Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Responsible Growth Procurement Societal Support WE ACHIEVED We conducted internal trainings We were subject to 87 inspections We dispatched 2,262 notifications on passenger safety procedures from local authorities for food to serve passengers with particular to 100% of marine employees. hygiene and safety. requirements to our vessels, out of which 257 for passengers with reduced mobility and 21 The overall performance of our We increased the members for passengers with sensitivity vessels in the Domestic and in our loyalty and reward program to allergens. Adriatic Sea lines increased by 5% by 18.9%. and 4% respectively. ATTICA GROUP 47 1. Safety and Security Emergency Response Team We have created an Emergency Response Team to guide vessels We ensure passenger safety onboard our vessels and communicate with third parties on their behalf (such as the Ministry of Shipping and Marine Policy’s Search and Rescue Responsibility Criteria Center, rescue teams, experts and Media), in order for vessels to focus on handling potential emergency situations. The Team According to the results of 29 individual interviews with consists of: employees, local authority members and passengers, The Chief Executive Officer. passenger safety is the No 1 performance criterion to assess The Marine Operations & Technical Director. responsibility of companies in the passenger shipping industry. The Marine Operations Director. The Information Technology and Telecommunications Director. We consider passenger health and safety onboard our vessels as our The Legal Counsel. indisputable obligation. Therefore, we: The Marine Personnel Director. Comply with international and national safety regulations and classification societies’ requirements, who conducted an extensive In 2015, the Emergency Response Team met to handle one number of vessel inspections in 2015. incident of extreme weather conditions regarding one of our Have determined maintenance plans for all vessels. vessels, as well as for internal trainings. Have established Safety Committees in all vessels, in order to examine and assess health and safety issues. Train our employees on passenger safety procedures. Carry out regular maintenance of all rescue equipment. Demonstrate use of lifejackets to passengers and display informational videos regarding use of lifejackets, assembly stations and rescue equipment. Have placed clear signs with fundamental safety information. Have trained marine employees in all our vessels to respond to emergency medical situations and have equipped all our vessels with the necessary medical and pharmaceutical equipment, according to legislation. Prohibit transportation of explosives, flammable, combustible and hazardous materials in general, according to legislation. Follow ticket reservation arrangements, which are monitored by an Electronic System for the Reservation of Seats and the issuing of passengers’ Tickets and vehicles’ Transportation Receipts (E.S.R.S.I.T.V.T.R.), in order not to exceed passenger and vehicle capacity onboard our vessels. Within 2015, we were subject to: One writ of summons for a relevant violation in August 2013, for Missing Person Onboard which a fine of €500 was imposed, with the case still being pending. One €400 fine imposed by the Piraeus Central Port Authority for a Each vessel has developed a Missing Person Response Plan violation in 2012, and paid in 2015, as we did not file an appeal. (SAA), in order to respond to confirmed cases of disappeared and missing persons. According to this formally established procedure, we inform all passengers regarding an incident and set up a search team to search throughout vessel areas We conducted internal trainings (initially cabins, lounges, decks and WCs and subsequently on passenger safety procedures to 100% engine room, crew premises, garages and warehouses). In of marine employees case the missing person is not found until the port of arrival, port authorities thoroughly check all passengers and search all vehicles during passenger disembarkation. No missing person incident was reported in 2015. 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We offer safe products and services Food hygiene and safety: We have defined specific food hygiene and We strive to provide quality and safe products and services to our safety procedures, in order to provide high quality products to our passengers, in order to ensure our long-term business success. passengers. Indicatively, we: Therefore, we: Comply with the regulatory hygiene and safety requirements. Comply with national legislation regarding products and services Request from food and catering contractors to apply food safety provided, as well as our promotion and marketing activities. management systems, according to legislation. Request that all contractors comply with the requirements of ISO Have the necessary cleaning/sanitation and food storage areas, as 9001 Quality Management System and ISO 22000 Food Safety well as specific catering areas. Management System, in order to eliminate risks (such as materials Provide employees with the necessary clothing during food or ingredients) that could potentially harm human health. preparation, such as uniforms and head caps. Audit our Management Systems (Quality, Environmental and Food Require the use of disposable gloves to prepare cold kitchen meals Safety Management Systems), as well as the quality of products and (such as sandwiches and salads) and warm kitchen portions and services itself. we prohibit use of the same gloves to handle fresh and cooked Record audit findings and potential corrective actions with specific foodstuffs. remediation time plan, which are communicated to all involved Require employees to wash their hands before starting and finishing parties. their work, and after waste handling, use of cleaners or chemicals, Are annually audited by ABS (American Bureau of Shipping) for handling fresh meat, as well as after every contact with a phone, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certificates, with respective audits to money, fresh foodstuffs or doorknobs. contractors for their ISO 22000 certificates taking place from their Strictly prohibit smoking in food preparation areas. own certification bodies. On average, audit compliance with our procedures and practices Perform a ‘Mystery Passenger’ survey in 17 and 19 passenger service once per month per vessel. These inspections resulted in 37 findings, categories three times a year onboard our vessels in Domestic and with 34 corrective actions taken. Adriatic Sea lines respectively, in order to ensure effective vessel operation, quality services and prompt response to passenger Hotel services hygiene and safety: We focus to provide high quality needs. It must be noted that in 2015, as in 2014, no procedures and hotel services onboard our vessels, since passenger satisfaction is practices had to be revised or improved as a result of our ‘Mystery directly associated with their safe accommodation. Therefore, we: Passenger’ surveys. Comply with national and international regulations regarding passenger accommodation. Systematically sanitize public and accommodation areas. The overall performance of our vessels Inspect passenger and crew accommodation areas. Within 2015, the number of findings and corrective actions was 50 and 44 in the Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines respectively. increased by 5% and 4% respectively Vessel Inspections from Local Authorities Besides ourselves inspecting our vessels, we are subject to additional scheduled or unscheduled inspections from local authority members. These inspections address our vessels’ Hotel Operations & Customer Services Department for health issues or hygiene certificates, either when the vessel is docked or at sea. Upon inspection completion, we proceed with the required corrective actions, according to the results from the draft audit report, which is filed in the vessel’s inspection archive. We assess inspection results for each vessel twice a year, in order to: Identify repeated comments or cases of non-compliance. Assess corrective actions already taken. Proceed with further corrective actions, if deemed necessary. As a result in 2015, there were no incidents of products and services non-compliance, during the external audits conducted by the relevant health and market authorities. We were subject to 87 inspections from local authorities for food hygiene and safety ATTICA GROUP 49 Total passenger compensation for luggage and vehicles amounted ‘PURE CABIN’ to €404,846 in 2015, significantly increased compared to 2014, as a result of a maritime incident, in which vessel cargo was damaged due to As a result of our commitment to provide improved and extreme weather conditions. innovative services to our passengers, we were the world’s first passenger shipping company to introduce the ‘PURE CABIN’ category in one Adriatic Sea line vessel in 2010. Since 2011, we Passenger Items and Luggage Found have expanded its use in three additional vessels in Domestic lines. Approximately 2% of all cabins onboard our vessels are According to a formally established procedure, we keep small ‘PURE CABINS’ and 2% of our overall passenger volume travel and high value items onboard a vessel for 21 and 30 days within such cabins, which are provided at an extra charge. respectively, in order to protect passengers’ personal items ‘PURE CABINS’ feature a state-of-the-art air and surface which were found and delivered after a journey. purifying system, in order to offer improved accommodation conditions to passengers sensitive to airborne particles. After More specifically, we destroy various items after 21 days have each use, ‘PURE CABINS’ are purified and a cleaning certificate elapsed, except for books (which are provided to the crew’s with the corresponding inspection date is issued. library), as well as foodstuffs, medicines and personal hygiene items (which are either immediately destroyed or after 3 days, depending on their kind). For valuable items, besides travel and personal documents which are kept for 7 days and then handed over to port authorities, after 30 days have elapsed we: Deposit monetary amounts to the charitable organization supported by each vessel (see section V-2). As a result, there were no cases of non-compliance with regulations Offer electrical equipment to charities/donations and our regarding product and service use or their health and safety impacts employees or send them for recycling by the Information within 2015, while no fines from respective authorities were imposed. Technology and Telecommunications Division (in case they are not usable), according to a specific procedure. There was no electrical equipment sent for recycling or offered within We ensure protection of personal items 2015. Indicating our commitment to ensure our passengers’ physical safety, Destroy jewellery, according to a specific procedure. protect their personal items and offer a quality travel experience, we: Provide safe storage for any property, money and valuables whose value does not exceed €500 within each vessel’s Purser Office. Record luggage contents with indicative item prices, in case of We ensure protection of personal data luggage lost. We strive to ensure protection of our passengers’ personal data, in order Inform passengers regarding safety of personal items through to establish solid and concrete trust relationships. Therefore, we: loudspeaker announcements during their journey. Comply with conditions and provisions of Greek and European Intensify inspections to luggage areas with additional marine legislation regarding privacy protection (Law 2472/1997, P.D. employees on routes with increased passenger volume. 207/1998, P.D. 79/2000 and Law 2819/2000, article 8), as well as In case of loss, search and deliver personal items or luggage to decisions issued by the Hellenic Data Protection Authority (Directives passengers. 95/46/EC and 97/66/EC). Keep personal data collected from passengers, professionals and Compensate passengers in cases marine employees are responsible for damaged or ruined luggage or vehicle during boarding/ website visitors in a secure database. Do not disclose any information to third parties, unless required by law disembarkation or during the journey. and/or competent authorities. Seek individual consent to process personal data, exclusively for Passenger compensations communication, statistical analysis and service improvement 2014 2015 purposes. Inform customers that incoming calls are recorded, prior to their Lost/found or damaged items (number) 4,635 4,283 communication with Customer Services and Loyalty Division Adriatic Sea lines (number) 526 235 representatives. Domestic lines (number) 4,109 4,048 Compensations paid for luggage and other damages (€) 40,282 47,259 As a result of our practices, we did not receive any formal complaint in Compensations paid for luggage (€) 33,739 44,606 2015 regarding privacy issues or loss of personal data, while no relevant Compensations paid for other damages (€) 6,544 2,653 fines were imposed by respective authorities. Compensations paid for vehicle damages (€) 33,674 357,587 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We ensure prompt communication 2. Responsible Communication We strive to promptly inform our passengers in case of cancellation or delays in scheduled routes, in order to minimize their potential We responsibly advertise our products and services discomfort. Within this context, we utilize a wide range of communication We aim to ensure our communication material is fair, legal, sincere, means, which include: corresponds to reality, does not display or promote stereotypes and Websites Communication via SMS respects people’s diversity. Therefore, we: www.superfast.com and (in case passengers have Follow the principles of the Hellenic Code of Advertising & www.bluestarferries.com. registered their mobile Communication, issued by the Communication Audit Council. Radio. number). Do not use texts, audio or images that promote stereotypes. Port authority representatives. Newsletters. Ensure use of proper communication and advertisements for our Various journal and news Social media. products and services, in collaboration with the Marketing and portals. Domestic & International Lines Sales Departments. Have structured our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries websites, Furthermore, we inform passengers with Greek and English audio easily accessible by people with visual impairments. announcements in case of delays during the journey, which include their Do not sell or provide any products and services which are either cause and the estimated delay time. banned or disputed in foreign markets. Furthermore, we comply with legislation regarding provision of Passenger Compensation information about products and services, as well as state applicable conditions on Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries websites regarding: In case of journey delay, passengers are compensated according Regulations and boarding processes. to the European law and the Passenger Charter of Rights and Tickets. Obligations (with the modification of Law 3709/2008), with Reservations. compensation being related to the journey duration. Indicatively, Cancellations or refunds. passengers are entitled to compensation for delays: Transportation of pets. Of at least 1 hour, for journeys of less than 4 hours. Storage of personal belongings. Of over 2 hours, for journeys between 4 and 8 hours. Of over 3 hours, for journeys between 8 and 24 hours. Labeling Allergens More specifically, in case the scheduled departure is delayed for more than 90 minutes, passengers are entitled to compensation Within the context our responsible product policy, we require according to their ticket, or to: from prepackaged foodstuff suppliers to comply with the Remain onboard and receive free light meals or refreshments European Regulation for Food Labeling 1169/2011 and clearly until their destination is reached. display whether their products contain specific ingredients Receive a free meal for delays of over four hours, as well as free on included in the allergens list, according to Directive 2003/89/ vessel or hotel accommodation, when feasible and necessary. EC. At the same time, we have placed clear and detailed signs to Be compensated with 25% of the ticket value or other prior to inform consumers about allergens for every non-prepackaged agreement compensatory payment, in case they were forwarded meal within our vessels (such as gluten, eggs, soy and milk). to their destination with the same or another company vessel. Compensation depends on the delay itself (e.g. 1 hour for journeys up to 4 hours), with the compensation increasing to 50% of the ticket value, in case the delay is double. Be compensated with 200% of the passenger ticket value and receive back the vehicle ticket value, in case on our own responsibility they were not forwarded to their destination with the same or another vessel within 24 hours from the scheduled departure time. During 2015 there were: Five international route journeys with a delayed arrival between As a result of our practices in 2015, there were no cases of non-compliance 3.5 and 5 hours, for which we received 21 complaints, along with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing, advertising, with compensation requests. Responding to these requests, we promotion, product and service information and labeling, no cases of granted one request and sent formal replies offering discounts campaigns being withdrawn after release, while no relevant fines were between 20%-50% for future journeys to all passengers, all of imposed by respective authorities. which were accepted. One domestic route journey with a delayed departure of five hours, for which we offered a free trip to passengers, acting beyond our obligations under the Charter of Rights. ATTICA GROUP 51 3. Satisfaction Bluestarino Family Cabin We ensure affordability of our services We have introduced family cabins marked with the Βluestarino children cartoon in all Blue Star vessels, for families with Selecting Passenger Shipping Company small children who have booked a 4-bed external cabin. Upon availability, Reception desks offer these specially decorated According to a survey conducted to 2,300 passengers and cabins to our child passengers free-of-charge. 200 professional drivers between May-December 2015, 23% indicated ticket price being the main selection criterion for companies in the passenger shipping industry. Understanding the unfavorable economic situation for thousands of Greek households, we strive to provide competitive prices for our services, without however compromising their quality. Depending on line and destination, we offer: Early booking tickets, with up to 30% discount. Family ticket packages, with significant discounts. Discounts in tickets for children, teenagers, young people and people above 65 years old. Discounts in selected destinations throughout the year. Discounts in social tourism programmes. Discounts throughout the year (such as Super Economy, Special Economy, Supersaver Economy, Saver Economy, for passengers and private vehicles, for Naval and Coast Guard retirees, for combined We ensure equal treatment of passengers Domestic and Adriatic Sea routes, for officers and soldiers). Discounts for members registered in our Passenger Loyalty and Reward program. Equal Treatment Discounts for university students and their families, even before their According to our Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct, we student pass has been issued. require all customers and partners to be treated equally, without any exceptions, and behave with caution and care These practices resulted to a decrease in average ticket prices within during our transactions with vulnerable social groups. 2015, compared to 2014, as indicated in the table below. Reductions in average ticket prices We ensure equal treatment of all our passengers, in order to enhance Difference 2015-2014 our customer-centric orientation. More specifically, we: N.E. Aegean Islands route Do not impose extra charges on cabins for passengers with Vehicle ticket prices -4% disabilities. Cyclades routes Are promptly informed about the number of passengers with Passenger ticket prices -2.2% disabilities on each route, in order to plan the availability of Vehicle ticket prices -5.6% wheelchairs. Dodecanese routes Check that phone and emergency switches are fully operational Passenger ticket prices -1.6% before passenger boarding, during cleaning of disability cabins. Vehicle ticket prices -9.2% Require that food rations for passengers with sensitivity to allergens Patra-Bari route are prepared with separate food preparation equipment (such as Passenger ticket prices -15.2% frying pans, cutting boards, knives). Have introduced procedures for clothing management and protection of passengers from allergens. We dispatched 2,262 notifications to serve passengers with particular requirements to our vessels, out of which 257 for passengers with reduced mobility and 21 for passengers with sensitivity to allergens 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 We listen to our passengers We monitor our passengers’ satisfaction In order to effectively serve our passengers, we have established mechanisms to communicate and receive comments and complaints, Satisfaction on Vessels which are handled by our Customer Services and Loyalty Division. These mechanisms include: According to a survey conducted to 2,300 passengers between A call center and dedicated email address for passengers. May-September 2015, the overall satisfaction from our vessels Written communication from passengers. varies between 7.6 and 8.4 (on a 10-point scale). This high Private meetings with passengers. satisfaction is associated with our companies’ reputation, our Comments form, complaints form, Pure Cabins questionnaire, a La employees’ politeness, our cabins’ quality and our vessels’ Carte restaurants questionnaire, which are located in various vessel cleanliness, while identified areas of improvement are ticket areas, such as the Reception desk and the bar, regarding quality, prices, bar and restaurant prices, as well as creating a more variety and service. convenient journey schedule for passengers. A specific form which is completed by the Reception desk, in case verbal complaints are received or incidents are noted. The Complaints form, located in all vessels’ restaurants, as required by law. Utilizing Questionnaires Use of another Company Passenger questionnaires are forwarded to the vessel’s Master, According to a survey conducted to 2,300 passengers between who reviews them for issues which can be solved through May-September 2015, 61% stated they have not used another his own intervention. Observations are documented in a company operating in the same route, a percentage significantly ‘Passenger Observation Report’, which is forwarded monthly to higher than 37% in the corresponding 2014 survey. our Departments, as well as the catering company within each vessel and is subject to meetings convened by the vessel’s As we believe we should be able to offer reliable and responsible Master, monthly during off season and bi-monthly during high services in all range of business activities, key to our success is season, in order to assess and define further corrective and improving our passenger services. Our Customer Services and Loyalty preventive actions, if deemed necessary. Division received 219,700 calls within in 2015, responding to 93.7% of these, compared to 92.2% in 2014. Passengers service 2013 2014 2015 Formal letters in response to comments, complaints and requests (number) 834 533 563 Adriatic Sea lines (number) 335 185 117 Domestic lines (number) 499 348 446 Formal thank-you letters (number) 139 127 163 Adriatic Sea lines (number) 52 43 54 Domestic lines (number) 87 84 109 Questionnaires in vessels (number) 1,376 1,189 1,096 Total calls (number) NR 105,802* 219,700 * Total calls for 2014 refer to May-December 2014. NR: Not reported ATTICA GROUP 53 ‘Improving the Best’ SeaSmiles Program We seek our passengers to experience a polite, hospitable and In 2011 we established the Passenger Loyalty and Reward pleasant journey. Therefore all marine employees receive upon program SeaSmiles, which provides members with exclusive their appointment the ‘Improving the Best’ guide by the Marine benefits, gifts, special offers, high quality services, within Personnel Division, in order to follow the guide and apply it in three card levels (Provisional, Silver and Gold). Members their everyday way of working. collect points for every ticket and product bought from bars, restaurants and vessel stores, which are automatically registered in their personal account and can be redeemed for future journeys, meals and drinks, as well as products branded under the SeaSmiles logo. SeaSmiles Loyalty & Reward program 2015 144,697 2014 121,650 2013 71,893 Members in SeaSmiles program (number) We increased the members in our loyalty and reward program by 18.9% 4. Objectives 2016 We aim By To install a device on all vessels to allow passengers to evaluate the services provided. 2016 To create 92 new accommodation facilities in 6 vessels for pets. 2016 To establish a Customer Relationship Management system (CRM). 2020 To advise customers on the responsible use of our services (e.g. environmental protection), through various means (e.g. communication programs, vessel screens). 2017 To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price discrepancies). 2018 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 ATTICA GROUP 55 VΙΙΙ. ENVIRONMENT We reduce our Environmental Impact WE ARE €4.3 million environmental 9,019,400.8 GJ energy consumption investments 41,760 KWh energy consumption from 694,639.7 tonnes eCO2 renewable energy sources 222,713 m3 water consumption WE COMMIT TO WE FOLLOW “ Integrate sustainable Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact development in our operations and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental impact. “ PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE Encourage development and diffusion 9 of environmentally friendly technologies 56 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 WE FOCUS Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials Water & Liquid & Solid Waste Waste Environment Human State NGOs Safety & Resources Security ENVIRONMENTAL Health IMPACT Passengers & Safety Employees RESPONSIBLE Equality & MANAGEMENT Sales Responsible Diversity Network CommuniEMPLOYMENT Shareholders VESSEL cation CONDITIONS SAFETY Media SOCIETY Training & SUPPORT Development Satisfaction Citizens Associations & Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Responsible Growth Procurement Societal Support WE ACHIEVED We reduced our total carbon dioxide We informed 4.3 million passengers We reduced the paper used for emissions by 2.5% (equal to 18,309 on Corporate Responsibility issues, commercial purposes by 20.5%. tonnes of CO2), compared to 2014. such as environmental protection. We produced 41,760 KWh of We used 39% recycled paper We transported from Islands electricity from renewable energy for printing and copying at our free-of-charge over 179 tonnes sources. offices and vessels. of materials for recycling. We reduced the total quantity of refrigerant materials used by 34.8%. ATTICA GROUP 57 1. Air Quality and Energy We operate in a systematic way We comply with Legislation We are committed to operate responsibly regarding the environment We aim not only to comply with the environmental legislation and its and to minimize the negative environmental impact, which inevitably relevant provisions, but to exceed them where feasible, in order to originates from our operations. Within this context, we: minimize our environmental impact. Record our environmental performance. Implement an Environmental Management System and evaluate our As a result in 2015, we were once again not accused of violating any environmental impact annually. environmental legislation and no respective significant fines (over Have implemented and certified all our vessels according to ISO €20,000) were imposed, during the scheduled and ad-hoc audits 14001, becoming the first group in the Greek passenger shipping conducted by relevant authorities. industry to do so. Have certified all our vessels according to the ISM Code, as we are contractually obliged. Comply with international regulations and vessel environmental protection conventions, such as MARPOL 73/78, issued by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). Have Energy Efficiency certificates issued for all our vessels. Demand an asbestos non-use certificate from our suppliers. Have appointed officers with responsibilities on environmental practices on all our vessels. Train employees on environmental issues and conduct internal trainings for all marine employees, on issues such as waste management and responsible use of water. Within 2015, we conducted external trainings to 7 office employees on environmental issues, for a total duration of 22 hours. Have established a training plan for marine employees on a weekly basis, in order to prevent pollution incidents (e.g. sea pollution) and train them to promptly and effectively respond to such incidents. Conduct environmental emergency exercises on vessels, in cooperation with local authorities and participation of office employees. We manage our environmental footprint In order to identify the sources from which we can reduce our Climate In 2015 we invested approximately €4.3 million for environmental Change impact, we calculate greenhouse gas emissions per energy protection programs (disposal and environmental rehabilitation source used, which include oil (both for shipping fuels and onboard elecinvestments, as well as prevention and environmental management tricity generation) and electricity (for office operations): investments), compared to over €1.3 million in 2014. We reduced our total carbon dioxide emissions by 2.5% (equal to 18,309 tonnes of CO2), compared to 2014 Energy and Environmental Footprint Source Consumption Energy Environmental Consumption Energy Environmental 2014 Consumption Footprint 2015 Consumption Footprint 2014 2014 2015 2015 (GJ) (tn eCO2) (GJ) (tn eCO2) Scope 1 Oil 226,541.3 tn 9,133,451.1 712,313 219,477 tn 9,016,553 694,049.3 MGO NR NR NR 8,946 tn 384,678 28,627.2 LFO NR NR NR 173,039 tn 7,094,599 545,072.8 HFO NR NR NR 37,492 tn 1,537,172 120,349.3 Scope 2 Electricity 883,670.2 KWh 3,825.6 636.2 819,932.2 KWh 2,951.8 590.3 Total 9,137,276.7 712,949.2 9,019,400.8 694,639.7 *Data refer to our offices and vessels. Conversion factors: MGO 3.2 kgr eCO2/kgr (Source: International Maritime Organization), LFO 3.15 kgr eCO2/kgr (Source: International Maritime Organization), HFO 3.21 kgr eCO2/kgr (Source: International Maritime Organization), Electricity 0.72 kgr eCO2/KWh (Source: IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion) NR: Not reported 58 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 In order to manage our environmental footprint and achieve efficient energy consumption, we: Participation in Programs Ensure optimum efficiency level for vessel engines to be used in each journey, in order to both preserve engines and avoid unnecessary We strive to be continuously informed about environmental fuel consumption. issues, and therefore participate in European Union research Utilize the exhaust gas heat of main engines to heat air circulating in programs (FLAGSHIP), as well as collaborate with internal public areas and hot water in sanitary areas. combustion engine manufacturers (WNSD) in joint research Use energy saving light bulbs (LED) onboard vessels, except for projects to reduce emissions. At the same time, we participate security lights. in the European-funded programs Poseidon Med I and Poseidon Adjust electrical appliances (such as refrigerators and freezers) at Med II, which aim to develop environmentally friendlier shipping optimum use and operation levels, according to both legislation and fuels. manuals. Deactivate electrical appliances when not in use. More specifically: Regularly clean vessel hulls and propellers. Poseidon Med I is the first European – Transnational program to Lower or turn down air conditioning in empty cabins. establish the legal framework and conditions to use Liquefied Purchase office equipment (such as computers and printers) with Natural Gas (LNG) as a shipping fuel in the Mediterranean ‘energy star’ specifications. and Adriatic Sea. The program features 19 partners from 5 member-States (Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Croatia and Slovenia) and our Group is actively involved to submit pilot projects Installing Photovoltaic Panels regarding vessel upgrading and building new vessels. Poseidon Med II is a follow-up to ‘Poseidon Med I’ and In 2014, we installed a pilot photovoltaic panel unit onboard ‘Archipelago-LNG’ programs and is funded by the European Blue Star Delos, in order to reduce fossil fuels used to generate Union, with the participation of 26 partners from three electricity and gaseous pollutants in the long-term. During member-States (Greece, Italy and Cyprus), in order to utilize 2015, we continued the unit’s pilot operation with encouraging LNG in six main European ports (Piraeus, Patra, Heraklion, conclusions, as we reduced the use of vessel’s power generators Venice, Igoumenitsa and Limassol) and LNG station in for electricity and consequently prevented 30 tonnes of carbon Revithousa. The program features studies to introduce and dioxide emissions. use LNG as a shipping fuel in Southeastern Mediterranean Sea and design LNG supply network and related infrastructure on a broader scale. We produced 41,760 KWh of electricity from renewable energy sources ATTICA GROUP 59 We reduce our impact on the ozone layer We monitor noise levels Buildings/Vessels: We require our suppliers not to use refrigerant We strive to reduce noise pollution, since vessel docking and operation materials which significantly affect the ozone layer (such as R22) can be a potential source of noise. Indicatively, we ensure the use of during maintenance activities in offices and vessels, and instead use machinery and mechanical equipment, which comply with the required refrigerants that do not affect the ozone layer (such as CO2, R 407, R standards on noise levels. 407C, R 410, R 410A, R 404, R 134a). We sensitize employees and passengers Refrigerators/Freezers: In 2015, we installed 48 refrigerators and Employee awareness: We recognize the importance our employees to freezers with environmentally friendlier refrigerant materials. As a result, be aware about the environment, and therefore implement initiatives we continue to use refrigerant materials that do not affect the ozone to adopt environmentally responsible practices within the workplace. layer (such as R134a, R404a, R410) in 100% of refrigerators and freezers Within this context, we have placed designated signs to remind all onboard our vessels. marine employees to turn off any unnecessary lights. At the same time, we replenish refrigerant and fire suppressant materials Passenger awareness: We believe we are morally obliged to raise (which inevitably leak) in our offices and vessels with environmentally passenger awareness regarding environmental protection, not only friendlier refrigerant materials, as their Ozone Depleting Potential (R-11 during their journey, but also in their daily activities. Within this context, equivalent) is zero. In 2015, the total quantity of refrigerant materials we: used was 2,577 kgr, compared to 3,957 kgr in 2014. Distribute our own climate change brochure to all passengers, which suggests environmentally friendlier practices onboard, at home, as Refrigerant materials well as during driving. Material Stored 2015 Used 2015 Have placed designated signs in all vessel cabins to encourage (kgr) (kgr) passengers to turn off lights when not in use. CO2 31,772.9 0 Have signed the Declaration on Sustainable mobility & transport, as a R22 0 0 full member of the International Union of Railways (UIC). R134 1,230 0 Promote alternative and environmentally friendlier forms of R134A 4,901.2 655 transportation and travel, and offer travel packages which combine R404 156 0 'Train and Vessel' transportation for domestic and European destinations. R404A 1,978 980 Participate in most Eurail & Interail Pass products, as a full member R407 225 233 of EURAIL GROUP GIE, and have created our own Eurail/Interail Greek R407A 3 0 Islands Pass, which offers 6 free train and vessel journeys to holders. R410 90 0 Display on vessel screens information on how to prevent forest fires, R410A 0 50 R417 172 190 in cooperation with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection (GSCP), R422 593 469 an agency within Ministry of Interior. Other 98 0 Total 41,219.1 2,577 We informed 4.3 million passengers We reduced the total quantity of refrigerant on Corporate Responsibility issues, such materials used by 34.8% as environmental protection We reduce our atmospheric impact Our air pollutants (except carbon dioxide, which is described above) mainly emanate from vessel engines during their operation. To manage their impact, we: Use marine gas oil (MGO) with 0.1% sulphur content when vessels stay within ports for over 2 hours, according to relevant legislation, as well as low sulphur heavy fuel oil (LSHFO) with 1.5% sulphur content when vessels are in European waters. Use machinery which comply with the legislative requirements regarding nitrogen oxides (NOX) and particulate matter (PM) emissions from vessel engines. Perform the necessary maintenance activities to ensure proper machinery function, as well as regular internal and external inspections to certify their proper function through relevant certificates (such as the International Air Pollution Certificate). Proceed with corrective measures, if deemed necessary. 60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste We manage raw materials We recognize that raw materials are not inexhaustible, but finite, and prioritize the use of natural resources as efficiently as possible. To achieve this, we implement programs to: Monitor use of materials. Reduce materials used. Reuse materials. Recycle materials. Dispose materials properly. Reduce impacts from consumption of materials Monitor Use of Materials Dispose Reduce Reuse Recycle Materials Materials Used Materials Materials Properly We reduce materials used We implement initiatives to reduce use of materials, within the context Paper use for commercial purposes of our efforts for efficient use of natural resources. Indicatively, we: Use printers and photocopiers that print on both pages at our offices, 38.8 2015 out of which 90% is produced from recyclable materials. Furthermore, 52.9 we used almost 40% recycled paper for printing and copying. Besides using recycled paper, we do not use any other recycled materials. Have installed air dryers in WCs of all our vessels, in order to reduce 2014 48.8 We reduced the use of paper for hand drying. 49.3 paper used for Ensure the efficient use of spare parts and other supplies (such as commercial consumables), in order not to store large quantities. 39.6 purposes by 20.5% 2013 Have installed chemical dosimeters onboard our vessels and train 52.8 marine employees on their proper use, in order to ensure efficient use of chemical substances. Weight of paper (tn) Avoid disposable materials and products, where possible (such as Use of recycled or certified paper (%) plastic dishes, cups and cutlery). We used 39% recycled paper for printing and copying at our offices and vessels ATTICA GROUP 61 We reuse materials We reuse consumables, where possible, as we: Return loading pallets back to our suppliers, in order to reuse them. Use clean damaged sheets, towels, pillowcases and other fabrics to clean various surfaces and as tows within the engine room. We recycle materials Waste associated with our activities is a direct result primarily of our vessel operations, and secondary a result of our office operations (i.e. paper, toners): Material consumption and recycling Material Consumption Recycled Recycling Recycling 2015 by 2014 2015 Paper 18,791 kgr NGO ‘Klimaka’ 6,800 kgr 7,000 kgr 1,736 units Cartridges and toners for printers/faxes/photocopying machines (out of which 1,171 Cartridge world 328 units 495 units were recycled) Light bulbs 26,500 units Appliances Recycling S.A. NR 950 units Domestic batteries 87 kgr AFIS 125 kgr 87 kgr Vessel batteries 8,200 kgr Battery suppliers NR 8,200 kgr IT equipment NR Appliances Recycling S.A. 93 units from offices 84 units from offices (computers, printers etc.) 8 m3 from vessels Cooking oils NR AntiPollution S.A. 41,380 lt 8,235 kgr from vessels 14.4 m3 from vessels Lubricants 1,159,019 lt HEC NR 275.8 m3 Medicines and pharmaceuticals NR Forwarded to pharmacies 643 units 398 units Chemical substances 59,718 lt NR NR NR NR: Not reported Hazardous materials: The total weight of hazardous waste forwarded Medicines and pharmaceutical materials: We forward expired in 2015 was 59 m3. All of this waste was forwarded to approved medicines to pharmacies that have joined the collection program, hazardous materials recycling companies, which comply with strict regardless whether these have been used, including sealed standards regarding environmental protection and apply proper liquid medicines (such as syrups). However, we do not forward treatment methods. pharmaceutical materials such as syringes, mercury thermometers, scalpels and serums. Various materials: We have placed recycling bins in our offices and vessels to collect and forward for recycling paper, toners, electronic equipment, fluorescent lamps and domestic batteries, as part of our Materials recycling efforts to promote recycling throughout daily activities of employees and passengers. 39 At the same time, we also collect and forward for recycling used 100 cooking oils from vessels. 24 2015 100 Paper Recycling 100 All collected waste or used paper is forwarded for recycling through the non-profit organization ‘Klimaka’, which provides 100 medical and psychosocial services to vulnerable social groups, contributes to lessen social exclusion and promotes equal Paper per employee (kgr/office employee) Cooking oils (%) opportunities for people to access public goods. The organization Lubricants (%) employs homeless people to collect paper, an activity which Vessel batteries (%) Domestic batteries (%) allows ‘Klimaka’ to cover part of its expenses. Toners and cartidges (%) 62 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Sponsoring Recycling Activities Within the context of our social contribution, we are the main sponsor of: The Municipality of Leipsoi in Dodecanese and all South Aegean Region islands in general, in order to transport recyclable materials from islands to the Hellenic Recovery Recycling Corporation (HE.R.R.Co) in Attica. It must be noted that in 2015, the Municipality of Leipsoi was the second Municipality in per capita collection of recyclable packaging materials, both among South Aegean Region Local Authorities, as well as among all Local Authorities in general. The total quantity of free-of-charge transported materials for recycling through our vessels was 107.1 tonnes. The organization OIKO PATMOS, in order to transport recyclable materials collected from recycling activities in the We properly manage solid waste Dodecanese. In 2015, we transported from Dodecanese freeWe recognize our obligation to protect the environment from solid of-charge 72 tonnes of materials for recycling, while in 2014 waste and garbage, which mainly emanate from our vessels operations. we transported over 1,500 plastic caps (besides the above Therefore, we: materials) and revenues were utilized to deliver a motorized Train our marine employees on our ‘Waste Management Manual’, wheelchair to the Rhodes Hope Association. This initiative which describes our waste collection procedures and is accessible was repeated in 2015 as well, without however collecting the by all employees. necessary quantity of plastic caps to purchase a motorized Do not allow any hazardous waste and garbage disposal at sea, even wheelchair. if allowed to be disposed at sea by relevant legislation. Have placed designated signs to remind passengers and employees not to throw waste overboard. Have determined specific collection points for waste generated onboard our vessels. Deliver all garbage and solid waste from our vessels to appropriate reception facilities of licensed contractors within ports after each journey, exceeding the relevant legislative requirements. Solid waste 30,446 2015 59 6,900 28,287 2014 55 6,900 28,114 2013 55 6,900 We transported from Islands free-of-charge Solid waste (m3) over 179 tonnes of materials for recycling Hazardous waste (m3) Solid waste indicator (m3 per million passengers) ATTICA GROUP 63 3. Water and Liquid Waste Social Contribution Activities According to a survey conducted to 133 employees, over 75% of them believe our informative campaign to prevent and reduce smoking-related litter at beaches, is our Group’s most important activity. We monitor water consumption We aim to contribute to alleviate the water shortage phenomenon in the long-term, being aware of the responsible approach required on this issue. Therefore, we: Use extensively seawater onboard vessels after appropriate treatment, for activities such as cooling machines and cleaning decks. Perform only absolutely necessary external cleaning and washing Drinking Water Quality Assurance activities, in cases of rainfalls or bad weather. We have established a procedure to supply, manage safely and Have installed photocell-operated water mixers in public WCs sample drinking water, in order to ensure the quality of water onboard Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos. used and consumed onboard our vessels, according to which we: Plan and select the minimum number of hydrants to be used during Use separate water hose to supply water to our vessels, which water supply. is solely intended for this purpose and is kept away from any Check water meters before water supply has began and after it has potential sources of contamination. ended and have appointed a vessel Officer to monitor and confirm Ensure water hose runs for a few minutes prior to connect it the actual water supply. to the drinking water supply tank, in order not to introduce Use pressure machinery, where possible, and ensure their proper stagnant water or external materials, which could potentially maintenance. pose health risks to the supply tank. Ensure proper and regular maintenance of water production Regularly clean and sanitize drinking water tanks, exceeding equipment and dictate immediate notification of any failures to the legislative requirements, and ensure continuous chlorination Technical Division. of drinking water. Have placed designated signs to remind passengers and employees Sanitize shower heads, sprinklers in bars and filters in to use water responsibly in accommodation, sanitary and catering washbasins located in cabins, public areas, bars and kitchen areas. twice a month. Train employees to use water more efficiently. Collaborate with an external partner to collect drinking water Ensure that water leakages (such as in pipes, shower heads and samples. flushers) or any other leakages are immediately managed, as well as Analyze water samples in accredited laboratories, which perform all necessary maintenance activities on vessel systems. No issue a respective report with results and suggest corrective pollution incident and no significant leakage of any material (e.g. oil actions, in case there are any problems. spill) have occurred within 2015. Water We manage liquid waste 2013 2014 2015 Being aware that uncontrolled liquid waste disposal at seas can Water consumption (m3) 122,521 113,663 222,713 significantly affect the marine environment, we: Vessels 120,014 111,437 221,463 Comply with the International Convention for Prevention of Pollution Offices 2,507 2,226 1,250 due to Ships (MARPOL). Water sources (%) Do not allow sewage water disposal within ports, exceeding the Public water supply networks NR NR 65.6 respective legislation. (146,583 m3) Regularly monitor operation of wastewater treatment systems, Seawater NR NR 34.4 adhering to ISM procedures. (76,175 m3) Comply with relevant regulations regarding bilge and ballast water * Data for 2013 and 2014 do not include seawater consumption in vessels. management and monitor their implementation, adhering to ISM NR: Not reported procedures. Deliver all liquid waste from our vessels (lubricants and fuel waste) to licensed contractors within ports. 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Liquid waste Do not use the toxic substance tributyltin (TBT) in anti-fouling paints for any of our vessels. 4,651 Use exclusively environmentally friendlier cleaning agents during 2015 cleaning activities of garages, decks and exterior surfaces in general. 56 Promote beach cleaning by producing and distributing beach ashtrays for free through our central agencies and vessels. Since 2007, we 4,087 have distributed over 1.3 million ashtrays to passengers and citizens. 2014 66 3,736 2013 25 Liquid waste (m3) Sewage water (tn) * Quantities of sewage water refer to cases where vessels are docked or during maintenance/ cleaning activities to the sewage network. We assess our impact on biodiversity Biodiversity Coastal and Seafloor Erosion As water covers 71% of our planet, preserving the balance of Waves created by vessels are one of the main reasons of coastal marine ecosystems and the diversity of marine species is and seafloor erosion, especially in shallow waters, since large crucial for humankind. The intense growth of human activities and fast vessels cruising along beaches or other coastal areas and the associated environmental pollution have significantly create large waves directed towards the coastline, subtracting degraded the natural environment within a very short period of and carrying various sediments, gravel, marine flora and fauna time. Consequently, many organisms fail to adapt to these new from beaches, as well as the seafloor. Coastal and seafloor conditions, with their survival being threatened. According to the erosion affects: United Nations’ ‘Millennium Ecosystem Assessment’ report, the Stability of various structures in coastal areas, such as extinction of species due to human intervention occurs 1,000 buildings, piers and docks. times faster than it would naturally and 1/4 of the planet’s Survivability of various marine ecosystems, altering living mammals face extinction in the coming years. The situation is conditions for many marine organisms. even more critical for the marine environment, as it is estimated that 60% of coral reefs will extinct by 2030, due to illegal fishing For this reason, we comply with legislation and adhere to the and pollution. speed limits defined by the relevant provisions, in order to minimize the respective impact. Marine Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of marine biodiversity and our obligation to reduce the risk of disrupting it. Land Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of biodiversity for Therefore, we: the ecosystems’ balance and we do not conduct any activities within Comply with the International Convention on the Control of Harmful protected areas, as our offices are located in an urban environment, Anti-fouling Systems on Ships. without any adjacent protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value Abide to relevant legislation concerning our vessels’ speed limits, in (even outside protected areas). order to minimize our impact on beaches and nearby vessels. 4. Objectives 2016 We aim By To relocate to new offices with reduced energy requirements. 2016 To replace 150 advertising signs in our vessels with new LED advertising billboards. 2016 To install a BSM system in our offices for efficient cooling/heating. 2016 To install LED light bulbs in our offices. 2016 To further upgrade the photovoltaic panel unit onboard Blue Star Delos. 2016 ATTICA GROUP 65 ΙΧ. SUMMARY “ This is the 7th Corporate Responsibility Report published by Attica Group. “ Here in, we present the practices followed and the results achieved, through focusing on topics our Stakeholders are interested in and committing in the long-term towards responsible business operations. 1. About this Report The Principles we follow: The Report follows: Your feedback: We welcome your thoughts, comments or proposals For structure and content, the guidelines ‘Sustainability Reporting through the feedback form at the end of this Report or at the following Guidelines’ (publication G4, 2013) of the Global Reporting Initiative address: (GRΙ). The Report is prepared and self-declared to be in accordance with the ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines’ (publication G4, 2013) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRΙ), at ‘Core’ level. For principles, the UN’s Global Compact. For presentation of quantitative data, the EFQM’s RADAR Card. Corporate Responsibility Team Attica Group 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674 Athens The scope we refer to: The Corporate Responsibility Report: E-mail: csr@attica-group.com Refers to the period 1/1/2015-31/12/2015 (unless indicated otherwise in certain points). Addresses all activities of ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (Attica Group), namely the provision of maritime transportation services for passengers, The symbols we use: For convenient reading of this Report, please pay private vehicles and freight units in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea. attention to the following main symbols, which are widely used: Contains, as a norm, quantitative data for the period 2014-2015 for all quantitative indicators. Good Practice Contains data from direct measurement, while cases of estimations Indicates examples of good practices implemented. are clearly indicated. Policy Data presented have been collected internally, in order to be published Indicates sections from formal corporate Policies. in this Report. Did you Know The limitations we recognize: We recognize limitations in the Report, Indicates information of particular interest. which we intend to handle in future publications, such as presentation Issue of Consideration of more quantitative data and objectives. Indicates issues of public interest and consideration. Your Opinion Indicates results from surveys conducted. Development of Report: The Report has been developed in cooperation with STREAM Management www.stream-eu.com 66 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 2. Summary Data Section 2013 2014 2015 Achievements 2015 Objectives 2016 MANAGEMENT We commit to adopt responsible policies and practices in our operations and to harmoniously cooperate with our Stakeholders, in order to create mutual longterm value. We increased by 88.5% the number of GRI indicators and by GRI indicators in the Report 37 + 11 35+0 56+10 60.8% the number of quantitative (number, full + partially) indicators we make reference to within the Report. Quantitative indicators in the 85 115 185 Report (number) Restructure the Group’s Management and Organizational structure. Create a Quality Assurance and Environment Department. Train the Corporate Responsibility Objectives in the Report Team in Report development. NR 0 24 (number) Conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process on issues related to Corporate Responsibility (by 2017). Include Corporate Responsibility Team’s responsibilities within its members’ formal job descriptions (by 2017). We have communicated a Code of Conduct to 100% of our employees. Conduct trainings or briefings Violation cases concerning No bribery incidents related related to the Code of Ethics & NR NR 0 Code of Conduct (number) to our employees occurred. Professional Conduct (by 2017). No violation cases concerning our Codes of Conduct occurred. We informed 100% of our Employees informed on NR NR 100 employees on our anti-corruption anti-corruption procedures (%) policies and procedures. Corruption incidents (number) NR 0 0 We informed 7 Management Management Executives informed NR NR 7 Executives on legislative on competition issues (number) competition issues. Significant fines (number) NR 0 0 ATTICA GROUP 67 Section 2013 2014 2015 Achievements 2015 Objectives 2016 SOCIETY We commit to combine our business success with our country’s and partners’ development, as well as support local communities affected by our operations, in order to contribute to improving the quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. Turnover (total sales with VAT) 260.16 266.66 277.63 (million €) Profits after taxes (million €) (10.13) 4.27 33.18 We distributed over €58.7 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €56.2 Cost of employees (including million for taxes (including VAT), salaries, benefits and insurance 58.09 55.53 58.7 €15.6 million to agents payments) (million €) (for commissions), €117.3 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services) and €1.1 million for investments. Payments to suppliers (million €) 148.13 145.63 117.38 Economic value distributed (%) 100 98.4 88.05 Investments (million €) 0.42 37.73 1.15 Employees of sales network We trained 83 employees of our participating in trainings NR NR 83 sales network, for a total duration (number) of 1,744 training hours. We increased the total value of our societal support activities by 30.3%. We allocated 100% of sponsorships and donations to local communities. Social contribution (€) 1,139,258 1,677,153 2,186,348 We welcomed 617 young people from schools and universities visiting our facilities. We supported the development of 118 students in Merchant Navy’s officer academies. Free and discount tickets 50,329 85,757 84,764 (number) Employee volunteers (number) 163 138 148 We collected 256 blood units Blood units from voluntary blood through our voluntary blood 105 69 82 donation programs (number) donation programs in the last three years. 68 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Section 2013 2014 2015 Achievements 2015 Objectives 2016 SOCIETY Establish a single Procurement Process. Develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. Suppliers (number) 1,029 2,100 1,130 Develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, including selection criteria to become a supplier (by 2017). The percentage of procurement Procurement expenditure to local 27.5 28.3 71.2 expenditure to local suppliers suppliers (%) reached 71.2%. We increased the percentage Purchases from rural 4.5 2.1 11.8 of purchases from rural suppliers suppliers (%) by 9.7%. EMPLOYEES We commit to cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, safety and merit, as well as offer training opportunities to our employees, in order to facilitate their personal and professional development. Conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey. We employ 100% of our Employees 176 + 704 182 + 1,010 181 + 1,115 employees with full time (number, offices + vessels) Include Corporate Responsibility employment contracts. in the information material of new hired employees (by 2017). Women in overall workforce (%) 15.5 12.4 12.6 Women in Director/Manager NR NR 2.3 positions (%) 100% of employees in Director/ Local employees in Director/ NR NR 100 Manager positions are of local Manager positions (%) nationality. Discrimination incidents (number) 0 0 0 The entry level wage of office and Difference of entry level wage marine employees is higher than to minimum wage NR NR 28 + 21 the minimum wage by 28% and (%, offices + vessels) 21% respectively. Train 600 marine employees on Management issues. We increased training hours Training hours (hours) 440 883 1,240 by 40.4%. Train all Managers on Corporate Responsibility (by 2017). ATTICA GROUP 69 Section 2013 2014 2015 Achievements 2015 Objectives 2016 EMPLOYEES 82.8% of our employees received Employees receiving their annual NR NR 82.8 their annual leave, as initially leave, as initially planned (%) planned. Employees participating in Conduct performance appraisal performance appraisal NR NR 53 + 100 for 100% of office employees. (%, offices + vessels) Marine employees participating in We conducted internal trainings internal trainings on Health NR NR 100 on Health and Safety issues and Safety issues (%) to 100% of marine employees. Fatal accidents NR 0 0 (number, employees) Accidents (number) NR 17 20 Accidents with absence >3 days NR NR 20 (number) Injury rate (rate) NR 1.40 1.28 PASSENGERS We commit to safeguard the health and safety of our passengers and offer them the best possible travel experience, in order to meet their needs and expectations during their journey. Marine employees participating We conducted internal trainings in internal trainings on passenger NR NR 100 on passenger safety procedures safety procedures (%) to 100% of marine employees. The overall performance of our vessels in the Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines increased by 5% Advise customers on the and 4% respectively. responsible use of our services (e.g. environmental protection), Vessels’ evaluation within the through various means (e.g. We dispatched 2,262 notifications context of ‘Mystery Passenger’ communication programs, vessel NR 74 + 73 79 + 77 to serve passengers with particular (%, Domestic lines + Adriatic screens) (by 2017). requirements to our vessels, out Sea lines) of which 257 for passengers with reduced mobility and 21 Create 92 new accommodation for passengers with sensitivity facilities in 6 vessels for pets. to allergens. Inspections from local We were subject to 87 inspections authorities for food hygiene and NR NR 87 from local authorities for food safety (number) hygiene and safety. 70 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Section 2013 2014 2015 Achievements 2015 Objectives 2016 PASSENGERS Items lost/found or damaged NR 4,635 4,283 (number) Compensations for vehicle NR 33,674 357,587 damages (€) Complaints regarding customer NR 0 0 privacy (number) Delays in routes (number, NR NR 0+6 cancellations + delays) Formal letters in response to comments, complaints and 834 533 563 requests (number) Formal thank-you letters 139 127 163 (number) Install a device on all vessels Questionnaires in vessels 1,376 1,189 1,096 to allow passengers to evaluate (number) the services provided. Establish a Customer Relationship Management system (CRM) (by 2020). Total calls to Customer Services NR 105,802 219,700 and Loyalty Division (number) Categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price discrepancies) (by 2018). We increased the members Members in loyalty and reward 71,893 121,650 144,697 in our loyalty and reward program program (number) by 18.9%. ENVIRONMENT We commit to integrate sustainable development in our operations and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental impact. We informed 4.3 million Environmental protection passengers on Corporate NR 1.3 4.3 investments (million €) Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection. Replace 150 advertising signs in our vessels with new LED advertising billboards. Energy consumption (GJ) NR 9,137,276.7 9,019,400.8 Install a BSM system in our offices for efficient cooling/ heating. ATTICA GROUP 71 Section 2013 2014 2015 Achievements 2015 Objectives 2016 ENVIRONMENT Relocate to new offices with reduced energy requirements. Electricity consumption (KWh) NR 883,670.2 819,932.2 Install LED light bulbs in our offices. We produced 41,760 KWh Further upgrade the photovoltaic Electricity produced from NR NR 41,760 of electricity from renewable panel unit onboard Blue Star renewable energy sources (KWh) energy sources. Delos. We reduced our total carbon dioxide emissions by 2.5% Total eCO2 emissions (tn) NR 712,949.2 694,639.7 (equal to 18,309 tonnes of CO2), compared to 2014. We reduced the total quantity Use of refrigerant materials (kgr) NR 3,957 2,577 of refrigerant materials used by 34.8%. Total ODP of refrigerant materials NR NR 0 (number, R-11 equivalent) We reduced the paper used for commercial purposes by 20.5%. Paper used for commercial NR NR 38.8 purposes (tn) We used 39% recycled paper for printing and copying at our offices and vessels. We transported from Islands Materials from recycling activities, NR NR 179 free-of-charge over 179 tonnes transported for recycling (tn) of materials for recycling. Solid waste (m3) 28,114 28,287 30,446 Hazardous waste (m3) 55 55 59 Total water consumption (m3) 122,521 113,663 222,713 Liquid waste (m3) 3,736 4,087 4,651 NR = Not Reported 72 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 3. Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, ISO26000 and GRI Tables The correspondence between the content of this Report and the Global Compact Principles, the Sustainable Development Goals, the ISO26000 International Guidelines and the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI G4 version 2013) General and Specific Standard Disclosures is presented in the following tables. Coverage of Indicators is characterized as Full (F), Partial (P) or Not Applicable (NA). General Standard Disclosures of GRI required for ‘Core’ application level are indicated in grey background. Material Topics of GRI for the Group (based on the Materiality Analysis conducted), are indicated in grey background. Boundaries of GRI indicators are indicated on the Table. No external assurance has been conducted for the Material Topics. United Nations’ Global Compact Table Issue Principle Report Section Coverage Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights V-3, VI-3 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses VI-3 F Labour Standards 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining VI-3 F 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour VI-3 F 5. Abolish effectively child labour VI-3 F 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation VI-3 F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges V-3, VIII-1-3 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility VIII-1-3 F 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies VIII-1 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery IV-1,2 F ATTICA GROUP 73 United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Table Goal Principle Report Section 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere V-1,2, VI-3 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture V-2, VII-1 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages V-2, VI-2, VII-1 4. Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning V-2, VI-4 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls VI-3 6. Ensure access to water and sanitation for all VIII-3 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all VIII-1 8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all V-1,2, VI-1-3 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation V-1,2, VIII-1 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries VI-3 11. Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable V-2 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns V-3, VII-1, VIII-2 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts VIII-1 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources VIII-2,3 Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, 15. VIII-3 halt biodiversity loss 16. Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies V-2 17. Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development IV-VIII ISO26000 Table Aspect Report Section Coverage 1. Scope IX-1 F 2. Definitions IX-4 F 3. Understanding Social Responsibility IV-1,2 F 4. Principles of Social Responsibility IV-2,3 F 5. Recognizing Social Responsibility & Engaging Stakeholders IV-3 F 6. Guidance on Social Responsibility Core Subjects a. Organizational Governance IV-1 F b. Human Rights VI-3 F c. Labor practices VI-3 F d. Environment V-3, VIII-1-3 F e. Fair operating practices IV-1 F f. Consumer issues VII-1-3 F g. Community involvement and development V-2 F 7. Guidance on Integrating SR throughout the Organization a. Enhancing Credibility IV-VIII F b. Communication IV-1,2, VI-1 F 74 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 General Standards Disclosures Table General Standard Report Coverage/ General Standard Report Coverage/ Boundary Boundary Disclosures Section Omission Disclosures Section Omission Strategy and Analysis Group Governance Group G4-1 I F G4-34 IV-1 F G4-2 I, IV-1 P G4-35 IV-2 P Organisational Profile Group G4-36 IV-1 P G4-3 IX-1 F G4-37 IV-1 F G4-4 III-2 F G4-38 IV-1 F G4-5 III-2, IX-1 F G4-39 IV-1 F G4-6 III-2 F G4-41 IV-1 F G4-7 III-2 F G4-42 IV-2 P G4-8 III-2 F G4-43 IV-1,2 P G4-9 VI-1, III-2, V-1 F G4-44 IV-1 P G4-10 VI-1 F G4-46 IV-1 P G4-11 VI-3 F G4-47 IV-1 F G4-12 III-2 F G4-48 IV-3 F G4-13 III-2 F G4-51 IV-1 P G4-14 V-3, VI-2, VII-1, VIII-1 F G4-52 IV-1 P G4-15 IV-2 F G4-54 VI-3 F G4-16 IV-2 F G4-55 VI-3 F Identified Material Topics Group, Group, and Boundaries Value Chain Ethics and Integrity Suppliers G4-17 V-1, IX-1 F IV-1,2, VI-2,3, VII-2, G4-56 F VIII-1-3 G4-18 IV-3, IX-3 F G4-57 IV-1 P G4-19 IV-3, IX-3 F G4-58 IV-1 F G4-20 IV-3, IX-3 F G4-21 IV-3, IX-3 F G4-22 IX-1 F G4-23 IX-1 F Stakeholder Group Engagement G4-24 IV-3 F G4-25 IV-3 F G4-26 IV-3 F G4-27 IV-3 F Report Profile Group G4-28 IX-1 F G4-29 IX-1 F G4-30 IX-1 F G4-31 IX-1 F G4-32 IX-3 F G4-33 IX-1,3 F ATTICA GROUP 75 Specific Standards Disclosures Table Coverage/ Boundary of Coverage/ Boundary of DMA and Indicators Report Section DMA and Indicators Report Section Omission Material Topics Omission Material Topics ECONOMIC Group Effluents and Waste Group G4-DMA VIII-3 F Economic Performance G4-DMA V-1 F G4-EN23 VIII-2,3 P G4-EC1 V-1 F G4-EN24 VIII-3 F G4-EC4 V-1 F G4-EN25 VIII-2 F Market Presence Group Compliance Group G4-DMA VI-1,3 F G4-DMA VIII-1 F G4-EC5 VI-3 F G4-EN29 VIII-1 F G4-EC6 VI-1 F Overall Group Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA VIII-1 F G4-DMA V-2 F G4-EN31 VIII-1 F G4-EC8 V-2 F Supplier Environmental Group, Assessment Procurement Practices Suppliers G4-DMA V-3 F G4-DMA V-3 F G4-EN33 V-3 F G4-EC9 V-3 F Environmental Grievance Group Mechanisms ENVIRONMENTAL Group G4-DMA VIII-1 F Materials Group G4-EN34 VIII-1 F G4-DMA VIII-2 F SOCIAL G4-EN1 VIII-2 F LABOR PRACTICES AND G4-EN2 VIII-2 F Group DECENT WORK Energy Group Employment Group G4-DMA VIII-1 F G4-DMA VI-1 F G4-EN3 VIII-1 F G4-LA1 VI-1 F G4-EN4 VIII-1 P G4-LA2 VI-3 F G4-EN6 VIII-1 P G4-LA3 VI-3 F Water Group Labor/Management Group Relations G4-DMA VIII-3 F G4-DMA VI-3 F G4-EN8 VIII-3 F G4-LA4 VI-3 F G4-EN9 VIII-3 F Occupational Health Biodiversity Group Group and Safety G4-DMA VIII-3 F G4-DMA VI-2 F G4-EN11 VIII-3 F G4-LA5 VI-2 F G4-EN12 VIII-3 F G4-LA6 VI-2 F Emissions Group G4-LA7 VI-2 F G4-DMA VIII-1 F G4-LA8 VI-2 F G4-EN15 VIII-1 F Training and Education Group G4-EN16 VIII-1 P G4-DMA VI-3,4 F G4-EN19 VIII-1 P G4-LA9 VI-4 F G4-EN20 VIII-1 F G4-LA11 VI-3,4 F G4-EN21 VIII-1 P 76 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Coverage/ Boundary of Coverage/ Boundary of DMA and Indicators Report Section DMA and Indicators Report Section Omission Material Topics Omission Material Topics Diversity and Equal Supplier Human Rights Group, Group Opportunity Assessment Suppliers G4-DMA VI-1,3,4 F G4-DMA V-3 F G4-LA12 VI-1,3,4 F G4-HR11 V-3 F Equal Remuneration for Group Women and Men Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA VI-3 F G4-DMA VI-3 F G4-LA13 VI-3 F Supplier Assessment Group, G4-HR12 VI-3 F for Labor Practices Suppliers SOCIETY Group G4-DMA V-3 F Local Communities Group G4-LA15 V-3 F G4-DMA V-2 F Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-SO1 V-2 F G4-DMA VI-3 F G4-SO2 V-2 F G4-LA16 VI-3 F Anti-corruption HUMAN RIGHTS Group G4-DMA IV-1 F Investment Group G4-SO4 IV-1 P G4-DMA VI-3,4 F G4-SO5 IV-1 F G4-HR1 VI-3 F Public Policy Non-discrimination Group G4-DMA IV-1 F G4-DMA VI-3 F G4-SO6 IV-1 F G4-HR3 VI-3 F Anti-competitive Group Behavior Freedom of Association G4-DMA IV-1 F and Collective Bargaining G4-SO7 IV-1 F Compliance G4-DMA VI-3 F G4-DMA IV-1, VII-1 F G4-HR4 VI-3 F Child Labor G4-SO8 IV-1, VII-1 F G4-DMA VI-3 P Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-HR5 VI-3 P Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA V-3 F G4-DMA VI-3 P G4-SΟ10 V-3 F G4-HR6 VI-3 P Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Indigenous Rights G4-DMA V-2 F G4-DMA NA G4-SO11 V-2 F G4-HR8 NA ATTICA GROUP 77 Report Coverage/ Boundary of DMA and Indicators Section Omission Material Topics PRODUCT Group, Customers, RESPONSIBILITY Network Customer Health Group, and Safety Customers G4-DMA VII-1 F G4-PR1 VII-1 P G4-PR2 VII-1 F Group, Product and Service Customers, Labeling Network G4-DMA VII-2,3 F G4-PR3 VII-2 F G4-PR4 VII-2 F G4-PR5 IV-3, VII-3 F Group, Marketing Customers, Communications Network G4-DMA VII-2 F G4-PR6 VII-2 F G4-PR7 VII-2 F Customer Privacy G4-DMA VII-1 F G4-PR8 VII-1 F Compliance G4-DMA VII-1 F G4-PR9 VII-1 F 78 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 4. Glossary Please pay attention to the following, frequently used terms: Term Refers to ‘Bilge water’ The mixture of water, lubricants and fuel produced during engine washing as well as by accidental leaks. The various living organisms in an ecosystem (land, marine and aquatic), as well as the extent ‘Biodiversity’ of their genetic composition. The gaseous chemical compound derived from the combustion of fossil fuels (oil, gasoline, natural gas, ‘Carbon dioxide’, ‘CO2’ etc.) and organic compounds (wood, plastic, etc.), which contributes to the greenhouse effect. The maritime technical organizations who establish safety regulations for shipbuilding, ‘Classification societies’ as well as for the vessels’ equipment. The voluntary commitment of companies to include in their corporate practices economical, ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ or social and environmental criteria and activities, which are beyond the legislative requirements ‘Corporate Responsibility’ and are related to their impact on Stakeholders. The term refers to the current economic growth that does not compromise the ability of future generations to satisfy their own needs. The total greenhouse gas emissions that arise directly (e.g. burning of fossil fuels for heating) ‘Environmental footprint’ or indirectly (e.g. by the use of products) from a company. The measurement unit of all greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming ‘equivalent CO2’, ‘eCO2’ (carbon dioxide-CO2, methane-CH4, nitrous oxide-Ν2O, fluorinated hydrocarbons-ΗFCS, perfluorocarbons-PFC’s, sulfur hexafluoride-SF6), expressed as equivalent carbon dioxide. The United Nations Global Compact, an initiative to encourage companies to align their business ‘Global Compact’ operation with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘Attica Group’ To ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (which this Report addresses). The International Maritime Organisation, which is a specialized organization to establish measures in order to improve safety of international shipping and prevent environmental pollution from vessels, ‘IMO’ and is also responsible for legal issues related to liability and indemnify cases of maritime accidents, as well as facilitate international maritime traffic. ‘MARPOL’ The Convention of the International Maritime Organization to adopt concrete measures, in order to control and prevent pollution from vessels. ‘Passengers’ The people transported with our vessels. ‘Report’ The Corporate Responsibility Report 2015. The area and section of this Report (e.g. used in the GRI, Global Compact and Stakeholder Tables). ‘VI-3’ etc. For example, the term ‘VI-3’ makes reference to area VI (Employees), section 3 (Equality and Fairness). The declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948 with the fundamental ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled. ATTICA GROUP 79 80 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 5. Feedback Form 1. To which Stakeholder group do you belong? Employees Shareholders Passengers Sales Network Suppliers State Associations and Unions Local Communities Citizens NGOs Media Other 2. What is your impression, about the following areas of this Report? Area Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad IV. Management V. Society VI. Employees VII. Passengers VΙΙΙ. Environment 3. What is your impression, about the following elements of this Report? Element Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad Sections have the right balance Important topics are covered Structure supports easy reading Texts are comprehensive Quantitative elements are complete Graphs included are comprehensive Layout is attractive/pleasant 4. Are there any topics, which are not answered (or not adequately covered) in this Report or do you have questions you would like to be answered in our next Report? 5. Are there any other comments/proposals you might have? Personal Data (optionally): Name Please fill out the form and send it to: Organization Attica Group, Corporate Responsibility Team Address 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674, Athens Phone/Fax e-mail: csr@attica-group.com E-mail All information on this form will be used only for evaluating this Report, through statistical analysis. Personal data are protected, as defined by the respective law regarding private information. ATTICA GROUP 81 82 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 Development of content and layout: STREAM Management / www.stream-eu.com This report is available online on our Group websites www. attica-group.com • www.bluestarferries.com • www.superfast.com ATTICA GROUP • 1-7 Lysicratous & Evripidou str. • 176 74 Athens • www.attica-group.com
