Communication on Progress 2016 • 1969 History Datascrip started out as a humble stationery store with an expanding product line from stationery to office equipment, office machines, drafting machines, office furniture, computers and printers. • 1979 The company’s core business was Office System. • 1985 The company’s core business developed into System for Business. • 1997 Datascrip became known as Office Solution Company. • 2000 Repositioned itself as the Business Solutions Provider. • 2017 Datascrip’s one-stop solution is continually strengthened by its ever expanding product portfolio and close to 50 years of management expertise. Statement of Support We support the achievement of United Nations Global Compact goals through our company policies and corporate culture. They are implemented in our business activities, by empowering people to promote a better performance through our philosophy of Catur Sila. Irwan Kamdani President Director PT. Datascrip • Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip continues to instill its corporate culture (through games, sharing sessions, gimmicks, etc.) to benefit not only the company but also our employees as well. The core values of our corporate culture (Catur Sila) are: – Succeed above Success – CARE (Customer Interest, Attentive, Responsive, Enthusiasm) – SMILE (Share, Motivate, Improve, Lead, Efficient) – CoCoCoCo (Communication, Cooperation, Coordination, Commitment) • As part of its initiative to support the surrounding neighborhood, Datascrip donated cows to be distributed to the surrounding underprivileged residents during Eid alAdha. • Datascrip continued to hold its quarterly blood donation program, which were held in February, April, July, September and December, all with full attendance. • Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip held STABILO Youth Entrepreneurship Competition 2016 for 18 vocational high schools in Jakarta and the surrounding areas with hope to instill entrepreneurial spirit in these students. • We donated more than 7000 ASUS-branded bags to orphanage in Jakarta and the surrounding areas that are useful for their day-to-day schooling and activities. • Datascrip donated a DSLR camera to Ms. Rusidah, a disabled photographer in Purworejo to support her photography business. We are proud of her resilience despite her unfortunate circumstances. • Datascrip donated ASUS notebook for Mr. Achmad Zulkarnaen, a disabled fotografer from Banyuwangi. We want to promote his can-do attitude which enabled him to work in a highly competitive industry, despite his disability. • We donated stationeries, classroom chairs, whiteboards and reading books to a school located in a remote area in Siborong-Borong, North Sumatera. • As part of its inclusive business strategy for its DSLR camera and its SELPHY printer, Datascrip educated street photographers on how to use the products and how to approach and sell their services to tourists in Manado, Denpasar, Sarangan, Pacitan, Semarang, Bandung, Jakarta and Pelabuhan Ratu. • Labor Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Datascrip provides its employees healthcare, social security (BPJS Kesehatan) and pension benefits (BPJS Ketenagakerjaan). • Achievements made by Datascrip’s employee are generously rewarded with bonus, incentive, promotions and/or recognitions. • Datascrip’s Employee Guidelines clearly stated its position as an equal opportunity employer against any discrimination on race, religion, sex, age, nationality, disability and veteran status. • Datascrip is OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) certified, to ensure safe and healthy working environment and to ensure that the necessary equipments are in place for the health and safety of its employees. • SIMPONI is an employee evaluation software, developed in-house by Datascrip, to measure the performance of all employees against objective standards from multiple standpoints (360 degree evaluation). • Environment Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Canon Care Center (CCC) continues its recycling initiatives through Customer Loyalty Program and Canon Recycle Program, where used and worn-out cartridges, toners, digital cameras, printers and scanners are collected from customers and sent to the Electronic Waste Center to be recycled. This was shared in IGCN Member’s Gathering on 4 August 2016. • Energy-efficient lighting and ventilation system are incorporated into Datascrip’s main warehouses in Pulogadung and Cikarang. • Glass walls are used in Datascrip’s head office, thus eliminating the need to turn on the lights during daytime. • As part of Datascrip’s initiative to lower its carbon footprint, the HVAC system used in Datascrip Building is only activated Monday through Friday, from 07:00 to 17:30. • Environment Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continually maintains and develops its IT solutions to streamline its business process and progress closer toward a paperless office. • During 2016, our in-house IT department built two applications to further reduce carbon footprint of our operations. – Go-SAM enables Datascrip salespersons to work remotely, thus reducing the time and gasoline wasted in traffic commuting from home to the office. – DeTracS allows us to track the detailed status of each order and the exact location of our delivery vehicles thus dramatically increasing the efficiency of the delivery team. • Datascrip continues its commitment to maintain and introduce environmentallyfriendly products: – Auto Power On technology in Canon PIXMA printers saves electricity usage. And Canon PIXMA Ink Efficient Printers use refillable ink tanks that eliminate the use of ink cartridge, thus drastically reducing cartridge wastes. – Wacom enables user to write on the device, thus minimizing the use of paper. We continually educate consumer of this technology by replacing guest registration with Wacom in events that we held. – Many of our Maped products are made from recycled materials. • Environment Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip participated in the IGCN’s initiative, “Save Water Campaign” starting from mid of 2013. The stickers are installed throughout Datascrip’s offices and warehouses. • As part of our growing concerns for the environment, Datascrip is ISO 14001 (environmental management) certified. • Matahari Alka, a part of Datascrip’s group of companies, is one of the Circle Founder of Green Product Council Indonesia (GPCI) which is an independent, non-profitorganization and voluntary scheme for the certification of environmentally preferable products. • Datascrip is also a member of Green Building Council Indonesia (GBCI), an independent body which is fully committed to educate the public of environmental best practices and to facilitate the transformation of the sustainable building industry. • Anti-Corruption Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • The price list of Datascrip products is available for all to access through its online store, located in http://store.datascrip.com. This further reduces the potential for corruption through price transparency. • Datascrip’s Company Rules and Regulation clearly stated its commitment against corruption. • Datascrip has issued “Business Engagement Guidelines” which governs employees conduct in government tender, anti-trust issues, promotion of fair business competition and anti-corruption. • Measurement The followings are the measurement of the outcomes of the four principles of Global Compact during 2016. • Human Rights: – Number of quarterly blood donation → 5 times – Charity conducted → 4 times – Educational competition → 1 time – Inclusive business program → 1 time • Labor: – Employee composition (by religion) which represents a more balanced mix than of Indonesian population: – Islam → 1021 employees – Christian → 210 employees – Catholic → 131 employees – Budha → 31 employees – Hindu → 6 employees – Compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007 and government regulations are maintained • Environment: – Recycling initiative & Save Water Campaign are maintained – Environmentally conscious products → 3 product sub groups – Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 and government regulations are maintained • Anti-Corruption: – Price list availability at website is maintained.
