Corporate Social Responsibility Communication on Progress 2016 »As a family-owned company we stand for a strong community spirit and humaneness – Acting responsible has always played a significant role for us.« OPENING REMARKS BY MANAGEMENT about Social Responsibility Dear Sir or Madam, WAGO is a continuously expanding company in We asked ourselves, how can we contribute? the electronics and automation sector. The ongoWe systematically focus our corporate social ing positive development of our company goes responsibility in the areas of: employees, environhand in hand with an increase in our company‘s ment, supply chain, and society. By continuously influence on society, the environment and the optimizing our social and ecological activities economy. We feel that this heightens our responwe support them within our company and supply sibility to actively meet the social and ecological chain. Since 2012 we are reporting our previous challenges of our time – since we all depend on an developments to the UN Global Compact and for intact environment. the first time we are going to release a compliance statement in connection with the Sustainability The list of global, environmental problems is Code. You will find more Information on the folloalarmingly long: Soil, air and water pollution from wing pages. waste and emissions, water shortages, extinction of species, destruction of landscapes and wildlife habitat and forest dieback are but a few examples We hope you enjoy reading this report! that illustrate just how destructive exploitation of nature is and that advancing climate change will Your WAGO Management Staff certainly have grave consequences. Our society cannot be separated from our environment. Increasing social inequality in terms of infrastructure, income and nutrition, as well as the high population growth in developing countries and emerging economies, combined with political tensions, which leads to masses of refugees, are just a few examples to cite here. TABLE OF CONTENTS OPENING REMARKS BY MANAGEMENT BOARD 3 RESPONSIBILITIES IN SUPPLY CHAIN 54 Our Market Situation in Figures 56 ABOUT US 7 Supplier Management 57 Our Industry Sector Solutions 8 Fair Business Relationships 58 Our Corporate Structure 10 Our Quality Promise 59 Our Locations 11 SOCIAL COMMITMENT 60 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 12 Examples from Germany 62 Our CSR Fields of Action 14 International Examples 66 Implementation of CSR 15 Networks with Social Orientation 67 Guidelines on Social Responsibility 16 Everyone‘s Individual Contribution 17 OUR CSR OBJECTIVES 68 Materiality & Dialog 18 CLOSING REMARKS 71 OUR EMPLOYEES 20 Our Employees 22 Credits 72 Human Rights 24 Diversity 26 WAGO Family Program 28 Occupational Safety 29 Operational Health Management 30 Lifelong Learning 33 Apprenticeship & Studies 35 Employer Awards 37 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 38 Conformity with Laws and Directives (REACH/RoHS) 40 Plastics Recycling 41 Packaging 42 Hazardous Materials 43 Waste Management 44 Training & Information 45 Resources 46 NOTE ON GENDER FAIRNESS Any reference to persons in this report is to both genders, even when only the masculine form is used for easier readability. Please always take this into account. 6 ABOUT US It all started in 1951 with an innovative idea: The following subsections are intended to provide Screwless terminal blocks. It was on the basis of a more detailed glimpse of our company in which this innovation that Friedrich Hohorst and Heinrich we describe our industry solutions and a selection Nagel established the WAGO-Klemmenwerk of products and illustrate our production and GmbH in Minden in the eastern part of the German sales locations, along with the development of our State of Westphalia and used the patent purchacompany to date. Naturally this is also intended to sed from Mssrs. Wagner and Olbricht for developallow you to gauge the impact of our company on ment of terminal blocks and push-in connectors society and the environment. with spring pressure connection. This formed the cornerstone for WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH If you have any questions or suggestions regar& Co. KG, which is still a family-owned company ding the present report or about WAGO‘s committo this day. In addition to introducing a variety of ment in general, please contact us. We are always new products in the area of electrical connection glad to receive any feedback you may have. You technology, the company has had an Automation can reach us at following email address: Division since 1995. csr.ehs@wago.com 7 ABOUT US | OUR INDUSTRY SECTOR SOLUTIONS Our Industry Sector Solutions Continuous advancement and improvement of our Marine products from the product sectors of connection technology, automation technology and interface With WAGO products nearly every on-board and electronics has made it possible for us to support offshore application can be automated. This a worldwide system change. WAGO products can is where the I/O-System 750 with its over 500 be found everywhere electrical conductors require modules is utilized. Due to its special certifications permanent and safe connection in automation (BSH, “compass” certificate) it can be used from the systems in various industrial applications. Our cusbridge to the engine room. Rail mounted terminal tomers throughout the world expect safe, reliable, blocks from the TOPJOB® series for example, ofhigh-performance and economical products from fering cross-section areas from 0,08 to 185 mm2, us – and we rise to the occasion anew each and ensure safe connection. every day to fulfill their requirements and provide a basis for solutions for the smallest as well as the Building Automation greatest challenges. This allows us to offer solutions for a wide variety of market segments. WAGO offers a whole program for building installations. Whether it is the “CAGE CLAMP®” used Manufacturing in junction boxes or rail mounted terminal blocks built in various distribution boxes, WAGO provides WAGO offers numerous components for the a maintenance free product range of screwless manufacturing industry. Connectors and PCB connection technology. terminal blocks produced by WAGO, are applied Energy efficient and sustainable automation cross-sectoral in industry electronics. Mechanical of newly developed and existing buildings are engineering for example, requires a high demand. counted among the functions of WAGO-Products. After long transportation routes, on arrival at the By finding individual solutions to optimize energy recipient, commissioning should be prompt and performance in building automation, costs are servicing kept to a minimum. The WAGO-CAGE reduced. CLAMP®-Connection technology is proof to vibration, requires low maintenance and is long-term Energy consistent. This makes retightening screws before put into operation obsolete and ensures flawless The main objective when generating and distribconnection for several years. Machine manufacturuting electrical power is to ensure reliable and ers who supply different continents, can adapt the safe power supply for the industry and private field signal connection of the WAGO I/O-System to households. In order to do so, WAGO compothe correlating customary controller, without being nents provide the greatest degree of safety and forced to modify the E-/A-Level. quality. The CAGE CLAMP® connection technoloManufacturing Marine Building Automation Energy 8 ABOUT US | OUR INDUSTRY SECTOR SOLUTIONS gy offers quick installation, low maintenance and Railway Systems reliability in equal measure. With WAGO solutions, the automation of energy networks and connecCommuter and long-distance railway cars must tion to producers, consumers and storage grids have a reliable, maintenance-free and long-term is efficient and sustainable. service life. Sophisticated technology simplifies and reduces assemblyand maintenance time. Automotive The CAGE CLAMP® connection technology unites all of these requirements and offers the greatest WAGO products are utilized in production equipdegree of shockand vibration protection even ment for the automotive industry in order to under extreme environmental conditions. Thereby guarantee maximum degree of availability. In she is the optimal connector in all railway related the automotive industry, even a short downtime areas. Our springs have held every connection means a significant breakdown of production and from 0,08 mm2 to 95 mm2 safely and reliably since thus fewer vehicles sold at the end of the day. 1978. Therefor maintenance requires a flawless connection technology. Screwless connection techProcess Automation nology has proven itself under even the harshest conditions, including vibrationand shock loads. In chemical-, petrochemical-, food-, water and wastewater sectors as well as several different Lighting Technology areas of the processing industry, equipment availability is essential. Future-proof and time-saving With its large portfolio of clamps WAGO offers automation technology from WAGO, stands for the ideal connection technology for simple efficiency in the industry and ensures high availand safe wiring of lighting and equipment or ability of production and assembly equipment. For to establish the optimal connection between applications with special requirements such as single-, multipleand fine wiring conductors with explosion protection or functional safety, WAGO different cross-sectional areas. Furthermore offers several components which guarantee reliour pluggable WINSTA® system makes electrical able, safe operating around the clock. installations easy, safe and error-free. Whether it is inor outside, residentialor industrial buildings, with WAGO, every lighting concept can be realized individually. Automotive Lighting Technology Railway Systems Process Automation 9 ABOUT US | OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE Our Corporate Structure We would like to give you an insight into our corporate structure. Below is an outline of our company divisions, organized centrally at our headquarters in Minden (Germany). The cited company divisions are headed by our management staff. For reasons of clarity we have not provided a detailed break-down of the associated departments here. A GO ny al tric tion W rma c Ele nec gy n Co hnolo Ge Te c n a tio tom ng Au eti M ark sm ini n Ad ion tio t uc tra d Pro uality &Q n & ma es Hu ourc tion s a Re aniz rg O 10 ABOUT US | OUR LOCATIONS We have grown continuously since our company was established in 1951. Production locations Sales locations and local representatives Our Locations We currently have production facilities in eight WAGO has 28 subsidiaries and a corporate sales countries around the world. In addition to our network in 31 countries. There are also local headquarters in Minden, our Sonderhausen locarepresentatives in 50 further countries. This tion in the state of Thuringia in Germany has been complexity in our sales structure presents us with part of the company since 1993. On an internatiochallenges of which we are well aware, particularly nal level we also have plants in Tianjin (China), Paris in view of the social responsibility of our corporate (France), Noida (India), Tokyo (Japan), Wroclaw management. Not every country has legislation (Poland), Domdidier (Switzerland) and Germantown in place that stands up to the standards at our (USA). This international structure combines many headquarters in Germany. cultures within our company. To foster these we continuously encourage an exchange of ideas and We have grown continuously since our company information across all locations. This also makes was established in 1951. This growth has also it possible for us to learn from one another and increased our influence on society, which in turn establish corporate standards. For this report we demands greater responsibility on our part. In the have compiled figures from the above mentioned next section we would like to show you the priority production locations. this responsibility has for us and how we perceive and promote it. 11 © amenic181 /Fotolia.com OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) In this chapter of our CSR report we want to ments. This subject should be promoted by every illustrate our vision regarding sustainable developemployee, everyone can contribute something ment and describe how we intend to incorporate valuable. Closely linked is how we cooperate with this vision into our strategy using concrete instruour stakeholders in and outside the company. 13 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) | OUR CSR FIELDS OF ACTION Our CSR Fields of Action Our objective is to sustainably develop our compaOur Vision to always establish the right connectiny and, in doing so not only drive forward technoon can be transferred to every level. WAGO unites logical progress, but also create a balance betthe innovative force and development opportuniween the social, ecological and economic services ties of an internationally successful corporation of our company. For us responsible economic with the values of a family-owned company. business means going beyond securing WAGO‘s Team spirit as well as a feeling of togetherness future as a company, while keeping our ecological distinguished by fairness and partnership are supfootprint as small as possible and meeting our porting pillars of our corporate structure. A further social responsibilities in society. In this context we strength is the solidarity with the regions where additionally want to support collective exchange of we do business. This creates the foundation to ideas internal and external and find solutions from systematically integrate our social responsibility. which we can all profit. Our CSR Fields of Action “Promotion of future-oriented corporate management by supporting actions for our employees, our society, environmental protection and responsibility in the supply chain.” Employees Enviroment Supply Chain Society • Social Standards • Plastics • Standards • Corporate • Diversity • Disposal • Reporting & Volunteering • Safety & Health • Resource EffiCommunication • NGO‘s and • Lifelong Learning ciency • Quality networks • Balance between • Conformity with • Responsibilities in • Support for the work and private REACH/RoHS etc. Supply Chain region: Education life • Training and Inforand training, • Values mation culture, sports, • Participation • Product Life jobs, technology, Cycle monetary and in • Environmental & kind Energy Management 14 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) | IMPLEMENTATION OF CSR Implementation CSR Strategy of CSR We apply an aligned management process to successfully implement CSR and the duties that come with it. For this purpose we continuously adapt our strategic considerations to the current guidelines. In the next chapter we will outline the Guidelines most important guidelines for our work. In addition to a good information base, analysis of the company situation is essential. Using the results from observations, surveys and other instruments we set objectives associated with the corresponding topic areas. Find out more bout this in the Chapter Topics and Dialog. This is followed by the Plan of Action and Implementation to develop the topics. Analysis An additional element is the area of Reporting & Communication. In the past we shied away from drawing attention to our efforts. We want to change this in the future on an internal and external level. Because only through communication can we put greater focus on this subject in a social context and create transparency through reporting Dialog Action Plan Reporting 15 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) | GUIDELINES ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Guidelines on Social Responsibility At this point we would like to provide an overview 17 goals for sustainable development of the most important guidelines that form the basis for our CSR management. These are the In September 2015 the “Agenda 2030 for Sustain“UN Global Compact”, the The Sustainability Code able Development” was adopted by the United with GRI-G4 Indicators, the “Corporate Social Nations. The agenda lays out the common responEngagement Charta” and the 17 objectives of sibility by all countries in the world community for sustainable development. our planet and its population. We want to promote familiarity with the Agenda 2030 and make points UN Global Compact of contact for practical application publically known. Our company has been a member of the Global Compact since the beginning of 2012. The goal of The Sustainability Code this association is to implement social and ecological standards. We have committed ourselves to The The Sustainability Code serves to provide a uphold the ten principles of the “Global Compact” concrete aid for reporting. This codex represents to the greatest extent possible. the minimum requirements for CSR reporting obligations and is subdivided into four areas: Strategy, Charta – Corporate Social Commitment process management, environment and society. By issuing a separate statement of compliance in By signing this document we commit ourselves the DNK-Portal companies can ensure they fulfill to supporting social involvement, to cooperating the CSR reporting duties. Information to the releawith charitable organizations and to publically base of our compliance statement will be published cking activities to encourage others to participate. on our homepage in the near future. 16 Everyone‘s Individual Contribution The concept of sustainability receives particular dedicated employee not only contributing ideas support by our company‘s advisory committee for social and environmental events but who and management staff. This is particularly actively participates. Thanks to them we were apparent by the company‘s commitment to its able to host great events in the past. We depend employees and different regions that has been on the dedication of our employees for the future. firmly anchored in the company for decades. As an Further information regarding this topic will follow illustration of this, management issued a mandate in the chapter “Social Commitment”. in mid-2015 to systematically monitor the comOnly if everyone does his own fair share can the pany‘s social responsibility. The task of Corporate company continue to exist over the long term. In Social Responsibility is situated in the International addition to the guidelines mentioned, we have esHuman Resources division, where it is coordinated tablished internal principles as an orientation. Theoperatively within the Department for Environment se include our Management Principles, our Code Health Safety. of Conduct and Group Policy. These guidelines are intended to promote a consistent corporate All employees share the duty to behave resstandard and value orientation. By implementing ponsible towards fellow human beings and the the Code of Conduct into our supplier surveys environment, to observe WAGO‘s ethical principles we sensitize the suppliers on the subject and enand stand up for them. We are thankful for every courage the establishment of social standards. Irresponsible Responsible Short-term success Long-term success • Pofit-only orientation • Sustainability and acting ethically as values • Motto: “The end justifies the means” • Motto: “Think ahead” • Effects of a decision are not questioned. • Keeping social and ecological impact in mind • Wasteful … when making decisions • Selfish … • Appreciation … 17 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) | MATERIALITY & DIALOG Materiality & Dialog Integration of our stakeholders also plays an We contacted our customers, business partners important role for entrepreneurial dealing with our and suppliers to find out how our corporate idensocial responsibility. By integration we mean more tity is perceived from the outside and combined it than just information. In order to expose potential with our self perception. On this basis were able to for improvement and develop a plan of action, it identify two columns which simultaneously proviis necessary not only to give our stakeholders de us feedback and orientation. the opportunity of entering into a dialog and discussing these issues, but also, in an ideal case, to We make every effort to include our internal elaborate participative solutions. stakeholders in significant decisions regarding Solid family-owned Innovative force business • Courage • Down-to-earth • Pioneering and approach inventive spirit • Humaneness • Innovative strength • Social awareness • Progressive nature • Team spirit • Dynamic • Solidarity • Confidence • Security 18 iStock.com/bluebearry OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) | MATERIALITY & DIALOG our actions. Networks as platforms for an external For this we have extended invitations to CSR cooperative exchange are very important to us. workshops with international representatives and We will continue to rely on networks and exchange conducted employee surveys in departments with our stakeholders in the future. Attached is an such as Personnel, Marketing and Sales. The reoverview of our internal and external stakeholders. sults have provided us with important knowledge to set priorities for our course of action. Additional Important instruments to identify relevant topics knowledge is gained by participating in networks within the scope of sustainable company maand symposiums. For the future we have planned nagement are workshops surveys and interviews. to survey additional departments. Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders • Shareholders • Customers • Advisory Board • Suppliers • Business Management • Business Partners and Service Providers • Employees • Competitors • Network Partners • Neighbors • Regional Society • Trade Union • Politics & Country • NGOs 19 20 OUR EMPLOYEES Without dedicated employees it would not be possible for us to continue to grow and put innovations on the market. Our intention is to develop our company in such a manner that our employees enjoy being a part of WAGO, that they feel associated with the company and do their best for it. We have already established a variety of measures to promote this. 21 OUR EMPLOYEES | OUR EMPLOYEES Our Employees On December 31, 2015 WAGO had a total of 7,200 increased our staff by over 500 in 2015. In Germaemployees worldwide. Around 3,300 of these are ny we employed 280 apprentices and students in employed in Germany. In comparison to 2014, we 2015 and the trend is toward even further growth. in Minden (NRW) 203 ca. 2,000 Apprentices + 500 72 in Sondershausen Employees ca. 1,000 Apprentices 2014 2015 approx. 7200 approx. 3300 Employees global Employees in Germany (31.12.2015) (31.12.2015) Our Employees in 2015 180 130 140 240 Germany 2% 3% 12 % Switzerland 2% Poland 3% 1300 China 3260 45 % India 18 % 550 France USA 500 8% 7% Japan Absolute number of employees in 2015 Relative distribution of employees in 2015 Others 22 OUR EMPLOYEES | OUR EMPLOYEES The fluctuation rate is an important indicator of employees seldom change jobs. At our German employee satisfaction and commitment. It should locations, the fluctuation rates are commensurate not be too high, or too low. A high fluctuation with the rest of the industry. The fluctuation rates rate would indicate that employees change jobs at international locations can be considered poor companies frequently for certain reasons. On sitive, particularly in view of cultural customs and the other hand, if the fluctuation rate is very low, basic economic conditions. SWITZERLAND 5.1 % POLAND 5.4 % GERMANY 3.7 % FRANCE 3.7 % CHINA 10.4 % INDIA 6.4 % Japan 8.5 % USA 9.0 % Employee fluctuation in 2015 Our workforce consists of permanent and temring locations, we find that the ratio of short term porary employed staff. Within the course of CSR to permanent job contracts is highest in Poland, reporting we have taken a closer look at the relaIndia and Japan. tionship at each production location. All totaled, 15 % of the job positions are short term. Compa100 % Permanent Short-term contract 15 % 50 % SWITZERLAND GERMANY POLAND FRANCE CHINA INDIA JAPAN 85 % 3,7 % 5,1 % 5,4 % 10,4 % USA 6,0 % 0% Our workforce consists of employees with permanent as well as short term jobs. 23 OUR EMPLOYEES | HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights It is the responsibility of companies to obey dards of the International Labor Organization are national and international recognized standards integrated into these standards and thus into the regarding employment rights. To guarantee this Code of conduct subscribed to by the WAGO we orient our actions on the standards issued by Group. In addition, since 2012 we have been a the international Electronic Industry Citizenship member of the UN Global Compact and support Coalition (EICC) and ZVEI. The basic labor stanthe 10 principles set out in the compact: 1. Protection and observance of international human rights. 2. No complicity in violation of human rights. 3. Observance of the right to freedom of assembly and recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Elimination of compulsory labor in all forms. 5. Abolishment of child labor. 6. Elimination of discrimination in hiring and employment. 7. Precautionary principle in dealing with environmental problems. 8. Promotion of environmental awareness through specific initiatives. 9. Development and propagation of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Prevention of corruption, including extortion and bribery. In addition there are so-called “quantitative social possible. The following table shows some of the standards”, which, for example, regulate working terms of our union contract with IG-Metal. The hours. Our union contracts in Germany put us at following table shows some of the terms of our a high level in this regard, which we also want to union contract: apply to other locations to the greatest extent Topics Claim Working hours 35 h/week (Minden) / 37.5 h/week (Sondershausen) Monthly salary Objective classification in ERA Groups Bonuses Allowances for overtime, shift work, work at nights, on Sundays and holidays. , Industry allowances for temporary employment Vacation time & vacation 30 work days vacation acc. to union contract pay + 50 % of average earnings as vacation pay Capital-forming benefits incl. Christmas bonus, profit sharing for retirement, use of benefits for disability insurance or retirement Company regulations reProtection for non-smokers, agreements after returning from illness and absence, garding safety & health addictive drugs, company integration management, incapability to work, pension guarantee, insolvency insurance, etc. 24 OUR EMPLOYEES | HUMAN RIGHTS 48 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 36.5 SONDERSHAUSEN SWITZERLAND MINDEN POLAND CHINA FRANCE JAPAN Union contract INDIA USA Maximum weekly working hours Maximum weekly working hours based on employment contract [h] Another subject is the promotion of possibilities nagement” gives every employee the opportunity to participate. All employees are sincerely invited to ask questions to be answered by management to submit ideas to the responsible contact person in coordination with the specialized departments in the company. In addition to the the necessary in the employee portal. Technologically we are feedback, we also obtain ideas for future projects also clearing a path using a suitable system from workshops and surveys in particular. Howelandscape under the motto “Connect, Network, ver, co-determination and dialog are also possible Understand” to allow exchange with one another in our employee portal using ‚like‘ and comment and comprehensive collaboration more quickly functions. The category “Your questions to maand with fewer complications. 25 OUR EMPLOYEES | DIVERSITY Diversity For us, personality and qualifications of our dealing with the topic of discrimination and outemployees count – not their gender, age, etc.. We lining tips for proper behavior. Important contact strictly reject discrimination of any type – and persons in this context are the members of the violations have consequences! We want to create Works Council as well as our employees in our a corporate structure distinguished by treating own operations and the personnel department. one another in a friendly and open manner. This is why fairness to employees and other groups of We consider a diversified staff to be a distinct persons is an important principle in WAGO‘s comopportunity and support them with specific meapany regulations. This is applied to other locations sures – not only as a reaction to the demographic by the group policy and code of conduct. change and shortage of qualified employees in some regions. Our offerings in the area of health Our corporate structure is shaped by our and development of human resources ensure management conducting guidelines. Here, we the appropriate educational support possibilities explicitly require fair treatment in appreciation of for all employees regardless of age. A further our values and exemplary behavior on the part of focal point is the support of women in technical the management staff. Moreover we support the occupations focusing on mentoring programs and “Respect! No tolerance for racism” initiative. specific events. These initiatives have, for example, resulted in creation of a comprehensive WAGO To support this initiative we provide training courwomen‘s network focusing on “Aspiring Female ses on the subjects of “General Gender Equality” Professionals and Managers” for collaborative and “Psychological Stress at the Workplace” advice and exchange of ideas and information. 26 iStock.com/zoranm 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 41 % SONDERSHAUSEN 50 % 59 % SWITZERLAND 40 % 30 % MINDEN FRANCE 20 % POLAND CHINA INDIA USA JAPAN Female 10 % Male 0% Gender distribution in 2015 100 % 90 % 9 12 80 % 70 % 39 % 40 60 % SONDERSHAUSEN 50 % SWITZERLAND 40 % Over 55 years 30 % MINDEN POLAND FRANCE 41 to 55 years CHINA JAPAN 20 % INDIA USA 25 to 40 years 10 % Under 25 years 0% Age distribution in 2015 27 OUR EMPLOYEES | WAGO FAMILY PROGRAM WAGO Family Program As a traditional family-owned company we place parental leave periods, offering continuing training high value on the compatibility of work and family courses, reaching agreements on flexible working life. This is the reason we have emphasized times and keeping quotas free for children in the development of the company in this area during nursery school. Moreover the German Children‘s the past years and are continuing to work out Protection Association helps find and refer suinew concepts to offer our employees attractive table assistance and offers a free “Help Line for solutions. Parents”. We also go above and beyond this by working out measures to support this compatibiliFor this reason we created the WAGO Family ty (e.g. support of private advanced training, etc.). Program, which has provided support for employees of all generations since 2013. The Initiatives for better reconciliation are being elaboprogram consists of a cooperative effort with the rated at our other locations as well. WAGO SwitGerman Children‘s Protection Association and the zerland supports employees in the same manner collective nursery school, named Dandelion, at as WAGO Germany, with discounts in many stores our headquarters in Minden and with the service in the region. Over the course of years permanent provider WDS.Care. secondary initiatives based on the actions mentioned above have developed at the location in We take concrete action to provide support in Poland. Projects such as “Share your book with caring for children or family members in need of others” and “Toys for toys” prevent functional procare, to relieve the psychological stress on our ducts from being thrown away, while allowing our employees to the greatest extent of our capaemployees to take a “new” product home without bilities. The program,offers our employees the having to visit a shop in the city. WAGO China has possibility of a voluntary financial subsidy for the established clubs for common activities similar to care of preschool children. However we also proour locations in Germany. For example they have a vide qualitative help by maintaining contact during book club, soccer, table tennis and other offers. iStock.com/skynesher OUR EMPLOYEES | OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Occupational Safety Our products stand for high quality and user safety. We communicate our objectives with the STOP principle, We also want to make our workplaces as safe as among others: possible for our employees. Our management staff is obligated to ensure that legal regulations on labor protection are observed. They are supported in these efforts above all by our Environment HeSafety using strategies and systems implemented alth and Safety managers. But we also go beyond by a responsible management the legal regulations in preventing accidents and limiting endangerment associated with work. Technical safety precautions, safe equipment We use hazard assessments and training derived Organization of safe conditions at the work place, from them to sensitize our employees to the topic avoidance of excessive or two few demands of safety. We have been successful in establishing our company‘s internal training system at all WAGO Personal safety precautions – what each person locations. Moreover we have introduced a manageshould consider for their own well-being ment system based on the OHSAS 18001 standard for our occupational health and safety and health protection policy. 3.0 2.5 2.0 SWITZERLAND 1.5 SONDERSHAUSEN 1.0 C HINA INDIA JAPAN 0.5 OSHA Incident rate MINDEN POLAND FRANCE Average USA Increases from > 2.7 0.0 “OSHA Incident Rate” for 2015 10.5 9.5 9.0 8.5 2012 2013 2014 2015 1000-man quota in Germany 29 OUR EMPLOYEES | OPERATIONAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT Operational Health Management For us, active health management is the key to heAt our locations in Germany our well equipped althier employees. Within the scope of health macompany medical facilities with their own comnagement, we concentrate on two different focal pany physicians and medical assistants provide points for protection and promotion of employee complete medical services. We feature open health. At our German locations we have already office hours, allowing our employees to obtain established a wide range of offerings and health medical services without additional travel time. management is being assigned an ever-increaWe help fight influenza viruses with free flu shots. singly important role at the international locations Moreover we have been successful in winning as well. Naturally we implement situation-related cooperation partners such as regional pharmacies as well as behavior-related measures in our health and health insurers, to ensure that this support management program. exceeds regular working hours. Of particular relevance are our Health Circles – moderated discussion meetings with employees from the Health protection Promotion of healthier living Counseling offerings Ergonomic workplace organization Occupational medical examinations Psycho-social counseling Inspections Addiction counseling Travel medicine Management staff training Accident care Trainee projects Out-patient activities Health programs Rehabilitation Health and action days Operational reintegration management In-house massage/yoga Internal plant physician center Health Circle Company retirement provisions Company sports/active breaks Absent time meetings Back and spine exercises Flu shots Offerings for sales offices Healthy & fresh meals 30 various industries on the subject of “Promotion of Our employees in the sales offices receive WAGO employee health at the workplace” – which allow vouchers honored by our health partners. This us to identify potential for improvement and elaallows them to profit from health benefits in spite borate recommendations for solutions. of their distance to the company‘s sport facilities. Shift work is essential for our production. The The topic of health also plays a decisive role at our shift model used at our company is developed international locations. At our facilities in Switzerin close cooperation with the works council and land we also offer free flu shots and provide our corresponds to forward-rotating shift planning, employees with discounts on additional insurance designed to minimize negative effects on health benefits from their health insurance. In Poland, heto the greatest extent. We also offer a wide variety alth weeks, apple and bicycle campaigns are held of sports at our company, allowing employees a regularly. Our employees in China also take part in sports recreation opportunity at no cost or for a the company‘s sports program, such as soccer or very moderate fee. This presently includes soccer, table tennis groups, to keep physically active. fitness, dragon boat, walking and jogging groups, tennis, cycling, dancing and volley ball. 31 OUR EMPLOYEES | OPERATIONAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT In France, employees with sick children can take up to four days of compassionate leave each year. Although this is not required by law, WAGO offers it as an additional benefit. They are also provided with additional heath benefits and discounts at fitness studios. Stretching exercises are done each morning in production – in addition to promoting health this also helps boosts team spirit. A number of projects in the area of health are also available at our location in the USA. “Wellness & Health” fairs are offered. To keep the employees up to date and healthy, we send out wellness newsletters and organize walks and luncheons with informative presentations on many health topics. LOSE WEIGHT FOR A GOOD CAUSE!? A program called “Healthy Diet Plan” was introduced at our sales offices in Brazil. How does it work? For each kilogram an employee loses through healthy diet and sport, WAGO Brazil donates one kilogram of food to institutions for people in need. 32 iStock.com/gradyreese Lifelong Learning The intelligence of our company is composed diexperienced manager serves as a mentor and a rectly of the knowledge of each individual emplojunior staff member as mentee. The mentee can yee, along with synergy effects. Only by providing profit from the mentor‘s wealth of experience and our employees with appropriate opportunities for consult him for advice. This is intended to promote advanced and additional training can we ensure the personal and occupational development of that WAGO will continue to develop and “learn” the mentee. We also participate in a program of as an organization. We work with a variety of “Cross Mentoring OWL” – management staff depersonnel development instruments to promote velopment for female managers and in a program organizational learning. of “Cross mentoring for development of skilled employees in technically-oriented companies” for We prepare our junior staff for one of two possible those just starting a career as well as for experiencareers – as managers or as project directors. ced, skilled employees. With the aid of potential analyses and audits we evaluate the competencies of our junior staff We have included various training measures in and mutually define a career, for which we have our training concept to prepare our employees for concrete training modules. Management staff their specific tasks and for providing continuous members profit from 360 degree feedback at support. We offer a series of product and basic regular intervals, allowing them to utilize assesstraining courses for our employees as well as ment principles objectively and systematically, as for our customers. Our training modules include well as from obligatory coaching. various in-house courses of training for employees and management staff in the areas of social, meAt WAGO we have established an internal thod and self competency. For example, we offer mentoring program, whereby in teams of two an courses in intercultural training, communication 33 OUR EMPLOYEES | LIFELONG LEARNING and conflict management. The training courses Seminars offered by IT provide comprehensive insight into Product Basics & Training the applications used within the company, including Training Courses in-depth instructions. These are implemented as eLearning sessions and as as in-house classroom training courses. Personal Foreign Training Developn addition to standardized training measures, our languages Modules ment employees have the opportunity to apply for individual development measures, as long as, they are work related. These primarily external events eLearning MS Office must be discussed with the immediate supervisor. IT Services Courses Training We are willing to grant our employees the opportunity to pursue their own training goals, as long as they are commensurate and constructive. Additionally WAGO employees profit from discounts on discountable courses offered at the regional community education center. It is difficult to summarize the variety of advanced personnel department, we are working on electrotraining measures in figures. We presently have nic training. The figures for financial year 2015 are several systems to illustrate our training courses. listed here. In addition to conventional training listed in the 16.61 16.3 10.5 10.2 9.4 No leading position 7.2 4.7 Leading position 2.83 3.28 2.7 Female Male MINDEN SONDERSHAUSEN QUANTITY HOURS Hours of advanced training per employee in Electronic training courses and time allotted Germany in 2015. per employee in Germany in 2015. 22 20 17.25 16.3 13.54 SWITZERLAND 9.97 9.48 POLAND CHINA FRANCE JAPAN INDIA USA Hours of advanced training per production location in 2015. 34 OUR EMPLOYEES | APPRENTICESHIP & STUDIES Apprenticeship & Studies We hold ourselves to a high standard in aspect of apprenticeships and practice-integrated study our apprenticeship and study programs. At our courses: German locations we currently offer following Training Bachelor Studies • Industrial Mechanic • Mechanical Engineering • Construction Mechanic • Electrical Engineering • Machinist • Industrial Engineering • Toolmaker • Business Informatics • Mechatronics Specialist • Process Mechanic for Plastics and Rubber Technology • Electrician for Operating Technology • Electronics specialist Area of specialization: Energy and Building Technology, Automation Technology, Information and Telecommunications Technology • Machine and System Operator • Technical Product Designer • Industrial Cler We want to provide external temporary help. They do not merely console college pupils and students with graduates who apply for a permanent position with the opportunity to gain an an internship or lure them in with vague promises of insight into our company a subsequent permanent position. Instead they ofand therefor offer internsfer internships primarily for professional orientation hips parallel to their regular during the training phase. Interns receive a reasocourses. Because fairness nable salary and external students are supported is important to us, we participate in the Fair Comwhile working on their theses. In cooperation with pany Initiative. Fair Companies do not replace fullour technology network partners we organize a time positions with interns, volunteers, trainees or semi-annual student camp. 35 OUR EMPLOYEES | APPRENTICESHIP & STUDIES In addition we cooperate le getting started in their professional career. The inwith the initiative “Zukunft centive awards, including a monetary stipend of up Ausbildung im Mühlenkreis to 1,000 euros each, are presented in the Counties ZAM e. V.“ where trainees of Minden-Lübbecke, Kyffhaus, and Nordhausen. are given a glimpse into a In the year 2015 alone our Foundation‘s incentive number of training comaward totaled over 27,500 euros. panies within the scope of their training. This helps creAs of Dec. 31, 2015 we employed a total of 220 ate additional training positions in the region each apprentices and 55 practical integrated students year. We use events such as Training Day, Future in Germany alone. Percentagewise that is 9% of Day and “Girls Engineering Day” to actively particiour entire workforce in Germany. Additionally ZAM pate in finding suitable candidates for our training apprentices and regular students pass through and study positions by providing information as well the company during internships on a regular basis. as direct interviews. Similar percentages apply to Switzerland, India and France. However, such training systems are not yet The Wago Foundation, founded in 1998 by our forcommon in all countries. This is why statistics are mer business manager and present advisory board not listed for all production locations. member, Wolfgang Hohorst, promotes dual training on a practical basis and helps support young peop9 2 17 9 36 Germany Switzerland 275 Poland China India Number of training positions (Dec. 31, 2015). France 100 % 95 % SWITZERLAND 90 % GERMANY POLAND FRANCE CHINA INDIA Training positions Regular jobs 85 % Relation of training positions to regular jobs (Dec. 31, 2015). 36 Employer Awards WAGO is highly dedicated to its employees.This is Just recently WAGO China were awarded the recoproven by the several awards we have received in gnized “TOP Human Resources Award 2016” and the areas of personnel management and employer “Best Employer China” certificates. This proves branding. This makes our workforce and us happy. were on the right track and that we can be proud of We are particularly proud to have received the our achievements. following awards at our German locations during the year 2016: “Best Place to Learn”, “Excellent Employer”, “TOP National Employer” and “Top Employer Engineers Germany”. At the location in Sondershausen we were honored with the “Demographically Oriented Company” certificate in 2015. N ATI O N A L E R ARBEITGEBER 2017 DEUTSCHLANDS BESTE ARBEITGEBER IM VERGLEICH I N KO O P E R ATI O N M IT 37 ©Smileus/Fotolia.com ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Since 2002 our locations in Germany and SwitzerWAGO was one of the first companies in the land are yearly audited regarding relevant environindustrial branch to be certified according to the mental regulations by an independent certification Energy Management Standard ISO 50001. We center. With our ISO 14001 certification, WAGO work with the multiplier model to promulgate proves our dedication to both environmental knowledge regarding energy saving potentials management and conservative use of natural within the company. A contact person for energy resources. We maintain these standards at our matters is appointed in each department. In the locations in Germany, Switzerland and China. Our production departments our energy officers help facilities in China and India have also been audited ensure energy efficient processes and advise in the area of sustainability. employees and business partners as required. 39 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | CONFORMITY WITH LAWS AND DIRECTIVES (REACH/ROHS) Conformity with Laws and Directives (REACH/RoHS) Product-related environmental protection plays Certain duties arise from the REACH regulation for a significant part in WAGO‘s sustainable environeveryone involved in the supply chain. The items mental management. We place high priority on manufactured by WAGO are considered products ensuring observance of substance prohibitions/ to which the regulation applies. As products are limitations worldwide, such as REACH, RoHS, etc. not subject to registration, WAGO usually assumes the role of the downstream user in the supply RoHS – Restriction of (the use of certain) chain. Therefore, WAGO has the duty to inform all Hazardous Substances involved in the supply chain according to REACH RoHS Is an EU directive on restriction of the use of Regulation Article 33. Naturally, WAGO takes this particular hazardous substances in electrical and duty seriously. electronic devices. In addition to reducing harmful effects on human beeings and the environment, Please contact WAGO directly if you have any the goal is to improve recycling possibilities. questions: EHS-product-compliance@wago.com WAGO closely monitors RoHS developments and will respond accordingly in a timely manner to BOMcheck any changes in these requirements. Our products European laws such as REACH and RoHS require which meet the material requirements of this the provision of information about restricted RoHS feature a “RoHS-compliant” identification substances in products. This information must mark on their packaging. be passed on by the manufacturers and suppliers to all participants of the supply chain. In order to Please contact WAGO directly if you have any manage this challenge WAGO uses BOMcheck. questions: EHS-product-compliance@wago.com BOMcheck is a centralized database for the declaration of substances to allow manufacturers REACH – Registration, Evaluation and and suppliers to efficiently create well-structured Authorization of Chemicals substance declarations complying with REACH, EU Directive No. 1907/2006 (REACH regulation) RoHS, and other regulations concerning the limitatook effect on June 1, 2007, and since then has tion of substance This Internet database system been a valid legal basis for all EU member states. enhances data quality in the product-related To protect human health and the environment, environmental protection sector. Product-related environthis EU chemical directive regulates classification mental protection plays and identification of all chemicals including their For additional information on BOMcheck, click on a significant part in effects. the following link: http://www.bomcheck.net WAGO‘s sustainable environmental management. iStock.com/mashuk ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | PLASTICS RECYCLING Plastics Recycling Plastics are made from non-renewable petrothe best use of this non-degradable resource we leum-based fossil fuels. Manufacturing plastics depend on our own recycling technology at our produces a significant amount of CO2 . To make locations in Germany, India and China. Plastics onsumption in 2015 [in t] 4000 3500 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 MINDEN SONDERSHAUSEN SWITZERLAND CHINA INDIA Amount of reclaims Minden 2015 Amount of reclaims Sondershausen 2015 26.2 % 17.5 % New resources 73.8 % 82.5 % Reclaims 41 iStock.com/Coprid ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | VERPACKUNGEN Packaging Our packaging materials primarily consist of Manufacturers located in Germany who place pacorrugated and solid cardboard, steel strapping, cking on the market are legally obligated to ensustretch wrap, polyethylene foil and plastic trays. re its proper recycling. Since Feb. 2, 1993 WAGO All of our packaging fulfils the requirements has been in contract with Interseroh Zero Waste specified in the 94/62/EC Directive. As a result, Solutions which manage take-back, recovery and our packaging is made of 80 % recycled material. recycling of our packaging materials. In 2015 we The packaging management continuously tries were able to save 489.08 tons of resources and to improve the quality of our packaging in terms 58,537 kilograms of greenhouse gases. of thickness, size and regenerates. If possible we would immediately consider a more sustainable alternative. 42 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | HAZARDOUS MATERIALS Hazardous Materials Hazardous materials are any items or agents WAGO has appointed a hazardous materials which have the potential to cause harm during specialist to ensure that hazardous materials are transportation due to their physical or chemical handled and controlled in a safe manner and in characteristics. These materials are defined and compliance with regulatory requirements. regulated by law and subdivided into 9 different UN classes and 3 UN packaging categories. At our company , the following series are currently classified as hazardous and assigned as listed below: • Cleaning set/Pen cleaner, 258 Series (UN 3092, class 3, packaging group III) • Disposable ink cartridges / disposable plotter pins, 258 Series (UN 1263, class 3, packaging group III) • WAGO-I/O-IPC, 758+762 Series (UN 3091, class 9, packaging group II) • Battery module / battery / To Pass outdoor, 761 +787 Series (UN 2800, class 8, packaging group III) 758+762 Series 258 Series 258 Series 761 +787 Series Disposable ink Battery module / Cleaning Set/ WAGO-I/O-IPC cartridges / dispobattery / To Pass Pen Cleaner sable plotter pins outdoor Packaging group 2 Packaging group 3 43 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste Management “The best waste, is that which is not produced”. and tools, which have been subjected to an This is the main objective of our waste manageapproval process. Subsequently, employees in ment. Besides regulatory compliance and monitoall departments are sensitized to economical ring material cycles and disposal costs we consuse of resources and trained in proper use of our tantly try to establish potential for improvement. sorting system for waste and recyclable material. We maintain close contact to our various certified Waste management starts with procurement – recycling and disposal companies and manufacby purchasing eco friendly production resources turers. 10 % 24 % 66 % Production waste General waste Hazardous waste Germany 2015 Locations Total Waste Minden 681,12 Sondershausen 570,09 450 Switzerland 46,43 Poland 37,64 China 166,66 280 SONDERSHAUSEN India 6,53 220 SWITZERLAND France 30,00 140 130 USA 23,40 POLAND 90 MINDEN FRANCE 70 Japan n/a USA CHINA INDIA 30 Waste in 2015 [in t] Waste per employee [in kg] Complete figures not yet available from all locations 44 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | TRAINING & INFORMATION “Environmental Protection & Resource Efficiency” Training & Information Environmental protection starts at the workplace: us to evaluate and if necessary take measures for Objectives such as avoiding-, labelingand sepaimprovement where required. We review these ration of waste and saving energy is highly depenobjectives within various departments and make dent on our employees. We are fully aware of this sure all employees know whom to contact in case correlation and therefore regularly offer internal they have any questions or suggestions. training programs. Site inspections and audits help 45 iStock.com/zoranm ©LIPSKIY PAVEL/Fotolia.com Ressources Company growth leads to higher consumption of Please note that to date we have not calculated resources. The charts and diagrams below show any overall CO2 balance for our company. But we how much water, electricity and gas we consume have reviewed the topic, performed research and at our various production sites. Furthermore you are attempting to optimize the basis for these figucan see the total surface area used to build our res. The topic has been included in our objectives production sites. By supporting resource efficienfor further development. cy projects in terms of energyand environmental management we try to keep our consumption of resources as low as possible. 46 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | RESSOURCES Water consumption in 2015 Location Total m3 China 35,843 Minden 19,972 Sondershausen 10,354 33.82 Poland 7,040 27.72 USA 6,087 SONDERSHAUSEN SWITZERLAND Switzerland 2,982 India 1,881 12.78 8.11 POLAND MINDEN FRANCE 8.09 7.94 JAPAN France 802 CHINA 6.10 5.85 1.55 USA INDIA Japan 200 m3 per employee Power consumption in 2015 Location Total kWh Sondershausen 18,971,067 Minden 17,461,606 China 8,830,600 Switzerland 7,830,068 16,012 14,856 Poland 1,119,544 SONDERSHAUSEN SWITZERLAND USA 875,000 India 667,516 7,072 6,830 4,861 France 183,817 MINDEN CHINA 2,817 POLAND FRANCE JAPAN USA INDIA 2,032 1,342 Japan 19,930 155 kWh per employee 47 iStock.com/Coprid ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | RESSOURCES Fuel gas in 2015 Location Total kWh Minden 6,014,195 Sondershausen 1,682,000 China 1,420,900 7,789 USA 1,409,000 Poland 524,430 SONDERSHAUSEN SWITZERLAND France 260,000 Switzerland 258,198 2,436 MINDEN FRANCE POLAND India 0 1,808 USA 1,317 CHINA 1,099 952 Japan 0 528 kWh per employee Space requirements in 2015 2,800 2,850 1,130 5,234 8,190 Germany Switzerland 18,479 Poland China India 32,314 France USA Japan 152,600 Other 152.600 Space requirements in 2015 [m2] 48 Other Resource Efficiency Projects Environmental Compatibility of Our Buildings Our innovative solutions have contributed to greaWe put a great deal of consideration into the ecoter resource efficiency in various industry sectors. logical compatibility of our premises. 20 years ago At this point we would like to present additional we began equipping all new buildings with cisterns resource efficieny projects of ours which conto recycle rain water. This single measure allowed tribute to enviromental protection and promote us to reduce water consumption by more than renewable energy. 25 %. Furthermore roofs are covered with extensive vegetation which made it possible to convert these usually unused areas into biotopes for various animals and plants. We have taken advantage of geothermal energy for more than a decade by installing heat pumps to efficiently heat and cool our facilities while preserving natural resources. 49 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | RESSOURCES We explicitly added sustainability to the list of criuse of renewable energy in terms of heat and teria in the search of a new caterer. The main forefrigeration up to 14 % until 2020. The savings cus was set on using regional and fresh products. obtained by this system are 12.2 kW/h in compaFor this reason we purchase fish exclusively from rison to a conventional industrial machine of the certified suppliers and meat only from controlled same size. livestock farms. Dishes are prepared without additives and primarily organic products. A chief The company restaurant uses a disposal system attraction in the new restaurant – we process for wet waste which includes a grease separator. “culinary misfits”. This means fruit and vegetabThese investments pay for themselves in a les which do not meet visual standards and are number of ways – we save the costs for disposal usually thrown out. transport and storage and simultaneously gain renewable energy through the recycling process. The new industrial dishwasher is equipped with Moreover this method is particularly hygienic and an integrated heat pump, for which we received odor-free. According to the manufacturer up to public subsidies from the Federal Ministry Project 20 m3 of biomass can be used for production of “Promotion of measures to utilize renewable energy in the biogas plant and the CO2 emissions energy on the heat market”. Hereby we support can be reduced by up to 90 %. the German government‘s goal to increase the 50 Efficient Production By investing in more efficient manufacturing Here are a few concrete examples equipment and machines we try to minimize consumption. At our location in Sondershausen • 50 % energy savings in the injection-molding shop we have successfully cut gas consumption in half, through use of electrical injection molding machines. just, by incorporating heat exchangers into our • Decentralized dry air treatment for plastic granulate ventilation systems and upgrading the control • Energy savings through replacement of tempering systems. Furthermore we installed pollution filters units in the injection molding process at our manufacturing sites in order to protect the • Innovative Production Portal for Production Data environment and residents near the plant. Our Acquisition automation solutions have also provided a valuab• Ultra-filtration of process water le contribution to energy efficiency. We insulate the facades, roofs and windows with high quality insulation to prevent loss of heat energy. 51 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | RESSOURCES Introduction of Deposit System for Coffee Cups According to information from DUH (German German locations free of charge. Additionally the Environmental Aid) Germans use 2.8 billion Minden restaurant offers No-Waste-Cups which disposable coffee cups each year. DUH National consist of renewable materials in case you want Business Manager Jürgen Resch said: your beverage to-go. With this solution we made “The Production of these cups requires 64.000 disposable coffee cups obsolete. tons of wood, 1.5 million liters of water, 11.000 tons of plastic and an energy amount that could provide a small town with electricity for an entire year.” These figures were reason enough for us to revise our cup system. In order to avoid more waste, WAGO provided manufacturing workers with reusable KeepCups at all 52 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION | RESSOURCES Conversion to Recycled Paper We are constantly trying to integrate environmental In addition, we exclusively use toner from a manufriendlier alternatives into our daily office routine. facturer who compensates for the CO2 emissions This is why we are partner to the “CEO Pro Recyresulting from the printing process, by supporting cling Paper” initiative. In 2016 we began to succesprojects in Africa. The combination of recycled sively replace regular office paper with recyclable paper and CO2 neutral toner makes printing very Blue Angel certified paper. . The sole exchange of resource-efficient for us. Within a period of only DIN A4 office paper in Minden and Sondershausen one year, the use of these toners made it possible resulted in savings of approx. 14 tons of wood, 150 for use to compensate for 13.08 tons of CO2. liters of water, 31 mWh of energy and 800 kilograms of CO2 emissions. Furthermore we are motivating our subsidiaries to follow our example. 53 iStock.com/ozgurdonmaz RESPONSIBILITY IN SUPPLY CHAIN Social responsibility does not stop with our tent social and ecological corporate standards, employees, society and the environment. There establishing measures which comply with rules, are a lot of things to consider within the supply maintaining fair business relationships and chain and how we engage economic activity in a keeping up a high quality self demand are all part responsible way. Setting and passing on consisof this responsibility. 55 RESPONSIBILITY IN DELIVERY CHAIN | OUR MARKET SITUATION IN FIGURES Our Market Situation in Figures In this chapter we would like to give you an overApproximately 30 % of 658.6€ million total turnover view of our market situation. Our turnover and inis generated by Germany, 40 % by the rest of Euvestment figures regarding the financial year 2015 rope, 16 % by Asia and 13 % by the United States have not yet been published in the Federal Bulletin of America. The rest of the world generated 0.4 % and therefore all figures refer to 2014. turnover. 2.3 Germany 83.9 Rest of Europe Asien 658,6 200.1 Amerika 107.0 Rest of the world 74,5 265.3 REVENUES INVESTMENTS Figures for 2014 at a glance [in millions €] Our Sales Distribution in 2014 [in million €] In 2014 approximately 70 % of 85 € million total States of America and 4 % were invested in other investments were placed in Germany, 19 % in the parts of the world. rest of Europe, 7 % in Asia, 0.3 % in the United 0.3 Germany 3.1 Rest of Europe 5.6 Asien 5.0 Amerika Rest of the world 60.5 Distribution of investments in 2014 [in million €] 56 RESPONSIBILITY IN DELIVERY CHAIN | SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Supplier Management As an internationally operating and expanding A trustworthy relationship with our suppliers company with a high product variety, our supply is essential in order to ensure observance of chain keeps growing ever more complex. In this legal regulations and social standards. For many chain we assume the role as a manufacturer of years we have performed and evaluated supplier electrical components and devices distributed surveys on the subject of “Environmental ManageB-2-B which are only conditionally recognized ment”, “Conformity with REACH/RoHS” and “Labor by end consumers as WAGO-Products. We work Protection Management”. Suppliers who do not together with a wide number of suppliers and satisfy our expectations completely are reevaluaconsumers. ted annually. Since this year we include the “CSR” topic in our survey. We ask of our suppliers to evaluate and verify the priority of sustainability in their company by giving us concrete examples. In addition we demand compliance with our Code of Conduct throughout the entire supply chain. iStock.com/dolgachov 57 RESPONSIBILITY IN DELIVERY CHAIN | FAIR COMPETITION Fair Competition In the areas compliance and anticorruption we have predominantly been working with our code of conduct as a company guideline, the group policy and sensitizing measures in form of providing information and training courses. As a preventive measure for the future, we want to additionally support these areas. We always seek to make a professional but still personal impression on our customers and business partners. This is reflected by our company‘s Code of Conduct. Furthermore we foster integrity and honesty in training courses and are currently working on correlating compliance processes. Our intention is to preventatively address topics such as corruption and simultaneously shape our corporate structure. Serving as basis is the top-level-commitment of our management which demands and supports relating measures. Our legal department and several other departments primarily analyze the legal guidelines and the conclusions drawn from them in order to ensure compliance with the law, while csr management sensitizes employees and does framework on general conditions in the company. We are approach this goal by taking a “holistic view”. For us this means the entirety of active measures taken by the company which are necessary to uphold internal and external rules as well as our corporateand societies values. In order to be sustainable one hast to depend on the employees acceptance and self commitment functioning as a pillar for holistic compliance. iStock.com/macrovector 58 Our Quality Promise The quality of our products is another significant Our quality management system is certified aspect when it comes to sustainability. We can only according to DIN ISO 9001:2008 and IRIS (Internaensure durability and safety through high product tional Railway Industry Standard). This is why our quality. Endurance tests have proven that even afbusiness processes are designed to prevent errors ter 35 years our maintenance-free terminal blocks and nonconformance’s even during the product “don‘t let loose”. planning process. All WAGO products are likewise subjected to comprehensive testing and intensive examination. Automation components, for example, are tested for electromagnetic compatibility in our company‘s own EMC lab, accredited in line with DIN EN ISO/IEC 17025. 59 SOCIAL COMMITMENT Our commitment is not limited to our core busiIn the aspect of society the most important topics ness. We sincerely care about the surrounding to us are the promotion of regional infrastructure, regions in which we do business. In the past this mutual interaction with society and the molding has resulted in cooperation agreements contriopportunities we have through networks and buting to preservation and promotion of regional cooperation. structures. We intend to continue these efforts. WAGO Singapore collects for Initiative Lions Befrienders 61 SOCIAL COMMITMENT | EXAMPLES FROM GERMANY Examples from Germany Minden Our company‘s headquarter is deeply rooted in port the Dandelion Nursery School (see Chapter the community. This can be explained by the traWork Life Balance). In collaboration with regional dition of our family-owned company and is greatly high schools and colleges we also organize reguimpacted by the personal commitment of our lar events for promotion of upcoming technicians partners and business managers. A very topical and for orientation in selecting a profession. For project is the “Refugee Partners Minden” network, example, we have an annual Occupational Training which WAGO helped to establish. Companies, Day on which we provide a glimpse inside our service clubs and educational partners have comcompany and the various training and educational bined to support projects to help integrate our profiles available. As before mentioned we estabnew fellow citizens. The intention is to help the city lished the WAGO Foundation and work in cooperameet this challenge. tion with a local organization in order to give more adolescents a chance to begin an apprenticeship. WAGO Minden is also committed to supporting the upcoming generation. For example, we supFounding members of “Refugee Partners Minden“ with WAGO Business Manager Axel Börner 62 © Minden Marketing GmbH At the end of 2016 the City Minden was awarded for their Digitalization Project. A regional Savings Banks Association awarded the city the Tourism-Innovation Prize for combining W-Lan, the Beacon-Mile App, a Digital Market Place and QRCodes. WAGO supported this project very actively. “Digital Minden” provides a big opportunity for city marketing, and city development: http://www.minden-erleben.de/tourismus/index. php/de/digitales-minden We also promote construction/restoration projects and cultural projects in Minden, such as the Cultural Summer Stage and various educational initiatives. Additionally we support regional associations by donating to their cause. 63 SOCIAL COMMITMENT | EXAMPLES FROM GERMANY Sondershausen In Sondershausen our employees and works In Sondershausen we also participate in the council organize an “Open house day” and use the “Clean City” campaign and actively integrate our opportunity to collect donations for regional instrainees in environmental protection. This entails titutions. In the past, the proceeds collected were our trainees assembling and cleaning up the surdoubled by the management and donated to the rounding area by removing all waste and trash. AdMiddle German Children‘s Hospice and the Düne ditionally our trainees were awarded by a regional Family Center. Energy Transition Initiative as best Energy Scout Team for their presentation about energy recovery when manufacturing plastics. In Sondershausen our employees and works council organize an “Open house day“ and use the opportunity to collect donations for regional institutions. 64 The donated presents in a shoe box are given to children in Eastern Europe, giving them a gift of joy for the holiday season. Thanks to several particularly dedicated emploAs in Minden, we place great value at the locayees at our Sondershausen location we have tion in Sondershausen on supporting youth in also been participating in the “Christmas in a selecting an occupation and provide insights into shoe box” gift campaign for children in need technical fields. We therefore sponsor events since 2009. The donated presents in a shoe box coordinated with the schools at regular intervals. are given to children in Eastern Europe, giving them a gift of joy for the holiday season. Our employees also participate regularly in blood donation drives and bone marrow donor registration campaigns. 65 International Examples Here are some selected examples from internatioOur employees at our location in the USA are very nal locations: dedicated to social causes. They support the We make every attempt to support the surroun“Adopt a Family” program, the “Salvation Army” ding community at our international locations. As and “American Cancer Society” in their efforts to does Germany, Switzerland has a National Future promote social equality. Since children represent Day, on which we too open our doors to the next our future we place their well being above all. generation of employees. The project focuses on Furthermore for three times last year WAGO Gerhelping boys and girls changing their perspectives mantown hosted the blood drive in cooperation in order to support non traditional career choices. with the Blood Center of Wisconsin. More than We also place great importance in cooperating 35 employees regularly participate and donate for with surrounding schools and companies which a good cause that will potentially save 51 lives. employ apprentices, host events and sponsor selected regional projects. At our location in France, comprehensive networking and promotion of the future technicians On December 26, 2016 WAGO China officially plays an important role. We are the motivator founded a community service non-profit associaand technical consultant for school books and tion. The goal was to stand up for others and give our automation experts serve as lecturers at the something back to the community. Furthermore university. Our employees also get involved outsemployees visit nursing homes, social homes and ide the technical field. A good example for this is support schools and nursery schools after work. participation in Marathons to raise donations for By doing so the company wants to show compaschildren with handicaps. sion and serve the community. Prior to that WAGO China had initiated several social projects such as donating clothes to poor regions and collect donations for people affected by the “Tianjin Tanggu Explosion”. 66 SOCIAL COMMITMENT | NETWORKS WITH SOCIAL ORIENTATION Networks with Social Orientation Social commitment is a subject that thrives on tended to increase social responsibility. For purpobeing made public. We have now come to maintain ses of clarity, we make no claim to completeness. networks as a source of inspiration and to propagate ideas. The table below lists some of our valuable partners and describes the type of cooperation inName Description CSR Competency Center NRW The GILDE Economic Foundation is the CSR Competency Center for the German State of North Rhine/Westphalia; we use the facilities offered by the CSR Competency Center and cooperating partners, such as the local Chambers of Commerce, for regional networking. Deutscher Kinderschutzbund e. V. Cooperation partners for our WAGO Family Program [German League for Protection of Children] Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik German Representation of the “European Business Ethics Network” DNW (EBEN); We use this as a source of inspiration and means for networ[German Business Ethics Network] king. EICCoalition The central association of electronic companies in regard to sustainability and CSR, source of inspiration. Success factor family – corporate We are a member in this corporate network, which provides a platnetwork form for topics on family-conscious personnel policies. Flüchtlingspartner Minden Integration initiative of local companies, service clubs and educati[Minden Refugee Partnership] on partners. Fokus Nachhaltigkeit WAGO as source of inspiration and project partner for this three [Focus on Sustainability] year research project. Chamber of Commerce and Industry The Chamber of Commerce offers a variety of opportunities in the OWL area of CSR; in 2015 we subscribed to the Charta for “Corporate Social Commitment”. Papiernetz – CEOs Pro Recyclingpapier WAGO Germany participates in the initiative for use of recycled [Paper Network – CEOs for Recycled paper and implemented the changeover itself in 2016. Paper] UN Global Compact UN initiative for support of responsible business activity WAGO has subscribed to the 10 principles. zdi Zukunft durch Innovation Cooperation partner; Cooperative offensive for support of young [Future Through Innovation] MINT employees. 67 iStock.com/franckreporter 68 OUR CSR OBJECTIVES Together we are working on general framework for a responsible and sustainable company management. In order to further strengthen the subject we have different topics on our agenda we want to support in the future. We predominantly focus on the qualitative aspect. Quantitative objectives certain departments pursue are not being further mentioned at this point. (For example: environmental management objectives). Goal Description Reporting We are working on transparency regarding reporting in compliance with CSR-Reporting Guidelines. The focus lies on elaborating an adequate basis of key performance indicators. These indicators will continue to be based on the German Sustainability Code with GRI G4 indicators. Additionally we will continue to further improve topics like our ecological performance evaluation. You can find further information in the Sustainability Code Compliance Statement. Voluntary Commitment In the area of “social responsibility” we intend to focus more on the topic of Corporate Volunteering in the next few years and create more incentives for our employees to become involved in voluntary work in their region. Participation Besides the current possibilities (e. g. intranet, questions to management, previous surveys) to participate, for the future we want to give our employees the opportunity to place their ideas and suggestions on a companywide platform including regular employee surveys about CSR and sustainability and an additional anonymous reporting platform. Training and Information We intend to continuously sensitize our employees to social responsibility using web-based courses as well as actual classroom training and workshops on these topics. Responsibilities in the A further focal point is the fostering of Responsibilities in the Supply Chain. Supply Chain This includes, for example, our code of conduct as well as other internal policies which are yet to be prepared to support responsible action on the part of our employees. We intend to anchor this subject more deeply within the entire company. 69 iStock.com/ozgurdonmaz CLOSING REMARKS We hope the previous pages have provided you an We are aware that there is still room for improinsight into our company. We believe that WAGO vement in all areas and that this is an ongoing prohas offered a number of valuable contributions to cess. This ensures that we continuously develop a functioning society over the past decades. Susour full potential. tainability and social responsibility have always been important values of ours. We care for our We would like to thank all contributors, our employees, the environment and our professional business partners and above all our employees – and social relationships. without their commitment and support we would certainly have less to report. 71 Corporate Social Responsibility US – 02/2017-00 – Printed in Germany WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH & Co. KG Postfach 2880 · 32385 Minden Headquarters +49 571/ 887 0 Hansastraße 27 · 32423 Minden Sales +49 571/ 887 222 info@wago.com Order Service +49 571/ 887 44333 www.wago.com Fax +49 571/ 887 8 44169 WAGO is a registered trademark of WAGO Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH. Cover picture: ©amenic181/Fotolia.com ”Copyright – WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH & Co. KG – all rights reserved. The content and structure of the WAGO websites, catalogs, videos, and other WAGO media are subject to copyright. Distribution or modification to the contents of these pages and videos is prohibited. Furthermore, the content may neither be copied nor made available to third parties for commercial purposes. Also subject to copyright are the images and videos that were made available to WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH & Co. KG by third parties.”
