Desirable, democratic architecture that empowers people Annual & Sustainability Report 2016 W H I T E 2 016 C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T Index C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T Take Action! C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T Take Action! 3 We want everyone to be able to relate to urban public space with a feeling of entitlement and ease. However S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y : A H O L I S T I C V I E W the geopolitical situation of 2016 reflect a widespread Promote Change! 4 uncertainty about sharing resources and growing protectionism. As architects and urban planners we ABOUT WH ITE & OU R TEAM take action and deepen our understanding through Democratising Architecture 6 spatial, cultural and social expertise – especially as White expands internationally. White performed very S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y F O R U S well 2016 – 900 million SEK in turnover and 7 percent in A Way of Life 8 profit margin. This reflects the good work we are doing. E X P LO R I N G N E W C O N T E XT S TO G E T H E R So let’s keep it up and guide new and existing clients towards building a sustainable future. Curiosity Equals Innovations 12 I N S P I R I N G A R C H I T E CT U R E W I T H P E O P L E I N F O C U S A Place for All 15 A growing appreciation for architecture’s vital role in Our ambition is to create truly engaging architecture creating a sustainable future resulted in an outstanding with people in focus, inspiring sustainable ways of C H A L L E N G E TOWA R D S Z E R O CA R B O N 2016 for us: we welcomed many talented new people life. We are confident we will achieve this through our Climate Action 20 to our offices, won prestigious competitions and ongoing commitment to research and the refinement of continued our studio expansion in London. This puts us our knowledge and experience. O U R E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PACT in a great position for innovation, including exploration Our investigations into resource efficiencies – making of the opportunities that digital technology offers for the best use of light, energy, materials, nature – and the Live as You Learn 24 engagement as well as analysis. ways in which design can enhance wellbeing are key Strengthening our commitment to democratic values research areas that will help us achieve effective changes WH ITE I N FIG U R E S has become more important than ever. Our responsibility in society through architecture and masterplanning. We Generations Rather than Financial Quarters 26 is to help create inclusive and equitable communities in our cities, as they face the twin pressures of greater are excited by the potential of digital technology as a tool for enhancing citizen participation in planning decisions, densification and diversity. Finding an affordable place as well as optimizing designs and embedding sustainable to live, work and play and travelling easily and safely behaviours. © 2017 White Arkitekter between them – these are the challenges everyone Looking forward, we will continue to be inspired by Photos/Visualizations: Camilla Svensk, Thomas Zaar, Jo Underhill, Peter Nilsson, Angelica Åkerman, White View, Tegmark, Beauty & the Bit faces, from London to Stockholm. Our response to these the power and beauty of the natural environment around Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 challenges differs from one project to the next, but our us, the pure magic of Scandinavian daylight and the This is White’s second sustainability report (the third COP), but the first combined with the annual report. It covers the financial year from presence in London and working internationally gives us sensory pleasures and honesty of our favourite material, 1 January to 31 December 2016. It summarises our sustainability performance for 2016, related to our commitment to UN Global Compact extra insight and the opportunity to learn. wood. With these inspirations and our passion for truly and the four aspects: Human rights, Environment, Labour and Anti-corruption. The report also serves as our communication on progressWe have benefited greatly from a strong market with sustainable places and cities, we continue to support report to UN Global Compact and will be published on their website. The previous report was published 8 July 2016. major investment in housing as well as the public sector. the principles of the UN Global Compact. We place this Report boundaries We know our approach must be successful, as we have commitment at the heart of our company’s activities. This combined Annualand Sustainability report covers the global activities of the White concern, including White arkitekter AB and the won 33 percent of all proposals submitted to architecture wholly-owned White arkitekter A/S in Denmark. In case of data not pertaining to all offices or markets, this is mentioned. competitions last year, and enjoyed a turnover of 900 million SEK with a 7 percent profit margin. The rewards Contact enable us to invest in the things that we believe in: people, Monica von Schmalensee Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability, anna.graaf@white.se research and innovation. CEO / Partner / Architect 2 3 W H I T E 2 016 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y: A H O L I S T I C V I E W S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y: A H O L I S T I C V I E W Promote Change! At White, we take a holistic view of sustainability. Our focus, first and foremost, is on creating values for people. As architects we play a vital role in the way our cities and our societies are shaped. Our buildings and environments create the basic conditions for people to live their lives; to meet, move, work and live. Their homes, schools, hospitals and streets are our canvas. To that end, we have also strengthened our skills in wood technology, knowing it to be a construction material with low climate impact. This has resulted in a commission in Skellefteå to build the world’s tallest wood-framed structure. We want to help those who are seeking positive new models, and are delighted to be working with the city of Leeds in the UK, to create a zero carbon district. Our winning proposal for Runavik at the Faeroe Islands, a zero carbon development, is an excellent example of sustainability being a driver for the design. As architects we can also influence the goal for more responsible consumption. Influenced by the ‘circular The world faces enormous challenges in tackling social economy’, we are exploring ideas for prioritising recycling inequality, climate change and diminishing resources. and repurposing in our designs: last year, we completed We fully support the Paris Agreement on Climate Change new offices for telecommunications company Telia, which as well as the United Nations agreement for the Global feature 86 percent recycled furniture. Agenda 2030 and Sustainable Development Goals. We have to be innovative in our responses, and that These agreements and goals set a new agenda for includes exploring the role of digitalization. Already today businesses and can be a true inspiration and challenge we use VR-cameras and games for involving citizens in for working in new ways and seeing new business crucial planning decisions. New technologies can create opportunities. Six of the Global Goals are especially smarter buildings, and self-driving technics can release relevant within our own practice, and we have incorporated the pressure on space for future cities. Digital design them into our new business plan. methods can support sustainable, optimised design and lift Global Goal 11 states that sustainable cities and the architecture and constructions to an even higher level. communities should be “inclusive, secure and resilient” and that cities should be a place for everyone. We also need to While it is vital to improve the environment for whole communities, change begins with the individual. Within White, The Eyes The winner of the Nordic Built Challenge 2016, Vertical challenge, Combined with the efficiency of a passive house and renewable energy, ensure that qualities that are important for our health and wellbeing, such as daylight, green spaces and playgrounds we have an opportunity to demonstrate best sustainability practice through our own behaviour. Therefore, we are of Runavik, “The Eyes of Runavík” is White’s proposal for housing in the Faeroe it will be possible to live by zero carbon emissions over the long term. Each for children are not unprioritised in new, dense urban proud that in the last two years we have reduced our own Faeroe Islands. Steep terrains, harsh weather building is a self-contained settlement, enveloping an inner microclimate, developments. To be sustainable, a city needs to prioritise the wellbeing of all its inhabitants. We have the knowledge carbon footprint by 62 percent per employee. We hope that, through our willingness to challenge Islands and local materials are some of the elements which have been carefully with a unique climate zone making it and drive to make the design of our cities better. ourselves, our clients, and wider society, we can considered in the design. The three possible for growing a wider variety of We also need to take action for climate change. Over the contribute to a better, more sustainable future. storey buildings, with a combined total vegetables and other vegetation. next few years, we have set an ambitious target: by 2019, I believe that architecture can make a change! of 100 residential units, will be built we will design 30 projects with zero carbon footprint. The using timber construction methods Location: Runavik, Faroe Islands. reason for giving ourselves this challenge is to help speed and local sheep wool as insulation. Completed: 2022 up the pace of change, because the building industry is moving slowly. We can’t affect change on our own, but we can take responsibility for leading our clients, colleagues Anna Graaf and stakeholders to embrace more sustainable practices. Director of Sustainability / Partner 4 5 W H I T E 2 016 ABOUT WHITE & OUR TEAM ABOUT WHITE & OUR TEAM Democratising Architecture OUR TEAM PROMOTING DIVERSIT Y an essential part of our culture. Available Promoting diversity with a broader to everyone are stipends for healthy We are Scandinavian pioneers in architecture and have been for 66 years. Our employees perspective is our aim. This is why we activities, such as gym, dance classes, are our most valuable asset. Their knowledge and engagement form the basis which have built our collective out of multiple mindfulness or yoga. makes our company a success. We are not just one star – but 1000! We believe that disciplines: architects side by side with anthropologists, planners next to E M P L OY E E S T R E AT E D E Q U A L LY diversity is necessary for tackling the societal challenges we are facing. This is why we designers, sustainability experts along In our plan for equal rights, we state that have built our collective from multiple disciplines and a balanced gender representation. with researchers. every employee will have the same rights, It is important for us to attract – and hold on to – talent with different cultural backgrounds. We have a balanced representation of obligations and opportunities and we do women and men in different professions, not accept any form of harassment or as well as in various positions and levels discrimination. During 2016 we have set of management. up new guidelines in our policy against It is important for us to attract – and alcohol and drugs, as well as guidelines hold on to – talents with different cultural for anti-discrimination. backgrounds. Currently, about a quarter of our employees are from outside of NE VER STOP LE ARNING Scandinavia. In 2016 we have cooperated In addition to White’s well-established with the Swedish Department of Employleadership programmes, the introduction ment to help newly arrived individuals into of White Academy and e-learning available positions at White. systems brought a high investment into internal skill development in 2016. There QUALIT Y OF LIFE , is a clear parallel between the opportunity NOT JUST QUALIT Y OF WORK to diversify and retaining our staff. In Quality of life, not just quality of work 2017, White will see the implementation is a motto at White. Striving for a good of the new Mentor Programme to facilitate White Arkitekter was founded in 1951 We measure our success by the balance between work and private life is knowledge sharing between generations. in Gothenburg, Sweden. We are quality of our projects and ultimately the Scandinavia’s leading architectural difference we make for people. Our market practice with 16 offices across Sweden, is currently mainly Scandinavia and UK Denmark, Norway and the UK. We are and we work across all sectors, private as proud of being an entirely employee well as public. Our projects range from owned company, and amongst our more residential, offices, hospitals, schools to than 900 employees, about 600 are urban planning, landscape architecture, shareholders. Our vision is to create interior design, project management and architecture with people in focus, sustainability expertise. inspiring sustainable ways of life. White has three fundamental policies: Creating truly engaging architecture, Employee Policy, Quality Policy and challenging ourselves to improve the Sustainability Policy. Our business way in which we practice, exploring the management system, WhiteQ*, is field of architecture with dedicated, certified to ISO 9001 and 14001 and applied research – these are the ways supports our projects as well as our to reach our goal of becoming the administration. Sustainability and leading sustainable and innovative responsibility is described in our Code Scandinavian architectural practice on of Conduct, which is based on the ten * WhiteQ does not the international market. principles of the UN Global Compact. apply to Denmark. 6 7 W H I T E 2 016 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y F O R U S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y F O R U S HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION A Way of Life Global Compact’s Principle 1 / Principle 3 / Principle 7 / Principle 10 / 10 Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should supBusinesses should support and respect uphold the freedom port a precautionary work against corrupthe protection of interof association and the approach to environmental tion in all its forms, nationally proclaimed effective recognition of challenges; including extortion and principles human rights; and Principle 2 / the right to collective bargaining; Principle 8 / undertake initiatives bribery. Sustainability is a driver for creativity and good architecture. For us, it also means taking make sure that they are Principle 4 / to promote greater not complicit in human the elimination of all environmental a holistic approach and a long-term perspective. Our aim is to create environments with rights abuses. forms of forced and responsibility; and people in focus for improving quality of life and wellbeing. Fighting climate change is compulsory labour; Principle 5 / Principle 9 / encourage the our obligation, now and for the coming generations. We have the opportunity for change the effective abolition of child labour; and development and diffusion of environevery day, but we can’t do it alone. Engagement with our stakeholders is crucial. Principle 6 / mentally friendly the elimination of technologies. discrimination in respect of employment In 2016 we launched a new Sustainability and occupation. Policy, which points out our definition for sustainability. Truly sustainable architecture is ensured by incorporating Our Sustainable sustainability from inception, throughout Architecture Model includes the design process and in the delivery seven primary of every project. Our Sustainable aspects Architecture Model, including seven with several primary aspects, is most successfully subcategories. adopted when the sustainability focus In every project, we analyse these of a project is clearly defined; usually this aspects to assist takes place in workshops with our clients in identifying and and other stakeholders. It is an iterative prioritising those process; ideas are tested and evaluated, which can be revised and evaluated again. integrated into the project. Our sustainability commitment aligns with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on Human Rights, Labour, Our six Environment and Anti-Corruption, and prioritised the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainable Six of the goals are in particular alignment Development Goals. with our business strategy and our daily We involve our stakeholders in work: ensuring sustainable energy, various ways; to ensure people’s needs taking action to reduce climate change, are met is fundamental to our projects. making cities inclusive, safe and resilient, Therefore, we frequently begin projects It is also a great way to simultaneously assignments and collaborations that we reducing the use of resources, protecting with a workshop or other forms of civic capture reactions to what we do. deem to be undemocratic, corrupt or the ecosystems, working in partnerships. or end-user dialogues. Our model for where human rights are infringed. involvement is the White Innovation ETHICS & ANTICORRUPTION We expect our business partners S TA K E H O L D E R S E N G A G E M E N T Process. Responsibility, respect for each other and to act either according to the Swedish By understanding and considering our Every two years we conduct a brand ethical, democratic ethos are core values Construction Sector’s Ethical rules stakeholders’ interests and opinions, survey and in every project we do a client for White. We oppose corruption, strive and/or the Global Compact principles. we can develop ourselves and take survey for evaluating our work. Equally for competition on equal terms, promote An evaluation is performed before an responsibility within our sphere of important is how our employees view social responsibility in the value chain, agreement is signed. Based on the influence. Our stakeholders are endtheir work situation which is captured and respect ownership. analyses of Transparency International, users, developers, real estate owners, in employee surveys of various kinds. All employees are required to act we perform country based risk analyses consultants, contractors, municipalities, Through social media channels, we have according to the ethical rules of the for assignments outside of Scandinavia. local communities, organisations, the ability to engage through dialogue and Swedish Construction Sector and We have not been involved in any academy, media and our employees. spread company news rapidly and widely. Swedish Architects. We decline form of corruption. 8 9 W H I T E 2 016 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y F O R U S Skellefteå The international competition winner for Skellefteå’s cultural centre and The construction is composed of a stack of prefabricated timber modules Cultural hotel, is a new home for the arts, stage performances and literature. Inspired reinforced by concrete slabs. A hybrid of glue-laminated timber and steel Centre, by the region’s long tradition of timber architecture, it will be the tallest buildconstruction will allow for a flexible, open-plan space, able to host all of Skellefteå ing using wood frame construction in the different facilities. The venue has the Nordic countries. The glass façade other design elements which continue will reflect the sky and reveal the the theme of flexibility of use, such interior’s spectacular exposed woodas retractable walls for rooms to be framed ceiling. The centre is designed expanded or divided so as to better to endure all weathers with an efficient serve the function at hand – from an energy consumption record and will exhibition to a large congress. have a green roof, contributing to thermal insulation, noise blocking, Location: Skellefteå, Sweden. biodiversity and rain water absorption. Completed: 2019 Designing with a human perspective restaurant, multi-purpose and meeting Selma City, was the aim when creating the new rooms, media rooms, dance and Gothenburg district Selma City, a joint venture for the development of a major city square music halls as well as offices for the local municipality. The façade in Gothenburg. At the heart is White’s communicates openness through mixed-use municipal building formed the connection between interior and like a three-dimensional theatrical exterior. By treating all façades with stage with façades that whimsically the same focus and attention resemble an enormous billowing to detail, there is neither a front curtain. entrance nor back entrance. The Vibrant, creative and beautiful space will become the true cultural will characterize Selma City and the pulse and meeting place of the building provides an inviting forum neighbourhood, for all ages, day for creativity inspiring collaborations and night. between the citizens, the municipality and the city’s cultural offerings. It Client: GöteborgsLokaler/Göteborgs Stad includes a library, theatre, café and Completed: 2019 10 11 W H I T E 2 016 E XPLORING NEW CONTE XTS TOGETHER E XPLORING NEW CONTE XTS TOG ETHER Curiosity Equals Innovation White nurtures innovative collaborators, not admirers. We are investigative and curious and our explorative culture is reflected in our investment – 10 percent of our annual turnover – in research and development. For us research is about challenging, for creating better architecture and a better society for all. A great advantage of being a large collective is the amount of valuable knowledge we amass when combined as a whole. The key to using this knowledge is to share it, to build upon it and continually develop it. RE SE ARCH AND DE VELOPMENT We explore through practice based Bee Connected. Study trip to Norway 2016. research and knowledge exchange. In line with the Sustainable Development Goal 17 we believe that sustainable development was awarded the 2016 Environmental We want to be a game-changer. requires partnerships between academia, Prize of Göteborg Energi (Energy Leading the debate on sustainability in the private sector and civil society. These company of Gothenburg). architecture, organising seminars inclusive partnerships are needed at the In the exhibition “Live. Now. Then.” throughout the year and partaking in global, regional, national and local level. (ArkDes, Stockholm) we explored the conferences both locally and globally are Our participative culture is the starting role daylight has played in architecture for some ways we reach thousands of people point for collaboration within the office, centuries, and the importance it has for inside and outside of our branch. In 2016, with stakeholders and with clients, while our health and wellbeing. we presented our work and projects at our interdisciplinary expertise constitutes “Bee Connected” was a full scale the UN Habitat Urban Agenda in Quito, a solid knowledge base for creating showcase in collaboration with Chalmers C40 Mayors Summit in Mexico City, architecture. By integrating our different University of Technology and c/o City, Ecobuild in London, Venice Architectural disciplines in an even closer relationshowing how urban biological diversity Biennale, House of Sweden in Washington ship with our architectural commissions, and ecosystem services can be integrated and COP 22 in Marrakech, amongst others. we have the ability to unlock new levels The opening of Light Lab for Children. in the city centre of Gothenburg. Because of our engagement and knowof sustainability in our projects making The “Book about Rågården” (Stefan ledge, we are frequently asked to take them easier to communicate. Annual study tours, offered to all Lundin) is a condensed version of a part in policymaking forums in several Our investment in R&D is allocated to employees, are also part of our explorative long research project about Architecture branch organisations such as the Swedish our research fund, ARQ, and to our internal culture. The theme in 2016 focused on as Medicine. It shows the importance and Norwegian Green Building Councils, network for practice based research, architecture in the Nordic countries. architecture has on physical health in Sustainable Innovation, Arkus and the White Research Lab. We are also During 2016 we have performed around psychiatric care. Swedish and Danish Association of supporting six PhD-students and we have 40 practise based research projects in Architects. professors and lecturers at Chalmers in close relation to our commissions. Some E NGAGE ME NT During 2016, we signed up as partner Goal no 17: The aim is to Gothenburg, University of Lund and KTH of these are: By sharing our knowledge broadly, we in the Swedish think tank Global Utmaning strengthen the means of in Stockholm. Over the last years we have The “Light-Lab for children” is a public implementation and revitalise increase the awareness about the ways (Global Challenge). We are also committed developed our toolbox to include cutting exploration of light and its phenomenon, the global partnership for in which we can contribute while we also to Fossil free Sweden – the Swedish edge methods within digital design, new in workshops, for inspirational learning sustainable development. can attract collaborators that share the governments initiative for Climate action tools for developing physical scale and sustainable development. In collabosame passion and goals. in accordance with the Paris Agreement. models, new processes for analysis, ration with Swedish Exhibition Agency conception and presentation. and The Gothenburg Opera. The project 12 13 W H I T E 2 016 INSPIRING ARCHITECTURE WITH PEOPLE IN FOCUS INSPIRING ARCHITECTURE WITH PEOPLE IN FOCUS A Place for All White has always had a human-centred perspective in designing neighbourhoods and buildings. As architects, it is our privilege as well as our responsibility to help create the best conditions for modern life. We fully support the Global Goals objective to create democratic cities and urban public spaces where everyone feels welcome. We must ensure that each citizen has a place to call home and a place where they feel they belong. We wish to support human rights by creating healthy environments for all. Global Goal 11 states that sustainable places where all individuals can cities and communities are “inclusive, interact and thrive, enriching the soul secure and resilient” and that urban and substance of their community? development should take into account the needs of women, the disabled, children A H O M E F O R E V E R YO N E and elderly. Yet the needs of young In Sweden, the housing shortage has women and girls are rarely considered. reached crisis point: there is a need to This issue is something White raised in create 700,000 new homes over the next Goal no 11 is relevant in most 2016 with our project Places for Girls. 10 years. But how do we create the right of our projects; we have great From the night-lighting and land­ home for everyone? What is ideal for one possibilities to make cities and human settlements inclusive, scaping of public space to the facilities on person may be far from it for the next. safe, resilient and sustainable. offer in our parks and towns, these young Family constellations fluctuate: women we spoke to often feel alienated divorced parents may have no children and excluded. If parks don’t seem safe, one week and a full house the next; ball games are not appealing, and the only grown children leave and then come other available public space is a shopping back; an elderly family member needs mall, then where can you go? care and moves in. In Sweden 35 percent Culture is a driver for innovation of children of separated parents now live and integration and, as architects, underalternate weeks with each parent*. Housing standing the different cultural, economic must be flexible enough to accommodate and social issues of different demographics different lifestyles as well as stages of life. The Museum At the 2016 Clerkenwell Design Week, a temporary pavilion invited residents pavilion was an architectural tribute to the sensorial and social qualities helps us to provide the right environments – to be catalysts for positive social We recently had the chance to create The Dream Apartment in Linköping, of Making, and visitors to engage in the art of making. The Museum of Making was of making, and host for workshops, talks and demonstrations. transformation. How can we create more where we put all our research and insight London built on St John’s Square at the centre The form of the pavilion – a of the festival, which celebrates Swedish barn – is a reference to White Clerkenwell as one of the most Arkitekter’s Scandinavian heritage, important design hubs in London, transposing the Scandinavian archetype home to more creative businesses and showcasing its structural simplicity and architects per square mile than in an urban context. anywhere else in the world. Drawing on Clerkenwell’s rich Location: Clerkenwell, London. history of craft and industry, this Built: 2016 * Statistics, SCB.se. Nr 2014:8 The dream apartment in Linköping. 14 15 W H I T E 2 016 INSPIRING ARCHITECTURE WITH PEOPLE IN FOCUS lifestyles. Good architecture and wellwith spacious single-patient rooms, designed environments can contribute increased daylight and an uplifting to wellbeing in our homes, workplaces atmosphere. and cities by reducing stress, increasing Ensuring a healing environment for recovery and inspiring physical movement. children requires extra creativity and In Scandinavia, a new generation of playfulness. The Queen Silvia Hospital hospital planning has emerged focusing for Children, Gothenburg, will create on human needs, sustainable design and a safe environment for children and the influx of new technologies. White is their families, where they can escape at the forefront of this healthcare evolution, the intensive, clinical atmosphere of a with designs that also consider the traditional hospital ward. urban context and community. During A project that we hope will make a 2016 we finalised some of the largest difference and ensure healthcare for hospital projects in Scandinavia. The women who are living with conflict is the New Karolinska Hospital in Solna, at The Panzi Hospital in Bukavu, Democratic 300,000 sqm, is Northern Europe’s Republic of Congo. The aim for Dr Mukwege largest hospital development for decades. (the founder and medical director) is However, through building designs to develop a new centre where women and layouts our masterplanning and will be cared for and can give birth in a architecture aims to create the best safe and professional environment. It will 1. The Queen Silvia possible environment for staff and become a benchmark for modern Hospital for Children in patients, and an integrated and welcoming maternity and neonatal care in DR Congo. Gothenburg, Sweden. 2. The Panzi Hospital presence within its neighbourhood. With this project, we can – by offering in Bukavu, Democratic Meanwhile, in Linköping we have our knowledge and skills – support human Republic of Congo. designed the Hospital of the Future, and women’s rights for better healthcare. to work to create the most flexible and To ensure a home for everyone we also 1. Ved Skoven, Housing in Alspace-efficient home. This apartment can need to challenge the stereotypes that lerød, Denmark. 2. “The Collective Living”. be transformed from five rooms to one exist around affordable and social housing, 3. The New Karolinska Hospital room thanks to its moveable walls. Rooms while dissolving conventional boundaries in Solna, Sweden. can be configured in a variety of ways, to between public and private space. There adapt to everyday needs, or the expansion is an unfortunate stigma attached to social or contraction of the family. housing: the stereotypical idea is of a Nordic countries have the highest huge, grey, generic building surrounded numbers of single-person households by car parking. In our winning competition in the world. In Sweden, it is 38 percent scheme Housing Allerød in Denmark, we of the population which is 1.7 million decided to let nature lead the way. Nature people**. Loneliness and isolation are is dynamic and resilient, just like we want also increasing. If more people found a this neighbourhood to be. way to cohabit – if homes could balance perfectly the need for sociability with H E A LT H A N D W E L L B E I N G privacy – it would reduce pressure on Health is a human right and an important housing while offering improved social driving force for social and economic support. In our proposal “The Collective development, especially today, in light of Living”, we are exploring how to create the challenges to mental and physical ** Statistics, SCB.se. desirable, modern cohabiting spaces. health raised by modern, sedentary Nr 2015:144 16 17 W H I T E 2 016 INSPIRING ARCHITECTURE WITH PEOPLE IN FOCUS Lilla Tellus, How do you repurpose abandoned industrial venues for residential Stockholm use with the aim of creating a diverse area which breathes creativity? White is currently engaged in the transformation of Stockholm’s former industrial quarter Telefonplan, into Lilla Tellus, a new residential district which will be home to Public The multidisciplinary project concerns the existence and usage of public gogues from the local municipal administration. Moving from dialogue thousands of the city’s residents at a time when permanent accommodation Spaces spaces from the perspective of the teenage girl. The aim is to highlight to creation during a workshop, the participants had the opportunity to is scarce. for Girls, the inequality issue and propose construct 1:50 models to represent a The new vision preserves heritage buildings and creates new housing Stockholm a practical method for solving it. As cities are planned today, public public space – by girls, for girls. The girls chose a familiar site to and public areas which reference the spaces aren’t used equally amongst work with and gave it a strong chardistrict’s industrial identity, creating a girls and boys; from the age of seven, acter with places for sitting together well-connected and greener area. The girls occupy public spaces to a lesser face to face, protected from weather project contributes to the densification degree than boys of the same age. and wind and the possibility to see of the larger Stockholm and making the This uneven and disproportionate without necessary be seen. Their demost of underused areas between usage continues as girls become sign for a public space offered a sense districts. The ambition is to preserve women and boys become men. of intimacy without being constrictive; the qualities of the buildings of The project group consisted of and – just as important – the opporhistoric value while developing architects and social sustainability tunity for girls to leave an imprint on modern attributes. specialists from White, the Stocktheir city. holm based theatre company UngaTur, Location: Stockholm, Sweden teenage girls from the youth council Location: Stockholm, Sweden Completion: 2036 of Skarpnäck municipality and pedaCompletion: 2016 18 19 W H I T E 2 016 CHALLE NG E TOWAR DS Z E RO CAR BON C H A L L E N G E T O WA R D S Z E R O C A R B O N Climate Action A sustainable life is one lived within our planetary boundaries. We need to take action on our use of planetary resources, in order to combat climate change. We take this challenge seriously and have set targets for ourselves and our clients to achieve zero carbon projects, wherever possible. This amplifies the focus on responsible sourcing and the climate impact caused by building materials. Examples include the increased use of wood in our projects or an office interior consisting of 86 percent reused furniture. Goal no 7: The aim is to ensure access to affordable, reliable,sustainable and modern energy for all. Goal no 12: We can contribute to ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. Global Goal 13 urges everyone to take outstanding projects from last year will Goal no 13: The world needs action to slow climate change, and we be constructed from timber, such as to take urgent action to are embracing this challenge. As our the new cultural centre in Skellefteå, combat climate change and its buildings become more energy efficient the residential settlement in Runavik impacts. and our focus shifts to renewable energy sources, we need to address the and the city hall in Växjö. All of these have the potential being zero carbon Goal no 15: It’s our responsibility to protect, Telia Office, Telia’s Luleå office is an example of how reuse can create engaging 20% lower than if newly produced furniture was used. important issue of building materials. Research shows that the building developments. In the Climate Innovation District in Leeds, UK, we hope to extend restore and promote sustainable use of Luleå office space. Conducted by White, the furniture concept consisted of Regarding layout, the office is divided into a collection of spaces, materials we specify can have as much an entire zero carbon neighbourhood. ecosystems, halt and reverse the reworking of furniture from half a from the customer service departland degradation and halt impact on the climate – or more – than In line with Global Goal 12 we are biodiversity loss. dozen former workplaces, mainly from ment’s focused work stations, open the energy used in operating a building also promoting strategies for re-use and Telia’s previous office in Stockholm. areas and demo stations to the over a span of 50 years. One of our new recycling. The new office for telecommuAn inventory of the company’s vast lounge with its spaces for solving business goals for 2019 is to create 30 nications company Telia shows that this range of products from different urgent tasks. The Aurora Borealis projects with zero carbon footprints. This is possible even at the largest scale – 86 brands was compiled, a selection serves as inspiration for the colour will challenge not only ourselves but also percent of its new office furniture are of these items were hand-picked by scheme due to the shifting nature of our clients. The aim is to strengthen the re-used. White from across the country. The the palette as you move through the focus on and knowledge of the impact Climate action is also about reducing chosen items were subsequently space. Now a total of 700 employees that building materials have on the the impacts of existing climatic condiredesigned and recrafted according sit in a modern office space in which climate, and introduce a more holistic tions. Through the use of wind, sun and to the architects’ drawings. 86% of functional durability and pleasing approach. climate simulations, we can plan urban the projects interior design contain aesthetics go hand in hand. During 2016 we have increased our environments in such a way as to ensure White’s re-designed furniture. Despite focus on wood architecture and we have optimum comfort for residents and occuthe costs of this transformative Location: Luleå, Sweden designed over 2000 apartments making pants through passive and holistic means. process the cost of the project was Completion: 2016 substantial use of this renewable material. By taking advantage of natural ecosysWood is not only a low carbon material, tems we can not only improve the urban but its aesthetic qualities contribute to a ecology, but alleviate some of the damage really high quality environment. Several that has already been done. 20 21 W H I T E 2 016 CHALLE NG E TOWAR DS Z E RO CAR BON Växjö City A city needs a living room! The city of Växjö, home for around 90.000 become well-visited outdoor spaces at the heart of the city. The park is Hall and people, initiated the architecture competition to give the city an a multi-functional oasis for many; it creates meeting places, offers bioStation, innovative multi-purpose building of diversity and retain the rainwater. The 14,000 square meters. The building building has the potential of being Växjö houses the train station and the a zero carbon development, because city hall. The new ‘urban living of its wood construction and PVroom’, a beautiful vertical room in modules on the tilted roof. The timber wood, is open around the clock and construction frames all the functions welcomes everyone from teenage of the building as a warm embrace girls and senior citizens to municipal and grants the highest level of employees and visitors. sustainability of Swedish certificates. Included in the proposal is a station square and a park – two Location: Växjö, Sweden. places that have the potential to Completed: 2019 Climate The task: transforming an industrial environment into a walkable, healthy, As the name of the district suggests, the development aims to address Innovation family friendly environment. The goal: embracing natural resources. The climate change through outstanding innovations and methods for buildDistrict, sun’s natural energy will be used ing economically viable zero carbon Leeds through daylight, passive solar gain, photovoltaic (PV) modules and active neighbourhoods. A unique feature in this project is the on-site manufactursolar panels. High levels of natural ing facility – Citu Works – which will light penetration within this tight urban manufacture the timber frame housfabric is achieved by optimising the ing system for the district’s 516 passolar potential of the site by orientatsive house homes. Once home to iron, ing buildings broadly to the south. steel and chemical works, Leeds is now Green areas encourage social interactaking the lead in sustainable building tion and integration, provide space for design and production, turning its idenphysical activity and play, improve air tity sharply towards a greener future. quality and reduce urban heat island effects. The result: architecture that Location: Leeds, Great Britain. makes sense. Completed: 2022 22 23 W H I T E 2 016 O U R E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PA C T O U R E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PAC T Live as You Learn True change begins with the individual. As such, we have an opportunity to demonstrate best sustainability practice through our own behaviour. Every year we follow up our environmental impact, both in our own business and in our projects. The trend is very positive. For the past two years, we have decreased our own carbon footprint by 62 percent. Tiveden National Park. White’s commitment to reduce Sweden and between Sweden, Norway environmental and climate impact is and Denmark were made by train. It embedded in our projects, but it is is difficult to avoid flights for longer our offices as test labs for environmentally be planned and designed according to an also important that these ambitions are distances, but sometimes a combination friendly initiatives such as placing bee environmental certification system. The reflected in our own operations. of flight and train can be a solution. hives on the office roof, urban farming or trend has been positive, but appears to Reviewing our 2012–2016 Business Using video and teleconferencing more testing out green walls. have plateaued in 2016. 36 percent of our Plan, we can state that we have been extensively has also reduced travelling, Additionally we also follow up our promajor projects are designed according successful in reaching our environmental but in addition has saved personal time jects to measure impact. We are ambito an environmental certification (47 goals. Our overall target has been to for employees. tious, but we are not always in control of percent in 2015). We will continue our reduce the carbon emissions from our The major reason for the decrease in project outcomes. In 2012, we set a goal effort towards climate neutrality both in own activities, such as travel, energy, our carbon emissions is that our study that by 2016 all our major projects would our business and in our projects. purchases and waste. We have gradually tours have been focused on the Nordic reduced our CO2 emissions since 2014 countries for the last two years, instead (when we started our calculations for of places further away. We think it is carbon emissions). In two years, we have important to explore other countries, but Data apply for offices in Sweden, except for flights which reduced our emissions by 62 percent we will strive to find the knowledge and apply for SE, NO, DK and UK. CO2-emmissions per category is per full-time employee. This result has insight we need in different ways each based on key figures from 2050, except for flights which come about through making conscious year to keep our environmental impact is based on figures from South Pole Group. decisions and prioritising environmentally low over time. sound alternatives. For example, we only We always offset our carbon emissions purchase green electricity, we prioritise for travel. Through this offsetting, we electrical rental cars and taxis, and we contributed with 133,100 kronor to the have a policy to only serve vegetarian Kariba Forest Protection project in food at internal events and lunches (in Zimbabwe in 2016. 2016, 92 percent were vegetarian). As a company, we also want to However, the most important measure encourage and promote sustainable for reducing our carbon emissions has behaviours among our employees. Across been the reduction of national and our offices, we arrange activities such international business flights. Our travel as free bike workshops, bike challenge policy is clear: train is the first choice. competitions, clothes swapping events In 2016, this resulted in White receiving and sports competitions. Some offices train company SJ’s environmental award. offer electrical bikes; others provide travel In 2016 80 percent of the journeys within cards for public transport. We also use 24 25 WHITE A 2 016 NNUAL RE PORT WHITE IN FIGURES WHITE IN FIGURES Generations Rather than Financial information With respect to the financial development of the Group, refer to the multi-year financial overview below. Financial Quarters From the income statement, KSEK 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Operating revenues 892 156 824 278 759 466 764 670 757 769 Operating profit 60 280 42 605 64 354 43 261 22 705 Profit after financial items 60 307 47 020 63 693 42 893 21 383 Tax on profit for the year -13 583 11 147 15 922 10 715 9 594 Profit for the year 46 724 35 873 47 771 32 178 30 977 Minority share of profit for the year -272 83 65 35 952 Profit for the year 46 452 35 790 47 706 32 213 30 025 The results show good profitability and strong development of the company throughout From the balance sheet, KSEK 2016. Our obligation is to ensure a high quality of design in a world with heightened geopolitical turbulence at a time with intense demand for housing. Thanks to the Intangible fixed assets 141 666 2 094 3 219 5 850 creativity and expertise of all our employees, we are one of the leading influencers in Tangible fixed assets 9 558 20 901 30 500 35 522 43 442 the development of a sustainable society. This is evident in the projects we accept, how Financial fixed assets 985 1 190 2 394 2 567 10 231 Current receivables 303 560 271 188 284 688 245 083 253 712 we lead and influence the public debate and also the steps we take to reduce our own Cash and bank balances, environmental impact. incl. short-term investments 57 076 40 400 37 927 13 841 21 616 Total assets 371 320 334 345 357 603 300 232 334 851 Turnover in the Group amounted to SEK 892 million (SEK Since last year there has been increased 824 million in 2015). Profit after financial items was SEK geopolitical risk in Europe as well as in other parts Shareholders’ equity 158 779 141 670 143 426 119 529 115 990 60.7 million (SEK 47.0 million). Operating profit before of the world. It is unclear how this will impact on our Minority share of equity 6 987 6 715 6 632 6 568 6 603 and after foundation provision amounted to SEK 76.3 current situation of a very strong economy but we Provisions 23 957 19 973 20 819 20 959 19 568 million and SEK 60.3 million respectively, equivalent to an are taking the prevailing uncertainty into account. In Current liabilities 181 597 165 987 186 726 153 176 192 690 operating margin of 9 percent and 7 percent respectively. Sweden there is a great deal of discussion around Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 371 320 334 345 357 603 300 232 334 851 At the end of the year there were 850 (805) employees, whether we are in a housing bubble with low interest and of these 60 percent were architects and 33 percent rates and rising housing prices. Simultaneously, there engineers. Employee turnover was 13 percent (9 percent), is a risk that urban development is hampered if we Key figures with 151 (140) people starting and 106 finishing (69). are unsuccessful in building the required number of The Group’s average age was 40. Our largest residential buildings. individual market service was architect-related services, Our responsibility is to ensure the quality, form and Return on shareholders’ equity (%) 31,0 25,1 36,3 27,4 27,1 accounting for 85 percent of our turnover, which design of all our projects at a time when the demand for Profit margin (%) 6,8 5,7 8,4 5,6 2,8 corresponds to SEK 758 million. As per the balance housing is at its greatest. Thanks to the creativity and Revenues per employee (KSEK) 1 308 1 304 1 303 1 373 1 419 sheet date, the Group’s 220 000 shares were allocated expertise of all our employees, we are taking a pioneering The equity /assets ratio (%) 42,8 42,4 40,1 39,8 34,6 as follows: 122 partners owned 112 970 shares, two role in demonstrating how a sustainable society can be Average number employees 682 632 583 557 534 ownership foundations owned 5 590 shares and 494 designed and operated. This is evident in the kinds of other employees owned 101 440 shares. During the year projects we are winning and being offered, as well as in the ownership group acquired 93 new shareholders. the influence we can have in speaking out and supporting Definitions In 2016, 244 individuals purchased a total of 28 920 these issues through public debate. Ultimately, the shares. Therewas high demand for shares and the proof of our commitment is in the measures we take to Return on shareholders’ equity (%): Profit for the year after minority share as a percentage of average equity excluding minority share. decision was there-fore taken to implement a new issue reduce our own environmental impact as we go about our Profit margin (%): Profit after financial items as a percentage of operating revenues. of 10 000 shares. business and our lives. The equity/assets ratio (%): Shareholders’ equity excluding minority share as a percentage of total assets. 26 27 Contact: Anna Graaf Director of Sustainability anna.graaf@white.se white.se/en @whitearkitekter I L L U ST R AT I O N : W H I T E V I E W
