United Nations Global Compact UN Communication of Progress FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ‘Using our financial expertise to do good’ see money differently Contents 01 Letter from our Chief Executive 16 Drivers guiding our strategy 02 Overview of Nedbank Goup 17 Key trends – the environment in which we operate 04 Reflections from our Chief Executive 21 Our material matters 08 Reflections from our Chairman 26 Our strategic focus areas 10 Our summarised five-year track 40 Stakeholder value creation – record progress and outlook 12 Our purpose, vision and values 42 Gobal Reporting Initiative G4 Index 14 Our Long-term Goals, medium-tolong-term targets and Deep Green 50 Our contact details aspirations Revitalising our Brand The story behind our cover: Through the revitalisation of the Nedbank brand we aim to position ourselves in the hearts and minds of society as the bank that uses its core expertise in financial services to do good and secure positive outcomes for individuals, families, businesses and society. After extensive research to interrogate what makes Nedbank unique, we know that using our financial expertise to do good is deeply embedded in our DNA. It may be a brand-new campaign, but it is not a new concept for us. We challenge and inspire our clients to See Money Differently. Whether it is our new-format outlets, innovative digital offerings, the integration of Nedbank CIB to serve corporate clients holistically or Nedgroup Investments being ranked as one of the top-three asset managers in SA for the past eight years, these demonstrate financial expertise and doing good for clients. Nedbank's history and commitment to community development add to our credentials of doing good for society. The duality of financial expertise and doing good for clients and the community are true to who we are and what we do as a business. Letter from our Chief Executive Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 1 Overview of Nedbank Group Nedbank Group is one of Africa’s largest banking groups. We are a diversified financial services provider offering a wide range of wholesale and retail banking services as well as insurance, asset management and wealth management solutions. SA is our primary market and we are Old Mutual Group: expanding across the rest of Africa. Employees 32 401 Outside of SA, we operate in six 54,6% shareholding countries in the Southern African in Nedbank Group Staffed outlets 786 Development Community (SADC) and East Africa region, through subsidiaries and banks in Lesotho, Nedbank Limited – ATMs: 4 052 Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, our principal banking Swaziland and Zimbabwe, and we subsidiary have representative offices in Angola Board is comprised of and Kenya. 59% independent Market capitalisation In West and Central Africa we have directors a strategic alliance and a shareholding R118bn of 21,2% in ETI. Access to the largest Outside Africa we have a presence in Headline earnings banking network in Africa: key global financial centres to provide international financial services for R11,5bn 39 countries (through our SA-based multinational and high-netstrategic investment in ETI) worth clients in Guernsey, Isle of Man, Jersey and London and we have a representative office in Dubai. NEDBANK ECOBANK NEDBANK CIB Nedbank existing presence Ecobank top three in country Investment banking deals Expansion opportunities Ecobank other Nedbank representative offices Ecobank representative offices Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 2 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Assets by geographical area Assets (%) 5,7 R966bn 3,8 R966bn JSE R926bn R809bn Top 40 R750bn R966bn company R683bn 90,5 SA International 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Rest of Africa Headline earnings R11,5bn Assets under R11,5bn Africa’s first management R9,9bn R10,8bn and only carbonR273bn R7,5bn R8,7bn neutral bank 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Clients Deposits 7,7m R762bn 7,7m R726bn R762bn Tier 1 capital ratio 7,4m 7,1m R653bn 13,0% 6,7m R603bn 6,1m R551bn CET1 capital ratio 12,1% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 3 Reflections from our Chief Executive 'The economic and geopolitical environment deteriorated in 2016 and the outlook for 2017, although improving, remains uncertain. While much of the external environment is not in our control, operationally we have remained focused on those issues we can control.' Nedbank Group's managed operations produced excellent headline earnings growth of 16,2%, offset by a disappointing performance from our strategic investment in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), which diluted the overall growth in headline earnings to 5,9%. We have also strengthened our balance sheet, with our tier 1 capital adequacy ratio improving to 13,0% from 12,0% in 2015, our liquidity coverage ratio at 109,3%, above the South African Reserve Bank requirement of 70% for 2016, and our net stable funding ratio above 100% on a pro forma basis. Mike Brown Chief Executive A CHALLENGING AND VOLATILE MACRO The Fourth Industrial Revolution and rapid advances in ENVIRONMENT technology offer exciting opportunities and will require The rise of antiglobalisation in many developed countries, adeptness and agility of banks to remain competitive. The demonstrated by the UK's departure from the European SA banking industry has built a banking system recognised Union (Brexit) and the outcome of the US presidential for its safety and soundness, but must leverage the fintech elections, has increased global economic risk and will revolution to stay at the forefront of client experiences. The create further uncertainty in financial markets. winners of digitisation and mobile banking will be those that can integrate the new technologies and have the right In SA a number of factors contributed to a difficult operating environment characterised by low levels of people with the necessary knowledge and entrepreneurial economic growth and higher interest rates, placing skills. Our Digital Fast Lane strategy will ensure that we are businesses and consumers alike under increasing financial at the forefront of innovation as we improve our existing pressure. Added to this, currency and market volatility, businesses and disrupt them at the same time. stubbornly high inflation and low credit growth made it a After many years of global bankers being very cautious particularly challenging environment for banks. The outlook and concerned about the economy and increasing for 2017 does, however, look more promising as GDP regulation, it is refreshing that some of the largest banks growth is expected to pick up slightly, interest rates are at or close to their peak and inflation is expected to decline. in Europe and the US are talking positively about the year ahead and seeing a pause in the rate of increase in new Public discourse was dominated by the Fees Must Fall regulatory obligations. campaign, the release of the Public Protector's report on allegations of state capture and the charges that were REFINING AND ADAPTING OUR STRATEGY TO first brought, and then dropped, against Finance Minister MEET OUR 2020 ASPIRATIONS Pravin Gordhan. Nedbank has always been a proud To ensure that we meet our 2020 aspirations in a rapidly corporate citizen and we actively supported the growing changing and increasingly challenging environment we calls for good governance, constitutional democracy, must transform our business and become more clientinclusive economic growth and social justice. Our 2016 centred, competitive, agile and digital. Our 2016 strategic Integrated Report shows the meaningful role we as a bank review produced exciting plans to accelerate our business play in society. I am also proud of Nedbank's role in transformation. bringing together our country's leaders from government, business and labour to work together and address issues 'Responsive and responsible leadership', a key theme at of inequality and poverty by creating a platform for higher Davos 2017, affirmed our focus on stakeholders and levels of inclusive growth. The progress we have made by sustainability, which is encapsulated in our purpose working together, including successfully averting a statement of using our financial expertise to do good for sovereign-credit-rating downgrade to below investment individuals, families, businesses and society. Our strategy grade, was undoubtedly a highlight for me in 2016, and I represents how we achieve our purpose of helping to look forward to continuing this work in 2017. create a thriving bank and society through innovative Elsewhere in Africa operating conditions remained financial services products. challenging, particularly in Nigeria where the country is experiencing its worst economic recession in 25 years, To be truly successful we must understand our clients, liquidity pressures and a sharp devaluation of the naira. respond to their needs and requirements, and ultimately These challenges are significant and will take some time to create exceptional client experiences in all that we do – be resolved. It is therefore anticipated that conditions will better than any other financial services provider. Creating again be difficult in 2017 before improving from 2018 value and delightful experiences for our clients that exceed onwards. their expectations is encompassed in our value to be clientNedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 4 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy driven, which we believe will be a key enabler in delivering higher asset growth rates in more cyclical asset classes on our purpose. at the top of the interest rate cycle. Our business model bias towards the wholesale market (61% of advances) The refinement of our strategic focus areas and positions us well in a tough consumer environment, introduction of strategic enablers will ensure we deliver on while our expertise in key sectors and strong pipelines our 2020 aspirations and achieve our medium-to-longshould enable us to continue to grow in the year ahead. term financial goals of increasing our return on equity (ROE) ■ 'Providing our clients with access to the best financial (excluding goodwill) closer to our target of cost of equity plus 5% (currently estimated around 19%) and reducing our services network in Africa' ensures that we are well cost-to-income ratio from 56,9% to within our target of 50% positioned to participate in the longer-term growth to 53%. prospects of financial services on the continent. We are investing in our own operations in the Southern African A brief reflection on the progress we have made in Development Community (SADC) and during 2016 we implementing our strategy in 2016 and the prospects moved to acquiring a controlling stake in Banco Único in ahead include: Mozambique. While our investment in ETI has been ■ As far as 'Delivering innovative market-leading client impaired by R1,0bn as a result of weaker economic experiences' is concerned, we are streamlining conditions in West Africa and currency weakness, processes and strengthening our culture of innovation. particularly in Nigeria, it remains an important longIn 2016 digitally active clients increased 73,6%. We will term strategic investment for our SA clients operating accelerate digital implementation in the years ahead, in these geographies and requiring banking services, as with exciting market-leading innovations planned for well as for our shareholders through exposure to the 2017, including improvements to our loyalty programme long-term growth in financial services in these markets. and the release of a bundled personal loan and We currently expect the main markets in which ETI transactional product. operates to remain difficult in 2017 before improving in ■ Our strategy of 'Growing our transactional banking 2018 and beyond. franchise faster than the market' led to the number of As part of our strategic planning in 2016 we introduced main-banked clients increasing across all our businesses, strategic enablers that will underpin delivery in respect of translating into non-interest revenue (NIR) growth of our strategic focus areas, goals and targets by changing 8,1%. Retail main-banked clients grew by 3,0% and the the way we operate. These initiatives should serve as attractive middle market, which has been a focus of catalysts in achieving our 2020 aspirations and include: ours, grew by 6,3%. This contributed to strong retail ■ People 2020 – aimed at transforming our leadership, deposit growth and an increase in household deposit market share to 18,7% from 18,4%. Pleasingly, our ROE culture and talent capability to enable delivery of our in Retail and Business Banking (RBB) increased from strategy through our people. 16,6% to 18,9%. On the wholesale side of our business ■ Brand 2020 – building a distinctive and compelling we are realising the benefits of an integrated Corporate brand that will disrupt, give us greater personality and and Investment Banking (CIB) cluster, including better enhance the belief our stakeholders have in Nedbank. client coverage and deeper client penetration, as we ■ Managed Evolution and Digital Fast Lane – an leverage our strong position in wholesale lending to innovative technology transformation creating an agile increase NIR. Growing our transactional banking digital platform. franchise faster than the market remains our primary ■ Governance and regulatory change – leveraging risk focus and, despite a tougher macro environment, we management to be a strategic and competitive believe we are in a good position to continue to gain differentiator. share of main-banked clients. ■ Fair Share 2030 – guiding the creation of financial ■ 'Being operationally excellent in all we do' embraces simplifying, rationalising and continuously improving our solutions that deliver on our purpose and making a real processes and operations to allow us to save costs and difference in society. invest in our franchise to unlock new growth ■ Leading Transformation – actively promoting a globally opportunities. Unlocking efficiencies is an imperative in competitive financial sector while creating a more a tougher and more competitive environment, but equitable society and enabling economic operational excellence also provides benefits to clients transformation. as client experiences are enhanced through Underpinning our strategy, we initiated an operatingsimplification and optimisation. We will continue to model review in the latter part of 2016, which we will start extract synergies by working closely with Old Mutual implementing in 2017. This will enable us to develop greater Emerging Markets (OMEM) and, notwithstanding the agility with a view to innovating quicker and responding to managed separation, our joint R1bn target in 2017 disruptive threats faster, optimally addressing new-client remains intact all on arm's length commercial terms requirements and providing best-in-class client and ensuring that the standalone nature of the entities experiences, and creating an enterprise capability with the is never compromised. client at the centre of all we do. ■ 'Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes' has enabled us to improve pricing models In addition, we aim to organise ourselves, our data and and our deliberately conservative credit growth data analytics and information technology to enable strategies over the past few years have resulted in our differentiation in our clients' universe, respond more credit loss ratio decreasing to the low end of the peer effectively to regulatory change and improve our ability to group. Having derisked our home loan and personalexecute our strategy more effectively. Collectively these loan books over the past few years, along with activities are currently expected to generate approximately leveraging our leadership in areas such as finance for R1,0bn of pretax benefits by 2019 and will support our secondhand vehicles, commercial property and ability to meet our medium-to-long-term targeted costcorporate lending, we can now shift our focus to slightly to-income ratio of 50–53%. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 5 REFLECTIONS FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE (continued) Underpinning our strategy, we initiated an operating-model review in the latter part of 2016, which we will start implementing in 2017. This will enable us to develop greater agility with a view to innovating quicker and responding to disruptive threats faster, optimally addressing new-client requirements and providing best-in-class client experiences, and creating an enterprise capability with the client at the centre of all we do. OLD MUTUAL RELATIONSHIP ■ We aim to grow our RBB transactional franchise faster The boards of directors and management teams of Old than the market, accelerate the digital journey to drive Mutual and Nedbank continue to work closely together on operational efficiencies and improved client experiences the managed separation strategy that was announced by and continue to outperform peers on the cost of risk – Old Mutual in 2016. This is a shareholding transaction, these should continue to be beneficial to our ROE which essentially means that shareholders in the OMEM expansion over the next few years. business to be listed on JSE Limited (the JSE), will receive ■ Our Wealth franchise aims to bring new products to Nedbank shares by way of an orderly distribution at an market and deepen cross-selling in our Nedbank client appropriate time. OMEM will retain a strategic minority base, leveraging asset management, wealth stake in Nedbank to underpin our ongoing commercial management and insurance solutions. relationship. ■ In the rest of Africa we aim to scale up our own SADC From a strategic and operational perspective it is business operations on the new core banking platform, optimise as usual for Nedbank and the managed separation will our cost base and increase cross-business flows have no impact on our staff or clients. It is important to between SA and our rest of Africa subsidiaries. In note that we have not integrated our systems or brands Central and West Africa we need to continue to with those of Old Mutual and, as we have always been an support the ETI board and management teams to independent listed entity, no complicated untangling is ensure ETI’s ROE exceeds its cost of equity (COE), required. We will continue to work together with Old acknowledging that 2017 is likely to be another Mutual South Africa on an arm's length commercial basis challenging year. where there are synergies. Finally, we need to extract efficiencies across all our We are confident that Nedbank as an investment offers businesses – to fund future investment and to enable good prospects for sustainable growth and improving improvements in efficiency ratios and ROEs so that we returns, and as such will continue to be an attractive can continue to deliver value to shareholders and meet our investment opportunity for new and existing investors medium-to-long-term targets. after the managed separation. In addition, after the APPRECIATION managed separation Nedbank's free float will increase, which should increase liquidity and attract additional To the Chairman, the board and my fellow executive team, buyers to the stock. thank you for helping to shape the group strategy as we set out to achieve our 2020 aspirations, deliver on our LOOKING FORWARD purpose and realise our vision of being the most admired As I look towards 2017, our people, our strong balance financial services provider in Africa. I would also like sheet, the progress we have made in 2016 and our to express my appreciation to all Nedbankers for their hard strategic enablers will underpin our ability to deliver on our work, commitment and dedication in driving our strategy and ensure we continue to generate appropriate performance this year. Your efforts are the foundation of returns for stakeholders. our success. ■ In CIB our aim is to deliver the benefits of an integrated In closing, a big thank you to the 7,7m clients who choose CIB model, leverage our strong lending position to grow to bank with Nedbank, and to our shareholders and other NIR and sustain an efficient business model and a stakeholders for their support in 2016. high-quality loan book. MIKE BROWN Chief Executive Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 6 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 7 Reflections from our Chairman It gives me great satisfaction to share the Nedbank story of value creation with all our stakeholders. The year 2016 has been one in which companies around the globe operated in a growth environment that is volatile, uncertain and constrained, and it has been no different for us at Nedbank. I am therefore tremendously proud that this report demonstrates the value that we create by generating sustainable financial returns while playing a meaningful role in society through active corporate citizenship. Value is created through sound strategy and execution, robust risk management and the work of both a skilled leadership team and the committed people who work for Nedbank. Vassi Naidoo Chairman WE LIVE IN RAPIDLY CHANGING TIMES This level of change, while disruptive, brings opportunities. In reflecting on developments in 2016 and the The environment is requiring stronger inclusive growth, macroeconomic context in which banks operate, it is clear diversification of economies from the traditional to the new, innovation and agility to ensure that the Africa Rising that the winds of change have swept across the globe. narrative is not overshadowed by global politics. We have witnessed recent global events, such as Brexit and the election of the 45th president of the US, and are NEDBANK TOO IS CHANGING analysing the impact of these changes on the fabric of our Nedbank Group is very well positioned to weather the societies and of new, more nationalist policies on a current economic challenges and help our clients, globalised and increasingly connected world. stakeholders and country do the same. Despite this, we Significant change has also taken place in SA and on the interrogated our role as an organisation across every level rest of the African continent. A challenging SA political and as a result of the changing landscape. I am excited to economic environment created a climate of uncertainty highlight some of the changes that we have undertaken to and market volatility as international ratings agencies ensure that we continue to be a sustainable and thriving reviewed their position on SA as an investment destination. business into the future. Other African countries have also been experiencing Our corporate purpose, 'to use our financial expertise to varying levels of complexity due to political and economic do good for individuals, families, businesses and society', challenges largely driven by the drop in global commodity goes to the heart of the way we do business at the bank. prices and social changes at play. Making this positive difference is where we will need to In 2016 SA maintained its investment grade status and focus much of our attention in the coming years. this is testimony to what SA has achieved with businesses Clients have always been at the heart of our business and working together with government and labour through the we continue to cement this commitment by adding a CEO Initiative to restore investor confidence in the country client-centred value to our set of corporate values. We and focus on creating higher levels of inclusive growth in know that our clients and their needs and expectations of the economy. Importantly, Nedbank's participation in the us are changing, and we are adapting our business model CEO Initiative is an expression of our confidence in and accordingly. This does require alignment with our values commitment to SA and the rest of the African continent. and the requisite behavioural shifts to ensure we are able In this volatile sociopolitical environment the banking and to achieve the desired client outcomes. broader financial services industry has undergone and As part of the change we are acutely aware that we need continues to experience unprecedented levels of change. to be agile and innovative. I am incredibly encouraged by The competitive environment has shifted substantially and the vigour and culture of innovation that I see emerging only those organisations that remain focused on digital across the organisation. innovation, competitive use of data and excellence in client service are likely to survive. Nedbank is galvanised by work designed to transform our culture, evolving our brand essence and our business model The fast-changing pace of technology, which is in part with the intention of ensuring that we are well positioned driving different client needs, has revolutionised the face for what is needed to remain relevant in a changing world. of banking. Digitisation is a key element in fulfilling client experiences and presents significant opportunities for Skilled people are at the heart of our business and are the operating efficiencies and safety enhancements in respect source of our sustainability. Nedbankers are people who of banking platforms. Data and analytical capability, care about our clients, one another, our company and the together with fast turnaround times to market, will society in which we live. They make Nedbank a great place be required to remain relevant. to bank and work. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 8 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy A WELL-GOVERNED BANK with our social partners in finding solutions to these During 2016 we once again engaged with our major challenges so that we create a better life for all South shareholders through our governance roadshows. Africans. Consistent feedback on our risk and governance practices Responsive leadership requires a concerted and confirms that Nedbank is a well-governed bank with a collaborative effort from all stakeholders in our country. strong risk management culture. Both the Nedbank board In this regard the silver lining to the negative events that and the Nedbank executive, as the leaders of this great we have seen in SA in recent months is that they have company, agree that building on this position is a great way served as a catalyst for real collective positive action by SA to deliver on our promises to our millions of existing and businesses, labour and government organisations, future clients. individuals and communities. Initiatives such as the The board still has work ahead as we deliberate intensely collective R1,5bn SME Fund and other programmes of its on key issues such as ensuring that we remain well kind will start to show tangible results in the area of positioned in a tough macroeconomic environment. inclusive growth. This kind of leadership also requires that Our commitment to Africa and our confidence in a positive we make space for diverse voices – especially of the youth future for the continent go to the heart of our deliberations and the marginalised – to be heard and understood. in our strategic alliance with Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI). Although ETI did not perform to Nedbank's commitment to remaining relevant in a expectations, it represents 3,4% of our market transforming society is a business imperative and goes capitalisation. Notwithstanding, our board and executive beyond regulatory compliance. By focusing on the are acutely focused on ETI and the potential of extracting economic empowerment of our staff, clients, business appropriate levels of value over the medium to long term. partners and suppliers from designated groups we have retained our level 2 broad-based black economic As a board we are meaningfully engaged on the topic of empowerment (BBBEE) rating for the eighth consecutive executive remuneration, mindful of the public discourse on year. While we recognise that there is more to be done, the matter, and already refocusing on the principles in this Nedbank was recognised as the most empowered regard. company in the Financial Services Sector in terms of the I am also pleased to report that the Old Mutual managed JSE Top 10 Most Empowered Companies Empowerdex separation, as detailed in the Chief Executive review on Survey. page 26, is proceeding smoothly. Nedbank as an Our empowerment financing model encompasses a investment offers good growth and return prospects, holistic approach to delivering economic opportunities and which will continue to be attractive for new and existing ranges from the provision of funding for transformational investors after the managed separation. infrastructure projects to affordable housing, black RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP agriculture and black small and medium enterprises and SA's banking industry is still firmly within the top global BBBEE transaction financing. rankings, thanks to its sound and secure banking and In 2016 Nedbank was honoured as a Legend of regulatory systems. This is not something we should take Empowerment and Transformation at the 15th Annual for granted and we must continue to work tirelessly to Oliver Empowerment Awards. The award recognises our maintain this global confidence in our financial services outstanding achievement as a top empowered company in systems and structures. the financial services sector for fostering the spirit of We are therefore concerned about an ongoing negative empowerment and becoming a leader of transformational narrative about key institutions, including banks, in our change in SA. society. At Nedbank we do not shy away from this debate. An integral part of our business strategy is focused on APPRECIATION active corporate citizenship and proactive involvement in I would like to express my gratitude to our Chief Executive, our communities. Mike Brown, and his executive team, my fellow boardmembers and the 32 401 Nedbank staffmembers for We will continue publicly to highlight the important role their commitment to building a bank that is future-fit, that key institutions, including banks, play in creating an competitive and a formidable force for good. environment that is conducive to higher levels of inclusive growth. We also continue to take cognisance of the In conclusion, Minister Pravin Gordhan in his 2017 budget importance of banking regulation in ensuring that banks speech said: ‘Transformation must unleash growth, play their part in the domestic and global fight against establish a new economic direction, mobilise investment, corruption. empower the masses and create new resources for social We are keenly aware that millions of SA citizens lack change.’ access to decent education, formal-employment We, as Nedbank, are well positioned for this challenge and opportunities, sufficient food, clean water and sanitation, to play our part in fostering radical social and economic safe and affordable transportation, suitable housing, transformation of this kind for the benefit of all in our modern healthcare and financial services. The magnitude society. and complexity of these structural inequalities in our society have resulted in increasing discontent, and at VASSI NAIDOO Nedbank we will continue to play a leading role in working Chairman Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 9 Our summarised five-year track record CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Five-year CAGR¹ Rm % 2016 2015 Net interest income 7,9 26 426 23 885 Impairments charge on loans and advances (3,1) (4 554) (4 789) Income from lending activities 11,5 21 872 19 096 Non-interest revenue 8,8 23 503 21 748 Total operating expenses 8,4 (28 366) (26 110) Indirect taxation 12,9 (927) (783) Share of profits of associate companies and joint arrangements (105) 871 Headline profit before direct taxation 12,9 15 977 14 822 Direct taxation 12,7 (3 985) (3 550) Non-controlling interest 7,5 (527) (441) Headline earnings 13,1 11 465 10 831 Economic profit (Rm) 1 565 2 525 Share statistics Earnings per share: – Headline (cents) 11,9 2 400 2 284 – Diluted headline (cents) 11,9 2 350 2 242 Dividends/distributions: – Declared per share (cents) 14,7 1 200 1 107 – Dividend/distribution cover (times) (2,4) 2,00 2,06 ¹ Compound annual growth rate. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Five-year CAGR¹ Rm % 2016 2015 Cash and securities 14,2 179 744 172 002 Loans and advances 7,2 707 077 681 632 Other assets 6,9 79 201 72 092 Total assets 8,3 966 022 925 726 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 9,1 75 733 74 754 Non-controlling interest 9,8 5 978 3 997 Amounts owed to depositors 7,8 761 542 725 851 Provisions and other liabilities 11,0 70 693 76 142 Long-term debt instruments 12,1 52 076 44 982 8,3 966 022 925 726 Assets: – Assets under management 19,5 273 327 257 295 – Total assets administered by the group 10,3 1 239 349 1 183 021 Net asset value per share (cents) 8,0 15 830 15 685 Tangible net asset value per share (cents) 8,7 13 723 13 794 Key ratios (%) Return on equity 15,3 15,7 Return on equity (excluding goodwill) 16,5 17,0 Return on total assets 1,23 1,25 Net interest income to interest-earning banking assets 3,41 3,30 Credit loss ratio – banking advances 0,68 0,77 Non-interest revenue to total operating expenses 82,9 83,3 Efficiency ratio 56,9 56,1 Effective taxation rate 24,9 24,0 ¹ Compound annual growth rate. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 10 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 2014 2013 2012 22 961 21 220 19 680 (4 506) (5 565) (5 199) 18 455 15 655 14 481 20 312 19 361 17 324 (24 534) (22 419) (20 563) (635) (601) (561) 161 27 13 759 12 023 10 681 Assets under management Headline earnings (3 487) (3 033) (2 860) (Rm) (Rm) (392) (320) (338) 9 880 8 670 7 483 2 112 2 114 1 521 2 127 1 884 1 640 2 066 1 829 1 590 1 028 895 752 2,07 2,11 2,18 150 495 190 341 212 013 257 295 273 327 7 483 8 670 9 880 10 831 11 465 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2013 2012 123 323 108 774 98 467 613 021 579 372 527 166 Return on equity Total assets 72 969 61 448 57 325 (%) (Rm) 809 313 749 594 682 958 67 024 60 617 53 601 3 887 3 719 3 774 653 450 602 952 550 878 49 314 49 038 44 407 35 638 33 268 30 298 809 313 749 594 682 958 212 013 190 341 150 495 1 021 326 939 935 833 453 14 395 13 143 11 721 12 553 11 346 9 989 14,8 15,6 15,8 15,7 15,3 682 958 749 594 809 313 925 726 966 022 15,8 15,6 14,8 17,2 17,2 16,4 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1,27 1,23 1,13 3,52 3,57 3,53 0,79 1,06 1,05 For more information on key judgements: Associates, Impairment of 82,8 86,4 84,2 loans and advances, Valuation of financial instruments held at fair 56,5 55,2 55,6 value, Taxation exposures and related provisions, refer to the Nedbank 25,3 25,2 26,8 Group Annual Financial Statements. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 11 Our purpose, vision and values Our purpose To use our financial expertise to do good for individuals, families, businesses and society. Our vision To be the most admired financial services provider in Africa by our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and communities. Our values ■ INTEGRITY Being honest, trustworthy, consistent and transparent in all our actions and decisions. ■ RESPECT Recognising the inherent worth of every individual and treating everyone with dignity. ■ ACCOUNTABILITY Being prepared to take ownership of and be held accountable for our commitments and actions. ■ PEOPLE-CENTRED Investing in our people and creating an environment that empowers our people to perform distinctively and to excel. ■ CLIENT-DRIVEN Creating value and delightful experiences for our clients that exceed their expectations. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 12 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Delivering value by delivering our purpose Banks play an important role in facilitating economic growth. Being a diversified financial services provider, our purpose is to use our expertise to facilitate the movement of capital and flow of money from where it is to where it is required for the benefit of our clients, other stakeholders and society at large. It is through the considered meeting of societal needs that we do good to enable a thriving society, create long-term value and ensure confidence in the banking system and our brand. Staff Clients Our staff are key to making Nedbank a great place to Clients remain the largest source of our deposits, bank and work. Motivated and skilled staff, together which enable us to fund lending activities. Gaining with efficient and value-creating solutions, services and more clients results in greater revenue growth, while operations, offer value to our clients. Staff as part of sustainable banking practices and worldclass risk society, contribute materially to the communities in management mitigate against bad debts. which they live and work. Value is created through … Value is created through … ■ Employing citizens in the jurisdictions in which ■ Safeguarding deposits, investments and we operate. wealth, while growing returns. ■ Rewarding staff for the value they add. ■ Providing credit that enables wealth creation, ■ Creating job opportunities as we grow. economic development and job creation. ■ Developing our staff to further their careers ■ Facilitating transactions that are the and improve our services and products. backbone of economic value exchange. ■ Transforming to an inclusive society through ■ Enabling financial inclusion by providing employment equity and gender equality. access to affordable products to the ■ Motivating and energising our workforce. previously unbanked. ■ Providing financial education and advice. ■ Developing innovative solutions that meet our clients’ specific needs. A strong and profitable business enables continued investment in our staff and operations, which in turn creates value for our clients and society at large. Trust is core to our relationships with all our stakeholders and to Nedbank Group creating value. Value is created through … Shareholders and our broader stakeholder base ■ Generating sustainable financial returns (while respecting environmental limits), enabled by growing revenues, managing risks within an acceptable risk appetite Value is created through … and managing our expenses wisely, while ■ Delivering value to our shareholders by optimising our cost base. increasing net asset value, dividends, share ■ Maintaining a strong balance sheet, which price and earnings. contributes to a safe and stable banking ■ Contributing meaningfully to government system that instils confidence and protects budgets through our own corporate taxes, staff against downside risk. paying personal taxes and participation in buying government and public sector bonds. ■ Embracing sustainable banking practices and regulatory compliance that enable a safe and stable banking system and a thriving society. ■ Playing a meaningful part in the broader society as a procurer of goods and services, making a difference through our corporate social investment activities and positively transforming economies and society through our activities and our lending. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 13 Our Long-term Goals, medium-tolong-term targets and Deep Green aspirations Long-term Goals To remain successful in banking over the long term, the socioeconomic context in which we operate, matters enormously. We understand that our future business prospects are greatly improved in a flourishing society. However, human needs must be served within the biophysical constraints imposed by our finite planet. Nedbank’s eight Long-term Goals for 2030 act as a useful strategic orientation tool, as well as an opportunity lens to identify unmet client needs and guide innovation. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted in September 2015, now provide for a universal agreement on development priorities. The SDGs and their associated targets and indicators remove much of the subjectivity that previously hampered the sustainability discourse, offering a muchneeded objective assessment of the global development agenda, and a shared platform on which stakeholders may exchange ideas and create solutions. We believe that our Long-term Goals are compatible with the SDGs, and represent a useful subset to which we, as a financial services provider, can deliver a winning strategic response. Our Fair Share 2030 strategy is designed to ensure that, over time, we use our financial expertise to contribute positively towards meeting the future growth and development needs of individuals, businesses and society. Going forward we will use the SDGs as the guiding framework for Fair Share 2030, as depicted in the figure below: Products and Collaboration Operations services and partnership Our contribution to the sustainable development agenda Economy Society Biosphere Source: United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 2017–2030 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 14 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Medium-to-long-term targets and Deep Green aspirations We have set ourselves aspirational medium-to-longterm targets to measure the progress towards being OUR DEEP GREEN ASPIRATIONS most admired by our key stakeholders. These are underpinned by our Deep Green aspirations. To be the most admired financial services provider in Africa that … MEDIUM-TO-LONG-TERM TARGETS GREAT PLACE TO WORK Driven, commercially focused, … attracts, develops Staff transformed and innovative staff and retains a highly working collaboratively together skilled and talented workforce … GREAT PLACE TO BANK Top 2 brand value among Recognised as one of SA’s top SA banking JSE peers private banks and wealth > 15% main-banked retail managers Clients client market share Top 3 SA asset manager (Annual … exceeds client Top 2 in wholesale league Raging Bull awards) expectations to tables and CIB NIR-toImproved market share and become the financial advances ratio > 2,0% scale in SADC partner of choice … Optimised deal flow from ETI STAKEHOLDERS GREAT PLACE TO INVEST Top 2 price-to-book ROE (excluding goodwill): ratio among SA banking Cost of equity + 5% … grows profit JSE peers Efficiency ratio: 50–53% sustainably to create shareholder value … WORLDCLASS AT MANAGING RISK Regulators Effectively delivered Tier 1 capital ratio > 12% compliance with LCR > 100% … while effectively regulatory change NSFR > 100% managing risk … Communities GREEN AND CARING BANK Recognised as leader in promoting socioeconomic transformation, financing solutions to environmental challenges, enabling economic inclusion and enhancing … and building financial wellbeing. sustainable communities. CIB Corporate and Investment Banking LCR Liquidity coverage ratio NIR Non-interest revenue NSFR Net stable funding ratio ROE Return on equity Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 15 Drivers guiding our strategy Our strategy represents our commitment to do Our competitive good for individuals, The needs and positioning and Major macro expectations of families, businesses and our stakeholders unique strategic trends society through our context financial expertise, thereby realising our vision of being Africa’s most admired financial services provider by our stakeholders. Our Deep Green aspirations, Material matters targets and Long-term Goals are (including risks and opportunities) achieved through the effective Volatile and uncertain socioeconomic environment characterised by execution of our strategy. At the slower growth and rising inequality same time our strategy aims to mitigate the risks (that could Disruptive technologies, disintermediation and increased competition diminish value) and exploit the opportunities (that present value) Increased demands on governance, regulation and risk management that are presented by our material matters. Managing growth opportunities vs risks in the rest of Africa Our material matters as described on pages 34 to 39 are shaped Transformation of society within environmental constraints primarily through proactive engagement with external and Scarceand evolving-skills requirements internal stakeholders, the Changing relationships between business, government, assessment of our competitive labour and civil society positioning, our unique strategic context and our operating environment. OUR STRATEGIC DRIVERS EMBRACE VALUE CREATION Strategic focus areas Our purpose Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences Creating value by using our financial expertise to do good for Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the individuals, families, businesses market and society Being operationally excellent in all we do Our vision Creating value by becoming Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Africa’s most admired Providing our clients with access to the best financial services financial services provider network in Africa Our Long-term Goals, targets and Deep Green aspirations Optimising the way we operate Creating value by achieving our targets and aspirations Strategic People 2020 Brand 2020 Fair Share 2030 Our values enablers Leading transformation Governance and regulatory change Creating value through the way Managed Evolution and Digital Fast Lane we behave Our strategic focus areas Creating value by delivering on our strategies Our strategic enablers Our Long-term Goals, Our purpose, Creating value through key targets and Deep vision and values enablers that support the delivery Green aspirations of our strategy Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 16 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Key trends – the environment in which we operate Unprecedented and accelerated change has resulted in Interest rates in SA are at or close to uncertainty and volatility on the political, economic, social, their peak, and although the US will likely tighten monetary policy, we technological and digital, environmental and regulatory fronts. forecast a decline in domestic interest rates from the second half of Political and macroeconomic drivers 2017. This should benefit consumers. Global growth outlook remains lacklustre, with a slowing Chinese economy and SA interest rates still relatively nationalistic elements on the rise as evident in Brexit and the outcome of the benign US presidential elections. Growth in SA economic output remains weak and confidence low. Political 11 Actual developments and lack of progress on policy reform have led to the ongoing risk Forecast of a sovereign-credit-rating downgrade. The rand remains volatile, increasing SA’s risk premium. In the rest of Africa most economies are still struggling to address the structural and fiscal implications of lower commodity prices and accompanying 10 lower growth. In the short term we expect continued pressure and volatility, particularly for those countries that are less diversified and overreliant on oil and resource-linked revenues. The timeframe of the ‘Africa rising’ narrative has become less certain, with varied schools of thought on how soon these economies could recover. In the longer term economic growth in the rest of 9 Africa is estimated to be on a sustainable basis between three to five times that of SA. GDP in SA is forecast to increase off a low base to 2,8% growth by 2020. This remains well below SA’s growth potential to drive job creation and a favourable climate for investment. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) forecasts GDP 8 growth in sub-Saharan Africa to be ahead of that of SA, but risks will remain in 12 14 16 18 20 oil-exporting countries. Inflation in SA remains at the top-end Economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa ahead of SA 2012–2020 of the SARB target band of 3–6%, but (%) should normalise into range in 2017. SSA GDP growth SA GDP growth Average SA CPI remains high 6 5 Actual 7 Forecast 4 6 3 2 5 1 4 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 SSA: sub-Saharan Africa 3 2 12 14 16 18 20 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 17 Growth in corporate advances is forecast to remain ahead of household advances growth. As interest rates decline, we expect an increase in the demand for retail advances from 2018 onwards. Forecast corporate advances growth to remain ahead of household advances growth Corporate advances growth Household advances growth 20 15 10 5 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Social drivers SA unemployment rate (%) Despite decades of growth and rising income per capita in Africa, social, environmental and economic challenges, such as 30 poverty, inequality, resource constraints and climate change, have persisted. 28 In sub-Saharan Africa, in particular, many of these issues are growing in both urgency and gravity. 26 ■ Millions of citizens lack access to formal employment opportunities, sufficient food, clean water and sanitation, safe and affordable transportation, suitable housing, basic healthcare, education and financial services. 24 ■ Skills shortages attributable to the poor outcomes of SA’s educational system are a serious threat to economic progress. Skills retention and development are therefore crucial to improving our global competitiveness. 22 ■ The Fees Must Fall campaign reflects the financial pressure students face in financing their education. Many students lack financial support and cannot afford to continue with tertiary education, resulting in the large number of 20 low-skilled workers in SA. 12 13 14 15 16 The transformation imperative and continued progress to a more equitable representation of the SA economy and workforce remain top of the agenda. To date, transformation has led to a broader and growing middle-market segment and increasing uptake of financial services and products. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 18 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Competitive drivers Retail banking penetration (%) Competition continues to intensify among financial services providers as both established and new entrants target the same 80 client base. In addition, new entrants from other industries, such 70 as telecommunications and financial technology (fintech), are entering the market. 60 ■ Technological advances have enabled the entry of non-traditional players as 50 they aim to cross-sell financial services to existing client bases. New entrants include online banks and payment facilitators, medical and insurance providers, 40 microloan providers and virtual-payment and mobile-telephony providers, all offering an increasing array of financial products and services to the consumer. 30 ■ Competition is particularly evident in transactional banking across all client segments and in wholesale lending. 20 ■ International banks, which face regulatory pressures in their home markets, 10 have been committing less balance-sheet-creating opportunities for SA wholesale banks. 77 17 50 0 SA Technological drivers Africa Emerging markets The Fourth Industrial Revolution is driving an exponential Source: Finscope. advancement of technology, forcing financial institutions to rethink the way they do business and choose to compete. ■ New digital technologies are in the process of reshaping the value proposition of existing financial products and services and how these are delivered to and consumed by clients. Personalisation, convenience and security are top of mind as digital adoption outpaces prediction. It is estimated that over 90% of retail transactions in sub-Saharan Africa are cash-based, creating a significant opportunity for growth in digital banking in years to come. ■ Megatrends, innovations and disruptive technologies include the integrated digital ecosystem (mobile-everything and ‘always’ online), the rise of fintechs, cloud computing, internet of things (IoT), big data and advanced analytics/ machine learning, blockchain technology, artificial intelligence and biometrics, to name a few. ■ Africa’s relative underdevelopment in digital innovation enables the leveraging of technological development in banking. Nedbank interactive ATM – a first for Africa. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 19 Regulatory drivers Environmental drivers The global financial crisis brought the onset of increased Protecting the environment regulation to ensure the soundness of banks and protect and contributing to the consumers, the most prominent of which are the Basel III development of sustainable regulations on capital adequacy, liquidity and risk data food and energy resources are aggregation, anti-money-laundering (AML) regulations, imperative. Without them we the Retail Distribution Review (RDR), the National Credit would compromise the ability Act and International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS of future generations to meet 9): Financial Instruments. their needs. ■ Greater regulatory requirements have increased the cost of banking ■ Globally, 2016 was the hottest and led to a slowdown in loan growth, in turn affecting fixed-capital year on record and the third investment and economic expansion. successive year that a new record ■ Regulatory burden has resulted in global systemically important banks was established, causing reducing their capital commitments and exposure to emerging markets. devastating floods in some places and record-breaking droughts in others. The drought also KEY IMPLEMENTATION DATES FOR KEY REGULATION FROM negatively impacted the food and 2016 TO 2020 agriculture sectors, with a decadeDevelopment (drafts to be released) low maize harvest leading to ■ Twin Peaks excessive prices and pushing up ■ Treating-Customers-Fairly (TCF) and conduct risk food inflation. ■ ■ The rapidly falling costs of new Retail Distribution Review (RDR) clean technologies in both the Calibration (workstreams/parallel runs) energy and transport sectors ■ IFRS 9 signal the start of one of the ■ Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) (funding) greatest industrial endeavours ■ ever undertaken, given the implied Total loss-absorbing capital (TLAC) (capital) rate and scale of change needed ■ Risk-weighted assets (RWA) consistency/capital floors to meet global climate ■ Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and common reporting commitments, with billions of standards dollars being invested in this by ■ Anti-money-laundering (AML), combating the financing of terrorism governments and leading (CFT) and sanctions companies in the private sector. ■ There is great contestation over ■ Lighthouse privacy, [Protection of Personal Information (POPI)] SA’s energy future. The draft ■ Solvency 2 Integrated Energy Plan (IEP) and Implemented (phase-in basis) Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) ■ Basel III capital ratios (2013–2019) published towards the end of 2016 are intended to provide the road ■ Basel III liquidity coverage ratio (2015–2019) map for energy investments up to ■ Basel III net stable funding ratio (2018) 2040. Experts have indicated, ■ Enterprise Data Programme (EDP) [Risk Data Aggregation and Risk however, that the IRP base case is Reporting (RDARR)] – Basel Committee on Banking Supervision neither the lowest-cost option, nor (BCBS) 239 (2015–2019) is it compatible with the country’s international climate change commitments. In addition, concerns have been expressed around the affordability of nuclear energy, especially as the country must show fiscal responsibility to retain its investment-grade credit rating. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 20 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Our material matters Our material matters represent the issues that have the most impact on our ability to create value. These change over time as new trends and developments shape the macro environment and our stakeholders’ needs evolve. We determine our material matters through the following process: This process prioritised six material matters that are interrelated and inform our strategic focus areas. As a financial services organisation, our impact on the economy, society and the environment through the financial solutions we provide is material and is included within the boundaries of our reporting. Refinement in 2016 In 2016 we refined our material matters in line with changes in the macro environment and the needs of our stakeholders. ‘The changing relationship between business, government, labour and civil society’ was added as an additional focus for 2016 and beyond. Identify Identify all issues that have the potential to impact our earnings sustainability and the ability to create value for our stakeholders. The process of identifying potential material matters is a groupwide responsibility requiring input from all business units Assess the material matters and divisions, and taking into account input and continuously to ensure that our feedback from all our stakeholders. Areas of potential strategy remains relevant. impact that are assessed include financial, environmental, social, strategic, competitive, legislative, reputational and regulatory matters (including policy matters). Assess Apply Rank Apply the material matters lens to Rank the issues identified according to greatest inform our long-term business relevance and highest potential to impact strategies and targets as well as significantly on the viability of our business and short-to-medium-term business relationships with stakeholders. While this is a plans. collaborative effort, our Group Executive Committee assumes responsibility for approval of the material matters prior to their endorsement by the Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Committee, a board committee of the board, and finally the Nedbank Group Limited Board. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 21 OUR MATERIAL MATTERS (continued) Volatile and uncertain socioeconomic Disruptive environment characterised by slower technologies, growth and rising inequality disintermediation and increased competition As a universal bank, we are deeply connected to and interdependent on the macroeconomic environment. Our ability to Increased competition for create value is dependent on key economic drivers, our response to them transactional clients and share-ofand their impact on our stakeholders. wallet means that banks must invest GDP growth – Forecasts suggest muted growth for SA, with upside in more to defend their competitive the rest of Africa in the medium to long term. This drives consumer advantages while providing 24/7 client spending (retail banking) and public and private sector investment service, innovating more rapidly and pricing (wholesale banking), which make banks ideally placed to act as facilitator. more competitively – this is relevant across Interest rates – Changes in interest rates affect bank margins and are retail and wholesale clients. Consumer correlated to endowment income, which increases as interest rates rise behaviour has changed, accentuated by the and decreases as they fall. At Nedbank endowment is viewed as a natural tough economic environment. In addition, a economic hedge against rising interest rates, whereby an increase in high unemployment rate shrinks the endowment income partially offsets the impact of an increase in bad economically active client pool that debts that occurs later in the cycle. everyone is competing for. Clients are often multibanked with technologically Inflation – An increase in inflation driven by rand weakness, the effect sophisticated banking requirements as a of drought on food shortages and higher administrative costs, among result of an increased awareness of the others, impact the disposable income of consumers and the growth of various bank offerings, quality of service business operating expenses. and pricing. Employment – Along with interest rate increases, unemployment is the primary threat to bad debts, while job creation drives economic growth The digitisation of banks means that and greater financial inclusion. Unless GDP growth picks up to > 3%, we technological developments feature centre are unlikely to see meaningful job creation. stage in banking, including embracing and leveraging mobile technology, fintech THE IMPACT ON VALUE CREATION partnerships, cloud computing, big data, ■ advanced analytics/machine learning, The tough economic environment increases financial pressure on our blockchain technology, artificial intelligence, clients, leading to lower levels of credit demand and transactional robotics and biometrics. banking activity – this is particularly prominent in the retail and smallbusiness segments of the market. Retail clients have remained highly THE IMPACT ON VALUE CREATION indebted since the financial crisis of 2008, compounded by the recent ■ Competition and disintermediation increase in interest rates, higher inflation and administrative costs, as well as high unemployment levels. Lower oil prices, feeding into lower erode revenues. However, they force inflation, proved beneficial to consumers in 2016, although companies to continue to innovate to transactional activity is slowing, particularly in the entry-level remain relevant and competitive, segments. especially in the digital age, and this will be beneficial to clients. ■ In our wholesale business, our clients experience lower demand, delays ■ New technologies provide opportunities in infrastructure investment, lower resource prices and electricity constraints, while the longer-term investment appetite in SA remains to disrupt the market by creating muted. Pockets of growth in infrastructure, the rest of Africa and new revenue streams, lowering the cost merger and acquisition activity are ongoing opportunities. to serve and delivering general cost efficiencies. ■ For banks this uncertain economic environment has a negative effect ■ Banks (who have scale) are increasingly on earnings growth potential and capital generation, while increasing the risk of higher levels of bad debts and the cost of funding. partnering with fintechs, who enable faster delivery to market of new ■ Transformation of the energy sector globally offers large opportunities innovations. for industry, manufacturing, infrastructure and finance. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 22 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Increased demands on governance, Transformation regulation and risk management of society within environmental constraints Given trends in international financial markets, the risk of potential penalties and fines due to non-compliance has increased in SA and elsewhere in Africa. Our planet faces massive economic, Recent investigation into alleged collusion in currency trading activities social and environmental challenges. highlighted the increased focus on this material matter, with Nedbank being These include climate change, income one of the two large SA banks not implicated. inequality, unemployment, growing disease burdens and food security SA’s implementation of the Twin Peaks regulatory framework and increased concerns. The effects of these are focus on consumer protection will continue to place new demands on financial increasingly being felt through natural services organisations. The caps on credit life pricing, lower caps on lending disasters, volatility in commodity rates, limiting of interchange fees on card transactions, introduction of the prices, social upheaval and liquidity coverage ratio, evolving capital requirements and net stable funding governments responding with ratios are examples of regulatory changes being adopted. increasing regulations. THE IMPACT ON VALUE CREATION THE IMPACT ON VALUE CREATION ■ Increased regulation has created greater complexity and higher compliance ■ The UN Sustainable Development costs for financial services providers. The increase in cost of funding, the Goals (SDGs) represent an NIR decrease and the spend on staff and IT capability to implement and unprecedented road map for the mange the regulatory requirements increase the time to deliver innovative transformation of society within and competitive products. environmental constraints. As ■ We continue to support governance and regulatory frameworks, as these reflected in our Long-term Goals, ensure that value in the systems is protected. The frameworks have also they represent a framework to made it possible for SA’s banking sector to be rated among the top 10 orientate our strategy and identify globally in the latest World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness how we can use our financial Survey. Our governance and compliance track record is sound and expertise to contribute positively in reasonable, and we fully support sustainable banking practices. addressing the needs of individuals, businesses and society. ■ The SDGs also help to create a common platform for dialogue and cooperation between Managing growth opportunities governments, business and civil vs risks in rest of Africa society stakeholders. The rest of Africa presents longer-term growth opportunities for Nedbank, albeit at a higher cost of capital and cost of risk, and requiring upfront investment. As GDP growth in SA remains muted, the rest of Africa provides a longer-term growth opportunity. Our growing African client base and our SA clients entering the rest of Africa seek to benefit from one-stop financial services solutions. Shareholders, on the other hand, seek exposure to this higher-growth region through investment in well-managed SA banks that follow a risk-mitigated, capital-efficient approach. THE IMPACT ON VALUE CREATION ■ With Nedbank having strong, specialised skills and our complementary strategic partnerships through Ecobank, Bank of China and Old Mutual, we are in a strong position to play a key role in funding and structuring infrastructure and capital-intensive projects, as well as leveraging incountry and crossborder banking opportunities. However, we have to participate cautiously, as the environment remains uncertain in the short to medium term and is likely to be volatile over time. ■ In the short to medium term banks operating in West Africa will be impacted by weak economic conditions and currency weakness, particularly in Nigeria. This will be evident in revenue pressures and higher bad debts. For Nedbank this is evident in the financial performance of ETI. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 23 Scarce and evolving skills requirements Banks are large employers within the financial services sector and we require highly skilled employees to deliver the services our clients expect. With highly skilled employees becoming increasingly expensive to recruit and with little evidence that pay correlates with performance, banks are increasingly recruiting and training staff from a broader talent pool and retaining them in new ways. We therefore need to invest in attracting, retaining and developing the skills we need to grow our businesses, because the right people with the right skills are essential for the delivery of our strategy. We are also acutely aware of the importance of a well-educated labour force for the country’s success. SA’s economy is plagued by very high levels of unemployment and we continue to struggle to produce graduates from a high proportion of secondary-level students. The challenges in higher education are even greater, with only a relatively small number successfully completing tertiary studies. The pressure on the higher-education sector is being compounded by affordability concerns, which have led to mass protests on campuses throughout 2016. Nedbank is committed to playing a positive role in addressing these problems and a groupwide task team was created in 2016 with the aim of developing a tertiary-funding strategy that combines external and internal funding with innovative products and processes, such as crowd funding, securitisation and blended lending. THE IMPACT ON VALUE CREATION ■ Playing our role in providing affordable financing, bursaries and education support through our foundation remains top of mind for Nedbank. Nedbank has taken a leadership position in transformation and we continue to place this high on our agenda, given our goal to stay at the forefront of transformation. ■ Our staff and corporate culture are key competitive advantages and differentiators. We measure staff entropy to understand the level of engagement within the group, while seeking to create a closer fit between the existing and ideal culture. ■ There will be an increased expectation on large corporates, such as Nedbank, to offer internships to previously unemployed youth as part of the Youth Employment Scheme (YES initiative) agreed between leading CEOs and the government. Part of the YES initiative will be a package of incentives to enable this takeup. Changing relationships between business, government, labour and civil society The ongoing weak economic conditions, high levels of unemployment and events around Nenegate have spurred business, government, labour and civil society to work together to avert a sovereign-credit-rating downgrade. Government, business and labour all understand the imperative to reduce these to ensure a better life for all. THE IMPACT ON VALUE CREATION ■ The knock-on impact of a sovereign-credit-rating downgrade will be felt most by the poor as inflation increases on the back of a weaker currency. ■ Working together towards a common goal, though, will assist the SA economy in reaching its full potential and reducing inequality and poverty. ■ The value-adding outcomes to date include: R1,5bn committed by the private sector for investment in small enterprises; a pledge by companies to offer internships to one million young workseekers; considerable investment in the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement programme that has led to 2 500 MW of energy generation; and the improvement of some state-owned enterprises’ governance. ■ In addition, government has budgeted over R987bn for infrastructure development in terms of the medium-term expenditure framework. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 24 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Working together across all our businesses to find innovative solutions for our clients The MTN Zakhele Futhi BBBEE deal is a good example of how businesses from across the group work together when having a common strategic goal to deliver innovative solutions to our clients. Nedbank has always aspired to be at the forefront of transformation, as is evident from our leadership in launching our own BBBEE deal in 2005. In line with this and building on our long-standing relationship with MTN Group, we were successful in leading an integrated, bespoke solution to facilitate the implementation of MTN's new R9,9bn BBBEE scheme, MTN Zakhele Futhi. This integrated solution demonstrates our ability to advise on, structure, manage, fund and distribute highly complex solutions for our clients, and has further strengthened our partnership with MTN. Nedbank is proud to have been part of this landmark follow-on BBBEE transaction and will continue to act as a key enabler and supporter of BEE principles. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 25 Our strategic focus areas Our strategy is primarily aimed at creating value for all our stakeholders and is defined by our five key strategic focus areas of: Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the market Being operationally excellent in all we do Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes Providing our clients with access to the best financial services network in Africa DURING THE YEAR WE REFINED OUR STRATEGY IN LINE WITH THE CHANGE IN MATERIAL MATTERS The table below highlights the areas and levels of correlation between material matters and our strategic responses (to the risks and opportunities). The material matter ‘Volatile and uncertain socioeconomic environment characterised by slower growth and rising inequality’ has one of the highest correlations to almost all our strategic responses, as a bank’s performance is strongly linked to the environment in which it operates. Providing our Growing our Managing clients with Delivering transactional scarce access to the innovative banking Being resources to best financial marketfranchise operationally optimise services leading client faster than excellent in economic network in experiences the market all we do outcomes Africa Volatile and uncertain socioeconomic environment characterised by slower M H H H H growth and rising inequality Disruptive technologies, disintermediation and increased H H H M H competition Increased demands on governance, H M H H H regulation and risk management Managing growth opportunities vs risks H M H H H in the rest of Africa Transformation of society within M M M H M environmental constraints Scarceand evolving-skills H M H H H requirements Changing relationships between business, government, labour and civil M M M H M society H High M Medium Value is created for Nedbank through revenue enhancement, cost optimisation, risk mitigation and balance sheet optimisation. Below we illustrate the key value driver of each of our strategic focus areas: Providing our Growing our Managing clients with Delivering transactional scarce access to the innovative banking Being resources to best financial marketfranchise operationally optimise services leading client faster than excellent in economic network in experiences the market all we do outcomes Africa Revenue enhancement Cost optimisation Risk mitigation Balance sheet optimisation Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 26 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Delivering innovative market-leading client experiences We acknowledge that client preferences are unique and fast evolving and continue CASE IN POINT to challenge us to use our financial expertise to do good and see money differently. To be relevant there is a continuous need for us to understand, anticipate and Nedbank timeously deliver client experiences that exceed expectations. This is central to all our strategic focus areas, because innovation – whether technology is a driver or not – is interactive ATMs a key to retaining existing and attracting new clients, which drives revenue growth. Value for clients: The Nedbank This is a strategic focus area primarily in response to the material matter ‘Disruptive interactive ATM, which is the technologies, disintermediation and increased competition’. first of its kind in Africa, adds value for our clients by using HOW DOES IT MAKE US DIFFERENT? video capability to link a client The evolution of the banking landscape and technology has resulted in the refinement to a teller, who is located in a of our digital strategy. Initiatives are focused on innovative solutions and client contact centre, to perform education using leading user experience design. transactions. This allows transactions to be processed We are recognised for our market-leading digital innovations, such as GAP Access™ after traditional banking (a cash advance solution for merchants based on their point-of-sale device turnover), hours. The interactive ATM CIPC Online (an integrated business registration and account-opening service also extends the Nedbank available through nedbank.co.za), Nedbank Masterpass™ (a mobile payment self-service offering, enabling solution), MyPocket (a savings pocket that can be linked to a client’s transactional the seamless completion of account, allowing the client to manage spending and saving more easily) and transactions without clients NetBank Business mobile enhancements, with Nedbank being the only local bank having to visit a branch. Some offering a business banking application on both tablet and smartphone devices. examples include instances Other innovations include further enhancements to Masterpass™, which is now where clients complete large enabled to transact over SnapScan QR codes, as well as our market-leading Instant withdrawals and deposits and Bond Indicator, which allows potential home loan applicants an almost immediate require their ATM limits to be response on their home loan request. Digital client experience was enhanced through increased, or when clients wish introducing contracts for difference (CFDs) on our online stockbroking platform. to complete cash withdrawals Nedgroup Investments launched a new online ‘Invest with us’ tool, which allows without having their cards investors to follow a simple six-step process to open a new account at their present. convenience. Other digital enhancements include allowing existing investors to update personal details, open accounts, transact, perform switches and facilitate A further benefit revolves withdrawals through their secure online profiles. Nedbank Insurance’s QuoteMe around active staff assistance functionality was introduced for funeral and personal-accident solutions on both the to clients who may be battling web and mobile channels. to navigate a transaction. Interactive ATM transactions Internally, innovation is increasing the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of our are simple and easy. Client structures, systems and processes, which ultimately benefit our clients. authentication is done electronically and requires no REFLECTING ON 2016 AND LOOKING AHEAD ‘paper’ intervention. The ■ We have made good progress on all aspects of client-centred innovation and interactive ATM will give service, enabled by streamlined processes and a strong emerging culture of clients access to a range of innovation, although much more needs to be done. This is evident in the quantum broader banking services at an of digitally active new clients increasing 73,6 % to 1,4m. The launch of the Digital extended number of locations Fast Lane as an enabler (described on page 49) will accelerate delivery of marketacross SA. leading digital experiences. Value for Nedbank: There are ■ Our strategy aims to deliver delightful client experiences. We continue to focus numerous benefits, including on simplifying banking interactions to ensure easy, consistent and satisfying client the ability to extend selfexperiences across all channels. We are paying special attention to identifying service functionality to our and removing client ‘pain points’ and elevating the client experience through clients, which in turn shifts innovation, enhanced self-service and new value-added functionalities. basic services from our Our approach has been enabled by our accelerated progress in leveraging branches to self-service digital capabilities. devices, resulting in a reduced ■ There is an ongoing rollout of new format outlets that are more effective sales cost to serve and improved and servicing channels due to technologies such as video banking and internet efficiencies (eg more banker kiosks, which will create further capacity to manage our increasing client base and time available to spend on has reached 44% of all outlets. We target to convert 82% of our outlets by 2020. value-adding activities with ■ our clients). When fully Our being one of SA’s most respected brands and our being ranked eighth in SA by implemented, the functionality Brand Finance (fourth among all banks) was supported by a BrandsEye study will also assist in reducing the that, through analysis of social media activity relating to SA’s big five banks, found need for physical staffing in that Nedbank drew the least amount of negative sentiment and second-most remote areas. The interactive positive feedback (ahead of all the large SA banks). The launch of a new Nedbank ATM can also extend brand identity in 2017 is described in more detail on page 50 as part of Brand Nedbank’s reach into areas 2020 – a key strategic enabler. previously not served. ■ Through our Fair Share 2030 strategy we enabled R2,3bn of lending to clients in the areas of embedded renewable energy and student accommodation. ■ To enhance our digital client experience in the rest of Africa we implemented mobile banking in Namibia and Swaziland and further increased our mobile valueadded services in Namibia. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 27 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS (continued) Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the market Nedbank NIR five-year CAGR Our strategy to grow our transactional banking franchise faster than the vs peers market is driven by increasing our main-banked market share and deepening our share of wallet with new and existing clients. There is significant room to FirstRand, Standard Bank, grow our approximately 11% retail main-banked market share to more than Barclays Africa 15%, and similarly our share in wholesale businesses, although this is more difficult to measure against peers given the absence of independent industry Nedbank benchmarks. This is to be achieved in RBB by playing a leading role in a fully digitally transformed RBB that delivers delightful client experiences, simpler processes and cost-effective operational excellence. The rising middle market is our key target market, showing the highest economic potential, greater propensity to switch and the fastest growth rate. We will be driving this strategy through our focused four levers for 'Winning in Transactional' by 2020, namely Digital First, First in Digital, disruptive client value propositions (CVPs); loyalty and rewards and sales and service excellence. In the wholesale market we are focusing on continuing to improve client coverage and further deepen client penetration, enabled by improved client 7,6 8,8 insights through data integration, and greater collaboration between business units after the integration of Nedbank Corporate and Nedbank Capital into CIB. HOW DOES IT MAKE US DIFFERENT? Nedbank has built a track record of delivering on this strategic focus area, growing NIR at or above the SA industry average over an extended period. The exception was in 2014, when we deliberately kept our bank fees at 2013 levels and reduced fees for SME and business banking clients. We have increased our focus on the retail middle market and our historical focus of growing youth and entry-level clients will benefit us in future as they migrate into the middle-market segment. In the wholesale bank the integrated CIB enables better client coverage, while we leverage our strong position in wholesale lending to increase opportunities for cross-sell. Across our businesses we are adopting a more focused and urgent approach to full digital transformation, supported by our new strategic enablers described on pages 48 to 49. REFLECTING ON 2016 AND LOOKING AHEAD ■ Retail main-banked clients grew 3,0% in 2016, with a 6,3% increase in middle-market clients. Growth in retail deposits remains a key focus area and we were pleased with our increase in household deposit market share to 18,7%, which is enhancing economic profit and is beneficial for NSFR compliance. ■ Nedbank Private Wealth onboarded more than 1 200 local and international new high-net-worth clients and CIB gained 39 new primary clients. ■ In CIB our NIR-to-advances ratio – a key indicator of cross-sell and ability to leverage our strong balance sheet to grow NIR – increased to 2,1% from 2,0% in 2015, above our target of > 2,0%. ■ Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the market will remain our primary focus going forward, and, despite a tougher macro environment, we believe we are in a good position to gain share of mainbanked clients. Our NIR-to-expense target of > 85% therefore remains achievable over the medium to long term. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 28 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Being operationally excellent in all we do Simplifying, rationalising and continuously improving our processes CASE IN POINT and operations save costs and allow us to invest in our franchise and unlock new growth opportunities. Saving costs becomes more Operational excellence important in a tougher macroeconomic and more competitive adding value to our environment, but operational excellence also provides benefits to clients, as client experiences are enhanced through simplification and clients optimisation. Our IT system stability is an example of differentiation Nedbank provides relationship banking enabled by operational excellence to ensure client satisfaction. services to our 100 000 affluent clients (also termed ‘professionals’) and 247 000 small HOW DOES IT MAKE US DIFFERENT? businesses and business owners through the Our ability to manage our cost base through the years has been an Retail Relationship Banking (RRB) business. outstanding feature and is acknowledged by the investment As part of our value proposition, clients have community. Our Managed Evolution IT strategy reduces the risk access to a dedicated banker who can relating to large-scale system implementation and provides systems facilitate their needs across the bank and stability while enabling better control over our expenses. Digitisation of ensure that they benefit from tailored credit the bank and the revision of our operating model will assist in decisioning while enjoying preferential rates on unlocking efficiencies and providing a more integrated client both investments and loans. experience over time. To deliver this value proposition consistently REFLECTING ON 2016 AND LOOKING AHEAD it is critical for bankers to have a full view of ■ their clients’ dealings with Nedbank, to keep We have done well to unlock synergies in an environment of revenue track of the clients’ interactions and pressure. In 2016 we reduced branch floor space by 5 000 m2 (with requests, as well as to store relevant insights a cumulative target of > 30 000 m2 by 2020) and unlocked into the relationship for reuse in future benefits for Nedbank of more than R250m from our arms’ length engagements. collaboration programme with Old Mutual South Africa and Mutual and Federal. In 2016 a new client relationship ■ We reduced core systems by 106 from 251 systems since inception management tool, EPIC, was developed and are well on our way to reach 60 over the next few years. This with this in mind. The tool leverages deep will enable reduced licence fees, maintenance and complexity, financial data analytics already developed although upfront investment is required. IT cashflow spend of for Retail (also referred to as the ‘4-cubed’ R2,0bn in 2016 was well controlled. model, given its four lenses of client, channel, product and geography), collates data from ■ These initiatives, along with revenue growth strategies, will help us almost every product system in the bank to improve our cost-to-income ratio from 56,9% to our medium-toand provides additional functionality for long-term target of 50% to 53%. bankers to view their portfolio, to capture ■ Through various cost optimisations we realised R599m of efficiency information and to action work queue items. savings. Key to the design of EPIC is a user experience ■ Our operating-model review, described on page 48, is currently that is intuitive, is quick to navigate so that expected to generate pretax benefits of approximately R1,0bn information can be accessed in the moment, by 2019. and has the functionality to talk to current pain points of our staff (and indirectly of our clients). Evidence of these principles having been delivered successfully is the quick adoption rate by bankers (all bankers using the system within the first month of its Core IT systems launch), positive feedback received from users (90% likes), and the fact that no system training had to be provided. With EPIC, relationship bankers are freed up to spend more time on client matters, and line managers are now fully equipped to understand the content and the quality of engagements that take place, including the level of proactiveness from Nedbank in engaging with our clients. With more functionality to be released in 2017 on this platform, Nedbank is well equipped to 60 continue its growth trajectory in this highly competitive market and to deliver even better experiences for clients and staff alike. 211 194 176 166 145 . 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 29 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS (continued) Managing scarce resources to optimise economic outcomes We seek to optimise our through-the-cycle ROE using proactive portfolio decisions such as judiciously managing groupwide allocation of scarce PORTFOLIO TILT STRATEGY resources, including capital and liquidity for strategic and optimal financial outcomes. Advances HOW DOES IT MAKE US DIFFERENT? Retail Nedbank is widely acknowledged for taking early action in anticipation of Home loans industry challenges. This was particularly evident with regard to home loans Backbook ▼ and personal loans, which we grew selectively, improving asset quality and Frontbook ▲ pricing. We believe that we have significantly reduced the risk in these books Vehicle finance ▲ and expect that growth in the future will be within our accepted risk profile Personal loans and will be driven by increased efficiency and innovation in the application < R5k/month segment ▼ process. This should also enable us to outperform the industry on credit loss Entry-level banking segment — ratio. Middle market ▲ Our business model bias towards the wholesale market (> 60% of advances) Wholesale positions us well in a tough consumer environment, and expertise in key Property finance sectors has enabled us to grow strongly in renewable-energy and Domestic lending — infrastructure projects, commercial property and vehicle finance. Rest of Africa ▲ REFLECTING ON 2016 AND LOOKING AHEAD Investment banking — ■ Corporate banking ▲ Strategic portfolio tilt, a focus of the group for a number of years, has delivered excellent results, particularly in the wholesale portfolios where Wealth ▲ Nedbank has gained share of market in funding initiatives, such as NIR related renewable energy and in vehicle finance where Nedbank, through MFC, Wholesale and retail has a unique positioning in secondhand lower-value vehicles. Our pipelines transactional/primary clients ▲ in our wholesale businesses remain strong. Nedbank grew market share across Basel III-friendly household and commercial deposits in line with Global markets (trading) ▲ our strategic objective. Insurance ▲ ■ Derisking the home loan and personal-loan portfolios has been Private-equity related — successful. These actions place the group in a strong position as we head Deposits into a more challenging environment, and have already contributed to the Household ▲ group’s credit loss ratio outperformance. We anticipate growing more in Commercial ▲ line with the market going forward. Capital market — ■ Our financial performance as described from page 62 onward reflects Short-term wholesale funding ▼ the impact of ETI’s loss and higher levels of cost of capital after bond Foreign currency liabilities — yields spiked after Nenegate, offset by strong performance of our managed businesses. ▼ Slower than market growth ▲ Faster than market growth — In line with market Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 30 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Providing our clients with access to the best financial services network in Africa We are positioned to give our clients access to a wide sub-Saharan African CASE IN POINT geographical financial services network and a compelling value proposition Flexcube through investing in and expanding on our own Nedbank operations in the SADC and East Africa, and taking a partnership approach, through our 21,2% implementation shareholding in ETI, in Central and West Africa. This approach will give our Value for clients shareholders access to the faster GDP growth rates in the rest of Africa The Flexcube core banking through a longer-term capital-efficient and risk-mitigated approach. platform is highly configurable We have a strategy that is tailored for each region: and flexible. We are building on ■ this platform to offer our clients SADC and East Africa – We want to own, manage and control banks. mobile solutions and enhance Our network presence in the SADC and East Africa now comprises banks the wholesale electronic in six countries and two representative offices in Kenya and Angola. platform to be best in class. ■ Central and West Africa – We follow a partnership approach with Ecobank, This will assist clients to take in which we acquired a shareholding of 20,0% in 2014. Ecobank is the advantage of richer bundled number-one bank in Ghana, is a systemically important bank in Nigeria and products and services with is ranked as a top-three bank by assets in 14 countries in Africa. simplified pricing structures. ■ Investment banking deals – We are leveraging our strategic relationships, It will also allow for enhanced expertise, skills and resources to build a rich deal pipeline in countries convenient digital banking across the rest of Africa. providing convenient solutions such as prepaid electricity and HOW DOES IT MAKE US DIFFERENT? airtime purchases and bills Our clients benefit from a bank with the largest banking network in subpayment. Saharan Africa, which is intended to provide them with a seamless banking Value for Nedbank experience. In addition, we are able to leverage off Ecobank’s deep incountry knowledge. We have approached our expansion in a risk-mitigated manner by The new system ensures the spreading risk across various countries, as evidenced in the portfolio. standardisation of the core banking platform among our In the context of a changing global regulatory landscape with more stringent subsidiaries to drive operational regulatory requirements, banks in Africa are expected to comply with Basel III efficiencies and provide the and AML requirements, among others. Nedbank Group’s partnership added benefit of a faster time approach with a minority shareholding in ETI mitigates risk from a regulatory to market on innovations. compliance perspective. A 21,2% shareholding also mitigates, to some extent, the challenging macro environment given lower commodity prices and Implementation of Flexcube has exchange rate volatility. resulted in the automation of many processes that were REFLECTING ON 2016 AND LOOKING AHEAD previously manual, eg bank-tobank transfers. ■ Our Africa strategy is expected to take time to deliver and is aimed at building sustainable returns for shareholders over the longer term. ■ Operating in the rest of Africa has been challenging over the past 12 months and our financial performance has been a key disappointment, given the impact of equity accounting for our share of ETI’s fourth quarter 2015 losses in the first quarter of 2016. In addition we raised a R1,0bn impairment provision against the carrying value of our investment in ETI. ■ In the SADC we successfully implemented our core banking system in Lesotho and Swaziland, and on the back of that we are rolling out our mobile offering. On 1 October 2016 we increased our holding in Banco Único to 50% plus one share and have shareholding control. We increased our outlets by four branches and our ATMs by 14 during the year. ■ Our market share in key SADC countries remains static and below our target. We expect this to increase on the back of our investments we would anticipate this to increase over time. ■ Since the establishment of the alliance 198 accounts have been opened in 25 countries for 82 South African Corporates. We concluded three joint financing deals since inception of the alliance, however due to the tough macroeconomic environment in the rest of Africa there have been no new deals in 2016. ■ Risks in the environment, driven by lower commodity prices and currencies, remain a key focus. We will continue to follow a disciplined approach to the allocation of financial resources to optimise portfolio returns and manage risks. ■ Despite challenging marcoeconomic conditions, which we currently expect to remain 2017 before improving in 2018 and beyond, the long-term growth potential of financial services in the rest of Africa cannot be overlooked. We therefore remain committed to our strategy and investments in the rest of Africa and continue to support ETI as our partner in Central and West Africa. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 31 Value for stakeholders Nedbank is part of a greater socioeconomic ecosystem and we recognise that we are dependent on robust relationships with all other stakeholders. We appreciate the role of our stakeholders and are committed to nurturing impactful relationships that deliver mutual benefits. Net interest Impairment losses on Other banking Value added R26 426m income loans and advances (R4 554m) + income R22 035m = R43 907m Dividends paid to shareholders Retentions for growth (Rm) (Rm) 14% 15% 3 586 4 141 5 035 5 836 6 114 5 670 6 334 6 818 6 653 7 136 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Government (taxes) Staff expenses (Rm) (Rm) 11% 35% Value-allocated R43 907m 3 426 3 617 4 103 4 302 4 882 10 243 11 425 12 629 14 296 15 524 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Other expenditure Socioeconomic (Rm) development spend (Rm) 24% 1% 7 574 8 171 8 927 9 879 10 583 95 101 104 136 141 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT FRAMEWORK While the Nedbank Group Executive Committee (Group Exco) has ultimate responsibility for our group’s stakeholder engagement efforts, the process of engaging with stakeholders is decentralised to form part of the operations of our various clusters and business areas. Cluster-based stakeholder engagement is governed by a comprehensive group stakeholder engagement framework and policy, which include our corporate identity and communication guidelines. Each business area is required to report regularly on its stakeholder engagements through the Group Exco. The following pages provide an overview of how we delivered value to our stakeholders in 2016 and prospects for value creation going forward. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 32 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Staff Investing in our staff CASE IN POINT Engaging with Engaging with our staff We engage with our staff on an ongoing basis at all levels. Feedback and input staff from our staffmembers assist us in understanding and responding to their needs Group HR together with Group and concerns, and improving their working environment experience. This Exco called for a Leadership ultimately improves the performance of the bank. Regular communication also Lekgotla in March 2016 to takes place to provide staff with strategic direction and to keep them informed deliberate, discuss and decide on about group activities. the type of leaders needed to drive In addition to the regular, direct communication between managers, teams and the people strategy with a focus individuals, specific employee engagements in 2016 included the following: on engagement and dialogue, so ■ Group Exco communication sessions. that we could lead Nedbank to the desired culture while living the ■ The Barrett Culture Survey and the Nedbank Staff Survey (NSS). Nedbank Brand. ■ Nedbank results presentations. In March 2016 Nedbank hosted its ■ Chief Executive and cluster head staff roadshows across SA and at the first Leadership Lekgotla with 400 SADC offices. leaders from across the various ■ 2016 Leadership Lekgotla. businesses. This was preceded by ■ Regular electronic and printed newsletters. focus groups attended by ■ Cluster and group recognition functions, which culminated in an international employees at all levels and from the various business entities. The trip for top achievers. lekgotla created the opportunity ■ The annual Employment Equity Summit. for Nedbank’s leaders to discuss and decide on the type of leaders the bank needs to deliver Delivering value to our staff in 2016 successfully on its strategy. ■ Staff costs, including benefits, increased 8,6% in 2016 to R15,5bn, underpinned by an average salary increase of 6,3% (unionised salary increases The Leadership Lekgotla were 8,0%) and ongoing job creation (1 089 new permanent staffmembers). considered both the internal and external changes in the business ■ Training spend increased to R413m, supporting 19 600 staff-learning environment and created interventions, bursaries and other types of training. tremendous momentum for the ■ Our staff, as our clients, are impacted by a challenging environment and we leadership of Nedbank to assist them through difficult times. We assisted 2 379 staff with their reposition itself. The lekgotla was children’s school and tertiary-fee commitments of R6,7m and 1 127 staff with designed around three key R4m of medical costs not covered by medical aid or gap cover. leadership conversations: strategy, ■ Staff turnover of 9,6% was again below the industry benchmark of between brand and culture. Robust 11% and 13%. This was supported by high levels of staff morale, as reflected conversations led to the in cultural entropy reducing to 12% (from 13% in 2015). identification of the leadership ■ Black staff representation increased to 78,3% as we focused on progressing behaviours and capabilities required to realise Nedbank’s employment equity and meeting our employment equity (EE) targets, strategy. A new leadership persona although more progress is required at senior management level. was developed – a refreshed view ■ Female staff representation increased to 62,7%. of the Nedbank leadership ■ Millennials make up 86,1% of the Nedbank population, which positions us well development landscape. for the digital transformation that we have embarked on. The idea is that if an individual starts practising a different mindset, qualities, behaviours and skills, these behaviours would become Looking ahead habits and new capabilities, The achievement of our purpose and vision is wholly dependent on the people creating a new person. It is an of Nedbank. That is why we are focused on optimising the way we operate effective way of working through complex personal change. through our People 2020 strategy. This strategy is a key enabler and will be the major focus for the next three years. We have based this strategy on the The evolving Nedbank leadership following key expectations of Nedbank employees: persona provides a holistic, ■ Competitive remuneration, effective performance management and aspirational view of leaders at Nedbank and embodies the core recognition. qualities needed. This engagement ■ Career development and advancement opportunities. process is currently being cascaded ■ Challenging and rewarding work in a safe, positive and inspiring work across the organisation to ensure that the engagement with staff is environment. consistent and results in the ■ A strong brand that resonates with them and is demonstrated through success of Nedbank. The Nedbank’s reputation as a good employer. Leadership Legkotla approach has ■ Ongoing progress around the transformation of the Nedbank staff profile become a benchmark for employee engagement. and the continued promotion of diversity and inclusivity. ■ The opportunity to make a difference to the business and our stakeholders. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 33 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) Clients Exceeding the expectations of our clients Engaging with our clients In the fast-changing and competitive environment we operate in, truly understanding our clients’ needs and expectations, and delivering value to them are central to all that we do. We are committed to delivering great client experiences with simpler, convenient and efficient service, innovative products, and competitively priced products through our client-centred innovation strategies. To continuously understand what is important to our clients we engage with them through various mechanisms, including client forums and events, face-to-face personal interviews for Nedbank Brand Tracker and other client surveys. We also utilise the Net Promoter Score (NPS)® to measure our service levels and review client feedback from our bankers and financial advisors, service resolution teams, social media centre and website. ■ An average annual bank fee increase of 4,2% in 2016 was Delivering value to our clients in 2016 ■ Loan payouts of R162bn reflect Nedbank’s continued again well below inflation and has ensured that Nedbank support for our clients, although this is down from 2015 remains competitive. as a result of weak credit demand. ■ We increased our new-style staffed outlets by 49, ■ We processed Nedbank App Suite™ transactions to the making branch engagements more convenient and value of R25bn, up 60%, enabling our clients to transact consistent, while providing self-service enablement through more efficient and cost-effective channels. We through internet kiosks, cash-accepting ATMs and video expect this growth trend to continue as we enhance our banking. We migrated in excess of 900 000 transactions digital offerings further. Digitally enabled and active a month from teller counters to our network of 769 clients have been restated to include all digital channels intelligent depositor devices. Cash-recycling capabilities and to allow for only the last 90 days of recent activity. were also landed during the year. These have facilitated Digitally enabled clients increased by 59% to 5,3m, an improvement in cash and device availability to clients. underpinned by the ongoing trend of digital and mobile ■ Investment performance in our asset management adoption. business again ranked among the top three in the ■ Our Net Promoter Score of 21%, reflecting client industry. This is the eighth consecutive year that satisfaction in our retail businesses, improved by 1% Nedgroup Investments has received this ranking and is when benchmarked against the industry average. Of testimony to our commitment to creating value for special note was a continued improvement in the ratings clients choosing to invest their money with us. in the entry-level banking segment (2016: 45%; ■ In CIB we continued to innovate for our clients and this 2015: 38%; 2014: 36%). was evident in numerous awards – Nedbank won nine of ■ We performed especially well in service resolution, with the 32 Spire Awards for excellence across the commodity the number of client complaints decreasing by 5%. We derivatives, currency derivatives, fixed-income derivatives also won the 2016 Ombudsman for Banking Service and bond markets. award based on quality, fairness and efficiency of ■ New products innovations in the retail space include complaint resolution. Part of this success can be ascribed interactive tellers, GAP Access, CIPC Online, Zero rate to an improvement in systems uptime as well as solid App, Investments online and Nedbank Masterpass. progress in implementing our Treating Clients Fairly ■ We are acutely aware of the growing threat of programme. Overall Nedbank once again made good cybercrime to the banking industry and its clients. We headway towards a leading position in the industry, and counter these risks by implementing comprehensive being recognised by clients for superior service. However, fraud detection systems as well as client-end security we acknowledge that more needs to be done in the software (Trusteer) and transaction notification services. coming years, and innovative and robust plans are in Gross losses for Nedbank and its clients accounted for place to drive this. only 0,8% of the industry gross losses. ■ System uptime remained at very high levels of 99,9% ■ Our focus on responsible finance continued with the and at the top end of the industry, limiting inconvenience bank further implementing principles for responsible to clients by ensuring that they can always transact on investment and ensuring the social and environmental our systems and access their funds. concerns are considered in our lending decisions. Looking ahead ■ Despite a challenging environment we are well positioned to continue to gain clients and extend credit in line with our portfolio tilt strategy described on page 44. ■ We aim to improve client satisfaction and experience by building our capabilities in advanced analytics, user experience design, effective campaign management and a more assertive marketing and commercialisation approach. We are encouraged by the progress of our client onboarding and servicing programme. ■ The launch of Digital Fast Lane is also expected to unlock some new technology such as enablement of our single client portal (the new Nedbank app), which we plan to launch in 2017. ■ Progress with internet banking refactoring will allow us to have a pipeline of new offerings to take to market, presenting an opportunity to deliver innovative client solutions that are in step with changing needs. ■ Bank fees increased on average 5,2% on 1 January 2017, well below inflation. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 34 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Shareholders Delivering consistently to our shareholders Engaging with the investment community CASE IN POINT Delivering value by We proactively communicate our strategy and activities to shareholders optimising staffed through a planned investor relations programme: outlets through ■ Twice a year at the reporting of our annual and interim results – we have ceased quarterly reporting in line with the global trend of technology focussing on long-term value. enhancement ■ More than 350 meetings with investment analysts, investors and the During 2016 we launched the media during non-closed periods. ‘interactive teller’, that provides ■ Seven broker-hosted conferences and non-deal roadshows. clients with extended teller ■ Two Nedbank-initiated investor days, including our governance functionality through a video link. roadshow. A new client relationship ■ Nedbank AGM held annually in May. management capability was introduced in 2016, further ■ On an ad hoc basis with financial media. enhancing the contact centre ■ Biannually with our credit-rating agencies. experience as we strive to maintain ■ Through relevant information on our website at nedbankgroup.co.za. the ’Top Contact Centre’ accolade ■ Regular engagement with Old Mutual plc to align our financial awarded to our contact centre in 2015. Our contact centre volumes, reporting and communications, ensuring that we have a holistic including voiceand non-voice-based group message and that arm’s length collaboration opportunities are interactions, have increased by 8% maximised. year on year, as clients’ preference for alternative communication Delivering value to our shareholders in 2016 methods increases. ■ An excellent business and financial performance from our managed The above innovations are operations offset the associate loss from ETI. Excluding ETI, our ROE complementary to our inbranch increased to 18,1% and cost to income declined to 56,4%, showing network of 342 internet and 219 video progress towards our medium-to-long-term targets. banking stations. The video banking ■ Our share price increased 26,3%, the second highest growth among solution includes servicing options for the peer group, and dividend per share rose 8,4%. This resulted in a clients in five South African official total shareholder return of 32,3%. languages, as well as advice on global ■ We continued to practise sound corporate governance and trade. We have a clearly articulated maintained good relationships with the investment community, strategy for developing self-service underpinned by regular engagements and transparent reporting, banking enablement across our which was acknowledged through a number of industry awards. mobile and digital channels, which will ■ Resolutions at our 2016 AGM were all passed, with approvals well create further capacity to manage our increasing client base. above 90%. Investment in physical distribution focuses primarily on the Looking ahead reformatting of our branches and ■ Over the past five years we have returned R22,7bn in dividends outlets to ensure a consistent client to our shareholders, maintaining an average dividend cover of experience and to enable and 2,1 times, while our share price has risen 64,2% over the same educate clients to adopt and use our period. Our guidance on pages 60 – 61 and delivery on our targets self-service devices. Altogether 45 point to our underlying performance remaining strong. branches and outlets were ■ We will continue to engage with the investment community to reformatted, resulting in 44% of our communicate our investment case and the delivery of our strategic physical footprint in the new design focus areas. at 31 December 2016. Investment in ■ Managed separation would improve the free float of the Nedbank new distribution continues in high share, which will be attractive for shareholders. growth micro markets, with an ■ We aim to broaden our international shareholder base, despite additional six branches and four inretailer outlets being built in 2016. having reached an all-time high of 17,8% in 2016, through sustained Smaller, cost-effective formats are engagements in new geographic regions. being explored in remote towns through distribution agreements with Hinterland and Boxer stores. Our distribution investment was offset by 22 branch closures and a reduction of 5 000 m2 of floor space, as we continue to optimise our distribution network. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 35 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) Shareholders (continued) Delivering consistently to our shareholders Dividend yield At Nedbank we engage regularly CASE IN POINT with the investment community Nedbank JSE all-share index At Nedbank we engage regularly with the investment community. The following were the main topics discussed during the year: ■ The impact of a sovereign-credit-rating downgrade: This was a popular topic 7 raised in almost all meetings and the main focus of the RMB Morgan Stanley conference covering the risks to impairments and other key cyclical 6 challenges, as well as the Renaissance Capital Treasury Day. We reiterated that we performed extensive stress-testing on our balance sheet and income 5 statement to test the impacts of highand severe-stress events. Relative to 4,8 the period before the global financial crisis, we are in a much stronger position today to weather any potential downturn. 4 ■ Old Mutual managed separation: Old Mutual announced its managed 2,9 separation strategy in 2016 and the key issue for investors is what the 3 implications are for Nedbank from a strategy and business perspective. We have always been a separately listed entity with an independent board. 2 Our business is not integrated into Old Mutual and managed separation will therefore not have a material effect on our strategy, staff and clients, 1 or financial performance and prospects. We will continue to work 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 collaboratively with Old Mutual and Old Mutual Emerging Markets on the managed separation and synergies from our arms’ length collaboration Share price performance initiatives. Nedbank ■ ETI outlook, possible capital raising and impairment of investment value: Our Barclays Africa Africa strategy is expected to take time to deliver and is aimed at building FINI 15 sustainable returns for shareholders over the longer term. Refer to page 58 of the CFO review for more information. We will continue to follow a FirstRand disciplined approach to the allocation of financial resources, such that Standard Bank portfolio returns and risks are optimised. 134 ■ Information technology strategy: We shared our Managed Evolution 126 strategy, as described on page 49, at the 19th UBS Financial Services 125 Conference. Investors noted our cost-efficient and risk-mitigating approach. 118 ■ Governance matters ahead of our AGM: During our annual governance roadshow we provide shareholders with the opportunity to engage with our Chairman and Lead Independent Director on governance matters. On page 99 we provide feedback on the key topics of discussion and the voting 99 outcomes at our AGM. Presentations on the abovementioned topics are available at nedbankgroup.co.za. Dec 15 Feb 16 Apr 16 Jun 16 Aug 16 Oct 16 Dec 16 OUR TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS Number of % holding % holding Price to book ratios Major shareholders/Managers shares 2016 2015 Barclays Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance FirstRand Company (SA) Ltd and associates 270 790 980 54,61 54,11 Standard Bank Nedbank Nedbank Group treasury shares 17 477 014 3,52 3,61 Public Investment Corporation (SA) 30 675 529 6,19 6,24 Coronation Fund Managers (SA) 29 448 206 5,94 7,57 Lazard Asset Management (US and UK) 15 307 808 3,09 2,64 BlackRock Inc (US and UK) 10 744 457 2,17 1,56 Allan Gray Investment Council (SA) 8 930 970 1,80 2,35 Dimensional Fund Advisors (US, 2,88 1,50 UK and AU) 7 502 781 1,51 1,59 1,54 1,61 Investec Asset Management (SA and UK) 7 217 177 1,46 0,14 The Vanguard Group (US) 6 979 289 1,41 1,26 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 36 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Regulators Ensuring sustainable banking with our regulators Engaging with our regulators CASE IN POINT In line with international and local trends, Nedbank observed an increase in regulatory scrutiny and inspections. Regulatory reviews were attended to with significant CEO initiative attention to detail, professionalism and prompt reaction to matters raised. Nedbank is mindful that it is ■ With regard to legislative developments, Nedbank has been involved in engaging incumbent on all businesses with regulators through various industry associations. in SA to do whatever they ■ We maintain a close and transparent working relationship with the FIC and the can to be a part of the Bank Supervision Department of SARB. We attend quarterly meetings with the economic growth solutions regulator and supervisor to ensure compliance with their requirements and to our country needs. This by no obtain clarification where necessary. means implies political ■ We participated in industry meetings on the Regulatory Consistency Assessment interference, but simply Programme undertaken by the Bank for International Settlements in Basel. requires a commitment by ■ We attended a trilateral meeting in London between SARB, the Financial Conduct the private sector and other Authority and the Prudential Regulatory Authority. concerned parties to help ■ We participated in a Regulatory Supervisory College held at SARB, where we ensure that the outcomes of presented to the majority of regulators in the rest of Africa where we have a the country meet the presence and we were commended by the regulators. expectations of its citizens ■ and those who have the We maintained resilient business continuity management processes and power to invest in its future successfully conducted a liquidity simulation test with SARB in attendance. growth. Delivering value to our regulators in 2016 To this end Nedbank is a ■ We complied with or made progress on all key aspects of Basel III requirements, with member of the CEO a tier 1 ratio of 13,0%, above the SARB requirements of 8,375% and well above our Initiative, which sees target of > 12%. With regard to the liquidity coverage ratio we have achieved 109,3% government, business and – above the 2016 SARB minimum requirement target of 70% and remain well on labour coming together to track to achieve 100% NSFR compliance by 2018. help bring about economic ■ Our focus has been on regulatory compliance across multiple regulators and stability in the country. Mike significant work done on AML, CFT and sanctions. We did not incur any regulatory Brown (CE), Mfundo Nkuhlu fines or penalties in 2016. (COO) and Vassi Naidoo ■ We consider the fair treatment of clients at all stages of their relationship with us (Chairman) have also been of critical importance. As such, we have fully embraced and adopted the TCF involved in various other regulations and continue working towards ensuring that our clients benefit from the projects such as attendance consistent delivery of all six TCF outcomes. These TCF outcomes connect very closely of the SA Tomorrow to our existing client-centred ethos and our Code of Conduct. As such, TCF is already Conference in New York. an integral part of our culture, the way we design, market and promote our products, and the way we communicate with and service our clients. In 2017 we will continue to One of the key outcomes of embark on operationalising TCF and focus on conduct requirements to ensure that the CEO Initiative in 2016 industry guidelines and best practices are embedded in our business. was the creation of the ■ In 2016 there was an increased focus on the closure of high-risk accounts across R1,5bn SA SME Fund with the industry. the vision of stimulating ■ and supporting muchThe required FATCA submissions were successfully delivered to SARS on 31 May 2016. The Rest of Africa Cluster, who submit directly to the Internal Revenue Service of the needed growth in SA's US, also met the registration and reporting requirements. External validation of the small-and-mediumstatus of implementation was achieved through the appointment of an external enterprise sector, which is consultant. central to sustainable ■ We increased awareness of and protection against cybercrime. economic development and ■ We paid R8,7bn in direct, indirect and staff taxes to support the governments and employment creation. In societies of the countries in which we operate. We are committed to maintaining our addition the CEO Initiative integrity all of our tax obligations and strive to be a responsible corporate citizen by plans to introduce one ensuring that we pay and or collect the appropriate amount of tax in all the million youth into the jurisdictions in which we operate. business sector through an ■ We achieved a BBBEE level 2 for the eighth consecutive year. This resulted in a internship programme. culmination of our ongoing commitment to sustainable transformation and Nedbank contributed R20m maintaining our position as SA’s most transformed financial services provider. This to the SA SME Fund. contributed to various wholesale client wins over the past few years and a favourable profile in the market. Looking ahead ■ We will continue to meet all Basel III requirements and gain clarity on Basel IV proposals, which appear to be softening. ■ We will implement the myriad of regulatory and compliance requirements, noted on page 33, on time through greater focus, IT spend and coordination across the Regulatory Change Programme. ■ We will maintain our status as a responsible tax payer in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 37 VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS (continued) Communities Contributing to a thriving society while respecting environmental limits Communities represent Delivering value to our communities in 2016 broader society and include When integrating sustainability across the Nedbank business we focus on products citizens of the countries and service development to promote a positive impact, collaboration and partnership (including advocacy), and on the management of our operational within which we operate, impact. A summary of our 2016 activity follows. Further details on these and including individual members Nedbank’s other sustainability actions and investments are contained in the 2016 of society, NGOs and Sustainability Review at nedbankgroup.co.za. suppliers, as well as the environment on which those Products and services ■ Empowerment finance – Since 2009 we have invested a total of R64,4bn in citizens depend for their empowerment financing, including R14,1bn in 2016 (2015:5,9bn). wellbeing. ■ Renewable energy – We enabled 1 162 MW (2015: 796 MW) of renewable energy Nedbank recognises that it has a in SA through R13bn (2015:R11bn) of lending. responsibility not only to be good with ■ Embedded Generation Unit – This is a new unit set up to facilitate the scale-up money, but more importantly to do good with it. Our core purpose as a of lending into rooftop solar. bank is therefore to use our financial ■ Continued focus on responsible finance – We looked after the needs of our clients expertise and leverage our lending and greater society, including the environment, though a stringent governance capabilities to do good for individuals, process and social and environmental management system (SEMS). In addition businesses and society across our to the four equator principle deals that drew down in 2016, all investment banking country and continent and, indeed, and client coverage credit risk reviews and new applications included the anywhere in the world where we can deliver a positive impact. By seeing screening of high-risk clients through SEMS, both of which received external money differently in this way, we are limited assurance. Through the SEMS assessment, 435 deals were screened confident that we will achieve our (2015: 512), of which 194 were SEMS applicable. vision to be Africa’s most admired ■ Nedbank Green Saving Bonds – Nedbank offered SA’s first green bond to retail financial services provider. clients. It is unique in that it allows regular investors to contribute to As part of Nedbank’s response to socioeconomic and environmental conditions because the funds they invest are contributing to a thriving society, Fair earmarked for the support of renewable-energy projects in SA. Since inception Share 2030 is our strategy to integrate R17,5bn has been invested in the Nedbank Green Savings Bond, of which R5,6bn sustainability across our business flowed during 2016 (2015:R4bn). activities. It enables delivery on the ■ Bursaries for black students and enterprise development – Nedbank has bank’s purpose. It guides our lending activities and product development, created the Nedbank Mogale Empowerment Trust for the benefit of black ensuring that we focus on identifying students and enterprise development. It is an additional intervention to support and investing in finance opportunities issues around the Fees Must Fall initiative. The initial investment of R100m that have the potential to impact made by the trust is in the MTN Zakhele Futhi scheme. The trust will distribute social, environmental and economic the dividends earned on investments to the defined beneficiaries based on a development positively. It also informs ratio of 33,% and 66,7% to black students and enterprise development our operational and corporate social respectively. This type of support will enhance Nedbank’s empowerment investment activities. credentials and it is envisioned that the trust would invest in further Engaging with our transactions for the benefit of black beneficiaries to come. communities ■ Student accommodation – More than 5 000 student beds were made In delivering on our purpose, we work available through the new Fair Share 2030 property finance lending of with: R2,3bn (2015: R1,3bn). ■ special-interest groups, relevant industry bodies (Business Unity SA, The Banking Association SA, the National Business Initiative and CASE IN POINT renewable-energy associations, etc), academic institutions and thought Partnering to deliver drought relief leaders. We do this to explore areas In 2016 Nedbank donated R1,25m towards various drought relief and of mutual interest to understand water provision initiatives. The donations were made either directly or in how we can use our core business of partnership with organisations such as Gift of the Givers. Our financial services in a manner that donations contributed to the installation of boreholes in the driest creates long-term value for the regions of the country, namely the Free State, North West Province and bank and our stakeholders; and ■ various NGOs, including those with Northern Cape. We contributed towards the installation of whom we engage through the 17 boreholes, three water storage reservoirs and 20 storage tanks. The Nedbank Foundation and boreholes provide 700 000 ℓ of water daily, equating to 21 million litres environmentally focused NGOs with per month. We have also provided 200 tonnes of animal feed aid and whom we engage through our humanitarian assistance in the form of food and hygiene aid, as well as sustainability team. Our primary thousands of litres of bottled water through a staff collection stakeholders include education campaign. This work augmented the debt restructuring and provision NGOs, schools, tertiary institutions, of an additional R100m of working capital that was provided to assist WWF-SA, Wildlands and the clients in the agricultural sector affected by the drought. Endangered Wildlife Trust. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 38 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Partnerships and collaboration (including advocacy) CASE IN POINT ■ Fees Must Fall – In 2016 we awarded Nedbank bursaries to 104 undergraduate Partners for students (2015: 111) across 16 SA public universities and universities of technology. The total investment amounted to R11m (2015: R11,2m), of which R9m went to Possibility undergraduates and R2m towards helping students with student debt in their Partners for Possibility (PfP) is final year. the flagship programme of Symphonia for South Africa, a ■ Socioeconomic activities – R141m (2015: R136m) was invested primarily through national non-profit organisation the Nedbank Foundation. with a bold vision to deliver ■ Drought support – Over R100m was provided for drought support, including quality education for all children working capital for clients, donations for boreholes, animal feed and bottled in SA by 2025. PfP has been an water. ideal vehicle for Nedbank’s value proposition to staff as it provides ■ Affinity programme – Since the inception of the programme in 1990 the four staff with an opportunity to affinities (Green, Children’s, Sports and Arts and Culture) have contributed more make a difference in our than R350m to more than 1 200 projects across their social and environmental communities. development focus areas. For 2016 the value of donations made through the The PfP programme provides our Nedbank Affinity Programme grew by 3,1% to R39m (2015: R37,8m). staff with this invaluable Managing our own impact opportunity by establishing a partnership between a business Our commitment to combatting climate change is evident in the following areas: leader and a school principal from ■ Carbon neutrality – Since 2013 our total carbon footprint decreased by 6,05 % an under-resourced school. and our carbon footprint per FTE (tCO2e) decreased by 14,09 %. Together, the business leader and ■ Water – We reduced our operational water usage by 1,1% and invested R1m in school principal complete a invasive alien removal and ecosystem restoration through the WWF Water tailored leadership development course, which aims to facilitate Balance Programme. the design of a school improvement plan that addresses the school’s specific challenges. The partners then collaborate to bring the whole community together to become involved in CASE IN POINT Nedbank scoops the Best Supplier and the education of their youth, and help one another address and Enterprise Development Project Award overcome the various challenges Competing against peer banks, manufacturers and other multinational faced by the school and the community. corporates across Africa, Nedbank was announced as the winner in the pan-African region for the Best Supplier and Enterprise Development PfP allows Nedbank leaders to Project. This was external validation of the success of our Enterprise and learn and apply key leadership Supplier Development programmes, which started only in 2015. Suitable skills outside the usual classroom suppliers are identified for participation in the formalised business growth environment. The programme equips our leaders to deal with and support programmes, and are given access to markets through the ambiguity and complexity and to Nedbank supply chain. One of the biggest success stories is Monabo, a develop a better understanding black-woman-owned cleaning and hygiene company. Monabo’s annual of colleagues and clients who turnover has grown from a mere R300 000 a year before signing its first come from diverse communities. contract with Nedbank in 2012 to over R10m a year for the financial year One of the schools that were part ending February 2015. of the programme earned a 100% pass rate for the first time since being formed in 1995. The Kwena Molapo High School, situated in the densely populated township of Diepsloot, credits their partnership with Nedbank Looking ahead through the PfP initiatives for ■ Aligned with our purpose, a broader approach is being adopted for Fair their success. In total, Share 2030. One of the key changes is that the R6bn annual target will be 80 students wrote exams, with replaced by a larger cumulative target for sustainabledevelopment 41 qualifying for study towards a finance up to 2020. bachelors degree. ■ A home loan product will be introduced that will allow our clients to add Nedbank has supported PfP since solar installations to their homes as part of their mortgage bond 2010 through a total investment agreement. of R3,4m and with 35 employees committing many hours each ■ Product development will be aligned to support the delivery of the year to work with the school Sustainable Development Goals. principals they are assigned to ■ Our support for issues around the Fees Must Fall initiative will be expanded (2016: R1m investment and through our core business. 13 employees). Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 39 Stakeholder value creation – progress and outlook Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 40 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 41 Global Reporting Initiative G4 Index For the 2016 financial year we have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. Our report is in accordance with the core requirements of GRI G4 and meets some of the requirements of the comprehensive level where we believe that this matter is material to Nedbank. We will continue to improve our reporting against the GRI G4 guidelines as our business matures on its integrated sustainability journey, migrating to the GRI Standard in time to come. External assurance is the responsibility of a combined financial and non-financial team from Deloitte & Touche and KPMG Inc. Internal audit also forms part of our third line of defence, enhancing the credibility of our information. Financial information included in the Integrated Report has been extracted from the consolidated financial statements, over which the auditors expressed an unmodified opinion. Specific key performance indicators were included as part of the sustainability assurance engagement, details of which are included in the assurance opinion. These are available on nedbank.co.za/aboutus/integratedreport. UNGC G4 Indicator Description Principles Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior Core Reflections from our Chairman 1–10 decisionmaker of the organisation (such as Reflections from our Chief Executive chief executive officer, chair or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation's strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks Our material matters 1–10 and opportunities Our strategic focus areas Value per stakeholders 1–10 Sustainability governance process 1–2,7–9 Managing social and environmental risk Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report Organisational proﬁle G4-3 Name of the organisation Core Nedbank Group Ltd G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services Core Overview of Nedbank Group 7–9 Our value-creating business model Delivering our strategy through our business clusters Enabling sustainability through products and services G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters Core Nedbank 135 Rivonia Campus, 135 Rivonia Road, Sandown, Sandton, Gauteng, SA G4-6 Number of countries of operation and most Core Overview of Nedbank Group 7–9 significant operations Company structure Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Core Overview of Nedbank Group Company structure G4-8 Markets served (including geographical Core Overview of Nedbank Group breakdown, sectors served, and types of Our value-creating business model customers and beneficiaries) Delivering our strategy through our business clusters G4-9 Scale of the organisation Core Overview of Nedbank Group 3–6 Our value-creating business model Delivering our strategy through our business clusters Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer Our summarised five-year track record Enabling sustainability through our products and services Staff proﬁle G4-10 (a) Total number of employees by Core Staff proﬁle 1–2,3–6 employment contract and gender (b) Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender (c) Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender (d) Total workforce by region and gender G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Core Employee relations 3–6 collective-bargaining agreements G4-12 Nedbank Group's supply chain Core A sustainable supply chain for maximum stakeholder benefit Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 42 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy UNGC G4 Indicator Description Principles G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Core Old Mutual separation period regarding Nedbank's size, structure, ownership or supply chain G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle Core Managing social and environmental risk 7–9 Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 1–6,10 G4-15 Externally developed economic, Core Ratings and recognition 7–9 environmental and social charters, principles Governance and Ethics Review 1-6,10 or other initiatives, which Nedbank subscribes to or endorses G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as Core Alignment with industry best practice industry associations) and national or Participation in industry platforms 1–10 international advocacy organisations Governance and Ethics Review Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 ■ Entities included in the organisation's Core About our Integrated Report 7–9 consolidated financial statements or Company structure equivalent documents ■ Entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents not covered by the report G4-18 ■ Process for defining the report Core About our Integrated Report content and the aspect boundaries G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the Core Economic performance, compliance process for defining report content (environmental, social, product responsibility), employment, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity, human rights investment, nondiscrimination, local communities, anticorruption, product and service labelling, client privacy, product portfolio and active ownership. G4-20 –21 For each material aspect report the aspect Core Aspect boundaries are as per the financial boundary within and outside the organisation boundaries defined in the 2016 Nedbank Group Integrated Report. Our material matters About our Integrated Report G4-22 Restatements of information Core No reclassifications and restatements were made to the group's statement of financial position and the statement of comprehensive income. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting Core None Stakeholder engagement G4-24–27 List stakeholder groups engaged, the basis Core Value for our stakeholders 1–10 for selection of stakeholders with whom to Our relationships engage, Nedbank's approach to stakeholder Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 engagement and key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, as well as Nedbank's response Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Core About our Integrated Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Core About our Integrated Report G4-30 Reporting cycle Core About our Integrated Report G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Core Contacts report or its contents G4-32 GRI content index Core Our report is in accordance with the core External assurance requirements of G4. About our Integrated Report G4-33 Assurance Report Core About our Integrated Report 1–10 Validating our sustainability journey Report from our independent auditors Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 43 UNGC G4 Indicator Description Principles Governance G4-34 Nedbank's governance structure including Core Reflections from our Chairman 1, 2,7–10 committees responsible for decisionmaking Report from Group Transformation, Social 1, 2,7–10 on economic, environmental and social and Ethics Committee Chair impacts Sustainability governance process Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for Sustainability governance economic, environmental and social topics Governance and Ethics Review G4-36 Executive-level position responsible for Sustainability governance 1–10 economic, environmental and social topics Governance and Ethics Review G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders, board Reflections from our Chairman 1–10 and relevant governance committees on Board Committee feedback: economic, environmental and social topics Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Committee Sustainability governance structures Governance and Ethics Review G4-38 Composition of the board and its Board of directors 1–10 committees Governance and Ethics Review G4-39 Chair and executive officer positions Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the Sustainability governance 1, 2,7–10 board and its committees Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 G4-41 Processes for the Nedbank board to ensure Governance and Ethics Review 10 conflicts of interest are avoided and managed G4-42 The board's role in setting strategy, values, Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 policies and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 Measures to develop and enhance the Report from Group Transformation, Social board's collective knowledge of economic, and Ethics Committee Chair environmental and social topics Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 G4-44–47 Process for evaluating the board's Governance and Ethics Review 1-10 performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics and actions taken in response to the evaluation G4-45–47 The board's role in: Reflections from our Chairman ■ identifying and managing economic, Board Committee feedback: 7–9 environmental and social impacts, risks Group Transformation, Social and Ethics 7–9 and opportunities Committee 1,2 ■ using stakeholder consultation to support Our material matters 3–6 the identification and management of Sustainability governance process economic, environmental and social Value for our stakeholders 1–10 impacts, risks and opportunities Our relationships Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management ■ reviewing the effectiveness of Nedbank’s Disclosure Report risk management processes for economic, Governance and Ethics Review environmental and social topics ■ review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4-48 Committee that reviews and approves Group Transformation, Social and Ethics Nedbank’s Integrated Report and Committee supplementary sustainability information and ensures that all material aspects are covered G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns Governance and Ethics Review 1–10 to the board Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 44 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy UNGC G4 Indicator Description Principles G4-50 Nature and number of critical concerns that Pace of transformation; culture, employee 1–10 were communicated to the board and the wellbeing; procurement; ethics; mechanism(s) used to address and resolve environmental compliance; tax; audit: fees them and findings; funding and liquidity; risk appetite; new products; regulatory change, succession planning, relationship with Old Mutual, expansion into Africa, deteriorating macro economy, stress testing. The number of issues not disclosed G4-51 ■ Remuneration policies for the board Remunerating for performance 1,2,3–6 and senior executives 3–6 ■ Performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body's and senior executives' economic, environmental and social objectives G4-52 ■ Process for determining Remunerating for performance 3,6 remuneration We contract consultants to advise our 3,6 Group Remuneration Committee 3,6 ■ Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organisation G4-53 Stakeholders' views on remuneration, Reporting back on remuneration 3–61 including the results of votes on Board Committee feedback: remuneration policies and proposals Group Remuneration Committee Notice of annual general meeting Form of proxy G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for Tracked and monitored internally, but not 3,6 the organisation's highest-paid individual to reported publicly the median annual total compensation for all Remunerating for performance employees G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total Tracked and monitored internally, but not 3,6 compensation for the organisation's highestreported publicly paid individual to the median percentage Remunerating for performance increase in annual total compensation for all employees Ethics and integrity G4-56 Nedbank's values, principles, standards and Core Our purpose, vision and values 3–6,1–10 norms of behaviour, such as codes of conduct Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,1–10 and codes of ethics G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,10 reporting concerns about unethical or Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management unlawful behaviour, and matters related to Disclosure Report Nedbank's integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Our value-creating business model distributed Reflections from our Chief Financial Officer Financial Review Our summarised five-year track record Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Our material matters opportunities for the organisation's activities Our strategic approach to climate change due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation's definedRemunerating for performance benefit-plan obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from No financial assistance received from government government G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Enabling sustainability through our investments and services supported products and services 2016 Transformation Report G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts 2016 Transformation Report Sustainability Review Skills development and training G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on locally based Responsible procurement suppliers Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 45 UNGC G4 Indicator Description Principles Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN5 Energy intensity Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Carbon footprint measurement Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Carbon footprint measurement (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions Carbon footprint measurement (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Carbon footprint measurement G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Carbon footprint measurement Compliance (environmental) G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total None for the period number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-FS1 Policies with specific environmental and Core Sustainability governance process 3–9 social components applied to business lines Committed to responsible finance Managing social and environmental risk Approach to lending in our Retail and Business Bank 1–10 Governance and Ethics Review G4-FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening Core Sustainability governance process 3–9 environmental and social risks in business Committed to responsible finance 3–9 lines Managing social and environmental risk Approach to lending in our Retail and 7–9 Business Bank 1–6,10 Governance and Ethics Review G4-FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' Core Sustainability governance process 3–9 implementation of, and compliance with, Committed to responsible finance 7–9 environmental and social requirements Managing social and environmental risk 3–9 included in agreements or transactions Approach to lending in our retail and business bank G4-FS4 Processes for improving staff competence to Core Committed to sustainability 3–9 implement the environmental and social Reduction targets policies and procedures as applied to Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management business lines Disclosure Report Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,10 G4-FS5 Interactions with clients/investors/business Core Value for our stakeholders partners regarding environmental and social Our relationships risks and opportunities Leveraging carbon neutrality to do good Unpacking the power of partnerships to do good G4-FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Core Assurance statement online: nedbank.co. implementation of environmental and social za/aboutus/integratedreport policies and risk assessment procedures G4-FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of Core Responsible finance financial products and services Growing our transactional banking franchise faster than the market Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management Disclosure Report Employment G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover Staff profile 1,2,3–6 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to fulltime employees that Remunerating for performance 1,2,3–6 are not provided to temporary or parttime employees Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 46 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy UNGC G4 Indicator Description Principles Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Skills development and training 1,2,3–6 employee by gender and by employee category G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and Developing leadership 1,6 lifelong learning that support the continued Looking after our employees employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Managing performance 1,6 performance and career development review Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Board of directors 1,2,3–6 breakdown of employees per employee Staff profile category according to gender, age group, Governance and Ethics Review minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Human rights investment G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements and Applying the Equator Principles 1,2,3–6 contracts that include human rights clauses Governance and Ethics Review or that underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,3–6 rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Governance and Ethics Review 1,2,3–6 and corrective actions taken Local communities G4-SO1 Operations with implemented local Applying the Equator Principles 7–9 community engagement, impact Leading through collaboration and assessments and development programmes partnership Our relationships 2016 Transformation Report G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or Enterprise development 7–9 economically disadvantaged areas by type Financial inclusion 2016 Transformation Report G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial Products aimed at socioeconomic 1,2,3,6 services for disadvantaged people transformation Consumer financial education 2016 Transformation Report Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management 10 assessed for risks related to corruption and Disclosure Report the significant risks identified Governance and Ethics Review G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiPillar 3 Risk and Capital Management 10 corruption policies and procedures Disclosure Report G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management 10 actions taken Disclosure Report None for the period G4-SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Nedbank's policy does not allow for contributions to political parties, politicians contributions to political parties and related institutions by country Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 47 UNGC G4 Indicator Description Principles Compliance (society) G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Pillar 3 Risk and Capital Management number of non-monetary sanctions for Disclosure Report non-compliance with laws and regulations During 2016 SARs required Nedbank to pay small interest charges and related fines that were < R500k in total. In addition Nedbank Namibia received an administrative sanction from the Nedbank Financial Intelligence Centre for the contravention of an Intervention Order. The amount of the fine totalled N$5m of which N$4m was suspended on condition of no further breaches. Product, service and labelling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Detailed product brochures that comply with required by the organisation's procedures for all relevant legislation, such as the National product and service information and Credit Act, are available for the group’s labelling, and percentage of significant clients. Relationship managers are also products and service categories subject to responsible for explaining the characteristics, such information requirements benefits and implications of products to clients in accordance with the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act. Product policies and procedures and product review committees are in place. G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance A total of 139 incidents of non-compliance, with regulations and voluntary codes the majority of which relate to anti-moneyconcerning product and service information laundering. and labelling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Engaging with our clients satisfaction Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints We have not received any substantiated regarding breaches of customer privacy and complaints regarding breaches of client losses of customer data privacy from any outside party or from our regulators. Where assets in the form of computers and cellphones were lost or stolen, the majority had been encrypted and there were therefore no breaches of client privacy to which we were alerted. We are continuously enhancing our privacy data breach management and response processes with a view to further refining and identifying losses of such data in order to ensure that we stay abreast of advancements and regulatory developments in this regard. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 48 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy UNGC G4 Indicator Description Principles Compliance (product and service) G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonA fine of 5m Namibian dollars was paid by compliance with laws and regulations Nedbank Namibia for an anti-moneyconcerning the provision and use of products laundering-related matter. and services Product portfolio G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines Overview of our group by specific region, size (eg micro/SME/large) Our value-creating business model and by sector Delivering our strategy through our business clusters Our summarised five-year track record G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services Applying the Equator Principles designed to deliver a specific social benefit Enabling sustainability through our for each business line, broken down by products and services purpose 2016 Transformation Report G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services Applying the Equator Principles designed to deliver a specific environmental Enabling sustainability through our benefit for each business line, broken down products and services by purpose Active ownership G4-FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in During 2016 all new applications and credit the institution's portfolio with which the risk reviews of high-risk clients in reporting organisation has interacted on Investment Banking and Client Coverage environmental and social issues were included in the SEMS assessment process. Where relevant, certain deals were also assessed using the Equator Principles. More than 435 clients and/or deals were assessed in 2016, 196 of which were SEMS applicable, compared with 512 in 2015. G4-FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or Nedgroup Investments voting policy – social issues for shares over which the http://www.nedgroupinvestments.co.za/ reporting organisation holds the right to vote Content/Files/Documents/Nedgroup%20 shares or advises on voting Investments%20Proxy%20Voting%20 Guidelines.pdf G4-FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and Implementing principles for responsible negative environmental or social screening investment Our summarised five-year track record Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy 49 Our contact details Driekie Havenga Nedbank Ethics Officer Enterprise Governance and Compliance +27 11 295 6944 driekieh@nedbank.co.za Kerri Savin Snr Manager: Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Enterprise Governance and Compliance +27 11 295 5672 kerris@nedbank.co.za Disclaimer Nedbank Group has acted in good faith and has made every reasonable effort to ensure the accuracy and completeness of the information contained in this document, including all information that may be deﬁned as ‘forward-looking statements’ within the meaning of US securities legislation. Forward-looking statements may be identiﬁed by words such as ‘believe’, ‘anticipate’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘project’, ‘target’, ‘predict’ and ‘hope’. Forward-looking statements are not statements of fact, but statements by the management of Nedbank Group based on its current estimates, projections, expectations, beliefs and assumptions regarding the group’s future performance. No assurance can be given that forward-looking statements will prove to be correct and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. The risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements contained in this document include, but are not limited to: changes to International Financial Reporting Standards and the interpretations, applications and practices subject thereto as they apply to past, present and future periods; domestic and international business and market conditions such as exchange rate and interest rate movements; changes to the domestic and international regulatory and legislative environments; changes to domestic and international operational, social, economic and political risks; and the effects of both current and future litigation. Nedbank Group does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document and does not assume responsibility for any loss or damage whatsoever and howsoever arising as a result of the reliance by any party thereon, including, but not limited to, loss of earnings, proﬁts, or consequential loss or damage. Nedbank Group – United Nations Global Compact Communications of Progress 50 Creating value in a sustainable manner through our strategy
