His Highness His Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani Father Emir Emir of the State of Qatar CONTENTS CEO Statement 4 About this Report 6 Company Profile 14 Our Sustainability Performance 30 Economic 30 Social 42 Environmental 64 Way Forward 72 GRI Table 74 Data Owners 79 Glossary of Terms 80 Page 4 As the energy landscape and policies of the region continue to change, we must adapt in return. Energy is a critical component to both the State of Qatar and our operations. As such, we view the conservation of the country’s natural gas resources as a matter of national CEO responsibility. Furthermore, given the energy intensive nature of our industry, proper energy management is essential to our long term business continuity. STATEMENT In 2015, we took a very important step towards attaining this by achieving ISO 50001Energy Management In alignment with the QNV 2030, QAFCO is System certification for all of our plants and facilities. The management system is fast becoming part of committed towards being a positive economic, the company culture itself, as our employees take ownership of it and utilize it as a means of continuous social and environmental force in the State of improvement. Some of our initiatives have already reaped Qatar. In 2015, QAFCO has focused internally excellent results. In 2015, we were able to reduce our energy intensity by 4.5% and GHG emissions by 6.2% ACHIEVEMENTS on improving its operational and cost efficiency compared with our 2014 performance. IN 2015 through progressive initiatives including Additionally, in 2015 we embarked on a journey towards improving the sustainability of our supply chain through Energy Management System and Sustainable our Sustainable Procurement initiative. In line with QNV 2030 pillars of human and social development, this Procurement. initiative will play a pivotal role in the long run as it helps us achieve a number of our objectives. We intend to engage with our suppliers on various material topics including environmental and social issues. We are confident that procuring sustainably will allow us to meet our needs for goods, services, works and utilities in a way that achieves value for money on a whole life basis in terms of generating benefits not only to QAFCO, but also to society and the economy, whilst minimizing damage to the environment. Sustainability is an integral part of our business DNA. While we are content with the year-on-year progress that we have made on several identified indicators thus far, As QAFCO’s new 2016 Chief Executive Officer, I am pleased to connect with we are committed to making even greater strides in the you to mark the release of our 5th annual Sustainability Report 2015. During the future with the undying support of our employees and reporting period, we have managed to achieve certain key milestones including stakeholders. our highest export year to date, in addition to the inauguration of several keystone I take this opportunity to thank all of you for your projects. continued trust in us and invite you to provide your Despite lower revenues and profits compared with previous years, brought on invaluable feedback on our sustainability efforts and the by difficult market conditions, we remain committed towards being a positive 2015 report. economic, social and environmental force in the State of Qatar, in alignment with the Qatar National Vision 2030. In 2015, we took the current market pressures on us as an opportunity for internal operational improvement and cost optimization. This was marked by a variety of progressive initiatives such as our new Energy Abdulrahman Mohamed Al-Suwaidi Management System and Sustainable Procurement Framework. Chief Executive Officer G4-9, G4-13 Page 6 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a United Nations iniUNGC tiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation through a series of 10 principles covering 4 pillars. ABOUT Human Rights Labour Standards Environment AntiCorruption THIS REPORT This is QAFCO’s fifth annual sustainability report. This report is our response to our stakeholder’s interest in our ways of mitigating our impact on the environment throughout our value chain, generating economic value, contributing towards our community and creating and sustaining an atmosphere suitable for promoting the holistic growth of not only our employees but also our suppliers. The theme of this year’s report is ‘optimizing The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is a UN our business for success’. QAFCO, like many other Energy & Industrial sector companies affected by the low UN-SDG intergovernmental agreement covering 17 essential sustainable development goals and their associated 169 targets. oil prices, is using the opportunity to focus on improving internal operations and efficiency, by cutting costs and reducing risks. Consequently, we plan to focus on optimizing our resource use, and extending compliance 01 02 03 04 05 06 and best practices to our suppliers. We will continue to publish the report every year in order to keep our stakeholders updated with our No Poverty No Hunger Good Health Quality Education Gender Equality Clean Water and Sanitation sustainability performances and effectively utilize it as a mode of communication with our varied stakeholders. 07 08 09 10 11 12 This Report in Context Renewable Energy Good Jobs and Economic Growth Innovation and Infrastructure Reduced Inequalities Sustainable Cities and Communities Responsible Consumption QAFCO has long been a pioneer within Qatar, and aims to continuously contribute to the growth and 13 14 15 16 17 development of the State of Qatar. The drop in oil prices from over $100/barrel in 2014 to the current price of around $48/barrel underpins the volatility of fossil fuel prices. To minimize risk and maintain positive and Climate Life Below Life on Peace Partnerships Action Water Land and Justice for the Goals sustained growth, it is imperative for businesses such as QAFCO to be cognisant of the regional and global context and stay ahead of the curve. Consequently, we constantly assess our performance and position within the global context, and align ourselves with not only the National Vision of the country, but also various international guidelines and International Standards & Best Practices initiatives such as the Sustainable Development Goals, COP21 climate change targets, UNGC and QAFCO follows and adheres to a wide range of international standards international best practice standards in quality, environment, energy and supply chain. and best practices according to reputable standard-setting bodies such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the British Standards (BS). QAFCO follows standards and best practices pertaining but not limited to: quality, safety, environment, health, energy and procurement. The Qatar National Vision (QNV) 2030 is a holistic national ISO 9001:2008 ISO 50001:2011 QNV-2030 strategy that sets the vision and path for development in Quality Management OHSAS 18001:2007 Energy Management Qatar, according to four essential pillars. Occupational Health & ISO 14001:2004 Safety Management Environmental Management IFA Protect & Sustain Product Stewardship Level 1 Gold System Status ISO 17025:2005 Economic Human Social Environmental for bulk in-ship fertilizer Requirements for the Development Development Development Development Competence of Testing and RC 14001:2008 Calibration Laboratories Hazard Analysis & Critical Responsible Care Control Point (HACCP) G4-15 G4-15 Page 8 Reporting Framework Once we identified our list of stakeholders, we did further analysis to better understand their them in different ways at different levels (project, management and corporate). Depending on the relevance and the perspective they offer, to type of clients, culture and business we align our In line with the report’s theme of “optimizing our covers QAFCO, unless otherwise stated. understand their relationship to sustainability engagement. Engaging as part of our regular business for success” QAFCO is particularly proud This report has been written in accordance with reporting and each other, and to prioritize based activities serve as a tool for understanding the of its 2015 emphasis on operational and cost GRI-G4-Core. Topics we deemed material to our on their relative usefulness for this engagement. A reasonable expectations and interests of our optimization along with our extended efforts to activities and considered critical by our sample of QAFCO employees was shortlisted to stakeholders and ultimately provide us with better manage our risks across our value chain stakeholders, are also thoroughly addressed in this participate in this analysis based on their position, useful inputs for decisions on what sustainability activities. QAFCO began its reporting journey in report. Non-material issues are mentioned in the responsibility and dependence on the company. aspects to report on. The Stakeholder Mapping 2013 and has done so annually since then. report, but not addressed in detail. The following criteria was used to analyze each chart also highlight key interests/concerns stakeholder group: and engagement channels we undertook with The 2015 QAFCO sustainability report has been Given our transition to G4-G4 guidelines, we stakeholder groups across the financial year. written in accordance with the Global Reporting have not opted for third party assurance this year. • Stakeholder contribution with expertise on Initiatives (GRI) – G4 reporting guidelines. This However, our report has been thoroughly reviewed sustainability aspects that could be useful to In addition, the inputs from our department heads report also happens to be QAFCO’s second by our Sustainability Reporting Committee for its QAFCO are also crucial to us in capturing stakeholder sustainability report which has been prepared in accuracy and completeness as per the relevant • Legitimacy of stakeholder’s claim for engaging feedback and defining the scope of this report, accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives GRI disclosures and indicators. We aim to on sustainability reporting process boundaries, and contents. See further on (GRI) G4 reporting guidelines. Detailed receive external assurance on our subsequent • Stakeholder willingness to engage in defining Materiality Analysis section. indicators and reporting contents based on the sustainability reports. sustainability report contents recommendation of GRI Index are stated on page • The stakeholder’s influence on QAFCO In the coming years we plan to establish a 74 through 78. In 2013, QAFCO established a Sustainability • Necessity of involvement to avoid derail of the formal structured process to engage with the Reporting Committee that is responsible for reporting process key stakeholders to capture and document The reporting period for this report is the calendar overseeing the data collection and reporting their expectations and concerns and consider year 2015 i.e. 1st of January 2015 to 31st of processes. The committee consists of 15 people from various departments and meets We used these criteria to populate how each them while identifying the material issues and December 2015. The report covers our fertiliser twice a year to discuss issues and concerns stakeholder fulfill them and assigned values (low, developing our sustainability agenda (see chart manufacturing units in Mesaieed (QAFCO 1 pertaining to sustainability. The committee is medium or high) to these stakeholder. This data below). The same will be also reflected in the to 6) and our head office in Qatar. Though our chaired by Dr. Hamed A Al Marwani, Chief Administrative Officer at QAFCO. has helped us to map which stakeholders are report. Other decisions, such as the level of consolidated financial statements include our most useful to engage with and decide different detail required to be useful to stakeholders, or subsidiary units of Gulf Formaldehyde Company engagement approaches for sustainability expectations of different stakeholders about what and Qatar Melamine Company, this report only reporting purposes in the future (see Stakeholder is required to achieve clarity, will be also adopted Mapping chart). and documented within next reporting periods. Stakeholder Engagement Nowadays, engaging with these stakeholders We consider stakeholders as people, a group Hence, the first logical step of stakeholder forms a vital part of our day-to-day activities and of people or entities who could affect and/or be engagement process is to identify who are common reporting procedures. We engage with affected by our activities, products, services and/ the most critical stakeholders, capture their or associated performances. sustainability issues and concerns and prioritize those sustainability aspects to be included in the Our Stakeholder Engagement Journey ENGAGE We have many stakeholders, each with a varying report. level of interest and involvement in our activities. PLAN A common problem that arises with having Back in 2014, we gathered a cross-functional 2018-2019 numerous stakeholders is that they have various group of internal stakeholders at the GRI PRIORITIZE Following the planning and self-interests which might not align with the our G4 Certified Training. During the training, we development of stakeholder own interests. brainstormed a list of stakeholders, including IDENTIFY 2016-2017 engagement strategies, QAFCO will begin to everyone who has an interest in our objectives 2014-2015 In 2016, QAFCO engage with their respective Identifying our key stakeholder groups, and may have one tomorrow. We identified our will begin planning and stakeholders understanding the level of impact they can have key stakeholders: QP, Muntajat, shareholders/ 2013 In 2014, QAFCO conducted developing a detailed two GRI-G4 training engagement approach for and prioritizing our and their sustainability issues investors, local community, employees, suppliers In 2013, QAFCO began the process of listing sessions used to identify QAFCO’s stakeholder each of its stakeholders will help us to identify and, thereby achieve the and contractors, media, sector peers and groups with which it engages groups, which were then with. This was then used to prioritized in 2015 by the much needed alignment between self-interests government/regulators. identify QAFCO’s Sustainability Reporting and the success of our sustainability agenda. stakeholders Committee G4-16, G4-17, G4-18, G4-25, G4-28, G4-18, G4-25, G4-26 G4-29, G4-30, G4-32, G4-33 Page 10 Stakeholder Mapping Interest and concerns Mode of engagement / communication • Economic growth • Press notes • Community development • Audit reports • Natural resource conservation • Participation in conferences/ forums/ Interest and concerns roundtables/ meetings • Lobbying issues • Product quality and responsibility • Compliance to laws and regulations • Product safety information • Qatarization • Compliance with safety and quality requirements Interest and concerns • Efficient production • Fair competition and trade practices Mode of engagement / communication • Long-term partnership • Audit reports • Knowledge sharing • Customer feedback Mode of engagement / communication • Material safety data sheet (MSDS) • WEBS portal • Benchmarking studies • Conferences/ forums/ industry meetings • Associations: UNGC, Responsible Care (RC), IFA Product stewardship; Gulf Petrochemical Stakeholders’ interest and concerns & Chemical Association (GPCA) • Impact of product and operations on the community • Local community engagement • Education • Resource conservation Mode of engagement / communication • Sponsorships of exhibitions, conferences etc. • Donations • Community investment Expertise • Environmental awareness at QAFCO School Interest and concerns • Qatarization and local hiring • Employee welfare Interest and concerns • Equal opportunities, career mobility, training • Return on investment (ROI) Interest and concerns and development Interest and concerns • Economic contribution i.e. revenue generation Mode of engagement / communication • Business ethics and transparency • Clear and transparent procurement and production • Invoices • Good corporate governance criteria (price, health & safety, • Climate change & energy (GHG, flaring/venting, environment, human rights etc.) • Evaluation process • Good risk management system natural gas used) • Stability of operations and reliability • MSDS Mode of engagement / communication • Environmental issues such as water, non-GHG Mode of engagement / communication • Suppliers meeting and events • Regular board meetings emissions and spillages. • Invoices • Participation in conferences and events • Annual General Meeting • Health and safety • Evaluation process • Products safety and quality information • Annual financial statements • Qatarization • MSDS (participation of locals in Qatari workforce) • Contracts • Annual sustainability report • Investor communication materials • Suppliers meeting and events • Investment in local community • Code of Conduct • Investors website • Participation in conferences and events Mode of engagement / communication • Products safety and quality information • QAFCO and QP’s long term agreement for gas • Code of ethics supply • Contracts • Supplier Code of Conduct • Performance information requests • Qatar Energy & Industry Sustainability Sector Programme (annual QEISS Conference) * The size of the stakeholder circles corresponds Stakeholder Willingness to Engage with the average of their necessity of involvement Engagement Engage Communicate (high level) Passive and influence. Aproach G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 Page 12 Business Ethics Emission Waste Management Materiality & Integrity Assessment As stated in the Stakeholder Engagement section on page 8, materiality analysis helps us to focus on issues which are important from both QAFCO’s Governance Health & Safety Qatarization and stakeholders perspective, thereby achieving the much needed alignment between self-interests of various stakeholder groups and our company. In “Health & safety is at the core of The future of Qafco lays in the short, it helps us to identify, prioritize and address issues that are of concern our operations. We employ and hands of the present. We have incentivize a proactive approach to take all the necessary to both QAFCO and our stakeholders. to mitigate potential incidents via Energy Eﬃciency measures to make sure that we our Risk Assessment Framework utilize our resources eﬀectively In 2014, two GRI-G4 certified training sessions were conducted that aids us in identifying, EnMS and eﬃciently in order to be for a total of 24 employees who represented various departments Local prioritizing and handling health & sustainable for several Communities safety related risks.” “The State of Qatar is taking at QAFCO. The training not only helped us to enhance our data Supplier Arun Subramanian progressive strides towards energy generations to lead Qafco ahead. collection and reporting process but also facilitated internal Human Rights Acting Head of Safety eﬃciency and process optimization Hasan Al-Mohammadi stakeholder engagement and communication among employees in a means to conserve energy, as is Human Resource Manager evident in the Intended Nationally responsible for data collection and development of the contents of NonDetermined Contributions submitted the sustainability report. discrimination to the UNFCC secretariat as part of Supplier COP 21. We take pride in the fact During the certified training, we mapped our key external Environment that in 2015, we have already Assessment Water achieved our certiﬁcation in ISO stakeholders and identified a gross list of sustainability aspects Management 50001, making us one of the ﬁrst Indirect through an analysis of GRI-G4 aspect list. The gross list was Economic few organisations in the State of Qatar to achieve the same, thus Energy Intensity checked against GRI G4’s sustainability context and stakeholder Impacts “Be it liquid or solid waste, our cementing our commitment to meet priority is to always reduce, inclusiveness tests. recycle, or treat and dispose the State's vision. Human Rights “Ammonia and Urea production responsibly. All of our process Mohd Y Al-Eshaq Grievance is by nature an energy intensive HSEQ Manager To prioritize the most material aspects from this gross list, we water is carefully treated and process. As such, we are Mechanisms Quality used within the Mesaieed created a matrix where we plotted in the X-axis those economic, Products committed to ensure that energy Industrial City (MIC) for is used eﬃciently for both cost environmental and social aspects that have significant impact and irrigation and landscaping as and environmental implications”. or pose risks in the short or long terms to our business. Along Services per the Zero Liquid Discharge Ali S Al-Obaidly (ZLD) directive.” Sustainable QAFCO (1-4) the Y-axis, we added sustainability aspects that influence on Diversity and Abdulaziz Al-Jabri Procurement Production Manager stakeholder assessment and decisions. To assess external Equal Head of Environment materiality, we relied on the input provided by employees attending Opprtunities Training & “In an eﬀort to strengthen our the training who engaged external stakeholders throughout the Education commitment to sustainability, we intend to engage with high financial year and therefore better understand their interests, topics supply chain impact contributing and indicators. Equal sectors and will look for Remuneration Procurement opportunities to reduce the Practices negative environmental and All the relevant issues to internal and external stakeholders were listed out social impacts of contracting & procurement choices” and then prioritized based on their mutual significance to identify the most Majid Al-Malki Biodiversity material aspects, represented in the top-right section of the materiality Supply Chain Manager matrix. Customer Human Right We update our materiality matrix in annual basis. The 2015 Materiality Matrix was Satisfaction Investment reviewed and updated in consultation with a selected cross-functional group of employees. We have also made an effort to enhance our approach to materiality Economic assessment in 2015. To validate the matrix, we shared the matrix with our Environmental Performance LEGEND Grievance Security management representatives who ensured that relevant laws, regulations, agreements Boundary of Material Topic Materiality Level Mechanisms with strategic significance and corporate values, policies and goals are taken QAFCO & Suppliers High Materiality into account in updating the matrix. Following management feedback, the Chief Administration Officer (CAO), chairman of our Sustainability Reporting Committee, Innovation QAFCO & Subsidaries Medium Materiality validated and approved the matrix for 2015. Research & Development Labor QAFCO only Low Materiality G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 Management Relations Page 14 Our Business Policy VISION COMPANY PROFILE We shall operate the plants eﬃciently, safely and in an environmentally responsible manner to produce and dispatch Who We Are Ammonia, Urea, Urea Formaldehyde and Melamine at the quality required by customers and to carry out investments to maximize shareholders returns. Qatar Fertiliser Company (“QAFCO”) was Through scientific strategic plans and integration incorporated on 29 September 1969 as a Qatari of the latest technologies, QAFCO has developed MISSION Shareholding Company in the State of Qatar. steadily, over the years, in terms of nameplate Maintain QAFCO as the largest Quality Ammonia Head quartered in the Mesaieed Industrial City capacity, production quantities, quality and and Urea Producer. Satisfy QAFCO’s need for Urea Formaldehyde. (MIC), the Company is engaged in the production competitiveness of products, becoming one of the Quality Melamine Producer. and sale of Urea and Ammonia. QAFCO’s main producers and exporters of ammonia and inception in 1969 as a joint venture between urea in the world. OUR COMMITMENTS To lead our company in an ethical manner. Industries Qatar (IQ) and Yara Nederland to To increase the competency of personnel and use of adequate technology. produce chemical fertilisers was the first, and a Today, Qatar, after the inauguration of the sixth To prevent pollution and control operational and security risks, as well as monitor significant step in Qatar’s industrial diversification urea facility at QAFCO, is the 4th largest urea and record the environmental impacts of our operations. To steward our products and services through each life cycle stage. program to utilize its abundant natural gas producer in the world with an export market To implement and continually improve our integrated management systems. resources. extending to more than 35 countries across To communicate our policies to all stakeholders and engage with our employees on several continents. matters related to our system performance measures. To comply with all relevant Qatari legislations, regulations and global standards. QAFCO inaugurated its first plant in 1973 with In addition to boosting its fertiliser production, OUR CORPORATE OBJECTIVES a design capacity of 900 tons of Ammonia QAFCO has gone into new product areas and Achieve highest possible production at comparatively low cost. and 1000 tons of urea daily. Presently QAFCO Operate the plants with maximum online factor. joint ventures by establishing a urea formaldehyde complex comprises six completely integrated Design and operate the plants in a safe, secure, energy efﬁcient and environmentally responsible manner. and melamine downstream subsidiaries. trains. Each train is made up of two units, one Meet customers’ expectations with regard to quality and timely dispatch of our products. Maximize the employment of qualiﬁed and skilled Qatari nationals and eﬀectively develop them to meet for the production of ammonia, and the other for the required competence. urea. Supply QAFCO with quality Urea Formaldehyde. Our Shareholders QAFCO’S shareholders include Industries Qatar (IQ) and Yara Nederland. IQ is the immediate parent of the Company, which is a 70% owned subsidiary of Qatar Petroleum (QP). Thus, placing QP as the ultimate parent of the Company. Ind a Yarrland u Qa stries tar e Ned 75% 25% G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7 G4-56 Page 16 Our Subsidiaries QAFCO Gulf Formaldehyde Company Gulf Formaldehyde Company (Q.S.C) was Qatar Melamine Company In 2006, we collaborated with Qatar Value Chain incorporated on 3rd March 2003 as a private Intermediate Industries (Alwaseeta) to establish The boundary of QAFCO’s supply chain is largely bound to the State of Qatar, Shareholding company. All the shareholders Qatar Melamine Company (QMC) for melamine with the major input being natural gas purchased from Qatar petroleum to QAFCO are Qatari companies in the State of Qatar. The production. The state-of-the-art-plant and the and its’ subsidiaries. QAFCO’s various products are then manufactured and sold company is engaged in the production and sale largest of its kind in the Middle East, was directly to Muntajat who handle the product sales and distribution. of Urea Formaldehyde Concentrate (“UFC”). completed in 2010 and possesses an annually Currently, we have an annual production capacity production capacity of 60,000 tonnes of of 59,172 tonnes of UFC. melamine. G4-12, G4-56 Page 18 Corporate Governance Organizational Structure At QAFCO, we continuously strive to have an for our Board of Directors. To this effect, the QAFCO has expanded significantly over the years excellence, we re-structured our organization ethical, resilient and efficient system of corporate management at QAFCO strives to make sure that in terms of geographical size, increased number in 2014 to enable us to maintain our strategic governance that allows for smooth and integrated economic, environmental and social issues our of assets/asset value, operations (production direction and increase the efficiency of our operations. We have constantly taken efforts to stakeholders raise, from governmental bodies capacities), product diversity, profitability, processes, work flow and communication at all scale up our corporate governance practices to individuals such as employees, are integrated manpower, amongst other things. As such, levels of the organization. to comply with the Corporate Governance in our corporate governance structure. This to continue our commitment to operational Structure as laid down by the applicable laws and helps us identify scope for improvement, as a regulations of the State of Qatar. company committed to sustainable practices for development. Maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance has always been on the agenda G4-34 G4-34 Page 20 Strategic Partnerships Our Journey Towards Strengthening strategic coalition is a priority during the current global context. Sustainable Growth The strategic coalition and cooperation will enable business to gain and will enable us to grow and expand more quickly, strongly and efficiently in all fronts of the industry. Our recognitions Our operational milestones Participation in projects Substantive funding Membership as or committees beyond routine strategic QAFCO 1-6, GFC and QMC membership dues ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System Research Texas A & M Qatar International Plant QAFCO 1-6, GFC and QMC QAFCO-1 1973 collaboration with Conference 2015 Nutrition Institute ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System Belgian University (IPNI) of Liege Qatar hosted the QAFCO Texas QAFCO 1-6, GFC and QMC A & M at Qatar Conference 2015 We joined as a full member OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health & at the university premises in the of the IPNI at the IPNI board Safety Management System In 2015, QAFCO signed a MOU Education City campus. The 2015 meeting held in 2012 in Boston, with the Belgian University Liege conference was the seventh Massachusetts. QAFCO Canteen, QAFCO-2 to explore the use of urea as an edition held under the Al Banush Club & Al Maha Club 1979 essential component of healthy sponsorship of QAFCO. Hazard Analysis & The IPNI institute’s work Critical Control Point (HACCP) poultry feed to prevent the use focuses on nutrient stewardship of antibiotics in agriculture and research and education, world QAFCO 1-6 livestock. Depending on the food security, environmental RC 14001:2008 results, QAFCO and University Responsible Care concerns, and related issues. of Leige will cooperate in 1997 QAFCO-3 developing a pilot plant for QAFCO 1-6 producing the healthy feed and IFA Protect & Sustain Product Stewardship Programme pro-biotic. (Excellence Level) QAFCO Laboratory Gulf Petrochemicals International ISO /IEC 17025:2005 Requirements for the Competence of & Chemicals Association Fertiliser Industry Testing and Calibration Laboratories QAFCO-6 2012 2003 Gulf Formaldehyde Company established. (GPCA) Association (IFA) QAFCO Storage & Handling The GPCA Fertilizer Convention QAFCO is a member of IFA. Level 1 Gold System status for bulk in-ship fertilizer is an annual event organized IFA is managed by its board of From Department of Agriculture Australia by the GPCA’s Fertilizer directors, comprised of senior QAFCO 1-6 QAFCO-5 QAFCO-4 Committee. The GPCA’s representatives of companies Chartered Institute of Procurement 2011 2004 & Supply –Standard Certiﬁcation for First sale of Aqueous Ammonia Inauguration of QAFCO’s ammonia Fertilizer Committee works to from different regions of the Policies & Procedures of Contracting & for DeNOx application vessel LPG/C Al Marona. address issues of common world. Procurement functions interest to members from the QAFCO 1-6, GFC and QMC fertiliser industry. The committee ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management System works towards ensuring Qatar Melamine Company inaugurated 2010 2006 Qatar Melamine continuous improvement and Company established. development of all aspects of QAFCO 1-6 BS 8903 the fertilizer sector by securing Sustainable Procurement Framework necessary support from the (under development) GCC region’s policy-makers Construction starts for QAFCO-6 expansion project and other key third-party 2009 2008 Foundation stone laid for QAFCO-5. stakeholders. QAFCO adopts new brand identity Memberships and associations in the economic aspect Memberships and associations in the environmental aspect Memberships and associations in the community aspect G4-16 Page 22 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE It gives me great pleasure to present before you our 2015 sustainability performance as the new chair of the Sustainability Reporting Committee. In this chapter, we present our sustainability performance in various areas, including economic, social and environmental performance. While 2015 has been a difficult year in terms of market trends, we are happy to announce positive gains – particularly in our social and environmental performance. Furthermore, in 2015 we progressed with two important projects – our ISO 50001 Energy Management System, and our Sustainable Procurement Framework. Both of which are in alignment with international best practices, standards and guidelines. We understand that sustainability is not a destination, but a journey. We are proud of our achievements to date, and excited at the possibilities of what we can achieve in the future with the unwavering support of our employees and stakeholders. Sincerely, Dr. Hamed A Al Marwani Chief Administrative Officer and Chair of Sustainability Reporting Committee Page 24 RISK FRAMEWORK In Q4 of 2015, QAFCO adopted a new Risk Framework based on three critical pillars: Enterprise Business Continuity Risk Management (ERM), Information Security Risk Management (ISRM) and Business Continuity Management (BCM). Management (BCM) Business continuity Management outlines the standards that ensure continuous availability of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) critical processes in the event of major disruption. As such, we take great care detailing the guidelines for developing, exercising, maintaining and reviewing the business continuity plans. Vision Goals In 2015, we have successfully documented the plans for control systems, finance division and To enable the strategic decision-making process • Create a risk-aware culture across QAFCO to Human resources department and the work is in progress to document plans for other critical whilst supporting QAFCO’s business policy. ensure that there is a common understanding areas. The ERM function seeks to enable an effective of risk identification, assessment and reporting framework for QAFCO to evaluate, prioritize and • Conduct and facilitate enterprise wide risk manage its risks. assessments • Provide senior management with enterpriseMission wide risk information to enhance QAFCO’s To promote a structured approach to identifying, decision-making process assessing and managing QAFCO’s risks and ena• Assess existing controls and processes and ble the company to balance risk and reward while identify areas where additional risk may be supporting its business objectives. assumed • Provide training to maximize risk management across QAFCO Addressing risks beyond our fence quantitative risk assessment at Mesaieed Industrial City Situated immediately outside the industrial area capacity up to 40,000. in the Mesaied Industrial City (MIC) concession The Industrial Cities Directorate performed a area is the Town of Mesaieed, also referred to combined QRA study to obtain the updated as our community area, providing residence and overall risk profile of the MIC operational area facilities for those employed within MIC along and to identify risk improvement opportunities to with a dedicated area containing light-to-medium ensure effective risk management of the industrial industries and contract labor camps which city . As part of this study, QAFCO’s existing QRA ETHICS AND CODE house a workforce of approximately 25,000, with model was reviewed and updated. OF CONDUCT Corruption Perception Index 2015 According to Transparency International, which Middle East & North Africa Information Security Risk annually conducts the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) Qatar ranked lowest in perceived Management (ISRM) corruption across all of the Middle East & North Africa in 2015, ranking 22nd internationally just behind Japan, Hong Kong and Ireland. The As part of the overall Risk Framework, QAFCO has established country’s low perception of corruption comes Information Security Risk Management in 2015, which provides at little surprise given its leadership’s strong a methodological approach for the recognition and effective commitment to transparency and anti-corruption. Qatar Score 71/100 management of the risk associated with the security of QAFCO’s QAFCO is equally committed to the national Global Rank 22/168 information assets. The framework is based on the National vision of transparency and accountability. This is MENA Rank 1st (Best) information assurance (NIA) policy of ictQATAR and other relevant reflected through our code of conduct, grievance international and widely accepted standards. Work is in progress to mechanism, fraud awareness framework and MORE THAN 6X document information security operational procedures. whistle blowing policy. HIGHER THAN MENA AVERAGE G4-56 Page 26 Code of Conduct Fraud Awareness Framework In 2015, our board tasked us with preparing a new Code of Conduct, which documents how we expect Fraud awareness policy Focal 3-way approach to tackle fraudulent acts all our employees to abide by in order to ensure that we maintain high ethical standards both within and The QAFCO Board of Directors, No organisation is exempted from fraud. However we can outside the organization. We at QAFCO provide all our employees with training related to our Code of senior management and all all take steps to (i) deter fraud occurrence, and (ii) mitigate Conduct and Ethics. We also have internal controls in place to identify and address cases of ‘conflict of employees in our organisation aim losses due to fraud. Our organisation aims to adopt 3 focal interest’ as and when they arise. All employees are required to complete the “Conflict of interest” declaration to create a positive and transparent approaches to minimise the commission and likelihood of annually. The Conflict of Interest document ensures that the decision made by our employee are made on environment and organisational fraudulent acts, as well as to mitigate the magnitude of loss proper grounds, for legitimate reason and without any kind of bias towards any particular party. culture which is committed to the associated with fraud. The simple 3-way approach is (a) prevention, detection and avoidance education, (b) awareness, and (c) consequences. of fraud; to undertake prompt action Grievance Mechanism to eradicate fraud in the event it does occur. At QAFCO, we have an established employee grievance mechanism that allows employees to escalate QAFCO aims to adopt some grievances to the proper level. Starting with their immediate supervisors, then department managers, and common methods of fraud detection EDUCATION finally human resources. If unresolved at the HR level, then it goes to an arbitration committee, with the CEO such as tips and whistle blowers, A • Educate employees on given the final mandate. misconceptions linked with fraud internal audit, discovery of fraud by The arbitration committee consists of three managers (from a different department than that of the individual accident, internal control reviews • This goes a long way in preventing fraud who lodged the grievance) along with an HR facilitator. If the employee filing the grievance is a manager, then and enhancement, external audit the arbitration committee will consist of chiefs. and alertness/notification by the regulators: 1. Whistle Blowing Complaints Policy: QAFCO possesses a AWARENESS whistle blowing system that allows • Employee’s level of awareness is heightened through education, QAFCO’s internal stakeholders information, and our control environment EMPLOYEE DEPARTMENT MANAGER ARBITRATION COMMITTEE (3 MANAGERS) to anonymously report any potential incidents of fraud and/or B that fosters the prevention and detection of fraud • All employees are aware at QAFCO of what corruption. constitutes fraud • Employees are able to identify risks conditions 2. Internal audits: Our internal audit or factors associated with fraud department conducts regular SUPERVISOR HR CEO audits of the various departments and divisions both independently and at the request of top management if any incidents are CONSEQUENCES raised to them. • Employees understand that 3. External audits: QAFCO also C there are consequences associated with the commission of fradulent acts, including utilizes external auditors, who also disciplinary actions perform as fraud detectors. New Supplier Code of Conduct As part of our Sustainable Procurement Framework initiative, we are currently looking into the possibility of developing a supplier code of conduct as well as a supplier assessment questionnaire which will give us an opportunity to evaluate the maturity of our suppliers in terms of environmental and social performance and identify weak links that can be improved. G4-56 G4-56 Page 28 Whistle Blowing QAFCO possesses a voluntary system that encourages staff, individuals or other stakeholders Staff are also encouraged to report allegations or concerns through the internal hotline web Policy involved within its activities to volunteer information on any fraud, corruption or misconduct of which or directly via post. Employees that are unsure whether or not to whistle blow shall be free to they have information, knowledge or to which seek advice of Internal Audit or simply send an When dealing with fraud, it is often employees they are privy. The voluntary disclosure scheme is anonymous disclosure on the subject matter via that are the first to realize that something wrong, QAFCO employees and/ QAFCO’s attempt to deter and prevent fraud and the internal web link. dishonest, or illegal is occurring or has occurred or other stakeholders file a corruption or misconduct within its operations at at QAFCO. However, due to fears of being complain or tip through the the earliest point it is detected which has the full On receipt of any allegation the issue will be reprimanded, harassed or labelled as disloyal to anonymous online system support of the Company. automatically registered and if the identity of the their colleagues/company they may not want to staff is known, acknowledgment on receipt will be express their concerns. In such situations, having QAFCO personnel are expected to whistle blow on provided. Staff making a known disclosure should access to an anonymous feedback system is transactions, operations and any other activities expect an official correspondence within three imperative in order to expose acts of fraud and that involves fraud, corruption and misconduct months to a preliminary evaluation on the subject corruption and stop or mitigate their impacts. Unfiltered complaints/tips are whether internal or external that have an impact matter. evaluated for merit then passed on QAFCO. Parties external to QAFCO are The type of disclosures required of QAFCO staff to chairman of Audit Committee encouraged to bring allegations and complaints and concerned third parties under the policy of corruption, fraud and any other misconduct include the following: or non-compliance to QAFCO policies in a transaction for further review and mediation. • Unlawful acts requiring the violation of a law, gross waste of our resources, Complaints/tips of merit are mismanagement, abuse of authorities and investigated by the Internal specific health or safety issues related to our Audit Manager operations; • Fraud, which means any act or mission, including misrepresentation that knowingly misleads, or attempts to mislead a party to Findings of the investigation obtain financial or other benefits or to avoid an are presented to the Audit obligation; Committee and Chief Executive • Any activity that deliberately attempts to Officer for action undermine QAFCO’s operations and aims; • Corruption, which means any attempt to offer, give, receive or solicit, directly or indirectly anything of value with the intent of influencing the actions of another party. We have developed a Whistle Blowing and a Complaint Policy, with the belief that what is being reported is factually true. Allegations and There were zero complaints concerns expressed anonymously are reviewed filed using the Whistle Blowat the discretion of the Internal Audit Manager ing system at QAFCO in the in discussion with the Audit Committee and year 2015 the Managing Director. In performing this role, the factors to be considered shall include the seriousness of the allegation, its credibility, and the extent to which the allegation can be confirmed or corroborated by other sources. G4-56, G4-SO3, G4-SO4 G4-56 Page 30 CONTRIBUTING TO OUR NATION’S ECONOMIC KEY GROWTH ECONOMIC HIGHLIGHTS ACHIEVED A PROFIT OF ASSETS 20 1.43 AROUND QAR BILLION QAR FOR THE 3RD BILLION CONSECUTIVE YEAR UREA PRODUCTION REDUCED OUR HAS GONE UP 4.8% ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS BY 14% COMPARED WITH 2014, DESPITE AND AMMONIA REALIZING A WORKFORCE INCREASE 2.6% COMPARED WITH 2014 QAFCO is committed to being part of Qatar’s economic development QATAR NATIONAL VISION (QNV) 2030 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT and diversiﬁcation, by being a sustainable non-hydrocarbon based source of revenue and jobs to Qatar. IN 2015, QAFCO EXPORTED MILLION TONNES OF 6 51% Furthermore, QAFCO is aligned with SDG 8 of decent work and AMMONIA AND UREA, OF LOCAL GOODS economic growth, by providing sustainable economic growth to the TO OVER 30 COUNTRIES AND SERVICES WERE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GLOBALLY AN PROCURED LOCALLY GOAL (SDG) 8 DECENT WORK country, high quality and equal opportunity jobs, and supporting & ECONOMIC GROWTH Qatar’s youth in employment, education and training. 18% INCREASE COMPARED TO 2014 IN 2015 Lastly, QAFCO continuously strives to go above and beyond national INTERNATIONAL BEST PRACTICES (I.E. BS 8903 SUSTAINABLE regulations, by adopting where it can, international best standards that PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES boost the organization’s performance. QAFCO’s established energy AND ISO 50001 ENERGY management system and current development of sustainable MANAGEMENT SYSTEM) procurement practices highlights our commitment to sustainable growth, cost reduction and risk minimization. Page 32 GENERATING ECONOMIC VALUE How we create value: Our THROUGH OUR BUSINESS contribution to global food security How we create value As estimated by United Nations world population of global urea trade and for 12% of the global In 2015, Qatar’s exports of products via Muntajat In 2015, we had 580 local vendors, supplying expected to grow to some 8.5 billion people by ammonia trade volume in 2013. GCC’s Fertiliser exceeded 10 million tonnes, with QAFCO being various goods and services. We publish open 2030 and food production will need to increase by capacity is expected to increase from 42.7 million a major contributor. In 2015, QAFCO exported tenders in local newspapers, to encourage and more than 50%. With the decrease in agricultural tonnes in 2013 to more than 66 million tonnes by around 6 million tonnes of Urea and Ammonia to provide opportunities for local suppliers. land due to economic upturn, there is strong 2018. With this capacity growth over the years, over 30 countries. Unsurprisingly, QAFCO has demand to maintain and enhance fertility of the GCC industry demonstrates its potential to become the world’s largest single-site producer We have incorporated a ‘local content’ clause available land where the fertiliser sector will play a be a major global player to address food security of ammonia and urea and becoming a key player for semi-major service/construction contracts major role. challenges by providing access to and making in the global fertiliser market with more than 14% that would help us in increasing our total share efficient use of inputs and resources. of global urea export volumes being supplied by of procurement spent on local suppliers. We are Fertiliser production in the GCC region is growing QAFCO. confident that by supporting local firms, they twice as fast as the global industry average. With the increase in ammonia and urea production will be able to fulfill a higher proportion of our According to GPCA estimates, the GCC Fertiliser capacity, we will significantly contribute to alleviate QAFCO, through its contracting conditions demands in the future. industry accounted for approximately one quarter food security challenge in the coming years. intends to promote local companies. International QAR 39.6 Million 10.1% SERVICES Global Population Growth (United Nations) Local 89.9% QAR 353 Million International QAR 393.2 Million 80.4% GOODS Local QAR 95.6 Million 19.6% International QAR 432.7 Million 49.0% TOTAL Local 51.0% QAR 448.7 Million GRAND TOTAL: QAR 881.4 Million G4-EC9 Page 34 2015 Market Conditions Economic Performance Dropping oil prices had their impact on the In the year 2015, a surplus amount influenced 2015 was defined by moderate global and national decisions and actions taken in lowering production supply-demand dynamics. Reduced oil prices total ammonia and urea prices globally. Ammonia growth, dropping oil prices, and sluggish global cost and sales expenses contributed to profits this allowed many marginal producers to produce prices, however, rebounded marginally in the last fertiliser markets. Company profits, at QAR 1.43 year. more urea and push into the market. Apart from quarter and helped manufacturers maintain their billion were above what was initially projected. that, facility additions globally added to the supply healthy position. Urea prices, in the meantime, The primary drivers were the last quarter surge in Our financial position remains strong as we enter glut. remained flat. ammonia prices as well as higher sales volume 2016. Our total liabilities have fallen by about QAR of urea and ammonia. Furthermore, prudent 395 million while our assets still remain around QAR 20 billion. Average FOB* Sales Price of Ammonia and Urea in USD/MT for the past 5 years QAFCO Profits in QAR for the past 5 years Ammonia Urea 516 504 476 475 421 425 421 345 328 278 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 *”Free on Board” Sales prices includes the average cost of marine freight transport, insurance, unloading, and transportation from the arrival port to the final destination Our Production The price of ammonia in the year 2015 averaged In the meantime, average sale price of urea In 2015, QAFCO produced 3.71 million metric In line with 2014 trends in urea and ammonia at USD $421. Ammonia prices had come down continued to dip for the third year in succession. tonnes (MMT) of ammonia and 5.69 MMT of urea. market prices, QAFCO has made an active shift sharply from a high of around USD $500 to This year the decline was sharper. The average Our sales volume were equally encouraging as we towards increasing its ammonia exports (instead of around USD $400 in the early third quarter and sale price for urea for the year 2015 was USD sold 588,926 MT of Ammonia and 5.38 MMT of as an intermediary product for urea) as ammonia then marginally recovered to post an annual $278 whereas it was USD $328 in 2014. In urea – one of our highest years to date. prices have swung up. This is reflected in our average of USD $421 by the end of the year. 2015, QAFCO sold 588,926 MT of ammonia and higher export of ammonia in 2015 compared 5,387,485 MT of urea through Muntajat. with previous years both in absolute volume and 1 USD = 3.64 QAR relative to total production. QAFCO’s Ammonia and Urea 2015 and 2014 production in million metric tonnes Natural Gas Ammonia Consumed Feedstock for Urea Production Ammonia Production Urea Production 2014: 3.62 MMT 2014: 5.43 MMT 2014: 92,443,209 GJ 2015: 3.72 MMT 2014: 85% 2015: 5.69 MMT 2015: 89,472,867 GJ 2015: 84% 2014: 0.54 MMT (15%) 2014: 5.21 MMT (96%) 2015: 0.58 MMT (16%) 2015: 5.43 MMT (95%) EXPORTS G4-EC1 Page 36 OUR EXPORTS & PRODUCT To ensure the smooth STEWARDSHIP loading and shipping of both ammonia and urea to various export destinations, QAFCO operates two jetties with ﬁve berths and six ship loaders. Muntajat, Qatar's Chemical and These facilities enable ﬁve Petrochemical Marketing and vessels to be loaded Distribution Company is responsible simultaneously with ammofor the product labeling, marketing nia and urea in bulk and bag. and export of QAFCO products since 2013. Muntajat also collects customer satisfaction on behalf of QAFCO. No QAFCO has 6 Bulk Halls incidents of non-compliance were with a total storage reported for 2015. capacity of 635,000 MT to store granular and prilled EXPORTS BY DESTINATION IN 2015 urea. In order to maintain Australia 15,003 Kt Prilled Urea/ 571,957 Kt Granular Urea/ 400 Kt Melamine our high quality products, an elaborate HVAC system Bangladesh 324810 Kt Prilled Urea/ 168,668 Kt Granular Urea was installed to control the Brazil 1,655,120 Kt Granular Urea/ 40 Kt Melamine temperature and humidity Brussels 2,280 Kt Ammonia / 6,500 Kt Melamine in the bulk halls and ensure proper storage of urea. Belgium 2,100 Kt Melamine China 22,683 Kt Ammonia Germany 16,500 Kt Melamine India 459,274 Kt Ammonia / 80,960 Kt Prilled Urea/ 740 Kt Melamine Italy 2,300 Kt Melamine In 2014, QAFCO was awarded the Product Ireland 180 Kt Melamine handling system Award Japan 10,500 Kt Granular level –1 gold certiﬁcate by the Australian Quarantine Jordan 43,406 Kt Ammonia and Inspection Service (AQIS), valid until May 2020 Pakistan 29,082 Kt Prilled Urea/ 21,396 Kt Granular Urea Poland 100 Kt Melamine Phillipines 93,500 Kt Prilled Urea/ 63,141 Kt Granular Urea Qatar 3,508 Kt Granular Urea Russia 360 Kt Melamine Romania 4,000 Kt Melamine Saudi Arabia 320 Kt Melamine Product stewardship S. Africa 41,053 Kt Ammonia / 144,835 Kt Prilled Urea/ 144,533 Kt Granular Urea To maintain and improve the quality of our S. Korea 8,310 Kt Prilled Urea/ 74,250 Kt Granular products, we have in place a stringent quality S. America 44,000 Kt Granular Urea management program facilitated by real time monitoring and measurement of production Spain 380 Kt Melamine processes throughout the entire product value Singapore 100 Kt Melamine chain. Our quality management system was certiﬁed ISO 9001 in 1996. We also comply Sudan 25,000 Kt Granular Urea with the internationally accepted health and Thailand 15,388 Kt Ammonia / 5,500 Kt Prilled Urea/ 383,932 Kt Granular Urea safety management system Occupational Health & Safety Advisory Services (OHSAS) Turkey 7,360 Kt Melamine 18001 and Responsible Care (RC) 14001 that USA 125,645 Kt Prilled Urea/ 1,357,136 Kt Prilled Urea/ 360 Kt Melamine provide us with a structured approach to manage environmental, health and safety risks. Iraq 61,000 Kt Prilled Urea We have received several certiﬁcations and Jordan 6,400 Kt Prilled Urea accolades, over the years, as a testimony for this. Our product quality is widely acclaimed UAE 600 Kt Prilled Urea/ 876 Kt Granular Urea/ 14,140 Kt Melamine within the industry and several agencies have set high rating for our products. G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR5 Ukraine 600 Kt Melamine Vietnam 11,000 Kt Granular Urea Page 38 Cost Optimization Strategic Investments For QAFCO, 2015 was a year of operational and One example, is administrative costs. In 2015, Energy Management System (EnMS) financial optimization, brought on by challenging QAFCO reduced its administrative costs by just As part of its mandate and commitment own are as energy efficient as possible. This is market conditions at both ends of our value chain. over QAR 90 million, a 14% reduction compared towards operational and cost optimization not only an environmental responsibility, but a We experienced higher operating costs for fertiliser with 2014. It is important to highlight that while QAFCO made a series of strategic investments matter of business continuity. QAFCO’s newly production due to increases in natural gas rates cost cutting was an important component in 2015. Most notably, QAFCO established an established and certified EnMS allows for just that. under a supply agreement with Qatar Petroleum, QAFCO is committed to its people and employees, Energy Management System (EnMS) as per ISO By better monitoring our energy consumption, despite falling prices globally during the 2015 year. highlighted by the fact that our workforce in fact 50001:2011. As energy and power subsidies and performance we can better determine our grew in 2015. begin to be phased out across the GCC region, significant energy users (SEUs), and design This was exacerbated by lower ammonia and it is now more important than ever to ensure schemes to reduce their consumption and urea prices. Despite an 18% spike in our overall The message from QAFCO’s CEO and leadership that energy intensive industries such as our associated financial cost. production, we suffered a 9% decrease in product is clear, protect our people and focus on sales revenue. Consequently, between fixed operational improvement. Resultantly, cost feedstock prices, and decreased sales revenues cutting has taken place in production, operations, QAFCO had to look internally to increase its employee travel, over time, and other non-critical Capture Set target, operations and cost efficiency. areas. energy Identify objectives and consumption at significant action plan for various process energy users each SEU to and equipment (SEUs) capture energy levels and cost savings Achieving Cost Savings Sustainable Procurement Framework Another strategic investment made in 2015 was As one of the world’s largest single site producer In 2015, QAFCO conducted a benchmark study the initiation of our Sustainable Procurement of ammonia and urea, QAFCO can play a leading Framework. The framework, aims to embed role in promoting sustainable procurement in comparing its overtime pay to other industries sustainability within our supply chain and the sector, inspiring suppliers and contractors to in Qatar. The benchmark revealed that all other contracting and procurement processes. follow socially and environmentally responsible practices. companies provided a flat rate for employee We view our framework as an effort to align with the Qatar National Vision (QNV 2030) objectives. overtime, whereas QAFCO had provided overtime pay linked to employee salary, resulting in significantly higher costs. As such, employee overtime was capped at 60 hours/month and overtime pay became at a fixed rate for all employees. This resulted in savings of approximately QAR 6 million. Page 40 The framework is being designed in alignment with Magnitude of total supply chain impact and individual KPI* category contribution the best practices and following BS 8903:2010 BS 8903:2010 Sustainable Procurement guideline. British Standard 8903:2010 is a comprehensive The study conducted, assessed the magnitude guidance framework on how to adopt and embed of environmental impacts in our supply chain by sustainable procurement principles and practices into organisations of various types and sizes spend category. It also aided us in identifying covering all stages of the procurement process. high risk suppliers that are driving the highest The guideline focuses on four main objectives: 1. Minimising the demand for resources environmental footprint in our supply chain. In 2. Minimising negative impacts addition to the environmental costs and risks, we 3. Respecting ethical standards also looked into social risks such as human rights. 4. Promoting diversity and equality Furthermore, a gap analysis of procurement practice and sustainability requirements was conducted based on the requirements of BS 8903:2010 Sustainable Procurement Guideline. The Sustainable Procurement Strategy has been formulated to close these gaps. Among the aims of the framework going forward is to actively embed sustainability into our Once our Sustainable Procurement Framework is that also includes environmental and social contracting and procurement processes and complete, which we anticipate to have approved criterion. reduce our supply chain risks, reduce waste, gain during 2016 we will begin with implementation. goodwill, build long lasting relationship with our We also plan to go far beyond just screening, This will encompass a wide array of activities, suppliers and increase competitiveness. as we believe that educating suppliers is equally initiatives and application. On one front, our new supplier code of conduct important. We plan to enact engagement strategies with our various major suppliers, to once implemented will ensure that we screen highlight the areas they can improve given the suppliers using a more comprehensive checklist, hotspot assessment we have conducted. Sustainable Procurement Framework G4-EN33 G4-EN33 Page 42 WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY KEY SOCIAL HIGHLIGHTS INCREASE IN MAINTAINED A LOW WORKFORCE BY ATTRITION RATE OF 1.3% APPROXIMATIVE COMPARED TO 2014 2.5%** 0 13.5%* QAFCO ACHIEVED QAFCO aims to be a force of positive social and human development FATALITIES AND within the country. In alignment with the QNV, SDGs and UNGC SUFFERED ONLY QATAR NATIONAL VISION (QNV) SOCIAL AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT principles QAFCO is working continuously to ensure that our employees, contractors, all relevant stakeholders and the Qatari society at large beneﬁts from our operations. QATARIS OF TOTAL WORK FORCE 1 LOST TIME INJURY IN 2015 FOR ITS EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS At the employee level, QAFCO goes above and beyond regulatory requirements pertaining to wages, human rights and labor conditions. In addition, we ensure that all employees are treated fairly and given SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) 2, 4, 5, 8 10 equal opportunities. QAFCO is committed to developing a strong QAFCO BEGAN ITS AVERAGE TRAINING Qatari labor force through our many educational and training programs SUSTAINABLE HOURS PER EMPLOYEE that aim to build capacity and raise STEM (Science, Technology, PROCUREMENT INCREASED FROM Engineering & Math) awareness and interest within the country. PROJECT AS PER Outside the company, we are involved in a variety of community 16 19 IN 2015 TO BS 8903 UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) GUIDELINES initiatives, and are internationally involved to raise awareness about PRINCIPLES 1, 2, 4 6 nutrition, food security, and sustainable farming practices. Lastly, QAFCO’s sustainable procurement program initiated in 2015 INTERNATIONAL BEST following international standards, constitutes an important milestone PRACTICES (I.E. BS 8903 for the company and industries in Qatar. The program once * Includes trainees SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT completed, will allow us to fully embed important social issues within ** Excludes retirees GUIDELINES) our supply chain and manage those risks. Issues such as human rights, labor practices, Page 44 HUMAN CAPITAL Workforce by nationality AT QAFCO 81 1005 Our Employees Rest of Middle East South Asia In 2015, our workforce, to whom we are indebted human resources to meet our business objectives for our success, has grown to reach a strong 1672 including 73 nationals under academic and development programs. while guaranteeing employee welfare. The larger workforce reflects our workforce plan success, despite the recruitment challenges. 225 Qatar 14 Africa Attracting the right talent and Qatarization is a Diversity is central to QAFCO values, in 2015, demanding task at QAFCO due to insufficient our workforce was drawn from over 30 different availability of nationals. In 2015, our Qatarization nationalities. Our diverse workforce combines rate stood at 13.5%, including trainees. However, workers from different backgrounds and QAFCO foresees an ambitious growth in QAFCO’s Qatari headcount to approximately experiences that together breed a more creative, innovative, and productive workforce. 20 Europe 11 Americas 28% by the end of 2020. Long term projections in Qatari headcount till 2025 indicate a growth to The nature of our work and our location is a factor approximately 40%. in our low female-to-male ratio, with females currently representing approximately 2% of our With a view to tackling these challenges, we undertake a systematic workforce plan that workforce. Nevertheless, QAFCO is committed to providing the right incentives and opportunities to 313 East Asia 3 Australia allows us to identify the need for and availability of attract females to our company. Workforce by employee grade and gender 2014 2015 Employee Category Female Male Total Female Male Total Senior Management 0 5 5 0 5 5 Middle Management 1 66 67 1 64 65 Lower Management 8 457 465 7 463 470 Non-Management 18 1,037 1,055 21 1,038 1,059 Trainees (Nationals) 4 55 59 5 68 73 Grand Total 31 1,620 1,651 34 1,638 1,672 Page 46 Retaining Our In 2015, our employee attrition rate went up by why individuals leave (excluding retirees), we just under 2%. This was largely due to a relatively conduct exit interviews as standard practice and Employees large cohort that retired, representing 30% of all those who left QAFCO in 2015. To understand take appropriate actions accordingly to improve our retention rates. Our exit interviews for the In 2015, we added 90 new employees into our We aim at fostering an inclusive workplace to avoid 2015 year, revealed the following. workforce. All new hires undergo induction as to high turnover rates and related costs. Our HR Total Why are Employees Leaving? integrate them into the organization and QAFCO Rewards Strategy and Compensation Philosophy, culture. New staff are also briefed on QAFCO in step with our mission and vision statements, values, expectations, and code of conduct allows us to attract competent and quality staff Better Family Personal considering the diverse cultural backgrounds of the and prevent turnover and loss of key manpower Employment Offer Reason Reason workforce. by providing positive work environment and competitive pay packages. 53% (17) 31% (10) 13% (4) QAFCO’s 2015 attrition by gender Better Opportunity 2014 2015 3% (1) Employee Category Female Male Total Female Male Total To better gage the satisfaction of our employees, In 2015, the majority of our employees who Attrition Value 1 40 41 1 70 71 we annually hold an anonymous annual survey to participated in the survey were satisfied, they understand the satisfaction level of our workforce posted an overall rating of “Excellent” (57%) and Attrition Rates* 3.7% 2.56% 2.58% 3.45% 4.46% 4.44% and provide management areas of improvement. “Good” (33%), demonstrating that satisfaction is *Attrition rate calculation excludes trainees from total workforce and includes those who left the organization due to Our survey focuses on various aspects including at an all time high, as show in the figure ‘employee retirement. promptness in issuing company certificates, satisfaction survey results’. efficiency of leave request, process of education assistance and on-call duty response in case of emergency. QAFCO’s 2015 attrition by age category QAFCO’s 2015 attrition by nationality Employee Satisfaction Survey Results Age Category 2015 Attrition < 25 3 26-35 21 36-45 12 46-60 14 > 61 21 G4-LA1 Page 48 Employee Benefits & Rewards Empowering Our People In an effort to reward and incentivize high The benefits we offer are not only in compliance QAFCO has always strived to nurture and develop As such, proper training and development of our performance, QAFCO possesses an HR Total with the minimum wages stipulated by the its human capital. To enhance our operational employees is fundamental to the overall success Rewards Strategy and Compensation Philosophy Government, but exceed them. Appropriate performance and the people behind it, numerous of our business objectives. QAFCO training and that rewards high performing employees in compensations are also provided for employees training and development programs are scheduled development policies are developed with the a manner reflective of their contribution. It is who are required to work in excess of normal year-round. Our Human Resources and Training & objective of enhancing the core competencies of designed to be competitive and to ensure that key working hours. Development departments provide the structure our employees to maintain the profitability, safety talent, who drive future growth, remains with us. and ability to meet our business needs through and sustainability of our operations. Our Training Benchmarking studies are periodically conducted managing our most valuable assets our and Development department plays a pivotal Apart from the regular wages we provide company to assess how QAFCO stands compared to others employees. role in developing our workforce by designing accommodation, travel assistance for family, in the market in terms of salaries and benefits. appropriate educational programs, on job interest free loans, educational assistance to The most recent benchmark conducted in 2014 development programs and smooth career paths employees children, insurance coverage, among was used to adjust some job grades and related for them. others. All QAFCO employees on indefinite and salaries as per market trends. definite contracts of employment are also entitled to an appropriate ”End of Service Benefit (ESB)” payments, based on their latest drawn salary. QAFCO Training Centre QAFCO Employee Benefits The Old Norwegian School situated in Mesaieed, The new Training Centre has five classrooms, a near Al-Banush Club, has been newly renovated and theatre room and a computer room. Training facilities Health designed to be QAFCO’s Training Centre, to optimize are equipped with the latest technology that improves care Education the learning process and providing a conducive the learning interaction between the tutor and the assistance learning environment. QAFCO has started running all participants. In-House Courses in October 2015. Life insurance Accommodation Retirement EMPLOYEE provision BENEFITS Travel assistance for family Maternal leave End of Performance service based benefits incentives/ rewards Effective Business Communication, Business Writing, Interpersonal Skills and Team Working “In-House Course” conducted for Warehouse Section Staff G4-LA2 Page 50 In 2015, QAFCO reduced its number of training largely by better prioritizing training needs along 2015 training by location 2015 training by nationality programs and total number of training mandays. with promoting a culture of knowledge diffusion. This was driven by a need for greater cost Employees are encouraged to conduct in-house efficiency in our training. However, this was done workshops, training sessions and so forth. This with great diligence to avoid any negative impact was further facilitated by the inauguration of the on our operations. Cost reductions were achieved new QAFCO Training Centre near Al-Banush Club. QAFCO Training Statistics 2014 2015 Total Number of Training Programs conducted and attended 203 168 Employee Participation in Training 1,773 1,357 In 2015, QAFCO took efforts to reduce its overseas training, focusing as much as possible on in-house and local training as a part of its cost optimization drive. Average Number of hours of training per year per employee 16 19 Total number of training mandays 5,073 3,756 Strategic Trainings On job development programs are tailored for individual employees to meet their specific job requirements. Sustainable Procurement Training Energy Management System Training Employees are given opportunities to attend seminars, courses or postings which would be identified for In 2014, as part of our strive to be ever more In 2015, as part of our efforts to disseminate them by the department. The number of courses offered in 2015 are shown below by category. sustainable, we engaged a consultancy company know-how and raise awareness on our new to provide us with training and strategic advice EnMS, in depth EnMS training was provided 2014 QAFCO Courses delivered by category in 2015 on how sustainability can be embedded into for our core energy team, with 14 members 2015 our procurement processes in a consistent, becoming certified energy auditors. Furthermore, yet adaptable manner, across the business. A the majority of our employees were trained and General Course: Courses on finance, HR, ERP,, computer skills, 69 45 administration etc total of 10 employees from the Contracting and informed of the system, via department level Procurement section attended to the training. meetings, and EnMS awareness flyers, that were Maintenance & Operations: Courses that are related to 95 72 maintenance and technology programs distributed periodically to all QAFCO employees to update them on the progress of the EnMS. Management: Courses related to management skills, leadership, 17 16 supervisory, planning and organizing and personal development 8 3 Communication: English language courses attended by Qataris; Employee Performance Appraisal System (EPAS) English language further development programs HSEQ: Safety, environment and quality-related courses 14 32 QAFCO’s Employee Performance Appraisal System Employees’ performance is measured against (EPAS) aims to improve performance through fair and objectives and performance factors. EPAS provides 203 168 constructive feedback once each year and maximize a mechanism to motivate employees’ output and Total number of trainings: their competence in contributing to the achievement usefulness to our Company. of QAFCO’s objectives. Performance appraisal system is used for all employees regardless of their This process helps employees understand their categories and staff class. EPAS employs seven role and what is expected of them. It also identifies performance factors in its method of appraisal: training requirements to narrow skill gaps and for the enrichment of skills. Management Discipline Job systems safety Performance (quality & awareness environment) On-the-job Personal Cost training & qualities effectiveness development G4-LA12 Page 52 Qatarization The imbalance between the supply and demand for Qatari talent to meet the company’s unique organizational needs in the science and engineering fields is a Qatarization refers to our strategy of developing a competent Qatari workforce significant challenge for recruitment. For this reason, QAFCO engages with Qatari through education and training. youth early on to raise awareness about the sector and attract prospective and Qatarization Target: future job seekers. We are committed Our Strategic Qatarization Plan enables us to support the educational sector through to pursue the target set for the Energy & Strategic Qatarization Plan partnerships and sponsorships, proactively encouraging recruitment of Qatari Industry Sector of nationals and supporting training and development of nationals. %50 (or greater) of QAFCO quality, competent provides Year-to-year percentage comparisons of Qatari numbers are influenced by the Qataris holding summer training permanent positions opportunities respective annual approved service establishments. In 2015, we recorded a slight on employment TRAINING to Qatari youth decline in both ”Qatari on Employment Contract” and ”Qatari Headcount” in contract. PROGRAMS SUMMER to expose them to the RECRUITMENT comparison with previously reported baselines. This is reflected in our Qatarization (In-house, Local, TRAINING Abroad) company and rate, which fell from 13.8% in 2014, to 13.5% in 2015. This is largely due to an sector for future increase in manpower, mainly expats, and recent resignations by Qatari employees, employment resulting in an overall decrease in the Qatarization rate. Qatari Recruitment in 2015 QAFCO engages Working with with such educational NETWORKING institutions to institutions, QAFCO (Schools, build the right DEVELOPMENT GRADUATION collaborates on Universities, relationships to (OJT, OJDP, PROJECTS graduation projects Education attract Qatari Scholarship) with students, as to talent later on provide exposure Sectors) and awareness about the company, industry and its operations In 2015, QAFCO managed a large number of Qatari Nationals successfully completed respective further education programs, mainly in the field of Engineering. These Graduates will soon hold key positions in the total manpower establishment of the company in future. Proud QAFCO Graduates from London Southbank University Page 54 SAFETY Safety Investigations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Performance Safety incident investigation initiated 69 46 62 82 62 74 Since the fertiliser industry is prone to health and 18001:2007. We have been recognised by the Safety incident investigation completed 69 46 62 82 62 74 safety risk, we give high priority to health and Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Safety incident investication safety concerns of our employees. To ensure a (RoSPA) with two awards: Management of actions recommended 138 114 134 167 142 181 safe working environment for our employees we Occupational Road Risk Gold Award and the Safety incident investication have implemented an occupational health and RoSPA Silver Award for occupational safety which actions implemented 138 114 128 159 115 167 safety management system according to OHSAS bears testimony to the fact that we take health Incident investigation pending and safety of our employees and contractors cumulative from previous years 0 0 0 0 0 0 Safety Performance workers earnestly. Safety incident investigation actions 0 0 6 14 41 62 pending cumulative from previous years 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Work hours (employees) 2,918,944 3,199,301 3,474,578 3,411,670 3,567,721 3,591,531 We recognize the importance of having the safety is mandatory for all QAFCO and contractor Work hours (contractors) 10,226,104 6,084,670 5,326,995 4,664,334 4,598,986 4,092,158 measures across our plants audited by a third employees. In 2015, during shutdown of QAFCO Employee Fatalities 0 0 0 0 1 0 party. There are routine inspections from external 4 and QAFCO 2 plants, the major challenge was health and safety inspectors to ensure our health to educate large number of contractor workforces Contractor Fatalities 0 0 0 0 1 0 and safety procedures are up to the highest who carried out some critical activities in the Employee lost time injuries 0 2 0 1 0 0 industrial standards. plants. Contractor lost time injuries 0 1 1 1 1 1 In a phased manner, we have increased the Our Safety section arranged safety trainings for Total recordable injuries (employees) 12 9 7 7 9 4 number of inspections conducted during the year. the contractors on a daily basis comprising control Total recordable injuries (contractors) 28 18 30 36 17 2 We successfully completed 2 inspections in 2015 measures to deal with hazards associated with and have implemented 22 of the 23 audit actions shutdown activities. In addition, essential QAFCO We have an ongoing action plan for continuous committee and represent the overall concerns and recommended by the auditor. and contractor employees were trained on Work improvement that enables us to analyze each interest of the workforce. Permit procedure and authorized as responsible incident and learn lessons so as to prevent Induction safety training prior to start of job executors. their re-occurrence. Improvements in our safety In 2015, we investigated all the 74 incidents performance are also the result of the dedication that were reported. Based on the investigation, 181 actions have been recommended, out of Safety Inspections of our employees and the success of our Safety Information System (SIS). which 167 (more than 92%) have been already implemented. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 This system comprises an incident investigation Inspections planned during the year 1 2 2 2 3 2 and prevention program, including emergency In 2015, a scheduled shutdown was executed in Inspections completed during the year 1 2 2 2 3 2 preparedness plans, training, safety procedures, March at QAFCO 3 train. The shutdown period protective equipment, hazard inspection and lasted for 30 days in Ammonia 3 plant and 26 Inspection actions recommended 42 55 35 48 35 23 communication, and incentive schemes. days for urea 3 plant. Meanwhile, a shutdown Inspection actions completed 42 55 35 48 34 22 of 21days was carried out at UFC – A plant. With the aim to meet our “road to zero” targets of The combined unforeseen shutdown of all the Zero fatalities, lost time injuries and accident, we Ammonia plants was 65 days and 49 days for the established a high-level safety and environment urea plants. committee under the Chairmanship of the CEO. The committee meets regularly to review and During the shutdowns, there were no lost time discuss incident statistics and activities and incidents. More than 13,000 activities were projects related to health, safety, security and planned and executed during the shutdown, environment and their impact. Each year, the including safety training for 300 employees and CEO selects two employees to be part of the 2,314 Contractors from more than 49 Contracting companies. G4-LA5, G4-LA6 Page 56 Embedding Human Rights into our Safety Campaigns Sustainable Procurement Safety campaigns are effective means of communicating with our stakeholders. In the year under review, various campaigns were conducted to increase awareness amongst QAFCO employees and contractors. These well thought out campaigns address safety concerns within and outside QAFCO. We have been a member of the United Nation contractors comply to the law at all times during Global Compact (UNGC) since 2010. Over a contract life cycle besides complying to health, Heat Stress Campaign the period of years we have made efforts and safety, environment and security requirements Heat stress campaign was conducted during summer with flag posters, progress towards embracing UNGC principles of QAFCO by providing adequate personal roll-up, stickers, and flyers. The campaign included checking, reviewing which also includes human rights. We do not protective equipment to their employees, and auditing all the contractors working in coordination with Area have specific human rights related clauses in imparting necessary trainings required by Supervisor, Contractor Supervisor, and contractor contact person. Apart our contracts but we do conduct due diligence specific services or industry practices and also from that, the safety section carefully monitored Heat Stress Index and with regards to human rights aspects for all the paying timely wages to their employees and communicated the status with QAFCO contact person. project undertaken and proposed. On our part providing accommodations / camp facilities with we make sure that minimum wage payment is appropriate amenities and standards set out in being made by contractor’s to their employees. the contract terms. “Focus on the Road” Campaign Apart from that we also ensure that the In addition, QAFCO, for certain contracts, set “Focus on the road” campaign by safety section highlighted the perils contractors meet certain minimum criteria out the minimum basic salary that a contractor of mobile use while on the road. The campaign included computer specified in our contracts’ terms and conditions. would be required to pay to its employee, which pop up messages on desktops, banners and safety signs as well as This encompasses: not only ensures that workers are compensated simulators. Apart from this Ministry of Interior personnel delivered several fairly, but it also ensures that they are productive presentations on road safety to the contractors. • the health and safety of employees, and that the labour procurement process as a • safe & hygienic accommodation, whole, is sustainable. • provision of personal protective equipment Safety Awards and recognitions for the year 2015 (PPEs), In the year 2015, fifty-seven QAFCO Employees were awarded for the • providing health, safety & environment QAFCO was one of the first companies best-reported risk, near miss and unsafe condition. Apart from this, all in Qatar to instate minimum wage for training QAFCO employees were given an individual gift as a sign of appreciation certain contractors, demonstrating its commitment to human rights and worker from QAFCO Management for their safety commitment. Three QAFCO • and the possession of various industry welfare employees were recognized on QAFCO Day for their reporting of specific prerequisite certificates. potential risk and near misses. In addition to UNGC principles, our Code of Meanwhile, contractor employees were also recognized for “visible Conduct is in alignment with Qatari laws and Safety awareness” during QAFCO 3 shutdown. regulations. We conform to the norms laid down by the Qatar Labor Law that prohibits employment of juveniles. QAFCO’s contract terms and conditions, which are embedded with the principles of Qatar Labour Law, ensures that G4-LA15, G4-HR1, G4-HR10, G4-HR11 Page 58 HSE Risk Assessment Framework OUR CORPORATE AND SOCIAL EVENTS QAFCO has an established risk assessment system for health and safety that is accessible to all employees and allows for the continuous improvement of the overall health and QAFCO Donates Mock Gas Turbine system, policies and procedures. Our risk assessment system is audited annually, once to Qatar University internally and once externally. QAFCO donated a Rolls Royce cutaway gas turbine to the College of Engineering at Qatar University (CENG) as part of its contribution towards encouraging research and development QAFCO HSE Risk Assessment Framework Example in Qatari universities. The engine is a mock model customized in order to view the internal workings of the engine. This Hazard is identified and inputted into Slip hazard at QAFCO-3 seawater donation is a continuation of QAFCO’s long-term support and RISK the online system, marked by when, sampling point, due to damages steps and efforts to open more communication channels with students ASSESSMENT guard rail that is too far for support Submitted by where and the scenario that led to its at Qatar universities and giving them a better understanding of QAFCO employee identification its processes. This will help Qatar’s new generation prepare for various industry roles as they take on new careers. Existing controls 1. Engineering: Platform with railing, QAFCO and University of Proper illumination Liege Belgium Signed MOUs Firstly, the existing controls that are 2. Administration: House keeping, RISK in place to prevent the hazard are Preventive maintenance, Warning sign QAFCO, and University of Liege Belgium signed a EVALUATION documented. Secondly, the risk is boards Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the 22nd of March Filled by action evaluated according to its likelihood 3. P.P.E. Helmet, Safety goggles, Safety 2015, to further their joint research initiatives. Depending on taker/head of section of occurrence and its severity to finally shoes the results of their joint research related to the use of urea as arrive at the risk level 4. Training: Refresher training an essential component of healthy poultry feed to prevent the Risk Evaluation use of antibiotics in agriculture and livestock, QAFCO and Minor (as per risk matrix) University of Liege will cooperate in developing a pilot plant for producing the healthy feed and pro-biotic. The MoU will also look at enhancing the fish biodiversity of Qatar using local hatcheries to deliver stocks either for indoor or outdoor (sea) purposes which will contribute to maintain the Stock Biomass RISK An action item is recommended that is of many Qatari species. The MOU also intends to cooperate on ACTION in alignment with the existing controls The hazard was investigated. The existing Implemented and/or controls were found to be sufficient, research on cross breeding Lamb varieties to enhance Arab or and is implemented in a timely matter headed by section however the damaged steps were fixed. local species for meat purposes. It will include study on genetic according to the risk level identified headSlip stability and recurrence for a local production and farming. To further incentivize employees to use the HSE risk assessment framework, QAFCO holds monthly and annual HSE awards. The award categories are ‟Best Reported Unsafe Conditionˮ and ‟Best Registered Riskˮ. Employees are awarded as per the Evaluation QAFCO Sponsors TAMUQ Conference Committee Merit Criteria for each award category. The 2015 conference was the eighth presented in cooperation with Texas A&M at Qatar. This year’s Conference, which took place in the Education City Doha on 3rd March 2015, focused on sustainable chemical processes. The conference featured an impressive technical program, and sessions with renowned experts from the field, highlighted opinions and research from some of the world’s most respected names in the field. It also provided a forum for an exchange of ideas and opportunities for future collaborations. Page 60 QAFCO Celebrated National Sport Day As part of its social responsibility towards the community and its belief in the importance of sports in a sound body and mind, Qatar Fertiliser Company (QAFCO) on the third anniversary of Qatar National Sports Day (QNSD), stitched a busy schedule, featuring various sports activities. The event was a tremendous success with QAFCO employees and their families actively participating in the event according to their ability and hobby. QAFCO Celebrated Qatar QAFCO DAY 2015 National Day QAFCO-Day is an annual get together function distributed its annual awards to many nationals QAFCO celebrated Qatar National Day as held in January every year, for the Company’s who have completed their development programs. part of its efforts to promote the concept of management and staff. The QAFCO day was Apart from that, QAFCO also awarded its the unity of its staff members employees, celebrated at the Al-Banush Club. The impressive employees safety awards for the best-reported representing over 35 countries, and the multipurpose hall of the club sparkled in the glitz of near miss and best-reported risks. During community. One of the great attractions of the light and sound effects. QAFCO Day, long-serving employees were also the event were the huge Qatari national flags recognized. A bouquet of entertainment programs, with the photo of His Highness Sheikh Tamim QAFCO management presented the Company’s lucky draws and a gala dinner marked the day. Bin Hamad Al Thani, the Emir of Qatar and achievements in 2015 and outlined plans and the Father Emir, Sheikh Hamed Bin Khalifa objectives for the year 2016. The training section Al-Thani. QAFCO Sponsored and Participated in the 6th Annual GPCA Fertiliser Convention in Dubai QAFCO participated in the 6th Annual Gulf Petrochemical Association (GPCA) fertiliser convention held in Dubai, from 14th to 16th September 2015. This year the conference focused on the theme – “Innovating for Growth: Ensuring an efficient sustainable future”. The meeting shed light on how the GCC’s fertiliser industry can contribute to global food security while embracing an environmentally sustainable future. QAFCO, besides its sponsorship and participation in the convention, it had sponsored the participation of many professors and students from Qatar universities; as QAFCO invited twenty-six students representing different Qatari universities as well as QAFCO trainees were sponsored by QAFCO to attend the convention. With this initiative, QAFCO has stepped on to a new phase in educating the youth and “We are aware of our responsibility towards society, and highly value the socio-economic impact of our developing their skills. actions as part of our effort in creating value for our stakeholders.” Maryam Mattar Acting Public Relations Manager Page 62 World Environment Day 2015 On the World Environment Day 2015, QAFCO held a photography competition titled: “Seven Billion Dreams. One Planet. Consume with Care” for all Mesaieed & Al-Wakrah schools. QAFCO Flower and Vegetable Show 2015 HE Minister of Energy and Industry Dr. Mohammed HE Dr. Mohammed Bin Saleh Al-Sada, hailed the Bin Saleh Al-Sada inaugurated QAFCO Flower & Flower and Vegetable Show and appreciated the Vegetable Show 2015 on 27th of March 2015 at role QAFCO plays at different social levels, citing Al-Banush Club in Mesaieed. The two-day event the show as one of its necessary tools to involve attracted a huge crowd of participants and visitors community members in various cultural and from all sections of society including professionals social activities. The event also displays QAFCO’s from hotels and nurseries, amateurs and school commitment towards the environment and helps students involving in floral arrangements, spread awareness in the society through a raft of vegetable and fruit carving, cake and candy school exhibits on environmental issues. decorating. Recycling Workshop A two-day recycling workshop called “Summer Boxes Recycling workshop” organized for girls in August at the company club. School Trip QAFCO organized a School Trip to Al Sulaiteen Agricultural & Industrial Complex for a group of QAFCO ENVIRONMENT INITIATIVES In the year 2015, we reinitiated the Fish Hatchery Pilot Project. The Technical and 35 primary students. Commercial Evaluation has been completed for the same. We also embarked on a GHG Emissions Accounting and Reporting Initiative in the year under review as well as had an overview of Waste Management in QAFCO and Improvement Opportunities. Meanwhile, a budgetary enquiry has been initiated for Environmental Monitoring Project for Al-Besheriya Island and Artificial Reef Balls for three years. Page 64 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY KEY ENVIRONMENTAL HIGHLIGHTS COMMISSIONING OF ACHIEVED A WASTE TO ENERGY MANAGEMENT PRODUCTION RATIO OF 1.48 SYSTEM AND ISO 50001 CERTIFICATION TONNES/1000 TONNES OF PRODUCT COMPARED WITH 1.71 IN 2014 Beyond contributing to Qatar’s economic diversiﬁcation, QAFCO is ACHIEVED A 9.3% QATAR NATIONAL VISION (QNV) also committed to being a best practice leader within the country with regards to environmental performance and conservation, in alignment REDUCTION IN WATER WITHDRAWN 6.2% 25% 2030 ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT with the QNV and INDCs submitted by Qatar to the COP21 Climate REDUCTION AND Change Conference in late 2015. IN GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION COMPARED WITH 2014 IN MUNICIPAL WATER PURCHASE COMPARED As a young nation, the state of Qatar is undergoing signiﬁcant WITH 2014 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT economic and social changes. QAFCO is committed that its continued GOALS (SDG) 6 8 and 12 15 growth is done sustainably, in line with the various SDG goals relating to resource conservation. COP21 (UN CLIMATE CHANGE Additionally, QAFCO is contributing towards the UN’s Sustainable ACHIEVED A 4.5% REDUCTION IN ENERGY CONFERENCE) QATAR INTENDED Development Goals. This is highlighted by the strong attention given INTENSITY OF OPERATIONS NATIONALLY DETERMINED to resource use eﬃciency be it raw materials, water, energy etc. COMPARED WITH 2014 CONTRIBUTIONS (INDCs) and the management of our waste, discharge, and emissions. Lastly, in an eﬀort to be an industrial leader within Qatar, QAFCO INTERNATIONAL BEST utilizes best practices and standards in environment, quality, energy PRACTICES (I.E. BS 8903:2010 and supply chain. In 2015, QAFCO implemented ISO 50001:2011 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Energy Management System which in addition to cost savings, GUIDELINES AND ISO reduces energy consumption and associated GHG emissions. 50001:2011 ENERGY Similarly, QAFCO began it's Sustainable Procurement Framework in MANAGEMENT SYSTEM) 2015 aimed at embedding environmental and social issues within its supply chain. Page 66 WATER RESOURCES MATERIALS & WASTES Water plays an important role in QAFCO’s daily the brine is directed through cooling towers at We have worked continuously to improve our waste generated from the expansion in our operations. As such, great care is taken to minQAFCO to ensure that it is cooled prior to its waste management and treatment processes in operations and production units. imize our water consumption particularly given discharge back to the sea as to avoid any order to minimize the treatment and disposal of waste materials. Furthermore, we would like to highlight how the country’s water scarcity. negative environmental impacts. our waste to production ratio has improved QAFCO uses a combination of surface water and QAFCO is strongly committed to treating its Over the last year, the solid waste generated has considerably in 2015. In 2015, for every 1,000 potable municipal water. QAFCO obtains surface process waste water streams prior to discharge to increased by 22%, from 12,100 tonnes to 14,789 tonnes of final products produced, 2.10 tonnes of water through its intake pipes, and desalinates the sea. In alignment with the Ministry of Energy metric tonnes. However, we have managed to waste were generated. This is approximately 12% the seawater via its multi-stage-flash (MSF) and Industry (MEI), MME and QP directive of recycle about 53% of our total waste generated lower than in 2014. desalination units. Desalinated water is then used zero liquid discharge (ZLD), QAFCO has taken reflecting our efficiency in absorbing the excess for various processes at QAFCO facilities. Potable progressive steps to reduce its process water QAFCO generated waste by disposal method municipal water is used for other requirements discharge. QAFCO 5 and 6 sites have both been and purchased from Qatar General Electricity & configured to produce near zero liquid discharge Quantity Waste Type Waste Name Disposal Method Water Company ‘Kahramaa’. The brine generated from the get-go. Our sites recycle and reuse water (Tonnes) from the desalination process is tested regularly to wherever possible recycling around 5.38 million Food Waste 1,273 Non Landﬁll ensure it complies with Ministry of Municipality and m3 of water in 2015, representing approximately Hazardous Non Hazardous Industrial Waste 4,927 Environment (MME) requirements. Furthermore, 95% of total water withdrawals. Paper Waste 6,840 Recycled Spent Catalyst 137.20 Used Oil 84.48 Recycled Waste Lead Acid Batteries 9.83 QAFCO’s water flow Hazardous Waste Paint 2.93 Waste Spill arrest Chemicals 6.55 Incinerated Sludge containing oil 0.39 Cement Asbestos Waste 1.18 MIC HWTC* Used Activated Carbon 42.51 Recycled Waste Oﬀ. Speciﬁcation Urea 34.77 Molten Salt 53.52 Other Oﬀ Spec Melamine 32.26 Wastes MIC HWTC* Absorbent Materials 0.20 Waste Chemcical Oxygen Demand (COD) Solution 0.03 Expired Lab Chemicals 0.08 TOTAL WASTE GENERATED 14,789 *The Mesaieed Industrial City Hazardous Waste Treatment Centre 95% Recycle/ reuse Waste generated and recycled for past six years Waste generated in tonnes per 1,000 tonnes of final products produced 14,500 14,789 12,480 12,630 12,000 12,100 2.38 10,875 2.10 9,000 9,075 7,831 7,488 7,114 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 Waste Generated in tonnes Waste Recycled in tonnes G4-EN8, G4-EN10, G4-EN22 G4-EN23 Page 68 ENERGY & EMISSIONS We are quite proud of our energy performance shows a steady decline over the past 3 years. Our Despite an increase in production, 2015 highlights sharing between plants. CO2 used for producing in 2015. Not only did it mark the inauguration of lower energy intensity is thanks to improvements the the lowest overall emissions value over the urea is distributed so as to minimize venting. our Energy Management System, it also marked in energy efficiency of operations, better plant past 3 years. This is highlighted in QAFCO’s increasing operational efficiency, as we consumed reliability along with improved utilization of reduced product carbon footprint, 11% lower QAFCO’s reduced emissions of GHG and air less energy per tonne of product produced. This Hydrogen from natural gas feed for ammonia than 2014. pollutants underpins its commitment to climate is reflected in our Energy Intensity figures, which production. change mitigation, in alignment with Qatar’s This can be attributed to a number of GHG National Vision 2030, and the INDCs submitted at emission reduction initiatives including CO2 the COP21. Energy Consumption Air Pollutants in Metric Tonnes QAFCO’s Energy & Emissions Flow Natural Gas (From QP) Fuel Gas Process Gas Electricity 89,472,867 GJ 88,437,575 GJ (From Kahramaa) Particulate matter (PM) SOx NOx 2,613,978 GJ QAFCO GHG Intensity of Products Energy Intensity (MT of CO2e/MT of Products) Energy Conserved 4,542,032 GJ Air Pollutants GHG Emissions Particulate SOX NOX Scope 2 Scope 1 Matter 4.8 KT 3.0 KT 147 KT 5,467 KT 1.4 KT CO2e CO2e G4-EN3, G4-EN5 G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN21 Page 70 Energy Management System Average GHG intensity of top 5 spend categories contributing to total supply chain GHG footprint In early 2014, QAFCO began its Energy System Training with focussed sessions on Energy Management System (EnMS) journey. With Audit was given to the Core Team. the commitment and drive from QAFCO management, a cross-department team Once the foundation was laid and the system consisting of individuals from Safety Environment implemented across all of QAFCO plants and and Quality (SEQ), Operations and Maintenance buildings, an elaborate training was extended to was tasked with looking into the ISO 50001:2011 all QAFCO employees through online medium, Energy Management System certification and classroom training as well as department and developing the roadmap for its implementation section level meetings. and certification acquisition over the course of twelve to eighteen months. QAFCO has set a target of energy reduction via the Energy Management System, to be achieved The team conducted a gap analysis of their over the coming years through the cooperation current systems across all QAFCO plants and action of all Divisions. An energy management to identify what actions need to be taken system feedback system is embedded in the in preparation for the development and existing Environment Management System, that implementation of the EnMS. This involved a allows any staff to propose an improvement in comprehensive energy review that commenced energy related subject. This shall be evaluated from the third quarter of 2014 with an extensive by an independent panel with a further proposal consolidation of energy data across the entire of awarding the staff suggesting value added organization. In Depth Energy Management incentives. This graph shows the top contributors to the emissions per QAR million spend) and hence are EnMS Steps supply chain GHG footprint. The magnitude of large contributors to GHG emissions in QAFCO’s • Assess current operation & benchmark GHG emissions can be driven by expenditure, supply chain. The steel sector is more than three • Develop Gap Analysis Report such as for commercial and industrial machinery times more intensive than the average across the • Define goals with Top Management and equipment repair and maintenance sectors. entire supply chain. • Develop a policy for more efficient use of energy Hence, less spend on products from these sectors We intend to engage and work with our suppliers DIAGNOSE • Define energy boundary could reduce the impact of GHG emissions to to reduce their GHG intensity and/or considering the environment arising out of QAFCO’s supply alternative, less polluting products, supporting • Analyze energy users & identify major energy consumers chain. However, it is worth noting that this may not them in the implementation of sustainable • Establish Energy Performance Indicators (EnPIs) always be a feasible reduction strategy. procurement policies, including target setting for • Develop EnMS documents (Manual, Procedures, GHG reductions. Records and Forms) On the other hand, other sectors, such as steel • Set targets, objectives and action plans to meet goals DESIGN product manufacturing from purchased steel, are very GHG intensive (they emit more GHG • Implement a seamless and organization-wide Energy Management System • Implement Energy Performance Improvement Projects • Measure energy performance results • Identify gaps in benchmarking process IMPLEMENT • Perform internal audit • Implement internal audit findings • Perform Surveillance Audit • Monitor continual Improvement • Review the effectiveness of the policy SUSTAIN G4-EN33 Page 72 WAY FORWARD We are proud to have been an active contributor our expectation to both new and existing to Qatar’s economic transformation for the past suppliers. A suitable action plan will be put in four decades, and we are committed to continuing place. We intend to look for novel ways to carry this endeavour. 2015, was a challenging year for out two-way engagements with our suppliers to fertiliser manufacturers across the globe marked work with them and aid them in improving their by difficult market conditions. While we anticipate sustainability performance. We will also continue that 2016 will also be a challenging year ahead, conducting supplier assessment exercises and we are committed to tackling the challenge and surveys to determine and understand the value we using it as an opportunity to further optimize our create for each other. operations as we began in 2015. On the social front, we will be pursuing our Over the past few years we have taken several ambitious Qatarization targets with more purpose steps to improve our energy efficiency and reduce in 2016 & beyond. We will continue to pursue the our carbon and water footprints. One of the most achievement of the Energy & Industry Sector’s important realisations of 2015 was achieving the Qatarization target of 50% (or greater) of quality, ISO 50001:2011 -EnMS certification. Having competent Qataris holding permanent positions. established the EnMS, we are now looking Furthermore, we are committed to providing a to implement various energy saving initiatives safe and healthy working environment to our across QAFCO in 2016 and onwards. Similarly, employees along with investing in them through on the water front we will continue to pursue training to make QAFCO the chosen employer for the objective of ‘Zero Liquid Discharge’ through professionals. recycling our excess water and working towards The period ahead will be challenging. However, eliminating wastewater discharge to the sea. we are confident that with the support of our Another crucial initiative of 2015 was to embark employees and stakeholders – we will turn those on the journey of incorporating sustainability challenges into opportunities that will add value to into our core procurement process. In 2016 and QAFCO and the State of Qatar as a whole. subsequent years, we intend to progress the initiative by formulating a dedicated supplier’s Code of Conduct (CoC) which will communicate Page 74 GRI 4 TABLE Page Page GRI content index – Strategy and Analysis No. GRI content index – Stakeholder Engagement No. GSD Standard Disclosure Title 4 GSD Standard Disclosure Title 8 G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as CEO, 4, 5 G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 10 chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 8, 9 Page G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 9, 10 GRI content index – Organizational Profile No. engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. GSD Standard Disclosure Title 14 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and 10 G4-3 Report the name of the organisation. 14 how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 14 Page G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. 14 GRI content index – Report Profile No. G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries 14 GSD Standard Disclosure Title 8 where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 8 G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 14 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 8 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 37 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 8 customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation. 4 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 79 G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. 17 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen. 8 Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, 4 Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally structure, ownership, or its supply chain. assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 6, 7 initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. G4-33 Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 8 assurance for the report. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international 20 advocacy organisations. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Page Report the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. GRI content index – Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries No. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking GSD Standard Disclosure Title 12 assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. G4-17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent 8 Page documents. GRI content index – Governance No. Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. GSD Standard Disclosure Title 19 G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries 8, 9 G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest 18, 19 Explain how reporting principles for defining report content has been implemented. governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 12, 13 environmental and social impacts. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organisation. 13 Page GRI content index – Ethics and Integrity No. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation. 13 GSD Standard Disclosure Title 14 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect 13 Boundaries. G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as 25-29 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Page 76 ECONOMIC INDICATORS Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Page No. Page ◊ G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and ac41, 71 Aspect: Economic Performance tions taken No. ◊ G4 -DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 34, 35 ◊ G4 -EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 35 Page Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts No. LABOR PRACTICES AND ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 32 DECENT WORK INDICATORS ◊ G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 32 Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Aspect: Employment Page No. Page Material Aspect: Energy ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 46 No. ◊ G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender 46 ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 22 and region ◊ G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 68 ◊ G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 48 ◊ G4-EN5 Energy intensity 68 employees ◊ G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 69 Page Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety No. Material Aspect: Water Page ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 54 No. ◊ G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and 54 ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 66 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and saftey programs ◊ G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 66 ◊ G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 54 ◊ G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 66 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Page Page Aspect: Training and Education Material Aspect: Emissions No. No. ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 48 ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 69 ◊ G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 50 ◊ G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 69 ◊ G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 69 Page Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity No. ◊ G4-EN19 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 69 ◊ G4-EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 69 ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 44 ◊ G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 69 ◊ G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 45 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Page Material Aspect: Effluent & Waste No. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Page No. ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 66 ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 56 ◊ G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 66 ◊ G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and 56 ◊ G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 67 actions taken ◊ Not subject to any external assurance Page 78 LABOR PRACTICES AND DATA OWNERS DECENT WORK INDICATORS (CONT) Page Aspect: Investment No. Data Owner Email Department ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 56 Mr. Hussain A Gafoor hgafoor@qafco.com.qa Human Resources Planning ◊ G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include 56 Mr. Sai Kumar saikumar@qafco.com.qa Human Resources Planning human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Mr.Arun Subramanian arun@qafco.com.qa Safety Page Mr. Mohd. Fakhri mfakhri@qafco.com.qa Treasury Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment No. Mr. Naguib Gesudaraz ngahmed@qafco.com.qa Product Handling & Logistics ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 56 Mr. Sandeep Kumar Arya sarya@qafco.com.qa Contracting & Procurement ◊ G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 56 Mrs. Aisha Rafique arafique@qafco.com.qa Environment ◊ G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and 56 Mr. Arun Kumar arunkumar@qafco.com.qa Public Relations actions taken Mr. Harshal Tirpude htirpude@qafco.com.qa Operations Support Page Aspect: Anti-Corruption No. Mr. Mustafa Eltahir meltahir@qafco.com.qa Legal ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 25 Mr. Tejonadh Gajula 'tejonadh@qafco.com.qa' Projects ◊ G4-SO3 Total number and % of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 28 Mr. Orestes Briones obriones@qafco.com.qa Training & Development ◊ G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 28 Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Page Aspect: Product and Service Labeling No. ◊ G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 36, 37 ◊ G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation's procedures 36, 37 for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements ◊ G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 36, 37 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes ◊ G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 36, 37 ◊ Not subject to any external assurance Page 80 GLOSSARY OF TERMS ACRONYMS AQ Aqueous Ammonia NOx Nitrogen Oxides AQIS Australian Quarantine & Inspection Service OFMA Qatar Financial Markets Authority CAPEX Capital expenditure OH&S Occupational Health & Safety CFCs Hydrofluoro Carbons OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Advisory Services CIPS Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply OPEX Operational Expenditure DMP Detailed Master Plan QAFAC Qatar Fuel Additives Company EnMS Environmental Management System (EMS) QAR Qatari Rial EnPIs Energy performance indicators QASEC QAFCO Safety and Environment Committee ERM Enterprise Risk Management QEISS Qatar Energy & Industry Sustainability ERP Enterprise resource planning Sector ESB End of Service Benefit QMC Qatar Melamine Company GCC Gulf Cooperation Council QNCC Qatar National Cement Company GHG Greenhouse Gas QNV Qatar National Vision GPCA Gulf Petrochemicals & Chemicals QP Qatar Petroleum Association QRA Quantitative Risk Assessment GRI Global Reporting Initiative QU Qatar University HACCP Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points QVC Qatar Vinyl Company HFCs Chlorofluoro Carbons RC Responsible Care HSDG High Speed Drum Granulation RoSPA Royal Society for the prevention of HSE Health, Safety and Environment Accidents HSSE Health, Safety, Security and Environment HSEQ Healthm Safety, Environmental and Quality IASB International Accounting Standards SIS Safety Information Systems IFA International Fertiliser Industry Association TAMUQ Texas A & M University at Qatar IPIECA International Petroleum Industry UF Urea Formaldehyde Environmental Conservation Association UNFAO United Nations Food and Agriculture IPNI International Plant Nutrition Institute Organization KPIs Key performance indicators ZLD Zero Liquid Discharge MENA Middle East and North Africa SDG Sustainable Development Goals MIC Mesaied Industrial City EnMS Energy Management System MME Ministry of Municipality and Environment SEU Significant Energy User MORR Management of Occupational Road Risk MSDS Material Safety Data Sheets NDS National Development Strategy Page 82 P.O. Box 50001 Mesaieed, State of Qatar Tel. (+974) 4422 8888 Fax (+974) 4477 0347 www.qafco.com
