2017 SUS TA IN A BILI T Y Report b 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 1 A word from our CEO 2 Who we are and what we do 3 Key sustainability issues 6 Stakeholders 7 People 19 Environment 25 Society 33 Ethics and governance 37 About this report 38 GRI Index A WOR D From our CEO Sustainability lies at the heart of Pact Group’s vision — to enrich lives everyday through sustainable packaging solutions. We are committed to living this vision, by creating long-term sustainable value for everyone connected to our business and the communities we serve. We accept our role as a responsible employer and The benefits derived from a diverse workforce are remain committed to supporting the United Nations also a key priority for Pact. We have zero tolerance Global Compact and advancing its principles for discrimination and believe in actively providing through our actions. working arrangements that cater to the needs of our employees. This year we have continued to To this end, our FY17 Sustainability Report outlines focus on driving diversity in the workplace with how we’ve addressed these responsibilities with an emphasis on engagement opportunities for our stakeholders and the communities in which women. FY17 has seen a significant improvement in we operate. Our strategy focuses on four key relation to the perception of gender being viewed areas that are connected to our business: People, as a barrier to success in the business. Our FY17 Environment, Society, Ethics and Governance. Employee Engagement Survey, in which we received People and safety an above average response rate, also supports the progress we are making in this area, with a Providing an honest, safe and respectful workplace 17% increase in employees reporting that their with highly motivated and engaged staff is essential workplace is free from discrimination. We will not to the success of Pact Group. We are committed to rest on these results and will continue to focus on creating a high performance workplace culture by diversity as a priority in FY18 to promote a culture focusing on equality of opportunity, diversity, talent of performance, inclusion and respect. management and, health and safety. In FY17 we also continued to drive a culture of The safety, health and wellbeing of our employees empowerment and innovation through several is always our number one priority. Our Towards engagement and professional development Zero Harm strategy is part of our relentless drive programs. Our award winning Applause program, to improve workplace health and safety and, which places innovation in the hands of all environmental performance across our business employees by allowing them to submit ideas for with the ultimate goal of achieving zero harm grants to work on new business ideas, underwent to people and the planet. FY17 has seen the another iteration. We introduced month-long continued implementation of our integrated Innovation Missions, which encourage employees Workplace Health, Safety and Environmental from across the business to get together to tackle Management System (WHSE) across Pact Group. broad areas of strategic focus for the Group. Out of The integrated WHSE System enables greater these initiatives have come several ideas that have management of each of these critical risk areas strong commercial potential. This is why we have and will play an important role in the Group been named as one of Australia’s Most Innovative achieving our aspirational goal of Towards Zero Companies for the fourth consecutive year by the Harm – Incident and Injury Free Workplace 2020 over Australian Financial Review (AFR). the next three years. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 1 A WORD FROM OUR CEO Environment As I’ve mentioned, Pact’s Toward Zero Harm Strategy encompasses our commitment to our environment WHO WE ARE AND too. Across our operations we are focused on conserving energy, minimising waste, and preventing WHAT WE DO pollution to protect our planet for future generations. This year we ran Small Acts; Big Impacts, an energy awareness program to shine a spotlight on energy efficiency and identify simple actions that sites KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y and employees could take to reduce our collective consumption. The results of the campaign will ISSUES continue to have a positive impact in the coming year. Society Having a positive impact on communities in which we operate is central to the way Pact operates and guides S TAKEHOLDER S our investment in community programs. In FY17 Pact Group continued to support many of our long-term community initiatives, including Ronald McDonald House Charities in both Australia and New Zealand. In addition to the financial support we provide, many of our employees also donated their time to community and charitable programs such as White Ribbon Day and the Mothers Day Classic event PEOPLE and I couldn’t be more proud of our people for their ongoing efforts. Ethics and governance Pact has adopted the ASX Corporate Governance ENVIRONMENT Principles and Recommendations (3rd edition) and is committed to high standards of business ethics and conducting our business responsibly and with integrity. In FY17, for the second consecutive year, we published a Tax Transparency Report that outlines to our stakeholders our approach and paying position for FY15. Looking to the future SOCIET Y Sustainability isn’t an initiative for us — it lies at the core of our business strategy and I am proud of the progress we have continued to make over the past year. Pact Group will continue to proactively work with our ETHICS & customers to drive our sustainability efforts and in GOVERNANCE doing so, grow our business, our corporate values and meet the expectations of all of our stakeholders as we continue on our journey towards a more sustainable future. ABOUT THIS REPORT Malcolm Bundey Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer GRI INDE X 2 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT >70 operating W HO W E A R E sites and what we do Pact Group is the largest manufacturer of rigid plastic packaging products in Australasia, serving some of the world’s largest and most trusted brands. Our vision is to enrich lives every day through sustainable packaging and manufacturing solutions. Headquartered in Melbourne, Australia, we have more than 70 operating sites across seven countries1 and an operational workforce of approximately 4,500 Business Growth Strategy employees. Named one of Australia’s Most Innovative Companies2, our innovation and cutting-edge technology platforms allows us to deliver superior packaging, contract MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS manufacturing, supply chain and sustainability Growth through solutions to our customers. a disciplined ORGANIC approach to M&A GROWTH GROWTH Our full breadth of products and services includes Protecting our core and growing consumer and industrial packaging, contract manufacturing, materials handling and sustainability PACT organically STRATEGY RN services. We cater to a diverse range of industry TO TA L TU SH RE sectors, including the food, dairy, beverage, chemical, ARE HOLDE R agricultural, industrial sectors and many more. Pact Group is constantly expanding its diverse product EFFICIENCIES Operational portfolio across a variety of packaging and product excellence and efficiency substrates. Our growth strategy focuses on three core areas: organic growth, operational excellence and efficiency and a disciplined approach to mergers and acquisitions to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders. >4,000 Countries A market Employees Large, Listed on Operating leader diversified the ASX in more in Australia and customer on 17 December than 100 2013 New Zealand base market in rigid plastics packaging of >6,000 segments across 22,000 product variants 1 7 countries = Australia, New Zealand, China, Philippines, Thailand (50/50 joint venture with Weener Plastics), Indonesia, Singapore 2 Australian Financial Review Most Innovative Companies List 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 3 A WORD FROM OUR CEO K E Y SUS TA IN A BILI T Y issues WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Sustainability is fundamental to our strategic direction and vision; to enrich lives every day through sustainable packaging KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y and manufacturing solutions. ISSUES In pursuit of our vision, Pact Group recognises that Material issues are those that reflect an our business activities have a direct impact on a organisation’s significant economic, environmental wide range of stakeholders including employees, and social impacts. We have worked with our shareholders, customers, suppliers and the stakeholders to identify and assess all material issues communities in which we operate. across the Group. The material issues addressed S TAKEHOLDER S in this report directly reflect priorities identified for Sustainability Strategy Pact Group and its stakeholders, in line with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 requirements. PEOPLE Our materiality process Providing an honest, safe and respectful workplace A combination of internal and external factors were with highly motivated used to determine whether an issue is material to and engaged talent the Group, including our vision and values, interest PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT and concerns expressed directly by stakeholders Reducing our environment impact and the global community, as well as the influence PAC T GROUP on upstream (such as supply chain) and downstream ETHICS & SUS TAINABILIT Y GOVERNANCE (such as customers) entities. Conducting our We prioritised the issues we consider most material ENVIRONMENT business responsibly and with integrity to our business through a weighting process. SOCIET Y Investing in programs Our key materiality issues are listed on pages 4 and 5. that positively impact the societies in which we work SOCIET Y ETHICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 4 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT K E Y SUS TA IN A BILI T Y issues The material issues have been categorised into the following sections, which form the structure for this report. United Nations' sustainable development goals During FY17 we again mapped our material issues to the United Nations' (UN’s) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to align our activities with these globally strategic priorities. Where appropriate the SDG logo features on the relevant section of the report to indicate this linkage. We continue to monitor external trends and priorities and address these where appropriate. Key issues Key initiatives for FY17 UN SDGs • Employee health, • Integrated WHS and EMS Group Audits safety and wellbeing • Established three year aspirational safety strategy: Towards Zero Harm — Incident Free Health Workplace 2020 • Implemented programs to promote Health and safety and Wellbeing • Employee • Employee Engagement Survey completed engagement • Diversity and Inclusion Policy training • Talent management • Online learning opportunities PEOPLE • Employee reward • Performance appraisals completed for all salaried Talent and recognition staff (including Asian sites for the first time) management • Applause – reward and recognition program • Diversity and • Continued progress towards reaching Board inclusion approved gender diversity targets • Fair and equitable • WGEA Compliance labour relations • Pac Women’s Network expanded Equality • Flexible work practices and diversity • Greenhouse gas • Regulatory compliance reporting including National emissions Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER), and • Energy efficiency National Pollutant Inventory (NPI) in Australia • Energy Efficiency awareness campaign — ENVIRONMENT Small Acts; Big Impacts Energy and • Continued to roll out LED light replacement plan emissions • Materials usage • Operational excellence – Lean program • Waste to landfill rollout to 22 sites • Product design projects Waste 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 5 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES Key issues Key initiatives for FY17 UN SDGs • Investing in • Community Giving Program community • Continued signatory status of United S TAKEHOLDER S initiatives and Nations' Compact activities • Site based SEDEX memberships Community • Human rights SOCIET Y • Sustainable packaging • Product life-cycle assessments design PEOPLE • Product light weighting • Recycling and • Innovation model reconditioning of • Customer and industry collection products Product and recycling program • Responsible supply stewardship chain ENVIRONMENT ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE • Ethical conduct • Tax Transparency Report published SOCIET Y • Taxation transparency • Corporate governance Governance ETHICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 6 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT OUR stakeholders We value open and collaborative dialogue with our stakeholders as we continually strive to improve our sustainability performance. Stakeholder engagement Engagement with our stakeholders is continuous and Pact Group has interdependent relationships with takes several forms to help us better understand several groups of stakeholders including employees, the issues that are important to them and what they shareholders, customers, suppliers, government and expect of us. the communities in which we operate. Our stakeholders and our methods of engagement We identified these groups as people who impact and/ with them are outlined below. or are impacted by the economic, environmental and social impacts of our operations, as well as the culture, performance and long-term strategy of the Group. Stakeholder Methods of engagement Employees and contractors • Employee Engagement Survey Our people are spread across seven countries with an • Performance appraisals operational workforce of approximately 4,500 across • Company intranet and websites Australia, New Zealand and Asia. • Site noticeboards and toolbox talks • Site and corporate induction • Yammer Customers • Customer presentations Our customers are organisations that provide consumers • Newsletters and other communications with a range of consumer, industrial / agricultural and • Customer lead audits and assessments materials handling components for whom we provide a • Regular customer business review meetings portion of their end product. • Conferences and trade shows Consumers • Website and external communications Through our customers, we try to stay in touch with the • Market research end-users of our products wherever feasible. Shareholders • Website and external ASX communications Our investment community comprises institutional • Mailed communications investors, individuals and retail shareholders. • Face-to-face meetings • Annual General Meeting (AGM) • Investor presentations Suppliers and business partners • Supplier assessments We engage with a broad range of suppliers, joint ventures • Newsletters and other communications and other business partners across the world. • Regular review meetings Government and regulators • Selective participation in policy debate As required, we engage with Local, State and Federal • Collaboration with regulators Governments, primarily regarding regulatory compliance. Community groups • Active support for key events We engage with non-profit groups, program partners • Community Giving Program and communities local to our site operations to address • Face-to-face meetings operational impacts, employment opportunities, donations and sponsorship opportunities. Third party employee organisations • Enterprise bargaining negotiation processes We respect freedom of association and work • Employee representation matters collaboratively with employees and their representatives. • Resolution of employee grievances and concerns 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 7 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES PEOPLE S TAKEHOLDER S PROVIDING AN HONEST, SAFE AND RESPEC TFUL WORKPL ACE PEOPLE WITH HIGHLY MOTIVATED AND ENGAGED TALENT ENVIRONMENT We are committed to creating a high performance workplace culture by focusing on equality and diversity, talent management and health and safety. SOCIET Y ETHICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN SDGs GRI INDE X 8 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT EQUA LI T Y and diversity Workforce profile We believe in recruiting, sustaining, and empowering a diverse and talented workforce. In FY17, women made up 34% of our workforce in Australia and New 925 + 2,109 = 3,034 Full-time Zealand, and 30% of our workforce including Asia. 53 + 11 = 64 Part-time AUS & NZ More than 92% of our people were employed on a permanent basis. There has been no significant 191 + 158 = 349 Casual change to employee numbers in FY17. 1,169 + 2,278 = 3,447 Total AUS & NZ Employee engagement, development and recognition ASIA 30 + 432 = 462 Total Asia We believe that people perform at their best when 3,909 On payroll they feel engaged, supported and valued. This is particularly important during challenging economic Aproximately 550 Contractors times when sustainable employment opportunities are in focus. In line with this, Pact is proud to invest in the training and development of our people and offer a sophisticated reward and recognition program called Applause (refer to page 15). 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 9 A WORD FROM OUR CEO ENCOUR AGING DIVERSIT Y TO ENHANCE SUCCESS WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Diversity and inclusion Our focus on gender diversity has enabled several key appointments of professional females into KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y Diversity is highly valued at Pact and the benefits operational and managerial leadership positions. derived from a diverse workforce ensure that we have a range of employees with skills, experiences Since setting the measurable objectives in April 2014, ISSUES and competencies that can be utilised to maximise significant progress towards reaching our goals has shareholder value. been made as follows: Our Diversity Policy states that we have zero tolerance • External recruiters have been directed to source for discrimination and outlines how we are actively female applicants for all salaried staff vacancies. S TAKEHOLDER S focused on providing working arrangements that • Pact’s Human Resources Information System cater to the needs of our employees. (HRIS) recruitment module, implemented in As we value the benefits a diverse workforce can bring FY17, enables us to capture a diverse pipeline of to our organisation, our priority for FY18 is to intensify candidates to support us to aim for one female our focus on inclusion in the workplace with an candidate to proceed to our selection process for emphasis on engagement opportunities for women. every role. • The annual salary review now includes gender This priority aims to positively increase female detail to enable the identification of any gender PEOPLE representation in the workplace, with particular focus pay equity imbalance, with a view to minimising on management level roles. any such imbalance as part of the final approval During FY17 our Executive Sub-committee continued process with the CEO. to provide greater focus and structure in relation to • The Group continues to lodge its annual public how to achieve our diversity targets. report with the Workplace Gender Equality Agency ENVIRONMENT Diversity targets (WGEA), which includes details of salaries by The gender diversity measurable objectives that have gender. WGEA has confirmed we have achieved been set by the Board are: compliance status. 1. All salaried recruitment assignments are required • The FY17 Employee Engagement Survey asked a range to interview at least one female candidate. of questions regarding diversity. The most significant improvement related to whether or not gender 2. Monitor the annual salary review outcomes for is viewed as a barrier to success in the business. salaried employees to ensure females receive, on SOCIET Y Overall favourable responses increased +4%. average, not less than the same percentage increase in their remuneration as males across the Group. In FY17, we have been able to achieve the following 3. Ensure that we continue to ask, and review specific against our diversity targets: questions in the next Employee Engagement Survey to quantify gender as an issue in the workplace across the Group. ETHICS & 7% The number of monthly staff recruitment assignments GOVERNANCE meeting the objective has increased by 7% ABOUT THIS REPORT 4% Female appointments externally GRI INDE X have increased by 4% 10 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT DI V ER SI T Y COMPOSI T ION across our business Diversity composition across our business (workforce and governance bodies) We are committed to providing a range of diverse employment opportunities for both men and women, across a variety of age groups. The graphs below display the diverse composition of both our governance body and workforce. Board CEO and EGMs 4 1 6 2 5 10 Under 30 Female 30 to 50 Female Over 50 Female 2 Managers / Supervisors Professionals, Sales and Admin 2 21 14 Under 30 Male 30 to 50 Male Over 50 Male 17 128 60 166 158 74 69 540 5 142 Operations 74 183 F M Total Under 30 95 199 294 820 30–50 539 1,061 1,600 354 Over 50 535 1,018 1,553 2,734 Total 3,447 460 843 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 11 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO C A S E S T U DY Pac Women’s Network participate KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y in Mother’s Day Classic ISSUES In recognition that one in eight women will be diagnosed with breast cancer in their lifetime, in FY17, Pac Women’s Network participated in Mother’s Day Classic. Established in 1998, the Mother's Day Classic initiative has grown into a national event, helping to fund S TAKEHOLDER S Australia's best research into the prevention and cure for breast cancer. Since 1998, the Mother’s Day Classic has raised an incredible $30.4 million and funded more than 30 breast cancer research projects across Australia. Research has made a real impact over the last 20 years with survival rates increasing. Pact Network entered 21 people across four different locations in two separate states. Team members were provided with pink Pact branded caps and t-shirts. The team raised $735 that was matched by Pact to total $1,470 for this worthy cause. There are plans to grow our involvement in this event in FY18 and beyond to include more women and their families from more states. PEOPLE #proudtobepact Parental leave Pac Network ENVIRONMENT To encourage a diverse workplace, we actively seek to Established several years ago, Pac Network is a create working arrangements that meet the needs of professional women’s networking group, administered our people and support positive retention figures. across four key locations (Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Auckland). All permanent employees, both male and female, are SOCIET Y entitled to take parental leave after completing one The Pac Network events continue to provide an year of service with Pact. opportunity for professional women across the Group to meet, collaborate and, when applicable, hear from During FY17, more than 19,000 hours in parental successful and influential businesswomen. In FY17, leave was taken across the business. Pac Network attended a Business Chicks breakfast in The table below shows the return to work and Sydney where Sophia Amoruso was a guest speaker ETHICS & retention rates of employees who took parental leave, and our Melbourne group was inspired by Dame by gender: Quentin Bryce. GOVERNANCE Awareness campaigns Australia and New Zealand Male Female To promote awareness of diversity related issues, Total on Parental leave FY17 7 18 in FY17 we ran campaigns across the Group. These Returned from parental leave 7 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT campaigns were successful in generating discussions Hours on parental leave 440 18,703 and displaying Pact's commitment to these important topics: • International Women’s Day • White Ribbon Day • Harmony Day (Australia) • Race Relations Day (New Zealand) GRI INDE X 12 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT EN SUR ING FA IR & EQUI TA BLE labour relations Industrial relations At Pact we respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Across our Australian and New Zealand operations more than 89% of our frontline staff are covered by Enterprise Agreements, and as such, labour relations remain at the forefront of our sense of social responsibility. Responsible wage outcomes are critical for business and to provide employment opportunities for our people. Employees in corporate support services are protected under a common law contract of employment, which stipulates strict entitlements and conditions of work. All contractual agreements at Pact fulfil statutory minimums in relation to termination and redundancy processes and in some cases exceed these provisions. Employees covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 89% ANZ Employees covered by an EBA 11% ANZ Employees not covered by an EBA 0% Asia 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 13 TA LEN T management A WORD FROM OUR CEO Empowering our employees to succeed through engagement and professional development We recognise that the success of our people is key to The following KPIs recorded the most favourable / WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO achieving the best results for our customers. To that positive differentials in comparison to the external end, we believe in supporting the professional and industrial (manufacturing) sector: personal growth of our employees. As a result we have created a high performance culture where our employees are empowered to succeed through several initiatives focused on employee 17% Discrimination free KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y (Extent to which the work area is free from discrimination) engagement, recognition and development. Employee Engagement Survey ISSUES We believe open, honest and respectful dialogue with our employees is essential to creating a high performance culture. 13% Relationship with colleagues S TAKEHOLDER S (The strength of teamwork between colleagues) Participation in our voluntary Employee Engagement Survey provides Pact Group employees with the opportunity to speak up and have their say on everything from the quality of their workplace culture, their ability to collaborate with colleagues, the company’s leadership 12% Cost consciousness (How effectively the organisation controls expenses) quality and broader business issues. This feedback helps to inform the programs and initiatives run across the PEOPLE 9% Group, and ultimately improve our workplaces. The FY17 survey received an above average response rate of 63% (similar sized industrial sector organisations Communication effectiveness receive an average response rate of 50%). This (Satisfaction with the communication between areas of the business) represents a 4% improvement in participation since ENVIRONMENT FY16 for Pact. Five of the 30 KPIs with historical comparisons Employee Engagement Survey response rate recorded improvements in FY17. The most impressive 59% 63% gain was recorded in relation to the following: 54% 55% 36% 2% Job security SOCIET Y FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 (How secure employees feel in their job) C A S E S T U DY ETHICS & Aditi Mamtani GOVERNANCE Promotions are an important part of recognising and rewarding the great work our talented people do. Aditi Mamtani has recently been promoted to the role of General Manager, Research and Development (Contract Manufacturing). Aditi was previously in ABOUT THIS REPORT the role of Technical Manager in Personal Care at Jalco and the opportunity for Aditi to now grow as the business grows is a real demonstration of how we provide career opportunities for our employees. As part of our overall talent strategy in FY17, we introduced an internal and external careers portal that allows our employees to see and apply for the many opportunities across the organisation. GRI INDE X 14 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT IN F Y17, FOR THE FIRST TIME, PERFORMANCE APPR AISALS WERE COMPLETED BY EMPLOYEES IN THE PHILIPPINES, THAIL AND AND INDONESIA . Employee development Training and skills development Customer service training To support the professional growth of our employees In FY17 we launched a specific set of training a variety of training options are available across the programs for our customer service team to build Group. At site level, managers directly lead Pact’s the skills of our people who manage our customer employee training and development to allow for relationships on a day-to-day basis. The program is bespoke skills development. At Group level, Pact’s designed to enhance the skills of the team and it will online learning portal provides more than 50 programs be further developed in the coming year. that are accessible to our employees anytime they need them. The portal provides employees with Performance appraisals technical education such as computing and project To help our employees realise their career ambitions, management as well as training in areas such as all salaried Pact employees are required to complete customer service and time management. a performance review twice per year. Together, the employee and manager set their objectives, which Head Office manages corporate compliance are measured formally in mid-year and end-ofprograms, which cover our obligations to create year appraisals. In FY17, 97% of our employees a workplace that is fair and free from bullying, completed their end-of-year appraisals and for the harassment and discrimination. first time, performance appraisals were completed by Diversity and Inclusion Policy training in Australia employees in the Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia. In FY17, 75% of our operational staff were trained in Pact Group’s policy on Diversity and Inclusion and how to resolve issues of bullying, harassment, and discrimination. Face-to-face workshops were held across most of our sites, which provided the opportunity for employees to ask questions and learn more about the Group’s expectations. We will develop and deliver programs to complete diversity education across Australia, New Zealand and Asia in the years ahead. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 15 IN F Y17 APPL AUSE A WORD FROM INTRODUCED MONTH-LONG OUR CEO INNOVATION MISSIONS TO PROMOTE CRE ATIVE THINKING WHO WE ARE AND AND PROBLEM SOLVING. WHAT WE DO Employee recognition Applause reward and recognition program KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y To create a high-performance culture, where our people feel empowered to succeed, Pact deploys ISSUES our award-winning reward and recognition program Applause. Applause places innovation in the hands of all employees and fosters a culture of engagement throughout the organisation. S TAKEHOLDER S Having recently moved to an online platform the program motivates employees by rewarding ideas, behaviour and performance that demonstrate innovative thinking, perseverance, and dedication. The program’s categories for reward align with Pact Group’s corporate values: • We walk in our customers' shoes to serve them better PEOPLE • We are committed to sustainability and providing an honest and respectful environment Applause introduces Innovation Missions • We are passionate about driving results In FY17 Applause introduced month-long Innovation • We pursue opportunities for transformational Missions to promote creative thinking and problem change solving. Innovation Missions identify broad areas ENVIRONMENT • We act with speed and purpose of strategic focus for the Group and empower employees to work together to create company-wide Applause Central creates a transparent central opportunities for growth. repository for ideas. It is open to all employees, enables real-time communication updates and places The two Innovation Missions that were completed in voting in the hands of the entire business to empower FY17 were One Dose Wonders and Fresher for Longer. innovation through co-creation. One Dose Wonders SOCIET Y The 2016 Applause program received a record The One Dose Wonder Innovation Mission challenged number of nominations and awards with a total of employees to explore what products Pact could 300 submissions. These ideas received more than 600 manufacture in soluble film beyond what currently comments; 2,683 votes and were shared 633 times. exists in the Australasian marketplace. Of the 300 nominations, 129 made it to Silver level Fresher for Longer and received a cash prize for their submission. There Fresher for Longer challenged the business to submit ETHICS & were 15 Gold winners and 11 Platinum finalists. The innovative packaging ideas about how to keep overall winner for 2016 was Monique Entwisle from products Fresher for Longer and eradicate waste by GOVERNANCE Pact’s Tecpak brand in New Zealand. Monique’s idea extending shelf life and/or analysing portion size, was an innovative dosage dispensing closure that has resealability, dosage and dispensing. many applications such as laundry powder, infant formula, cup of soups and other powders. For winning Recognition of long service ABOUT THIS REPORT the 2016 Applause program Monique received cash Pact is committed to ensuring that the contributions and prizes to the value of $37,000 including a $25,000 of employees over a long period of time are luxury cruise for eight people on a 34-metre super recognised and celebrated. Long Certificates lavish catamaran around the Great Barrier Reef for five of Service are to be presented to employees in nights. The cash component totalled $12,000 and will recognition of having achieved key milestones like be awarded when her idea is commercialised. 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 and 35+ years of continuous meritorious service. GRI INDE X 16 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT ONGOING FOCUS ON IMPROV ING safety culture and process Keeping our people safe and healthy Risk assessment The safety, health and wellbeing of our people is As we strive to achieve our strategy of Towards Zero always our priority. Our Towards Zero Harm strategy is Harm, effective risk management continues to be a part of our relentless drive to improve safety across critical component of our strategy. Workers at our our business, with the ultimate goal of achieving zero sites are not exposed to occupational activities that harm to people and the planet. have a high incidence or risk of specific diseases. Managing our safety performance Any injury is unacceptable at Pact and we have a Pact’s safety performance is measured by Lost Time robust system in place to investigate the cause of any Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR), which represents the incident and put in place any corrective actions to number of lost time injuries recorded for every one prevent re-occurrence. Incidents are recorded in our million hours worked over a rolling 12 month period. online incident management system, which allows The number of lost time injuries is determined by the immediate escalation, visibility and management total number of workplace injuries that resulted in lost involvement where required. time during the reporting period, irrespective of when During FY17 we continued to focus on using the injury occurred. technology to enhance the way we present and Our safety statistics cover all incidents related to share information across the business, in the most permanent, casual and contracted employees accessible way. Using Skype, a series of interactive (including all acquisitions and joint ventures excluding workshops were held to raise awareness of specific Weener Plastop Inc), regardless of the time since the hazards and best practice for their control. Workshops acquisition. included correct use and selection of knives, and improving knowledge of awareness of appropriate As indicated in the table below, our performance is safety gloves and safety eyewear for different not where it needs to be and we have established applications. Case studies were presented from a comprehensive set of lag and lead indicators within the business which encouraged sharing of best which have been cascaded as KPI's for all leaders in practice around the Group. operations across the group including our Executives. A dedicated campaign was released in November, Our implementation of the Lean operating model is titled Don’t Cross the Line!, as a refresher for all staff aligned to deliver safety, quality and service across on the basics of safety and the importance of safe each factory. We believe that a systematic approach to behaviours while working as the end of the year Operational Excellence will help us focus safety activity approached. This campaign was received well and and remove hazards from our environment. re-invigorated employees before moving into the We also measure Total Recordable Injury Frequency holiday period. Rate (TRIFR), which represents the number of lost time injuries and medically treated injuries recorded for every one million hours worked over a rolling 12 month period. Pact Group had no fatalities in FY17. Pact's TRIFR for FY17 is 22.5. *Note: as our reporting of data is focused on our total exposure at sites, we do not break our data into gender, region or employee type eg. contractors. We also do not currently collate lost day rate; absentee rate; or occupational disease rate (ODR). FY17 FY16 Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 5.8 4.9 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 17 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Workplace Health, Safety and Environment Our Towards Zero Harm and Work, Health and Safety System Environment systems operate under a 3 lines of KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y The integrated Work, Health and Safety Environment defence model for risk and control. The audit that (WHSE) has enabled greater management of occurs at site level are conducted by our Group Risk ISSUES each critical risk area, efficiency at sites, removes Team and are validated in a monthly scorecard across duplication, harmonises related business systems, the Group. Then each year we engage an independent policies and procedures at work. 3rd party to help prioritise assurance to our reposting. Towards Zero Harm defines the minimum standards Each site has a consolidated Safety and Environment Action Plan and progress is reported throughout the S TAKEHOLDER S and is applicable to all operations across the Group. Along with the manual, procedures and forms, we year as well as monitored at site level. These plans set have also integrated the WHSE and EMS Group and out to achieve the sites targets, and ultimately achieve have continued to audit all sites across the Group our strategic ambition of zero harm to people and the to enforce the new standard. We will continue to planet. complete the Group WHSE Audit program in FY17. We track and report on WHSE performance Incidents are reported by sites to the Group in 'realinternally on a monthly basis, and externally, along time' via telephone and our online incident reporting with our financial results, at both half and full year. Transparency is enhanced by posting the monthly PEOPLE tool. scorecard on our intranet and on site notice boards. Further information of the respective safety and environmental performance indicators can be found on pages 16, 20 and 22 of this Report. ENVIRONMENT Engaging our workers Discussion and consultation on key safety and environmental issues with workers across all areas of the Group is a priority. We have progressed a requirement to investigate all injuries to root cause and implement corrective actions. This allowed for key hazards in our workplaces to be assessed for risk and SOCIET Y appropriate remedial action to be taken. We continued to deliver awareness campaigns to each site comprising of webinars, posters and Tool Box Talks on dedicated safety and environmental topics. These campaigns support the broader engagement of workers and aim to influence behavioural change. ETHICS & Our workplace requires consultation arrangements to be in place. These arrangements help workers GOVERNANCE at all levels to raise questions, make suggestions and contribute to decision-making. Consultation arrangements generally include a site based WHSE ABOUT THIS REPORT Committee, which brings managers and workers together and helps to drive a positive workplace culture. GRI INDE X 18 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT The safety, health and wellbeing of our employees is central to our high performance culture. We understand that work can impact on all areas of our employees' lives, including the quality of our family life and overall lifestyle. Therefore, Pact has invested in several programs to promote and enhance employee health and wellbeing. Global Corporate Challenge The Pact Employee Assistance Program Since 2015 we have provided our employees with the The Pact Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a service opportunity to participate in the Corporate Challenge, offered to employees across Australia and New Zealand formally Global Corporate Challenge (GCC). to provide emotional, mental and general psychological support through access to counselling services. The Corporate Challenge is a 100 day virtual challenge that involves more than 300,000 people from around The service aims to provide preventative and proactive the world competing in teams to improve their intervention for the early detection, identification and physical and psychological health through a range of / or resolution of problems and concerns that may activities including walking, swimming and biking. As adversely affect an employee’s mental health and they become more active in the Challenge, participants wellbeing. move through different locations around the world. Onsite physiotherapy The Corporate Challenge also provides participants with an online platform to ensure that awareness, Our onsite physiotherapists focus on musculoskeletal education and motivation continue throughout the issues to offer services that combine knowledge of 12 month program. our organisation’s work environment, with expert physiotherapy and occupational rehabilitation to MAKING THE HE ALTH prevent and reduce injuries to our employees. An onsite occupational physiotherapy program has AND WELLBEING OF been implemented at the following Pact sites: OUR EMPLOYEES A VIP Laverton North, VIP Truganina, VIP Moorabbin, Alto Mulgrave and VIP Brendale. PRIORIT Y When an injury occurs at a Pact site, we focus on rehabilitation and safe return to work as soon as In FY17, Pact fielded 60 teams with seven employees possible. For non-work-related injuries, we aim to in each, to participate with more than 900 companies ensure that the employee does not aggravate their across 185 countries. Pact delivered a fantastic result, injury at work and is safe to carry out their normal achieving eighth place in the Manufacturing and duties. Operations category for the Asia-Pacific region. Three Year Safety Strategy Our aspirational three year safety strategy, Towards Zero Harm — Incident Free Workplace 2020, is guided by the following main objectives: 1. Leaders 2. Safety defining culture Management Systems 3. Capability Build on the existing commitment of Continue to the site focused Continue to develop all business leaders to focus on safety as implementation of the WHSE employees so that they are fully an integral component of the Group’s system, with a focus of integration equipped to manage and resolve Operational Excellence Program and of our system within our newly safety issues including application serious incidents reported and subject acquired businesses. of the Group’s formalised to Executive Management review. problem solving process. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 19 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES EN V IRONMEN T S TAKEHOLDER S REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPAC T FROM OUR MANUFAC TURING PROCESSES PEOPLE Pact’s Towards Zero Harm strategy encompasses our commitment to our planet too. ENVIRONMENT Across our operations we are specifically focused on conserving energy, minimising waste, preventing pollution and using raw materials wisely, to protect our planet for future generations. SOCIET Y ETHICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN SDGs GRI INDE X 20 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT Energy and emissions We use a number of energy sources when manufacturing Pact products, including electricity, natural gas, LPG, diesel and butane. In Australia we report our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and energy use through the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme. In FY17 Pact Group consumed 1,819,904 GJ of energy and emitted 305,406 tCO2e GHG emissions. The breakdown of this result is as follows: • Scope 1: 18,995 tCO2e • Scope 2: 286,411 tCO2e Australia/New Zealand Energy and Emission breakdown New Australia Zealand Total energy 1,351,520 327,889 consumed (GJ) Total GHG 268,559 11,937 emissions (tCO2e) Breakdown: Scope 1 (tCO2e) 16,018 2,936 Scope 2 (tCO2e) 252,541 9,001 * Greenhouse gas emissions were reported in accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol. ** Australian emission and energy content factors were derived from the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) (Measurement) Determination 2008 as amended. *** New Zealand emission and energy content factors were derived from Guidance for Voluntary Greenhouse Gas Reporting – 2016: Using Data and Methods from the 2014 Calendar Year. Wellington: Ministry for the Environment. **** Asia emission factors derived from the International Energy Agency 2016. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 21 A WORD FROM C A S E S T U DY Small Acts; OUR CEO Big Impacts WHO WE ARE AND Pact Group Energy Awareness Month June 2017 WHAT WE DO At Pact, we continually strive to improve energy efficiency across all our operations. To raise awareness amongst all employees, for the month of June 2017, we shone a spotlight on energy efficiency and identified simple actions all employees could take to reduce our collective consumption. The theme of our energy awareness campaign was Small Acts; KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES Big Impacts! The campaign was launched through Pact’s intranet and enterprise wide social networking tool Yammer. Each site also received a pack that included power switch decals, posters and Toolbox Talk summaries. S TAKEHOLDER S Decals were placed on the site’s most visible and frequently used light switches such as kitchens, bathrooms and lunchrooms. When decals were displayed, sites were asked to post a photo of it on Yammer. Sites also received information on how to reduce energy consumption by switching to light emitting diode (LED) lights. PEOPLE In June we also opened our internal reward and recognition program Applause, so employees could nominate ideas about what their site could do to be more energy efficient. Double ENVIRONMENT Light On a Power Side it! s Relief e both sid Printing and photocopying on both Trip? sides saves paper and energy and can save up to 75% on cost! Last out? Switch off the lights. Super simple. Save energy. If you are going to be away from your computer for an hour, shut it down. use both sides SOCIET Y Convey Light lea save Care the right image! Relief ks energy About OFF Last out? Switch off the lights. Super simple. Air! Turn conveyors OFF when Save energy. machines are shut down. Look and listen for compressed air leaks. repor t h i nk, act, s t ave ETHICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 22 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT ACROSS ALL OUR SITES, WE USE INTERNAL REC YCLING PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS. Materials and waste Waste Materials Pact is committed to reducing and eliminating waste Pact produces and packages a diverse range of from our operations, which has been a primary products and environmental sustainability is a key focus of the Operational Excellence Lean Program. consideration for us. This commitment is assisted by our aim to produce packaging that is 100% recyclable. Primary raw materials used to manufacture products are resin for plastics based products, and steel All of our sites have implemented internal recycling coil and tin plate for steel products. In FY17 we processes and systems. Our waste management consumed approximately 200,000 tonnes of these providers work with us to minimise waste and recycle materials. as much as possible. Materials we most commonly recycle include paper, cardboard, steel, plastic, used oil, Recycled resin is used in place of virgin resin, where steel drums and intermediate bulk containers (IBCs). customer requirements can be met and product specifications allow the usage. Of all resin consumed High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) and Polypropylene in FY17, 4% was recycled resin. (PP) plastics are collected and recycled by our Sustainability Services Division, in Australia and New Zealand. Any non-recyclable waste is sent to landfill and all hazardous waste is collected via licenced hazardous waste contractors, and processed according to local legislation. Of all waste generated across the Group in FY17, 57% was diverted from landfill via recycling. C A S E S T U DY LED light replacement In FY17, VIP Packaging (Villawood) undertook a lighting upgrade project. The metered results show the upgrade to LED More than 600 of its existing lights, including old metal halide high bay lighting will save an estimated 980,000 kWh lights used in production and warehouse areas were replaced with when extrapolated for the whole year. This is the modern energy efficient light emitting diode (LED) lights that comply equivalent of 826t of CO2e being emitted to the with external certification requirements, are less of a fire risk, and have atmosphere, which could be offset by planting: a five year (30,000 hour) warranty. The upgrade also involved replacing lights in office and external areas and involved installed motion sensors where suitable. The site utilised of the NSW Government’s Energy Savings Scheme (ESS), a program that provides money to businesses investing in technologies to reduce their energy use. For every megawatt hour (MWh) saved, the site received a discount on the lighting they purchase. 1,239 To help verify the energy savings, sub-metering of electricity on lighting distribution boards and circuits was commissioned, which measured consumption two weeks before and after the LED lights were installed. TREES PER YEAR 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 23 C A S E S T U DY A WORD FROM OUR CEO Waste Reduction Through Adopting Lean WHO WE ARE AND Manufacturing Techniques WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES S TAKEHOLDER S PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT In FY17, Pact site Viscount (Minto) commenced implementing Lean manufacturing techniques in line with the Group’s growth strategy pillar of Operational Excellence and Efficiency. The site was already using SOCIET Y regrind and repalletized material so finding additional opportunities to reduce waste was the challenge. By following the Lean philosophy and process, the site tracked by shift how much waste it was ETHICS & producing and the necessary actions to undertake to resolve any issues. To maximise the site’s recoveries, each shift was held to account to explain any variances and, the corrective actions that they GOVERNANCE took to resolve them or; handover to the next shift with recommendations. Hour by hour boards are used on machines with intermittent reject faults to narrow down the root cause. Corrective actions that were unable to be implemented in 24 hours were raised at tier two meeting. ABOUT THIS REPORT When the root cause was established, resources were allocated to resolve the issue or, or a longerterm strategy to stop reoccurrences with planned repairs was established. This simple yet disciplined approach to resolve rejects and reduce waste resulted in the site achieving less than 2% in FY17. In FY18, the target is less than 1%. GRI INDE X 24 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT PAC T IS COMMIT TED TO REDUCING AND ELIMINATING WA STE FROM OUR OPER ATIONS, WHICH HA S BEEN A PRIMARY FOCUS OF THE OPER ATIONAL E XCELLENCE LEAN PROGR AM 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 25 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES SOCIE T Y S TAKEHOLDER S INVESTING IN PROGR AMS THAT POSITIVELY IMPAC T THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE WORK PEOPLE Having a positive impact on the communities in which we operate is central to the way Pact operates. We believe there is a link between a healthy ENVIRONMENT community, a growing economy and the success of our business SOCIET Y ETHICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN SDGs GRI INDE X 26 2017 SUSTAINABILITY PACT SUS TAINABILITREPORT Y REPORT 2017 IN V E S T ING IN COMMUNI T Y INI TI ATI V E S and activ itie s We actively participate in our local communities by supporting several community initiatives that align with our product and service offering, Ronald McDonald House Charities — Australia and geographic footprint and New Zealand stakeholder groups. Pact continues to partner with Ronald McDonald House Charities (RMHC) to provide child and family welfare support, following feedback from our annual Employee Engagement Community Giving Program Survey, that this is a cause close to our employees’ hearts. At Pact, we actively encourage a spirit of generosity in our employees. Our Community Giving Program With 16 locations around Australia and three in New Zealand, enables Pact employees to nominate a chosen charity Ronald McDonald Houses offer a home-away-from-home, giving they feel passionate about to receive one of the families somewhere more comfortable to stay than a waiting following: room, chair on a ward, or in their car while their seriously ill children are being cared for in hospital. • Product donation • Fundraising contribution • Monetary donation matching scheme (Pact will match an employee’s personal donation to their chosen charity, doubling the contribution made) • Direct sponsorship Cancer Council’s ‘Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea’ Following are some of the initiatives we have Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea is an annual feature of the Pact supported in FY17. calendar, providing an opportunity for workmates to come Given the breadth of Pact’s community programs together, share a cup of tea and help those affected by cancer. and initiatives we do not quantify the percentage We are proud to have raised more than $77,000 since hosting of Group operations with implemented community our first Morning Tea event, nine years ago, helping provide engagement, impact assessments and development funds for vital cancer research, prevention and support services programs. We do acknowledge this position may across Australia. This year we donated more than $7,000. change in future years as Group projects evolve. Ongoing support to WasteAid Pact's Sulo brand, is proud to continue its involvement with non-profit organisation WasteAid, which provides basic waste services to disadvantaged areas of Australia, predominantly assisting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander populations. Sulo has provided waste bins for various projects and Pact is proud to continue to provide further support to WasteAid as it continues to implement its waste services throughout remote communities. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 27 A WORD FROM C A S E S T U DY Ronald McDonald House OUR CEO Welcome Care Packs WHO WE ARE AND In FY16, Pact Group announced its partnership with Ronald McDonald House Charities (RMHC). RMHC is an independent WHAT WE DO charity that provides a ‘home away from home’ for families of seriously ill children being treated at nearby hospitals. There are 16 Ronald McDonald Houses in Australia. When families arrive at RMH, they have often left their homes KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y urgently and don’t have many of the essentials for living for an extended period away from their home. To help ease their transition, in FY16, Pact Group through its contract ISSUES manufacturing subsidiary Jalco, provided more than 6,000 personalised care packs consisting of a shampoo, conditioner, and body wash to families upon their arrival. The picture on the front of the bottles was drawn by Ester (age S TAKEHOLDER S 10) to represent the families staying at the house. Ester recently stayed at of RMHC’s Parkville House while receiving treatment at The Royal Children Hospital. PEOPLE Australian Marine Conservation Society Royal Flying Doctor Service’s Outback Car Trek Pact has supported the Australian Marine For the last six years, Pact has sponsored and ENVIRONMENT Conservation Society (AMCS) for a number of years participated in The Outback Car Trek. The Trek is an as it is Australia's only national charity dedicated annual motoring event organised to raise money for exclusively to protecting ocean wildlife. A key Australia’s Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS), which component AMCS campaigns is to give our oceans delivers primary health care and emergency services to the best chance of resilience against climate those who live and work in remote and rural Australia. change impacts. If we can keep our oceans in the Sponsoring the Trek entry of our customer Lion, we healthiest and most natural state, without pressures contributed significantly to help fund the purchase of SOCIET Y from overfishing and pollution, then they will have medical equipment and the rollout of the RFDS TOOTH increased ability to cope with these changes. program, which delivers dental services to regional communities. Our Salient site also provides partsponsorship of customer PAX’s entry in the event. ETHICS & GOVERNANCE Harman Foundation Pact’s Power Plastics brand commenced a partnership with the Harman Foundation in FY17. The vision of Harman Foundation is to provide ABOUT THIS REPORT assistance to members of the community who are subject to emotional trauma, anxiety, stress and suffering caused through unforeseen circumstances due to loss of a family member. Since its inception, the Foundation has continued to evolve into a web of cost-free community support services, delivered by a committed group of volunteers, to address a range of individual and group needs, issues and concerns. GRI INDE X 28 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT PRODUC T stewardship Product stewardship Life cycle assessments Pact conceives, designs and manufactures packaging A life cycle assessment (LCA) is an internationally for many products in the average home, allowing us recognised approach to assessing the environmental to store, transport, consume and preserve a diverse impacts of a product, process or activity through its life range of products at our convenience. cycle; from the extraction of raw materials through to processing, transport, use and disposal. Our vision is to enrich lives every day through sustainable packaging solutions and this philosophy Pact measures the environmental impact of underpins everything we do when designing our each stage of the package life cycle with a range packaging. of evaluations including Sustainable Packaging Guidelines’ assessments, PIQET® assessments, and Pact is a signatory to the Australian Packaging LCAs to ensure sustainability remains at the core of Covenant (APC). The APC is a sustainable packaging our packaging philosophy and supply chain. initiative between government and industry, which aims to change the culture of business to design more sustainable packaging, increase recycling rates and reduce packaging litter. As a signatory, Pact lodges an Annual Report with the APC, which is completed for the reporting period. Sustainable packaging design At Pact we focus on the entire life cycle of our packaging, with the objective of providing a complete and returnable packaging solution, generating efficiencies for our customers and reducing environmental impact. This means recognising that packaging has a life after the contents are consumed and it can be repurposed, reconditioned or recycled. Although packaging can be ‘single use’ in terms of its primary purpose, smart design and manufacturing helps us ensure it can be repurposed and continue onto the next phase of its life cycle without negatively impacting upon the environment. We try to design our packaging not only to suit the product, but to ensure that its end-of-life management suits existing recycling systems, collection programs and kerbside recycling. We utilise the most appropriate materials, eliminating harmful substances wherever possible, and label our products with advice for appropriate end-of-life disposal so they do not become an environmental concern in the future. We also provide a range of sustainability, recycling and environmental services to help our customers reduce the environmental impact of their product packaging and related processes. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 29 A WORD FROM PAC T IS PROUD TO BE ONE OF THE L ARGEST OUR CEO REC YCLERS OF RESIN IN AUSTR ALIA AND NEW ZE AL AND. REC YCLING PL A STIC MAKES SENSE ECOLOGIC ALLY AND ECONOMIC ALLY — FOR OUR CUSTOMERS, OURSELVES AND OUR COMMUNIT Y. WHO WE ARE AND IT REDUCES WA STE AND SAVES COSTS. WHAT WE DO Recycling resin Intermediate bulk container (IBCs) We collect and clean industrial plastic scrap in Pact is also a leading IBC service provider in Australia KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y Australia and in New Zealand, break it down, granulate and New Zealand. IBCs are collected and cleaned and extrude it. Once processed, we return the using specially designed equipment, and as a ISSUES reprocessed plastic to the original source (tolling); sell result, are able to be used multiple times. In some it as graded plastic resin; or convert it into second circumstances where the inner bottle cannot be generation products including underground cable cleaned, it can be removed from the steel cage and covers, piping and slip sheets. replaced with a new bottle. S TAKEHOLDER S We commonly recycle high density polyethylene In FY17 Pact has collected more than 120,000 used (HDPE) and polypropylene (PP), and we also handle IBCs for reconditioning. other grades of plastic. drumMUSTER Drum reconditioning drumMUSTER is a national product stewardship Pact is one of the leading drum reconditioners in program, supported by chemical manufacturers and Australia and New Zealand, supplying and collecting industry stakeholders, to collect and recycle hard-toboth steel and plastic drums for reconditioning. Both recycle chemical containers. PEOPLE open head and closed head drums are collected, Prior to the program, these containers were typically cleaned, reshaped and repainted into reconditioned sent to landfill or burned/buried on farms. Since its drums that have the same functional characteristics inception in 1998, drumMUSTER has recycled more of most new drums. Reconditioning drums in this than 20 million containers. manner replaces the need to manufacture new drums (which are made from new steel and plastic), As a participant in the drumMUSTER program, ENVIRONMENT which greatly reduces the overall impact on the Pact collects more than 400,000 plastic drums environment. (approximately 410 tonnes of material) every year. By diverting this waste from landfill and reprocessing it, In the past 12 months, Pact has collected more than Pact is helping minimise damage to the environment. one million used steel drums for reconditioning with 80% of these reconditioned into good-as-new drums for reuse and the remaining 20% sent to steel recyclers. SOCIET Y ETHICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 30 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT PROUD TO BE NAMED ONE OF AUSTR ALIA’S MOST INNOVATIVE COMPANIES In FY17, for the fourth consecutive year, Pact Group has been named one of Australia’s most innovative companies on the AFR Most Innovative Companies List. Innovation is at the heart of Pact Inpact Innovation is Pact’s internal innovation division and was created as a standalone business within the Group, designed to help Pact customers win in their categories. The cross-functional team includes industrial designers and engineers, inventors, marketing and other specialists to challenge conventional thinking and identity new opportunities through insight-led innovation. Our unique combination of proprietary technology, state-of-the art manufacturing, leading intellectual property (IP), innovative design know-how and engineering capability enables Pact to deliver superior, sustainable packaging solutions, making Pact the supplier of choice. Inpact's Innovation Model CRE ATE SOURCE ENGINEER MANUFAC TURE The creative process Pact searches the world Concepts are transitioned Pact has the starts with category to find and secure the from sketched illustrations manufacturing mapping to gain latest technological on a page to full 3D capabilities and an insight into the innovations so we can rendering and tool design. technological knowcompetitive environments deliver world-class Our engineers manage how to take Inpact’s in which our customers packaging solutions and each step of the process, creative concepts to the operate. We identify the designs. Our innovation taking the project from the commercial world. key influences of brand, and technical teams work conceptual phase through product, packaging design collaboratively to ensure to implementation. and retail navigation. each design challenge All aspects of making Throughout the process, is considered from all the concept more consumers remains the angles. If we do not environmentally central focus so we can already hold the solution, sustainable are considered better understand their we will find a way to make from lightweighting behaviour and improve it happen. via material reduction, their experience. The material switching and use insights extracted during of recycled content. this process guide our strategic innovation. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 31 chain A WORD FROM OUR CEO OUR SUPPLY WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Raw material Manufacturing OUR FOCUS ON KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y SUSTAINABILIT Y C ARRIES THROUGH TO ISSUES THE 5,000 SUPPLIERS WE WORK WITH Processor Customer INDUSTRIAL AROUND THE GLOBE S TAKEHOLDER S PACKAGING SUPPLY CHAIN Responsible procurement Our supply chain is relatively streamlined and as a result represents low risk, due to the nature of our Industrial collection / recycling Farm / mines etc. business and the fact our key raw materials make up approximately 50% of our total manufacturing costs. However, as a global business, and in-line with the PEOPLE supply chain requirements of our customers, and our commitment to conduct our business responsibly with integrity, our Quality Policy ensures we consistently meet and surpass international standards across all our operations. ENVIRONMENT Raw material Manufacturing We also assess the suitability of new suppliers based on their ability to meet our Supplier Code of Conduct, to ensure our suppliers uphold strict ethical, social and environmental principles. Retrospective Recycle Customer assessments of existing suppliers are also regularly carried out. SOCIET Y Both our Quality Policy and Supplier Code of RETAIL Conduct can be found on the Pact website: Kerbside PACKAGING Distribution www.pactgroup.com.au/sustainability. recycle SUPPLY CHAIN Centre ETHICS & Consumer Retail GOVERNANCE Landﬁll ABOUT THIS REPORT This diagram visually represents our industrial and retail packaging supply chains. GRI INDE X 32 2017 SUSTAINABILITY PACT SUS TAINABILITREPORT Y REPORT 2016 P R O D U C T L I G H T W E I G H T I N G C A S E S T U DY Shampoo and conditioner bottles In FY17 Pact reduced the weight of four variants of a major customers' HDPE shampoo and conditioner bottles by an average of 22% from the former bottles. This represents a saving of 56 tonnes of HDPE per year. The environmental savings generated by this initiative are equivalent to the weight of: 34 CARS C A S E S T U DY Pact’s RPET Moisturelock Meat tray wins 2017 Sustainable Packaging & Processing Award Pact Group’s recycled polyethylene terephthalate (rPET) Moisturelock meat tray won the Sustainable Packaging & Processing Award at the 2017 Australian Institute of Packaging’s Innovation and Design Awards (PIDA’s). The PIDA’s recognise companies designing innovative packaging and processing materials and solutions within the food, beverage, health, beauty & wellness and domestic and household markets. The Sustainable Packaging & Processing Design Awards are designed to recognise companies that have developed innovative packaging or processing solutions that incorporate sustainability considerations. Elements include social, material, source reduction, energy and recovery. Pact’s rPET Moisturelock meat tray comprises 50% recycled material and is accepted by every kerbside recycling scheme. It is made from clear plastic, not black, so it can be easily separated in the recycling centres. The real innovation however lies in the tray’s ability to capture fluid in the base. The little ‘dimples’ in the bottom of the tray hold the fluid even when it is tilted or turned upside down. P R O D U C T L I G H T W E I G H T I N G C A S E S T U DY Dairy closures In FY17, Pact lightweighted a 38mm dairy closure from 2.9 grams to 1.7 grams. This represents a weight reduction of 41% from the former closure and a saving of 276 tonnes of HDPE per annum. Annual environmental savings generated by this initiative are equivalent to water usage of: 9.8 OLYMPIC SIZED SWIMMING POOLS 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 33 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES E T HIC S A ND S TAKEHOLDER S GOV ER N A NCE CONDUC TING OUR BUSINESS PEOPLE RESPONSIBLY, WITH INTEGRIT Y Pact is committed to high standards of business ethics, which centre on the premise of acting responsibly and ENVIRONMENT conducting our business with integrity. As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact we continuously work to align our operations and business strategy to its 10 principles and dedicate ourselves to leading the way in corporate governance best practice. SOCIET Y ETHICS & GOVERNANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN SDGs GRI INDE X 34 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT E THIC A L conduct OUR GROUP CODE OF CONDUC T DEMONSTR ATES OUR COMMITMENT TO CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y AND OPER ATING WITH INTEGRIT Y. Ethical conduct Our Code of Conduct outlines how the Group Equal Opportunity, Harassment and expects its representatives to behave and conduct Bullying Policy business in the workplace. It provides a benchmark We are committed to being an equal opportunity for professional behaviour to support the Group’s employer and will not tolerate unlawful discrimination, business reputation and corporate image within harassment, bullying, vilification or victimisation in the community. It covers key topics including: the workplace. Our Equal Opportunity, Harassment conflicts of interest; anti-bribery and corruption; gifts and Bullying Policy sets out our expectations for high and commissions; facilitation payments; political standards of behaviour in the workplace and the contributions and securities trading. procedures for making complaints and investigating It applies to all business activities involving suppliers, issues relating to unlawful discrimination, harassment contractors, customers, shareholders and employees or bullying. in Australia and overseas. The Code encourages the Whistleblower Policy reporting of unethical behaviour, breaches of policy This supports the Pact Group’s Code of Conduct and or company values. The related processes are further is designed to promote and reinforce the Group’s outlined in the Group Whistleblower Policy below. culture of honest and ethical behaviour. The purpose Supporting the Code of Conduct is a range of Group of this policy is to encourage employees to raise policies designed to ensure compliance with Laws and concerns about misconduct, malpractice, irregularities Regulations. or any other behaviour which is dishonest, corrupt, illegal or inconsistent with any of the Pact Group’s Environmental Policy values. It also sets out how the Pact Group intends to Our Environmental Policy sets out our commitment to make sure a Whistleblower is protected for reporting continuously improve the environmental performance unacceptable behaviour. of our operations and services. Supplier Code of Conduct Quality Policy Conducting our business ethically and with integrity Our Quality Policy outlines our commitment to operate includes looking at our supply chain. Our suppliers our business in a manner that meets international must comply with all local laws and legislation and quality standards. must declare all instances where the manufacture of Work health and safety policy our goods is outsourced. The Group is committed to ensuring all work is Privacy Policy completed incident and injury free, in line with our Protecting our stakeholder’s privacy is important to us strategic ambition Towards Zero Harm. This policy and this explains how Pact Group Ltd and its wholly provides an overview of the Company’s commitment owned subsidiaries manage personal information. to workplace health and safety and what is expected of employees and others. The Code and Group policies are available on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/sustainability. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 35 A WORD FROM OUR CEO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Financial transparency Tax transparency KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Pact Group’s approach to tax is governed by the Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy outlines the following three principles: ISSUES standard of appropriate behaviours in respect to this topic. Training on the applicable laws has been • Pact pays tax where the underlying economic provided to relevant Executive and Senior Managers. activity occurs. We continue to focus on this and are further • Pact does not hide assets or income through developing and enhancing tools and procedures to secrecy provisions. S TAKEHOLDER S mitigate risk. • Pact does not shift profits to low or zero-tax During the reporting period, we have not had jurisdictions. any incidents in which employees or contracts These principles are enforced through a tax with business partners have been investigated or governance policy that ensures the Board reviews and terminated due to corruption. signs off on all significant tax decisions, and a tax risk The Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy is available on management framework that guides management in the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/investor/ the day-to-day management of tax issues. corporate-governance/policies-and-standards. PEOPLE A Report outlining our approach to taxation and Competition and Consumer Act Compliance providing details about the taxes we paid in FY15 Policy was published during FY17 to help our stakeholders understand our tax paying position. The Report Our Competition and Consumer Act Compliance Policy includes information on income and other taxes states Pact’s commitment to acting in accordance with ENVIRONMENT we have paid, to provide a clearer picture of our the obligations under the Competition and Consumer contribution to the Australian community. It is Act 2010 (CCA) and Commerce Act 1986. Pact places intended that a similar report will be prepared for great importance on compliance with this key area future years. as it impacts how we deal with our competitors, suppliers, and customers. Further information and a copy of Pact’s FY15 Tax Transparency Report can be found on the website here: All of our Executives, Senior Managers, sales team www.pactgroup.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/ and other relevant employees have completed online SOCIET Y Pact-Tax-Transparency-Report-2015_V2.pdf. Self-Administered Legal Training (SALT) and refresher training is delivered every year. Political contributions and activities A breach of the CCA can result in significant penalties Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of corporate (to both the Company and individuals) and significant funds for political purposes. Pact does not contribute damage to the Company’s goodwill and reputation any monies to any candidate for election to a political party. ETHICS & in the marketplace. During the reporting period, we have not had any legal action pending or completed We do not prohibit political activity undertaken by regarding anti-competitive behaviour in which the an employee in their own individual, private capacity; GOVERNANCE Group has been identified as a participant. There have however, to eliminate any appearance of coercion been no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions in such political activities, it is prohibited for any for non-compliance with laws and regulations in supervisor to solicit funds from a subordinate for ABOUT THIS REPORT relation to competition law. political purposes. Pact supports the involvement of its employees in community activities and professional organisations. However, outside activity must not create a conflict (or the appearance of a conflict) of interest. GRI INDE X 36 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT COR POR AT E GOV ER N A NCE & R I SK Board management Human rights The Board of Directors are responsible for the overall United Nations Global Compact corporate governance of Pact Group. The Board’s The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a role is to ensure that the Group is properly managed, strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to protect and enhance shareholder interests, and to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 to ensure the Group operates in an appropriate universally accepted principles in the areas of human environment of control and corporate governance. rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Board is comprised of a non-Executive Chairman, As a signatory to the UNGC, Pact Group upholds four independent non-Executive Directors, and an the principles of universal human rights, including Executive Director. accessibility, non-discrimination and labour rights across all of our operations. This is demonstrated Board members have extensive experience in a through the Group’s Code of Conduct, which requires range of relevant industries, including manufacturing, the fair and equitable treatment of all Pact stakeholders finance, information technology, operations and public and outlines the responsibilities of all employees in company experience. accordance with this. Further information and biographies of the Group’s It is also supported in our Equal Opportunity, Board members are available in the Annual Report, Harassment and Bullying Policy, mentioned earlier, in which is located on the Pact website: www.pactgroup. which Pact is committed to being an equal opportunity com.au/investor/leadership/board-of-directors. employer and to ensuring our workplace is free of The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to unlawful discrimination, harassment and bullying. two governance sub-committees, which are chaired by We note that there has been one incident of independent Directors. discrimination during the reporting period. There have The Nomination and Remuneration Committee and been no grievances about human rights impacts filed the Audit, Business Risk and Compliance Committee through formal grievance mechanisms during the have defined responsibilities detailed in their reporting period. respective charters. These charters can be viewed Our corporate induction, which all new salaried on the Pact website: www.pactgroup.com.au/investor/ employees complete, covers our expectations with corporate-governance/board-and-committee-charters. regards to the Group and employees upholding the principles of universal human rights. Risk management We lodged our annual UNGC Communications on Pact promotes best practice risk management across Progress in December 2016 which can be downloaded our business, covering a variety of risks, including from the UNGC website: www.unglobalcompact.org. but not limited to: operational; environmental; sustainability; compliance; strategic; ethical conduct; Child and forced labour reputation or brand; technological product or service As a signatory to the UNGC we are committed to quality; human capital; financial reporting and market supporting the abolishment of child labour and forced related risks. labour worldwide. Pact’s Risk Management Policy sets out our As a business, our Code of Conduct and other Group commitment to managing all risks in a proactive policies condemn and resolutely prohibit child and and effective manner. The Policy is complemented forced labour. There have been no incidents of child by our Risk Management Framework, which requires or forced labour within the Group that we are aware the identification and mitigation of risks to ensure of during the reporting period. business continuity, protect the Group’s reputation, Supplier Ethical Database Exchange (Sedex) inform management decisions and drive competitive advantage. The Framework is based on ISO31000 Risk Sedex is a secure online database that allows Management Principles. The Risk Management Policy members to store, share and report on four key areas is available on the website. www.pactgroup.com.au/ including labour standards, health and safety, the investor/corporate-governance/policies-and-standards. environment and business ethics. Further information on our corporate governance It is a simple and effective way of managing ethical practices can be found in the Corporate Governance and responsible practices across the supply chain. Statement on the website. www.pactgroup.com.au/ A number of our sites have completed a Sedex investor/corporate-governance/policies-and-standards. Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA). Sedex is currently a tender requirement for some of our customers, and enables Pact to display our sustainability credentials within their supply chain. 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 37 A WORD FROM OUR CEO A BOU T WHO WE ARE AND this Report WHAT WE DO KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y ISSUES This Sustainability Report for Pact Group Holdings Ltd has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 version). This Report is in accordance S TAKEHOLDER S with “core” GRI guidelines and no information is restated and no changes have been identified. The information contained in this Report relates to sites wholly owned and operated by Pact Group Holdings Ltd (“Pact” or “the Company”) and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“the Group”). All data relates to the 12 month period or the status as at 30 June 2017 (FY17), unless otherwise stated. PEOPLE All monetary amounts in the Report are stated in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. Information integrity and verification Pact’s Executive and Senior Management are responsible ENVIRONMENT for the preparation and integrity of the information in this Report. We believe this Report fairly represents our sustainability performance during FY17. Further information Further information regarding Pact’s sustainability performance is communicated through various channels including: • www.pactgroup.com.au SOCIET Y • The Annual Report • The Annual General Meeting • Disclosures to the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), company code (PGH). ETHICS & Previous Sustainability and Annual Reports can be downloaded from the Investor section of our website: GOVERNANCE www.pactgroup.com.au/sustainability. If you have any questions or feedback, please email: info@pactgroup.com.au ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X Pact Group Holdings Ltd ABN 55 145 989 644 38 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE SUMMARY INDE X Pact’s 2017 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 version). The following table summarises Pact’s performance against “core” GRI guidelines. General Standard Disclosures Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page Disclosure status Strategy and Analysis 1 G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker in the organisation Fully A word from our CEO G4-2 Impacts and Risks summary Fully Key sustainability issues, Corporate Governance & Risk Management 4, 36 Organisational profile G4-3 Organisation name Fully About this report 37 G4-4 Primary products, services Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-5 Head office location Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-6 Countries of operation Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-7 Ownership and legal form Fully About this report 37 G4-8 Markets served Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-9 Scale of organisation Fully Who we are and what we do 2 G4-10 Employee structure / breakdown Fully Diversity 10 G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining power Fully Industrial relations 12 G4-12 Supply chain description Fully Responsible Procurement 31 G4-13 Significant changes to organisation Fully About this report 37 G4-14 Overall approach to managing operational risk Fully Corporate Governance & Risk Management 36 G4-15 External charters, principles, initiatives subscribed to Fully Human rights, product stewardship 36, 28 G4-16 Active in external memberships Fully Human rights, product stewardship 36, 28 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Who is covered by this report Fully About this report 37 G4-18 Boundaries of this report Fully About this report 37 G4-19 Material aspects identified Fully GRI Index Specific Standard Disclosures 38 G4-20 Aspect boundaries relevancy to entities inside organisation Fully Key Sustainability issues 3 G4-21 Aspect boundaries relevancy to entities outside organisation Fully Key Sustainability issues 3 G4-22 Any restatements of previously reported information Fully About this report 37 G4-23 Any significant changes since last report Fully About this report 37 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders Fully Stakeholders 6 G4-25 Reason stakeholders chosen Fully Stakeholders 6 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Fully Stakeholders 6 G4-27 Issues raised by stakeholder groups Fully Key sustainability issues 4,5 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Fully About this report 37 G4-29 Date of previous report (if any) Fully About this report 37 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Fully About this report 37 G4-31 Contact for any questions regarding this report Fully About this report 37 G4-32 In accordance with Fully About this report 37 G4-33 Approach to external assurance Fully About this report Governance G4-34 Governance structure Fully Corporate governance & Risk Management 36 G4-35 Process for delegating authority economic, environmental & social topics Fully Corporate governance & Risk Management 36 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles and standards e.g. code of conduct Fully Ethical conduct Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page Disclosure status Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Why economic performance is material Fully Our Materiality Process 3 G4-EC1 Local economic value revenue, employees, community Fully 2017 Annual Report Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Materials policy Partially Materials and waste 22 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight non-renewable, renewable Partially Materials and waste 22 Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Energy policy Partially Energy and emissions 20 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within organisation Partially Energy and emissions 20 Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Emissions policy Fully Energy and emissions 20 G4-EN15 Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 20 G4-EN16 Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions Partially Energy and emissions 20 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 39 GLOBAL REPORTING A WORD FROM INITIATIVE OUR CEO SUMMARY INDE X WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Specific Standard Disclosures (continued) Standard Description Reporting Report heading Page Disclosure status Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Effluents and waste policy Fully Materials and waste 22 KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Partially Materials and waste 22 Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Environmental impacts policy from product & services Fully Product stewardship 28 ISSUES G4-EN27 Impacts and mitigation of impacts from product & services Partially Product stewardship 28 Material Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms Category: Social Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Workforce & labour practices and policies Fully Workforce breakdown 8 G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave and retention rates Partially Parental leave 11 S TAKEHOLDER S Material Aspect: Labour/Management relations G4-DMA Labour / management relations policy Fully Industrial relations 12 Material Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety G4-DMA OHS policy Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 16 G4-LA6 Injuries, rates, days lost Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 16 G4-LA7 Workers with high risk jobs Fully Safety, Health, and wellbeing 16 Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal opportunity G4-DMA Diversity & equal opportunity policy Fully Diversity 9 G4-LA12 Governance and workforce breakdown Fully Diversity 9 Material Aspect: Equal remuneration G4-DMA Equal remuneration policy Fully Diversity 9 PEOPLE G4-LA13 Gender remuneration breakdown by job category Partially Diversity 9 Material Aspect: Labour practices grievance mechanisms Sub-category: Human Rights Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Human rights policy Fully Human rights 36 G4-HR2 Percentage and number of hours employees trained in human rights Partially Human rights 36 Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-DMA Non-discrimination policy Fully Human rights 36 ENVIRONMENT G4-HR3 Number of discrimination incidents, resolutions Fully Human rights 36 Material Aspect: Freedom of association and Collective bargaining G4-DMA Freedom of association & collective bargaining policy Fully Industrial relations 12 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers violating this right Partially Industrial relations 12 Material Aspect: Child labour G4-DMA Child labour policy Fully Human rights 36 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers with incidents of child labour Partially Human rights 36 Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory labour G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labour policy Fully Human rights 36 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers with incidents of forced labour Partially Human rights 36 Material Aspect: Supplier human rights grievance mechanisms SOCIET Y G4-DMA Policy for human rights grievance mechanism Fully Human rights 36 G4-HR12 Percentage and number of supplier human rights grievances Partially Human rights 36 Sub-category: Society Material Aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Community investment and engagement policy Fully Community 26 G4-SO1 Percentage operations with community engagement & development Partially Human rights 36 Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Anti-corruption policy Fully Ethical conduct 34 ETHICS & G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Fully Ethical conduct 34 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption, resolution Fully Ethical conduct 34 GOVERNANCE Material Aspect: Public policy G4-DMA Political contribution policy Fully Financial Transparency 35 G4-SO6 Value of political contributions, broken down Fully Ethical conduct 35 Material Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour G4-DMA Anti-competitive behaviour policy Fully Ethical conduct 35 G4-SO7 Number of legal actions from anti-competitive behaviour Fully Ethical conduct 35 Material Aspect: Compliance ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-SO8 Value of fines from non-compliance Fully Ethical conduct 35 GRI INDE X 40 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the Management and Directors of Pact Group Holdings Limited (Pact Group) Our Conclusion: We were engaged by Pact Group to undertake limited assurance (here after referred to as a ‘review’) over selected safety and environment performance metrics included in its 2017 Sustainability Report for the year ended 30 June 2017. Based on the work we performed, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that the selected safety and environment performance metrics have not been prepared and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined below. What our review covered Our approach to conducting the review We reviewed a selection of safety metrics for Pact Group and a We conducted this review in accordance with the International selection of environment performance metrics for Pact Group’s Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Australian and New Zealand operations included in its 2017 Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Sustainability Report, as shown in the table below: Information (‘ISAE 3000’) and the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with Pact Group on 13 June 2017. Performance metric Report page Summary of review procedures performed Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 16 A review consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for preparing the selected safety and environment performance metrics and related information, and applying Safety Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) 16 analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with Fatalities 16 Australian Auditing Standards and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, Total scope 1 and scope 2 emissions (t.CO 2-e) 20 we do not express an audit opinion. Environment Our procedures included: ► Conducted interviews with personnel to understand the Total energy consumption (GJ) 20 business and reporting process ► Conducted interviews with key personnel to understand the The subject matter did not include: process for collecting, collating and reporting the Selected Performance Data during the reporting period ► Data sets, statements, information, systems or approaches ► Checked that the calculation criteria have been correctly other than the Selected Performance Data and related applied in accordance with the methodologies outlined in the disclosures Criteria ► Management’s forward looking statements ► Undertook analytical review procedures to support the reasonableness of the data ► Any comparisons made against historical data. ► Identified and tested assumptions supporting calculations Criteria applied by Pact Group ► Tested, on a sample basis, underlying source information to In preparing the selected safety and environment performance check the accuracy of the data. metrics, Pact Group applied: We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate ► The World Business Council for Sustainable Development and to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusions. World Resources Institute's Greenhouse Gas Protocol Revised Edition ► National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Amendment Determination 2016 (No. 1) Ernst & Young ► Climate Change (Stationary Energy and Industrial Processes) Melbourne, Australia Regulations 2009 15 September 2017 ► Climate Change (Liquid Fossil Fuels) Regulations 2008 ► Climate Change (Unique Emissions Factor) Regulations 2009 Limited Assurance Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in ► Pact Group’s publicly disclosed criteria. nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable Key responsibilities assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower EY’s responsibility and independence than the assurance that would have been obtained had a Our responsibility was to express a conclusion on the select safety reasonable assurance engagement been performed. and environment performance metrics based on our review. While we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, We were also responsible for maintaining our independence and our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance confirm that we have met the independence requirements of the on internal controls. Our procedures did not include testing controls APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants and have or performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or the required competencies and experience to conduct this calculation of data within IT systems. assurance engagement. Use of our Assurance Statement Pact Group’s responsibility We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this Pact Group’s management (“management”) was responsible for assurance report to any persons other than management and the selecting the Criteria, and preparing and fairly presenting the Directors of Pact Group, or for any purpose other than that for which selected safety and environment performance metrics in it was prepared. accordance with that Criteria. This responsibility includes You may not disclose this assurance report externally without our establishing and maintaining internal controls, adequate records prior written consent. and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation A WORD FROM WHO WE ARE AND KE Y SUS TAINABILIT Y S TAKEHOLDER S PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT SOCIET Y ETHICS & ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDE X 41 OUR CEO WHAT WE DO ISSUES GOVERNANCE 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 SUS TAINABILIT Y REPORT 41 6/650 Church Street, Richmond VIC 3121 Australia Telephone +61 3 8825 4100 www.pactgroup.com.au
