The cover and paper inside the report acquired the FSC™(Forest Stewardship Council®) mark to qualify as eco-friendly paper. SK Chemica ls Susta ina b ility R ep or t 2015 Pangyo-ro 310, Bundang-gu, Seongnam, Gyeonggi 02 2008 2040 http://www.skchemicals.com 02 Message from the CEO 04 Company Overview BUSINESS & PRODUCT 12 Green Chemicals : Business Overview 16 Green Chemicals : R&D 20 Life Science: Business Overview 24 Life Science: R&D CORE REPORTING ASPECTS OF SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 28 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test 30 Fostering Transparent Ethics Management 36 Operating Safe and Healthy Plants 42 Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture GENERAL REPORTING ASPECTS OF SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 52 Implementation of Sustainability Management 54 Sound Corporate Governance 56 Systematic Risk Management 57 Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners 58 Environment-Friendly Plants 60 GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation 62 Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth APPENDIX 68 Statements of Financial Position 69 Statements of Comprehensive Income 70 Sustainability Performance Data 78 GRI-G4 Index 82 Independent Assurance Report 84 Sustainability Report Summary 85 Sustainability Report TF We are committed to promoting the health of mankind and protecting the earth’s environment. Cover <SK Chemicals Sustainability Report 2015> used intuitive icons to help readers better understand key information. The icons on the cover symbolize the company’s business line, key strategies, and achievements. S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 02 03 Message from the CEO Company Overview Massage from the CEO SK Chemicals / CEO Kim Cheol SK Chemicals / CEO Park Manhn Hoon Dear Stakeholders, First, I would like to express my deepest gratitude to all our stakeholders for their continued interest in and support for SK Third, SK Chemicals is constantly improving its system to enhance HR competencies to Chemicals. We are pleased to publish our 5th sustainability report, which is intended serve as a channel of communication with our establish an improved corporate culture. employees and external stakeholders, and to keep them informed of our sustainability management measures. With the market conditions continuing to change at a rapid rate, developing high-quality human resources possessing professional In our previous report, we shared the present and future values necessary to enhance the company’s sustainability in the process of competences is essential to ensure the company’s sustainable growth. In this context, SK Chemicals provides its employees with realizing the mission and vision of SK Chemicals. The 5th report details how SK Chemicals has responded to major issues that have self-improvement opportunities as well as an environment that encourages constant self-improvement in order to make both significant impact on society. I sincerely hope that the report will serve as a tool for communicating the values being pursued by SK individual employees and the organization as a whole even more competitive. In addition, the company is striving to foster a culture Chemicals to external stakeholders including shareholders, customers, and businesses. of free and effective communication and promote balance between work and family in order to help our employees become more productive. First, SK Chemicals strives to implement transparent and ethical management, given the impact that corporations have on society. As a leading chemical and pharmaceutical company, SK Chemicals will continue its efforts to expand its foundation for creating SK Chemicals operates a surveillance system to monitor and prevent sexual harassment, abuse of power(bribery, illegal economic values. The company will constantly seek ways to improve its sustainability by promoting ethical behavior, resolving safety employment, illegal requests, inappropriate orders, and wrongdoings involving procurement) and illegal acts. Any unethical behavior and environment issues, enhancing the competencies of employees, and fostering a better corporate culture. is subject to strict disciplinary actions. SK Chemicals also strives to enhance the quality and safety of its products and to ensure that I expect all of these efforts to add up to make a better and happier society for all. Finally, I hope that all the stakeholders who read the products are environment-friendly by performing clinical trials in a responsible manner, making GMP certification standards this report will be able to join us on the path to a happy society that SK Chemicals is trying to make. more stringent, and thereby having more products certified as environment-friendly. Thank you. Second, SK Chemicals is proactively responding to safety, health, and environment(SHE) issues to keep its workplace safe and healthy. The SK Group defined SHE issues as social issues in 2014 and asked its affiliated companies to establish a SHE policy and identify elements and tasks for SHE management in 2015. In response to the request from the SK Group, SK Chemicals set up a team dedicated to managing SHE issues in 2015 and determined the company-wide SHE policy and elements. We are preparing a list of tasks for each individual workplace. In 2016, our focus will be on preventing accidents involving the identified elements. S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 04 05 Message from the CEO Company Overview Company Overview Global Network Basic Information SK Chemicals is headquartered in Pangyo(Eco Lab) and operates four plants in Ulsan, Osan(SK Plasma), Andong(L HOUSE), and Company Name SK Chemicals Co., Ltd. Cheongju(S HOUSE) in Korea. The Ulsan plant manufactures chemical products, while the other plants produce preventive and Address(Headquarters) 310, Pangyo-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do therapeutic medicines. In addition, the company has plants in two Chinese cities, Suzhou and Qingdao, and regional offices in Germany, Singapore, and the United States. Business Line Chemicals, Pharmaceuticals Headquarters · Domestic Plants : Pangyo(Eco Lab), Osan(SK Plasma), Ulsan, Andong(L HOUSE), Cheongju(S HOUSE) No. of Employees 1,677 Regional Offices : Frankfurt, Singapore, Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Tokyo, Irvine, New York * As of December 31, 2015 Overseas Plants : Qingdao, Suzhou Frankfurt Beijing New York Qingdao Tokyo Suzhou Irvine Shanghai Pangyo(Eco Lab) Guangzhou Osan(SK Plasma) Cheongju(S HOUSE) Andong(L HOUSE) Singapore Ulsan Major Subsidiaries SK Gas Co., Ltd. SK Syntec Co., Ltd. Intervest Bio Fund SK Plasma Co., Ltd. SK Chemicals SK Chemicals Initz Co., Ltd. SK Chemicals JSI Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries Ownership ratio 57.40% Ownership ratio 100.00% Ownership ratio 71.43% Ownership ratio 60.00% Qingdao Co., Ltd. Suzhou Co., Ltd. Ownership ratio 66.00% America, Inc. Ownership ratio 56.03% and Ownership ratio 100.00% Ownership ratio 100.00% Ownership ratio 100.00% Affiliated Import, storage, and Management consulting, Investments in and Manufacture of blood Manufacture of synthetic Epoxy resin manufacturing Companies sale of LPG etc. lending to individuals who agents and pharmaceutical Prepreg manufacturing Polyester adhesives, resins and Wholesale business start a small business products small packaging for PETG other plastic materials Major Affiliated Companies ENTIS Co., Ltd. Intervest TSK Water Co., Ltd. Intervest New Growth Fund ST Green Energy Pte, Ltd SK E&C Co., Ltd. Ownership ratio 50.00% Ownership ratio 38.00% Ownership ratio 25.00% Ownership ratio 30.00% Ownership ratio 50.00% Ownership ratio 28.25% Manufacturing business Investments in and lending Maintenance and operation Investments in and lending Trading of sources of Construction, to new start-up businesses of environment-related to start-up businesses bio diesel and bio materials civil engineering, plant infrastructure, design engineering S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 06 07 Message from the CEO Company Overview Company Overview Mission & Vision Our corporate mission of ‘We care for the future, Healthcare, Earthcare’. includes elements of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Our vision of ‘Global Leading Solution Provider in Eco-friendly Materials and Total Healthcare’ indicates our belief that corporations and society are interdependent. With a firm belief in its mission and vision, SK Chemicals will remain devoted to achieving sustainable growth. Mission Slogan Vision We care for the future, Healthcare, Earthcare. HEALTHCARE & EARTHCARE Global Leading Solution Provider in Eco-friendly Materials and Total Healthcare Core Values Therapeutic Medicine Preventive medicine and care Environmental Protection Energy Efficiency We save people’s lives. We help people stay healthy. We protect the earth’s environment. We ease the dependency on fossil energy resources. We help people live a healthy life by Our environment-friendly materials better protect Our composite materials and energy storage materials slow down We provide medicine that providing innovative solutions such as vaccines that are the earth’s environment by serving as alternatives to the depletion of fossil energy resources by making lightweight saves people’s lives. essential for the prevention of diseases. the existing petrochemical materials. products and effectively using new types of renewable energy. History ~ 2007 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 ~ 1969 · Sunkyong Fibers Co. was established 2008 · UBCARE Co., Ltd., a healthcare company, was taken 2013 · Andong(L HOUSE) plant obtained a green building 2015 · Rolled out SKYCELLFLU®, certificate(LEED Gold) Korea’s first cell-culture influenza vaccine 1989 · Life Science Research Center was established 2009 · Biomass-containing polyester resin, ECOZEN®, was released · SK chemicals Polycyclohexylene Dimethylene Terephthalate(PCT) · Acquired approval for the commercial sale of the world’s first material was selected as one of Korea’s ten best new technologies and cell-culture quadrivalent influenza vaccine 1999 · SUNPLA®, a third-generation platinum anticancer drug was 2010 · ECOPRIME®, a biodiesel brand, received a prize from the received a prize from the minister · Blood products business spun off into subsidiary developed for the first time in the world Minister at the Green Technology Award · SK chemicals established Initz Co., Ltd.(a joint venture company with SK Plasma Co., Ltd. (domestic new drug #1) · ECOZEN® won the prize for Korea’s ten new technologies and Teijin Limited with regard to Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS)) · Submitted application for commercial sale of NBP601 the Silver Prize at the Korea Technology Award · ECOZEN® and SKYGREEN® obtained an eco-friendly C2C certificate (hemophilia treatment) to U.S. Food and Drug 2001 · SK Chemicals Qingdao Co., Ltd. was established · The Company was listed on the 2014 Administration(FDA), EU European Medicines Agency(EMA) (SK chemicals local investment company in China) Dow Jones Sustainability Index(DJSI) Korea for the first time · Joint development for vaccines is carried out with Sanofi Pasteur SA · 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Index(DJSI) Korea named · Eco-friendly and functional resin, SKYGREEN® was developed · SK chemicals acquired approval for the commercial sale of SK Chemicals No. 1 in the chemicals category · Dongshin Pharm. Co., Ltd. was acquired 2011 · ECOZEN® won a U.S. Food and Drug Administration(FDA) a cell culture influenza vaccine for the first time in Korea · SKYCELLFLU® received the grand prize in (vaccine and blood products business) Certificate · Project for bio heavy oil(biodiesel) began 2015 Medical Korea’s next-generation vaccine category · SK chemicals launched the world’s first film-type erectile · Andong(L HOUSE) plant acquired KGMP(Korea Good Manufacturing 2002 · JOINS®, anti-arthritis drug, developed(new natural drug #1) dysfunction drug, MVIX®S Practice) approval for qualification · Headquarter(Eco Lab) obtained a green building · 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index(DJSI) Korea 2006 · Biodiesel production technology was developed certificate(LEED Platinum) SK Chemicals was listed on the five consecutive years and won a prize at the Korea Architectural Culture Awards · 2014 K Pharma Night – SK Chemicals received the 2007 · Mvix®, an erectile dysfunction drug, was developed · SK Chemicals won the Top Prize in the Chemical and Innovative Pharmaceutical Company Award · Bio venture In2Gen was merged 2012 Pharmaceutical Sector of the Green Rankings · 2014 Government Awards for Job Creation – received the Presidential Citation · NBP601(hemophilia treatment) was selected as one of · Ansan plant and Cheongju(S HOUSE) plant were integrated Korea’s ten best new technologies and received a prize from · Initz and A Shulamn signed a contract for Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS) the Minister of Knowledge Economy. supply and joint marketing · Environment management website(skecoweb) opened · Global Standards Management Awards – received the Grand Prize in the sustainability management report category BUSINESS & PRODUCT Our goal is to pursue environmentally friendly chemistry and life-protecting science, thereby helping humans and nature to coexist in harmony and remain sustainable. Our management philosophy as embodied in the slogan, ‘Healthcare & Earthcare’, is firmly based on our respect for life and our love of nature. 12 Green Chemicals : Business Overview 16 Green Chemicals : R&D 20 Life Science : Business Overview 24 Life Science : R&D R&D Investments and Economic Performance Sales R&D cost R&D cost to sales ratio Unit : KRW billion Unit : KRW billion Unit : % SK Chemicals has invested approximately KRW 76 billion per year on average over the last three years in order to reach its sales 6.5 target of 2.4 trillion won by 2020. In 2015, SK Chemicals applied for 192 patents and registered 134 patents as part of our ongo1,485 6.3 ing efforts to expand our intellectual property rights. We are also taking bold steps in utilizing Open Innovation, i.e. incorporating 1,233 81 78 superior external technologies into our products and building a network with corporate customers in a bid to produce tangible 1,040 68 results from our R&D initiatives. In addition, technological development remains one of our top priorities as we view technology 5.4 as the foundation upon which we can compete globally. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Resin SK Chemicals is concentrating the resources and competencies of its chemicals business on realizing the vision of the Green Chemicals Business, SK Chemicals’ chemicals division, to become a ‘Total Solutions Provider of Environmentally-Friendly Materials’. In order to focus on environmentally friendly materials, SK Chemicals undertook a bold business restructuring plan under which its existing polyester textile and petrochemical businesses were reorganized, thus making polyester resins and fine chemistry the two new pillars of the company’s business. Under the new business structure, high-performance materials and biomaterials, High-performance Composite materials composite materials in the fine chemistry category, along with eco-friendly polyester resins, materials have been identified as the company’s core products on which to concentrate its R&D efforts. Going forward, polyester resins will be consolidated into high-performance materials while IT materials will be newly added to the company’s product line-up as part of the continuing efforts to diversify its business portfolio. Biomaterials 2016 Market Outlook Oil prices are forecast to remain weak globally in 2016. The prolonged global trend of low oil prices continues to put pressure on chemical companies to sharpen their competitive edge further and implement differentiated production strategies so as to cope effectively with the changing external business environment and manage risks thoroughly amid increasing uncertainties. The Korean government has been actively supporting the growth of the biochemical industry since 2014, with the environment-friendly, high-performance chemical industry perceived as a new growth engine that can help deal with environmental issues and create new economic value. To this end, the government is pushing ahead with the plan to develop technologies required to advance the biochemical industry. The key to a successful chemical industry in the future is the ability to develop new materials and superior technologies including ergonomics and high performance, which can set it apart from the pack. 2016 Strategy and Goals SK Chemicals is carrying out two strategic tasks it has selected to meet the 2016 goals: raising the competitiveness of existing businesses and successfully stabilizing new businesses.In order to secure stable flow of revenue from existing businesses, we are focusing our marketing campaigns on differentiated products such as environment-friendly, high-performance products, proactively developing new needs and uses of our products, and maximizing the operational efficiency of production facilities. In particular, we are currently developing new uses of super-engineering plastic Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS) and striving to maximize its initial sales volume to ensure the successful commercialization of Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS). 2015 Activities and Results In 2015, SK Chemicals’ Green Chemicals Business became Korea’s first developer of Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS) – a kind of super-engineering plastic – after spending 8 years on R&D. In November, the Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS) plant in Ulsan began operation, ushering SK Chemicals into the global high-performance plastic market amid the rapidly growing demand. 01 02 03 04 Korea’s first successful SK Chemicals invests Successful R&D on Participation in NPE, Polyphenylene KRW 94.2 billion to electrolyte additives for a global plastic expo, Sulfide(PPS) developer expand synthetic secondary battery and China Plus and construction of polyester production Ulsan Polyphenylene capacity Sulfide(PPS) plant Green Chemicals : Business Overview Resin High-Performance Materials SK Chemicals developed a high-perECOZEN SKYGREEN Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS) is a kind of formance material, SKYGREEN, in super-engineering plastic made with2001 as the world second and comBiomass-based Polyester Resin High-Performance Eco-Friendly out using chlorine, a toxic material. mercialized a bio, transparent and ECOZEN offers a remedy for the Material Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS) is seeing heat-resistant polyester resin, ECOZweaknesses of petroleum-based Polyethylene Terephthalate Glycol(growing demand from the electronics EN as the world’s first. ECOZEN which plastic, lowers dependency on petroPETG) is the brand of an eco-friendly, and automobile sectors because it is is a bio polyester resin and SKYGREEN leum-based materials, and reduces high value-added plastic material light and highly heatand shock-rewhich is developed by Polyethylene GHG emissions. ECOZEN, which is developed by SK Chemicals in 2001, sistant. SK Chemicals is the first Terephthalate Glycol(PETG) are used transparent, durable and can resist making the company the world’s secsuccessful Korean developer of Polycyin a variety of industries including heat up to 110 , can be widely used in ond successful developer of the maclohexylene Dimethylene TerephthalSKYPURA consumer electronics. They are used dishwashers, microwavable containterial. The material is used in a variety ate(PCT), a material that provides in manufacture of food containers and ers, and building materials. ECOZEN of industries for cosmetics containers, high heat resistance(260°C or higher), cosmetic containers because they have has received a Food Contact Notificaelectronic parts, building materials, excellent thermal stability, superior rea high heat resistance, transparency, tion(FCN) certification from the FDA etc. We have been developing Polyethflectivity and light stability. These charECOTRAN SKYPURA chemical resistance, and are environof the U.S., is the first bioplastic to be ylene Terephthalate Glycol(PETG) into acteristics make Polycyclohexylene Dimentally friendly without bispehnol-A. approved by the Korea Biopackaging one of our core products. methylene Terephthalate(PCT) a highly World’s First Chloride-Free Material, PCT Material, SK Chemicals is the only company Association, and has obtained a safety suitable material for the reflectors of Super-Engineering Plastic Super-Engineering Plastic in the world which succeeded in the and sanitation certification from the LED lighting equipment. SK Chemicals and Teijin Limited, a SKYPURA, a Polycyclohexylene Dicommercialization in the world of a Japan Hygienic Olefin & Styrene Plasglobal chemicals company, set up the methylene Terephthalate(PCT) materibio polyester resin, ECOZEN, which is tics Association(JHOSPA). joint venture Initz Co., Ltd. in 2013 to al, provides excellent thermal stability, a plastic containing copolyester based SKYBON produce a super-engineering plastic, reflectivity, and light resistance, makbio-components. Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS). Unlike ing it an ideal material for TV and LED Polyester Resin for Adhesives other types of Polyphenylene Sulreflectors. Its applications are further SKYBON is widely used as a coating fide(PPS), ECOTRAN is completely expanding into electric and electronic material for coils and cans due to its chloride-free in all stages of producgoods including SMT connectors. In SKYGREEN high flexibility and excellent adhetion from the processing of raw materecognition of its technological excelsion. SKYBON contains no detectable rials through production to the finished lence, SK Chemicals was chosen as amounts of environmental hormones, products themselves. The strictly-conthe recipient of a Korea Technology and is enjoying growing demand as an trolled production process ensures Award from the Ministry of Trade, InECOZEN adhesive and coating resin in diverse that ECOTRAN, the world’s first chlodustry and Energy, and SKYPURA was fields. SK Chemicals established the ride-free Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS), listed among the ten best new technolsubsidiary SK Chemicals Ltd., which minimizes errors in precision and ogies. SKYPET produces and sells adhesive products, electronic equipment as a high-perin Suzhou, China in 2005. formance material, and remains PET Resin environmentally-friendly. Ulsan plant SKYTRA SK Chemicals is Korea’s first manuoperates a production line dedicated to facturer of Polyethylene TerephthalECOTRAN, and began mass producing Eco-Friendly, High-Performance ate(PET) resin for bottles. Since the it in 2016. Compound Product company earned the approval of the SKYTRA, our compounding brand, is U.S. FDA in the early stage of the an eco-friendly, high-performance business, the product has been subresin-based product that can cater to SKYBON the varying needs of our customers. Its sequently approved by global beverage companies, attesting to its high quality. applications include automotive inteOur superior quality has been the drivriors and exteriors, civil engineering, ing force behind our consistent efforts electric and electronic appliances, and toward developing and producing home appliances. Grade, a high value-added Polyethylene Terephthalate(PET) product. SKYPET SKYTRA Eco-Friendly Products Certification SK Chemicals is committed to creating environmentally friendly products that protect the earth’s environment and promote the health of mankind. Our plastic products do not discharge environmental hormones and are recyclable, thus benefitting both the earth and ECOTRAN humankind. Our focus remains firmly on developing more environmentally-friendly materials. The environmentally friendly resins ECOZEN and SKYGREEN have both received the highest-grade certification(Gold grade) from an international C2C(Cradle to Cradle) certification body in the U.S. Biomaterials Composite Materials Biomaterials, fuels that are derived Biodiesel Bioplastic & SK Chemicals is producing Prepreg, a from biological sources, are becoming Biochemicals composite material that combines reincreasingly popular as an alternative Environmentally-Friendly inforced fiber and carbon fiber. Carbon to existing petrochemical materials Alternative Energy Environmentally-Friendly and fiber, which is lighter than aluminum such as plastics and chemicals, in Biodiesel is an environmentally-friendHuman Body-Friendly Products and stronger than steel, has been used light of the rapid depletion of fossil enly alternative energy(Methyl Ester) Bioplastics and biochemicals are plasin the construction of spaceships and ergy sources. The biomaterials industhat is typically manufactured by the tics and chemicals made by chemically aircraft. It is also drawing attention try is expanding quickly at an annual chemical reaction of vegetable oils or or biologically processing renewable as an alternative material that can be average rate of 10%, as consumers’ animal fats with methanol. SK Chembiomass, including plant-derived used to make lightweight vehicles and demand for environmentally-friendly icals has developed its own indepenresources, as raw materials. SK blades of wind power generators. SK products continues to increase and dent biodiesel production process and Chemicals has selected bioplastic Chemicals and Mitsubishi Rayon Co., governments in many countries are is currently supplying a high-quality and biochemical products that are Ltd. strategically collaborated on the Vacuette Solvents adopting policies to support the develbiodiesel, ECOPRIME, to major oil friendly both to the environment and supply of raw materials in 2012, and opment of renewable materials. The companies in Korea while expanding the human body as products for future SK Chemicals plans to sell 74.7 billion market for biomaterials is expected into bio heavy oil for use in power gengrowth engines and is stepping up its won worth of composite materials, into be worth around 80 trillion won in eration. efforts to develop and commercialize cluding Prepreg, in 2016. 2020. such products. Environmentally-Friendly Biodiesel In natural condition for 28 days or longer Absorbed back by plants The carbon dioxide emitted during combustion High-Purity Solvents Reduced CO2 emissions per ton of biodiesel used SKYFLEX High-Purity Solvents / Biodiesel Display Materials / Prepreg, Carbon Fiber Precursors for Semiconductors Prepreg is widely used to make parts for sports and leisure products, inSK Chemicals has developed high-pucluding golf clubs, fishing rods and rity solvents that are used in equipbicycles, and parts for high-tech prodment analysis, the synthesis of ulucts such as aircraft, automobiles tra-precision chemical products, and and industrial robots. Recently, it has in the electronics and biotechnology also been used as a material for the industries. These products were deblades of wind power generators and veloped independently and also in a as a reinforcing material for concrete technological partnership with HonBioplastic structures. eywell International, Inc. of the U.S.. These solvents are sold in the U.S., China and other parts of the world as well as in Korea. In addition, our R&D initiatives include the development of organic synthesizing technology-based OLED(Organic Light-Emitting Diode) materials, materials for displays, including LCDs and PDPs, and precurSKYFLEX sors for semiconductors. Green Chemicals : R&D R&D Strategies Current Status of Patent Application / Major R&D Achievements(2015) Our Chemical Research Institute plays a crucial role in developing new growth Registration by Chemical Research Institute in 2015 engines through its R&D activities. Key research projects involve display materials Process technology that introduces multiple raw materials Domestic International Unit : Case using organic synthesis technology, materials for semiconductors, and electrolytes With the use of splitting equipment, process technology that introduces multiple for secondary batteries. The institute plans to concentrate its efforts on creating a bio raw materials has been developed. This is expected to make ECOPRIME even more purification platform for the development of new materials. 162 competitive in the market. The demand for ECOPRIME is increasing after Renewable Fuel Standards(RFS) were introduced in 2015. 112 Development of differentiated composite materials Our R&D focuses on developing high value-added materials such as composite materials for automobiles and wind power generation. All of our composite materials for shipbuilding and marine parts have passed performance tests and acquired 96 certifications from our customers, and we are developing new applications of these Chemical Research materials in other industries. Institute 74 Development and commercialization of eco-friendly, high-performance materials SK Chemicals developed a polyester resin used as coating material for the inside of 50 cans in response to stricter regulations on bisphenol A, and it is expanding the scope Polymer Laboratory Materials Laboratory Application Development Center of its applications. Efforts to develop and commercialize eco-friendly, water-based emulsion polyester are underway to cope with tougher regulations on Volatile Organic Compounds(VOC) reduction. 22 High-performance electrolyte additive for secondary battery High-performance Energy & Electronics Biomaterials Composite materials Polyester resin SK Chemicals developed a high-performance electrolyte additive for secondary materials materials battery, which has 27% higher capacity recovery and 20% lower internal resistance. The additive is Korea’s first successful case in the development of a high-performance Application Registration additive, and SK Chemicals plans to grow this business into a new growth engine by continuing improvements. Major R&D Achievements Building Completion and Operation of Fabrication Lab In March 2016, the Molding & Processing Lab, operating under the Chemical Research Insti· Polyethylene Naphthalate(PEN) resin · Super-cap electrolyte tute, was expanded and relocated to Dongtan. · Biodegradable aliphatic polyester resin · Display light-absorbent This refurbished lab will play a leading role in · Polyester adhesive · Biodiesel production technology advancing our resin-processing technology by · Polyethylene Terephthalate(PET) resin for bottles · Obtained a license for Organic Acid Technology(OAT), 2020, as well as in conducting research proj· ECOZEN®/SKYGREEN® acquired the eco-friendly an engine-coolant technology ects optimized for the use of the super-engiC2C certification · Prepreg, a high-heat-resistant neering plastic, Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS), · ECOTRAN®, an eco-friendly super-engineering, · Liquid-type photo-polymer for flexo printing plates thereby strengthening the competitiveness of Polyphenylene Sulfide(PPS) · Organic semiconductor material for electronic materials our specialty plastic business and providing the · ECOZEN®, an eco-friendly, transparent, heat-resistant · Trimellitic Anhydride(TMA) manufacturing technology momentum for new businesses. It is critical to co-polyester, earned FCN certification from the FDA · Eco-friendly, water-soluble Overprint Varnish(OPV) develop as many uses as possible for high val· Polycyclohexylene Dimethylene Terephthalate(PCT), · New toner binder ue-added specialty plastic materials, through a high-performance super-engineering plastic · Acquired the technology for the commercial production of R&D efforts in areas such as compounding and · Eco-friendly non-bisphenol A toner resin CycloHexane DiMethanol(CHDM) processing, and post-processing including the · Composite material part that binds insulated panels for · SKYGREEN®, an eco-friendly, high-performance, analysis of physical properties. LNG carriers high heat-resistant resin for profiles Since developing Korea’s first new medicine, ‘SUNPLA’, in 1999, SK Chemicals’ Life Science Business has developed three new medicines, and has focused on R&D and investment in sectors sucs as ‘Pharma’, ‘Vaccine’ and ‘Plasma’ to realize its vision of becoming a ‘Global Total Healthcare Solution Provider’. The company’s pharmaceutical sector accounts for a large amount of market share in sectors with products such as an independently developed film-type erectile dysfunction drug and natural medicine for arthritis. The company also exports technology for hemophilia medicine as well as a patch-type medicine for dementia based on its remarkable R&D capabilities. SK Chemicals has selected vaccines as the next-generation growth engine and rolled out its vaccine business in 2006. To this end, significantly large amounts of money have been invested in the research and development of vaccines, culminating in the construction of a cutting-edge vaccine plant. We are working diligently to further strengthen our expertise, coupled with intensive investments to develop bio pharmaceutical products, including vaccines and plasma, by building upon the existing pharmaceutical technology that we have developed over the years. Prospect for the Market Condition in 2016 The domestic pharmaceutical sector is expected to grow at a slow pace, given the government’s control of drug prices and regulations, and the implementation of a stricter compliance program. To mitigate the negative impact of these factors, domestic pharmaceutical companies are anticipated to enlarge their product portfolios through business alliances and accelerate their efforts to tap into overseas markets. Fueled by the exceptionally large volume of technology exports by domestic pharmaceutical companies in 2015, R&D investments are likely to increase, led by the industry leaders in 2016. Another industry trend is expected to emerge with the diversification of business portfolios. This global R&D trend in the bio drugs sector is expected to continue in 2016, and Korean pharmaceutical companies are expected to show strong performance. Strategic Direction and Goals for 2016 The forecast for the pharmaceutical industry is accelerating changes in its business environment in 2016. In an effort to proactively cope with these changes, the Life Science Business will further enhance the expertise and efficiency of individual business units, including pharmaceuticals, vaccines and plasma, so as to make each of these individual units more competitive and sophisticated. Our efforts will be concentrated on conducting successful marketing campaigns for the world’s first quadrivalent cell culture influenza vaccine, which Pharma was approved for sale in December 2015, and on acquiring approval for the sale of follow-up products. Activities and Performances for 2015 The Life Science Business actively engaged in building a stronger infrastructure for the pharmaceutical segment and in sharpening the competitive edge of its vaccine and plasma units, building on the consistent investments and R&D efforts that have been channeled into Vaccine these units. 01 02 03 04 Successful marketing Acquisition of Spin-off of the plasma Hemophilia treatment of Korea’s first trivalent marketing approval business, New biomedicine cell culture influenza for the world’s first Establishment of ‘NBP601’ Applications vaccine quadrivalent cell SK Plasma for marketing approval Plasma culture influenza Construction of a filed with vaccine plasma plant begun the FDA and EMA Life Science: Business Overview Pharma SK Chemicals opened a new chapter MVIX® / MVIX-S® JOINS TRAST in the synthetic drug field in 1999 by the successful production of SUNPLA, No. 1 in International Index of First Domestically Developed Potent Knee Arthritis Treatment Korea’s first new drug that was interErectile Function/ Botanical Drug Effect nationally recognized. The company World’s First Film-Type Erectile JOINS is the first natural drug develTRAST minimizes the side effects ofwent on to launch JOINS, Korea’s Dysfunction Treatment oped in Korea. Clinical tests conducted ten associated with drugs taken orally, first botanical drug, in 2002, Mvix ®, MVIX, the erectile dysfunction treatby five major general hospitals, includwhile maximizing the healing effects the most effective erectile dysfuncment developed by SK Chemicals, ing Seoul National University Hospital, because it is applied directly to the tion treatment in the world in 2007, boasts an unsurpassed effect meafound that it exhibited the same levels affected area of the arthritis patient. It and Mvix-S®, the world’s first filmsured by the International Index of of anti-inflammatory and analgesic efdelivers Piroxicam, an anti-inflammatype erectile dysfunction treatment in Erectile Function. Our product portfolio fects as other drugs already available tory and analgesic drug, directly to the 2011. R&D efforts are currently under was further expanded with the offerin the market while causing fewer side affected area of the body at a consisTRAST way to develop new drugs for fibrosis ing of MVIX, the world’s first film-type effects. In addition to its anti-inflamtent concentration using the trans-derand endometriosis. SK Chemicals’ erectile dysfunction treatment in 2012, matory and analgesic effects, JOINS mal drug delivery system(TDDS). The pharmaceutical business possesses and MVIX-S, a high-dose film-type demonstrated a cartilage-protecting patch remains effective for 48 hours. superior technology for a drug delivery treatment in 2012. MVIX-S has been effect, and thus is considered a medsystem(DDS) that effectively transports positively received by consumers beicine that can fundamentally treat aran adequate amount of medicine. The cause it is thin and light, thus making thritis. company also started sales of TRAST, it highly portable and easy to use. a patch-type arthritis drug that uses our superior DDS technology, and has now grown as a leading brand in Korea. ‘SID710’, the world’ first dementia patch-type generic medicine has been approved for marketing in Europe, and is being exported to a growing number of countries, attesting to our globally competitive pharmaceutical technology. JOINS GINEXIN-F GINEXIN-F NBP601 No. 1 Gingko Leaf-Derived Drug for New Biomedicine for Hemophilia Blood Circulation Using Genetic Recombination GINEXIN-F is a drug for improvement NBP601, the first domestically develof blood circulation developed by our oped biomedicine for hemophilia treatLife Science Research Institute using ment, was developed by SK Chemicals our patented technology. The drug using genetic recombination and liis made by concentrating only the censed out to CSL Limited in 2009. The most effective medicinal ingredients drug improves the stability of factor VIII extracted from gingko leaves so as to associated with type ‘A’ hemophilia. SK maximize the effects. The brand reChemicals has now completed Clinical corded over 10.0 billion won in sales in Phase 3 for the global market and has the first year after its launch, and has filed applications for sales permission maintained solid market dominance by the U.S. FDA and EU EMA. as the No. 1 brand in the domestic market for gingko leaf-derived drugs for blood circulation. It is also sold in major global markets including the MVIX-S U.S., the EU, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. Vaccine Plasma SK Chemicals signed an agreement SKYCELLFLU TD Vaccine SK Plasma Co., Ltd. was launched as a HEPABULIN SN LIV-GAMMA SN with Sanofi Pasteur SA for joint R&D subsidiary of SK Chemicals in 2015 to and the sale of next-generation pneuFirst Domestically-Developed Cell Absorbed Tetanus Toxoid for Adults specialize in the plasma business, and Human Hepatitis B Immunoglobulin High-Purity, IgG-Containing monia vaccines, a testimony to its Culture-Derived Influenza Vaccine TD Vaccine is a suspension-type preimprove the technologies involved in Drug Human Globulin technological excellence, and is the SKYCELLFLU is the first indigenous ventive vaccine for youth and adults. It the production of plasma derivatives. SK Plasma released IV HEPABULIN LIV-GAMMA SN is administered by infirst developer of a cell culture-deinfluenza vaccine for adults and the uses aluminum hydroxide as the base, A new plasma plant is being built in SN, an intravenous hepatitis B drug travenous drip infusion or intravenous rived trivalent influenza vaccine in world’s first influenza vaccine for chilmixed with tetanus-diphtheria comAndong City to help SK Chemicals’ for liver transplant patients, in 2015. injection to treat or prevent agammaKorea. The company also developed dren to be developed using cell culture bined toxoid. Life Science Business gain capabilities The newly released IV HEPABULIN SN globulincmia, dysgammaglobulinemia, the world’s first quadrivalent influenza technology. Since the vaccine is made reaching beyond the domestic maris characterized by direct intravenous idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpuvaccine using cell culture technology in from animal cells, its production takes ket and competing with multinational administration and a virus elimination ra(ITP), and acute idiopathic polyneuri2015, and has more premium vaccine only 2 to 3 months, and a stable supply corporations in the global market. SK process for increased safety. In additis, and complications associated with development projects smoothly under of the vaccine is possible regardless of Plasma is planning on implementing tion, Clinical Test 3 was conducted at coronary artery problems. way. SK Chemicals is firmly committed crises such as outbreaks of bird flu. new tasks to increase profitability by multiple centers for greater credibility. to advancing the national medical intaking advantage of its plasma busidustry and establishing Korea’s soverness expertise, its proprietary original eignty over vaccines by building worldDPT TRI technologies, and its competitive marclass vaccine production facilities and keting strategies commercializing premium vaccines. Pertussis and Tetanus Vaccine TD Vaccine DPT TRI is a pre-filled syringe-type vaccine for pertussis and tetanus, which reduces the required number of injections. It also ensures the acHEPAMUN HEPABULIN SN LIV-GAMMA SN curacy of the injection dosage, as well as lowering the risk of contamination Hepatitis B Vaccine Using by microorganisms. The possibility Genetic Recombination ALBUMIN ANTITHROMBIN III of hypersensitive reactions has been HEPAMUN is a hepatitis B vaccine remarkably lowered, thus delivering prepared from yeast by using the latHuman Serum ALBUMIN Prevention and Treatment of greatly enhanced medical safety. est genetic-reengineering technology ALBUMIN is used to treat the loss of ANTITHROMBIN III, and separating the surface antigen ALBUMIN caused by burns or new ANTITHROMBIN III Human Deficiency from the hepatitis B virus. HEPMUN is syndromes, and hypoalbuminemia and ANTITHROMBIN III is used to prevent safe because it does not use anything hemorrhagic shock caused by defecand treat thromboembolism caused by derived from a human source and tive ALBUMIN synthesis resulting from congenital ANTITHROMBIN II deficientherefore entails no risk of diseases liver cirrhosis and other medical concy, acute liver failure from acquired transmitted through blood. ditions. ANTITHROMBIN III deficiency, consumption coagulopathy and hemodialysis. DPT TRI HEPAMUN ALBUMIN ANTITHROMBIN III Tetabulin SN SKYCELLFLU(Trivalent cell culture influenza vaccine) Anti-tetanus Immunoglobulin Choice ‘Korea’s Highest Brand in the Influenza Vaccine Category’ and Wins ‘Medical Korea Next-Generation Vaccine Award’ Tetabulin is used to prevent tetanus by SKYCELLFLU was choosed Korea’s Highest Brand in the Category of Influenza Vaccines’ and won ‘Medical Korea Next-Generation intramuscular injection in the early inVaccine Award’ in 2015. SKYCELLFLU is Korea’s first influenza vaccine to be developed using cell culture technology and approved for cubation stage of tetanus or to relieve marketing. It is the third commercialized, cell culture influenza vaccine for adults in the world and the world’s first such vaccine for youth the symptoms following the contracand children aged between 6 months and 18 years. SKYCELLFLU Tetabulin SN tion of tetanus. Life Science: R&D R&D Strategy Current Status of Patent Application / Major R&D Achievements(2015) Under its mission of ‘We care for the future, Healthcare, Earthcare’, SK Chemicals’ Registration by Life Science Research Institute in 2015 Life Science Research Institute is continuously striving to achieve a competitive edge SK Chemicals released cell culture influenza vaccine Domestic International Unit : Case in the R&D sector. SK Chemicals will establish a wide product portfolio by making SK Chemicals released SKYCELLFLU, developed with the next-generation vaccine continuous investments in pharmaceuticals, vaccines and plasma, which will be a production technology using animal cell culture. A accumulated sales orders reached 38 pivotal growth engine in the future life science business. 30 3.60 million doses in the first year of sales itself. 24 SKYCELLFLU has been recognized for its effectiveness and safety in 23 Clinical Phase 3 The results of the Clinical Phase 3 were published in ‘Vaccine’, one of the world’s most authoritative international journals, and SKYCELLFLU was found to be effective and safe, thus gaining international recognition for its specialty and safety. Life Science Research Marketing approval acquired for SKYCELLFLU Quadrivalent Institute 14 SKYCELLFLU Quadrivalent, a previously trivalent vaccine with added hepatitis B virus, offers effective prevention against influenza and responds swiftly to mutant forms of influenza. SK Chemicals released Intravenous Hepabulin for the prevention of Bio Laboratory New Pharmaceuticals Laboratory 7 hepatitis B recurrence SK Chemicals conducted Clinical Phase 3 in six hospitals before releasing Intravenous Hepabulin, which prevents the recurrence of hepatitis B. Vaccine Pharmaceuticals Application Registration Major R&D Achievements · Acquiring first domestic marketing approval for SKYCELLFLU®, a cell culture-derived influenza vaccine · Acquiring Phase III INF approval for quadrivalent influenza vaccine using cell culture technology · Contract signed with Sanofi for the development and supply of a next-generation pneumonia vaccine R&D Task · Launch of SID710®(a patch-type dementia drug) in the Category Task name Application Development stage Notes European market · Contract signed with the International Vaccine Institute for Bio NBP601 Medicine for hemophilia Approval/permission obtained(US) Exporting technology the joint development of a typhoid conjugate vaccine NBP604 Medicine for hemophilia Pre-clinical · Launch of marketing of Promac®, a gastritis drug(granule and tablet) Approval for treatment of adults obtained/ · Acquiring marketing approval for SID530® NBP606 Preventing pneumococcus Clinical Phase 3 for approval of use in (Docetaxel injection) in Europe treatment of children · Completion of clinical tests for NBP601® NBP607 Preventing influenza Sale Application of cell culture technology (a Hemophilia treatment using a recombinant DNA technique) for the first time in Korea · Release of Montefree ODF® NBP607-QIV Preventing influenza Completed to give permission World’s first quadrivalent influenza (Montelukast ODF; improved new drug in a new type) vaccine using cell culture technology · Release of MVIX-S, ODF® Preventing shingles Clinical Phase 3 (Mirodenafil ODF; improved new drug in a new type) NBP608 Preventing chicken pox Clinical Phase 2 · Release of the anticoagulant ANTITHROBMIN® and 3 · Release of the hyperlipemia Esrotine® NBP602 Preventing and medicine Released Transfered to SK Plasma · Release of the antithrombotic Renexin tab® for hepatitis B · Contract to sell NBP601® to CSL of Australia NBP613 Preventing pediatric enteritis Clinical Phase 1 · Release of Joins®¸ the first domestically developed botanical NBP615 Preventing cervical cancer Clinical Phase 1 drug for knee arthritis NBP618 Typhoid vaccine Pre-clinical · Release of Nexad tab®, a drug for hypertension Compound THVD201 Irritable bladder syndrome Clinical Phase 3 · Release of Skad tab®, a drug for hypertension NCE403 Endometriosis Clinical Phase 1 · Release of Pranair®, a drug for asthma · Release of MVIX®, an erectile dysfunction drug NCE406 Diabetes treatment Pre-clinical · Development of SUNPLA Injection®, the first domestically SID710 Dementia treatment Sale Launching the first generic in developed new drug and a third-generation platinum-based Europe Completing technology export in the U.S.(developing) chemotherapy · Development of Ginexin®, a blood circulation-improving drug Natural SID132 Joint treatment Clinical Phase 3 ingredients derived from gingko leaves SID142 Chronic arterial occlusion Clinical Phase 1 · Development of Trast®, an anti-inflammatory and analgesic drug treatment · Korea’s first exporter of the ulcer drug Omed® CORE REPORTING ASPECTS OF SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 28 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test 32 Fostering Transparent Ethics Management 36 Operating Safe and Healthy Plants 42 Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture 01 02 03 Core Reporting Aspects Core Reporting Aspects Core Reporting Aspects Fostering Operating Safe and Establishing an Transparent Ethics Healthy Plants Improved Corporate Management Culture S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 28 29 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Determination of Stakeholders Result of the Materiality Test SK Chemicals defines 5 groups of key stakeholders: shareholders & investors, customers, employees, partners, and government Finally, three material issues were chosen out of the fourteen main issues of sustainability management that were identified for the and local communities. We operate communication channels with each group of these stakeholders based on the characteristics of materiality test, based on a broad review of comprehensiveness and responsiveness. The core reporting aspects were organized for the group and its connectivity to our business. the selected three material issues. The report explains opportunities and threats, and the materiality to business and society of the respective core reporting aspects, and presents the direction, activities and future plans for specific topics that SK Chemicals has set Communication with Stakeholders in order to respond to the issues. We run a website(skecoweb) for environmental management through which we collect the opinions of our stakeholders and conduct surveys as part of our efforts to encourage our stakeholders to engage and communicate with us. All the opinions and information Material Issues Stakeholders’ Interest gathered in this way are shared, reported and managed through various channels including our sustainability management reports. 10 Stakeholders of SK Chemicals Spreading Ethics Management and 03 02 Establish a Culture of Integrity Shareholders & Local community / Customers Employees Business partners Investors government Tightening Plants Safety and 11 08 Chemicals Management Participating in the Surveying customer Conducting a reward Seeking shared growth Engaging in developing 12 04 strategic decisionfeedback for products and system for recruitment with partners for mutual the local community as Expanding Education Programs to 05 making process regarding services and fostering the talent benefits well as business led by Enhance Competencies of Employees business and enhancing welfare the government and local 06 07 and benefits government 01 13 · Investor relations(IR) · Process for addressing · Labor-management · Meetings with partners · Regional consultative · General shareholders’ customer grievances consultative body · Education to reinforce body 14 meetings · In-company broadcasting partners’ capability · Voluntary work group for · Business report · Newsletter · Group SK Win-win the local community 09 · Annual report · Survey for employees Growth Academy · Government meetings · Survey for satisfaction · CEO seminars · MBA for win-win growth Materiality Test Process SK Chemicals’ material issues and core reporting aspects regarding sustainability management were drawn through the materiality test process. A pool of sustainability management issues has been created based on a review of the global standards and guidelines, and analysis of the external environment and management issues, among others. For the materiality test, employees were surveyed Employees’ Interest and opinions were gathered from experts. In addition, we assessed the impact on our businesses and connectivity with stakeholders. STEP Listing 14 main issues of sustainable STEP Implementing STEP Drawing 01 management identify the main issues 02 the materiality test 03 3 material issues Sustainability Material Issues and Core Reporting Aspects No. Material Issues Core Reporting Aspects Page no Confirming internal and external issues of Connectivity with Drawing 3 material issues by reviewing Business impact 03 Spreading Ethics Management and Establish a Culture of Integrity Fostering Transparent Ethics Management 30 35 sustainability management stakeholders the result of the materiality test, management strategies and key business 08 Tightening Plants Safety and Chemicals Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants 36 41 · Review of global standards and guidelines · Direct & indirect · Industrial activities 05 Expanding Education Programs to Enhance Competencies of Employees Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture 42 49 (GRI G4, ISO26000, UNGC) financial impacts benchmarking(Peer · Industry-specific indexes(DJSI) · Connectivity to benchmarking) · Media surveys, benchmarking strategic goals · Media research Other Sustainability Main Issues · Review of internal issues of sustainable · Social norms and management standards No. Main Issues No. Main Issues 01 Development of new growth engines and expansion of global market 10 Prevention of environmental pollution and conservation of resources share STEP Reporting performances of sustainability management in STEP Setting performance indicators for sustainability management 11 Use of new renewable energy sources and pursuit of greater energy 04 each core reporting aspect 05 and incorporate strategic goals 02 Engagement in and development of the local community efficiency 04 Shared growth, support for, and evaluation of partners 12 Reducing GHG(GreenHouse Gas) emissions Organizing the core reporting aspects for each of the three material issues · Setting KPIs to manage long-term performances 06 Creating jobs and employment stability 13 Guarantee of quality and safety of products and reporting the performances and major management items by core · Creating a sustainability management monitoring system 07 Pursuit of sound life-work balance and employee welfare 14 Customer satisfaction and addressing customer grievances reporting aspect · Dealing with external evaluation of sustainability management 09 Efficient utilization of raw materials · Demand greater transparency in our corporate Material Issue activities in line with global standards and get involved in social issues more actively Core Reporting Aspect. 01 · Tighten the rules on compliance management Spreading Ethics both at home and abroad Management and Fostering · Expand the application of international Establish a Culture of guidelines on the quality design Integrity and management of pharmaceuticals Transparent Ethics Management Opportunity Component Risk Component · Ensure the company’s sustainability · Tarnishing of corporate image in the by internalizing compliance event of violations of the ethical rules management. and employees’ unethical behavior · Improve quality and competitiveness · Various ethical risks exist in through quality management and connection with the compliance in accordance with global research, production and disposal of standards pharmaceutical products Business Importance Social Importance · Review the legal risks before · Contribute to the spread of setting strategies and implementing a culture of ethics and integrity by improvement measures running a variety of compliance · Raise product competitiveness in the programs global market through · Increase trust in the company by strict quality management enhancing product safety and liability Core Aspect Fostering · Promoting Ethical System and Culture · Providing Safe and Reliable Pharmaceuticals Transparent Ethics Management Promises and goals for Fostering Transparent Ethics Management We recognize that ethics management, as an indispensable element for ensuring corporate sustainability amid the rapidly changing business environment, is a core management resource and a pillar of the company’s competitiveness. In recognition of this, we will continuously promote employees’ awareness of compliance, thus conducting fair trade-related education and distributing fair trade guidelines to them that does not violate the antitrust laws when performing their tasks. In addition, we also plan to create compliance programs tailored to the marketing activities of our Life Science Business, taking into consideration the characteristics and circumstances of the pharmaceutical industry. We will reinforce ethical management based on business principles that force employees to observe laws and ethics and promote a fair and well intentioned competition. A Researcher in Life Science Research Institute S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 32 33 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Promoting Ethical System and Culture Direction in Promoting Ethical System and Culture Education for Fair Trade Each year, we conduct fair trade education for our employees as part of our efforts In order to promote a fair and transparent ethical system and culture, we implement to promote their awareness of voluntary compliance. Employees working at the a specific code of conduct for employees as the criteria for corporate ethics, including Andong(L HOUSE) plant, which was newly established in 2015, received education on the SKMS code of practice, code of ethics and code of conduct. By newly launching the how to protect trade secrets and avoid infringements of trade secrets. In addition, all ethical management sector, the company has reinforced executive ability and carried employees are kept informed on any new developments regarding fair trade, as well out ethical management by operating the development for supporting autonomous as enactments of or amendments to the relevant laws and regulations as they arise. responsible management in charge of ethical consultation and handling relevant reports. We have put in place the ‘Compliance Program’ to encourage and foster fair Education Program Content Participants and free competition. Meanwhile, the staff of our fair trade-related teams will review a checklist. Whenever they detect potential legal violations they will work closely with Thirty employees from other employees in charge of such matters in order to deal with them. As such, we Protection of trade secrets On-site education at the factory’s Management and ban on infringement of are actively operating an internal monitoring system. Andong(L HOUSE) plant trade secrets Support Department of Andong(L HOUSE) plant Operating Ethical Management Group We have formed a self-correction committee that reports directly to the CEO. The Issues to be considered Life Science Business when discussing business Twenty-nine employees committee is chaired by the Director of autonomous responsible management Seminar cooperation with global from the HQ support team, while the leaders of the HR team, accounting team, procurement pharmaceutical companies team, and legal affairs teams and other major teams in each business line serve as its permanent members. In addition, both the Green Chemicals Business and Two employees from SK Fair Trade Life Science business established the Compliance team in January, 2016 so as to Workshop General issues on fair trade the Compliance Support strengthen ethics management activities. Group Professional Composition of the Self-Regulation Committee Corrupt collective behavior, One member of the fair Development Program general unfair trade practices trade staff CEO for Fair Trade Staff Personnel Committee Chairman Administrator Life Science Business Corrupt collective behavior, One member of the fair Fair Trade Handbook Director of Autonomous Responsible Head of Responsible general unfair trade activities trade staff Education Management Support Team Management Support Team Supply Provision of updates on fair trade-related laws and other Standing Member Non-standing Member Fair Trade-Related information on fair trade in general to all employees via the Information fair trade bulletin board HR Team Accounting Team Procurement Team Legal Affairs Team Business Line Relevant Team Leader Leader Leader Leader Leader Leader Personnel Cost & Accounting Procurement & Partners Fair Trade Business & Partners When Issues Arise Stronger Protection of Personal Information In principle, SK Chemicals does not collect sensitive information and unique Compliance Support Manager identification information according to the relevant laws in order to eliminate potential The board of directors appointed the head of the Ethical Management Department Process for Compliance Assistance Activities leakages and infringements of personal information. In the same context, all of the as the legal compliance support manager, and the legal compliance support system Prevention resident registration numbers of our customers have been deleted entirely from our is run in connection with the Compliance Program. The legal compliance support IT systems and other systems. Effective as of 2015, a separate consent form on the manager is responsible for educating employees about the Compliance Program and · Providing regular advise collection, use, viewing, retention and provision of personal information must be monitoring compliance so as to encourage employees to voluntarily comply with the · Supporting major projects obtained from the customers in order to enter into a business deal. · Education for legal compliance laws and regulations. The manager’s job also includes drafting compliance standards, the highest-level rules governing compliance activities, which are then passed and Self-Monitoring of Reported Violations of Ethics and Compliance Monitoring implemented pursuant to the resolution by the board of directors. The manager's Only two violations of the ethics and compliance standards were reported in responsibilities also include providing compliance education, checking whether or not · Checking whether employees comply with 2015. The cases were properly handled with appropriate responses and by taking compliance standards are met, and reporting the results to the board once every year. the standard for legal compliance/ corrective actions. The self-monitoring program detected no violations in 2015, and observing overall legislation SK Chemicals strived to promote a sound corporate culture and fulfill its social · Examining major points regarding Distribution of Fair Trade Handbook responsibility by exerting self-improving efforts in the area of ethics management. compliance with legal risks A new fair trade handbook has been published and distributed to all employees so that they can better comply with domestic and overseas anti-corruption laws Post Management and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act(FCPA) of the U.S. and the Bribery Act of the U.K., and conduct their day-to-day work in accordance with · Analyzing results of activities for the highest legal and ethical standards. All employees were given a handbook on legal compliance control collective corruption behavior, which has been updated to reflect amendments to the · Implementing education programs for compliance Fair Trade Act. S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 34 35 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Providing Safe and Reliable Pharmaceuticals Direction in Providing Safe and Reliable Pharmaceuticals Quality Assurance & Quality Control System Pharmaceuticals Management System An integrated quality assurance(QA) and quality control(QC) system is being We respect the rights of our stakeholders in connection with the pharmaceuticals that Management of Product Life Cycle implemented for three plants in Osan(SK Plasma), Andong(L HOUSE), and Cheongju(S they use, and pay close attention to what they have to say while closely managing any HOUSE). Our policy on education, complaints, irregularities, modifications, corrective risk factors that our clinical tests may entail at each phase in order to minimize the actions and preventive actions(CAPA), returns and recalls has been prepared based negative impact on the environment. We have raised the level of clinical testing with Periodic product on a review of Good Manufacturing Practices(GMP). External audit top-level domestic personnel in clinical tests and, we have monitored to improve the review safety of our products by observing the laws and regulations at home and abroad. World-Class Pharmaceutical Quality System(PQS) Product In order to create a solid pharmaceutical quality system and meet the quality Compliance with Laws and Regulations on Clinical Tests management other Internal audit demands of our partners, we apply international guidelines on pharmaceutical quality than specifications SK Chemicals complies with the laws and regulations at home and abroad, including design, implement a consistent quality management system across all our facilities, the Good Clinical Practice(GCP) and Investigational New Drug(IND) standards, and and harmonize our quality management review systems. Our plans also include Nondevelops safe products through responsible clinical tests. In order to raise the quality implementation GMP quality raising the operational efficiency of our quality management system by monitoring and safety of our pharmaceutical products, we work closely with domestic and management the key PQS indicators and introducing an electronic system, and increasing the management overseas clinical test centers and Contract Research Organizations(CRO). reliability of our pharmaceutical quality system. Response Non-conformity Minimum Animal Tests to customer management Responses to Mandatory Compliance with PIC/S GMP We actively address any ethical issues that may arise in the process of conducting grievances As GMP has become mandatory following our accession to The Pharmaceutical animal tests. Specifically, we try to minimize suffering of animals while performing Inspection Convention and Pharmaceutical Inspection Co-operation Scheme(PIC/S) tests to assess the effectiveness and toxicity of relevant materials prior to a clinical consecutive steps have been taken for the application of advanced GMP in line with test, by providing regular education and strictly following the laws and regulations. the global standards, and the creation of a more sophisticated quality management To that end, our Life Science Research Institute set up an animal testing ethics system. Based on risk analysis, we have established a quality system that makes committee that consists of two external and three internal members. The committee quality improvement possible throughout the entire product life cycle, thus removing reviews the animal test plans twice a year in order to find ways of minimizing animals’ possible obstacles to obtaining approvals for newly developed products and laying the pain and suffering. The details of our animal tests are reported to the Ministry of Food foundations for meeting the GMP requirements. and Drug Safety and the Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency twice a year. Good Manufacturing Practices(GMP) Approvals Post-Marketing Surveillance for Safety and Effectiveness Cheongju(S HOUSE) plant which produces synthetic drugs, was remodeled in 2014 Driven by a sense of responsibility regarding the safety of its pharmaceutical products, Process for Addressing Customer Grievances and obtained GMP approval from the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety, a certification SK Chemicals conducts post-marketing surveillance and pharmacovigilance. In the for safety, effectiveness and quality. Both solid dosage forms and patch-types have case of a new drug or an improved new drug, we perform post-marketing surveillance Customers acquired the EU GMP, attesting to our excellent quality management ability in line according to the reevaluation criteria for new drugs, etc., set by the Ministry of Food Feedback/ Grievances/ with international standards. and Drug Safety in order to gather data on the effects and side effects of a drug Response Inquiry/ taken as part of a trial by 600 to 3,000 patients over a period of 4 to 6 years. The Animal Tests at Life Science Research Institute measures Proposal Strict Control of Unused Medicines collected data is used to confirm and verify the safety and effectiveness of the drug. SK Chemicals follows strict rules to dispose or manage unused medicines. Pharmacovigilance is conducted for released drugs to collect cases of toxicity and Generally, we entrust the disposal work to a professional disposal company licensed Customer Call center, damages and to analyze the cause and effect relationship so as to prevent future grievance database Website, Onsite by the government to minimize the environmental impact of the chemicals. From harmful cases. the collection till disposal, each person in charge checks at each phase under governmental guidelines. Current Status and Result of Clinical Tests Registering Reporting the result grievances The clinical tests performed in 2015 successfully proved that the arthritis drug of analyzing Responding to Customer Demands and Grievances currently available in the market is effective and safe when taken in the new dosage grievances Our Customer Service Manual has been updated to tighten the rules on the handling and format, pending approval from the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. In addition, of customer grievances about product usages. The CRM system has resulted in the world’s first quadrivalent cell culture-derived influenza vaccine developed by SK Customer Consultation Office better communication among the marketing, production and R&D departments, Chemicals obtained the Ministry’s approval for marketing. Clinical tests are currently Identifying the thereby enabling us to incorporate information on products, competition, and market under way to develop vaccines for shingles, pneumococcus, cervical cancer, and other analysis result trends into our business strategies in a timely manner and consequently provide the medical conditions. products that our customers want. Permission Suppliers management Collecting Marketing hazardous management Cause cases Analysis Quality Production management management · Companies need to strengthen their safety and Material Issue health systems and respond to regulations in Core Reporting Aspect. 02 a more active manner Tightening · Companies face growing demand to Plants Safety and Operating minimize the impacts of their business activities · Companies should be more concerned about Chemicals keeping their employees healthy Management Safe and Healthy Plants Opportunity Component Risk Component · The adoption of an advanced safety · Increased safety and health-related and health management system can internal systems and programs can lead to higher operational efficiency place a financial burden on · The company’s reputation can be the company improved by preventing accidents and · The company’s image could be proactively dealing with safety issues tarnished if a safety issue occurs and the company fails to take the proper follow-up action Business Importance Social Importance · Prevent physical and human losses to · Fulfill corporate social responsibility by the company and employees managing health & safety at the plants · Enhance external and and in their neighboring areas internal confidence in the company by · Assume a leading role in health & safety creating a healthy management by adopting exemplary working environment practices and by proactively and voluntarily responding to and complying with regulation Core Aspect · Establishing a Health & Safety System for the Plant Operating · Operating the Health & Safety Management Program Safe and Healthy · Controlling Potential Leakages of Plants Hazardous Chemicals Promises and Goals for Operating Safe and Healthy Plants SK Chemicals intends to create and operate a SHE Management System in order to identify and address problems related to the safety of our plants on an ongoing basis. Construction of the system is a group-wide project led by SK Group, the goal of which is to bring all of the group’s accident prevention and response systems in line with the standards of global industry leaders. The system will be designed to involve all of the existing data, including the current organizational structure and processes, and to clarify to-do items, which will be incorporated into a manual for accident prevention and response. All employees will be asked to fully familiarize themselves with what they are expected to do according to the manual. The SHE Management System will be completed by the end of 2016, with its full-fledged launch and documentation tentatively scheduled for 2020. Chemicals Production Facilities of Ulsan Plant S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 38 39 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Establishing a Health & Safety System for the Plant Operating the Health & Safety Management Program Direction in Establishing a Health & Safety System for the Plant Direction in Operating the Health & Safety Management Program SK Chemicals is currently in the process of creating a systematic accident response SK Chemicals is committed to improving safety and health at the plants by offering wellsystem and procedures in order to prevent safety and health accidents at the planned safety and health education programs and systematically implementing effective workplace. This is part of our continuing efforts toward creating healthy plants safety and health policies. We are carrying out highly effective programs to promote a sound where accidents and risks are effectively prevented by strengthening the capacity safety culture and raise awareness of health issues, including regular safety inspections and to proactively respond to external regulations and advancing the SHE Management evaluations, and are steadily increasing healthcare support for our employees. System. Safety Green Card System Construction and Operation of the SHE Management System The Ulsan plant is implementing the Safety Green Card System, a safety management The safe environment manager, as a member of the Sustainability management program that applies to business parners that provide regular repair services and construction site-related providers. Under the system, companies are classified into three Team, newly organized in 2015, is responsible for companywide SHE management. groups: Green(best employees for safety management), Red(One Strike Out, violators of four Furthermore, we plan to complete the construction of the SHE management system major elements), and Yellow(violators from among 20 major management items). Companies in such a way that it is tailored to our unique business needs and meets global are rewarded or penalized strictly according to their safety management performance. In standards by 2016, in tandem with SK Group’s plan to build a SHE Management 2015, red cards were issued for 3 violations of the non-smoking area restriction, 1 failure System for the entire group. to wear a safety hat, and one inadequate measure to avoid flame dispersion, while 2 Yellow Cards were issued for one failure to wear a safety hat and one inadequate measure to prevent SHE Management System flame dispersion. Directing Point for SHE Management Safety 7 Rules SK Chemicals secures trust and support from society by continually Safety 7 Rules constitute a set of rules that all employees who access the Ulsan plant are carrying out activities that protect human beings, promote the health of the required to follow in order to eliminate any possibility safety accidents. In order to ensure human race, and preserve the earth’s environment. effective supervision over compliance with the Rules, the Safety Management Department has been empowered to exercise greater supervision, and violators of the Rules are subject to strict disciplinary actions so that all employees faithfully abide by the Rules as they perform their daily routine. In 2015, there were two violations of the work approval requirements and one failure to report a safety accident. SHE policy Safety Inspection and Audit SHE operation elements SHE regulations manual Under the ‘Permit to Work’ system, all construction projects and works are inspected for 17types safety before they can be initiated, and risk assessment is conducted for each process to better prevent safety accidents. In addition, our SHE Audit Program requires the SHEQ internal audit team to perform two self-audits per year, while an internal audit board Practice guideline SHE regulations for plants Approximately 30 categories Research institutes, Osan(SK Plasma), Ulsan, composed of experts in different processes closely reviews various sectors regarding process Andong(L HOUSE), Cheongju(S HOUSE) plants, safety-from regular safety to technology. Overseas offices SHE Performance Evaluation By the company By affiliate companies Individual workplaces are fairly evaluated on their SHE performance based on a clearly identified set of KPI(Key Performance Index) guidelines and quantified data. For KPI evaluation of individual production departments, we use evaluation items that have been quantified in a SHEQ System Certifications SHE Key Performance Index way that reflects the different conditions of each workplace, and quantitative formulas. The Ulsan plant has obtained the ISO 9001(Quality Management System), ISO 14001(Environmental Management System), and OHSAS.KOSHA 18001(Safety and Operation Indicator Industrial Safety and Health Committee Health Management System) certifications, and is running the SHEQ(Safety, Health Health and safety at the workplace can only be ensured when all employees are conscious of & Environment Quality) system. We are working diligently to proactively identify and Guidelines safety and implement safety inspections and management on a regular basis. The Industrial eliminate harmful factors and risk factors associated with product quality with the Points are deducted when a safety/ Health and Safety Committee meets quarterly to ensure that both management and aim of achieving a zero defect rate, thus minimizing damages that may be caused environmental accident happens employees are kept informed of safety issues, and share their thoughts on how to improve by our products, and ultimately meeting the quality standards that our customers (based on Ulsan plant) health and safety, thereby promoting a culture of safety. demand. 90 points when no safety/environmental accidents happen Deducted points × 100/number of Safety and Health Programs for Coexistence and Cooperation Emergency Response System team members + Material loss The Ulsan plant contributes to preventing industrial accidents by providing its partners Each plant has put in place a response system, including an action flow chart and (10points/KRW 10 million) with the health and safety technologies it possesses. Specifically, the plant shares a a network of emergency contacts that employees should follow in the event of an number of safety and health management programs, including risk assessment education emergency, in order to minimize environmental impacts, casualties, and property Extra points will be awarded for programs and joint workplace safety inspection programs, as well as lending items of extraordinary efforts that have losses. Employees in charge of coping with emergencies are mock-trained on a contributed to preventing safety & safety equipment(e.g. gas measuring equipment, air respirators, safety), to seven partner regular basis to be able to respond to fire, explosions, environmental accidents and environment accidents companies operating within its facilities and thirty business partners, thereby helping them other natural disasters in a more effective and timely manner. Fire Drill at Cheongju(S HOUSE) Plant enhance their safety and health performance. S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 40 41 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Controlling Potential Leakages of Hazardous Chemicals Safety and Health Education and Training Direction in Controlling Potential Leakages of Hazardous Chemicals The Ulsan plant offers internal education in addition to legal education, which includes professional education, prior to the start of a construction project and In compliance with the regulations on the management of hazardous chemicals. SK general education on new and amended company rules. In the same way, the Chemicals has been implementing the SHEQ system, an integrated information sysAndong(L HOUSE) plant provides education programs designed to raise safety tem for safety, health, and environmental quality since 2005 to ensure the systematic awareness and avoid unsafe behavior, creates videos based on emergency scenarios management of such chemicals. SK Chemicals conducts a workplace environment to educate employees on how to respond to different types of accidents, and conducts assessment twice each year for facilities exposed to hazardous chemicals, including crisis response drills in a highly organized manner. methyl alcohol, sodium hydroxide, ethyl acetate, toluene, chloroform, and xylene. The assessment is intended to measure the degree of exposure to hazardous materials Preparing a Health Promotion Program for Employees and use the data to create a healthier and safer working environment. All employees of SK Chemicals receive regular medical check-ups and vaccinations Hazardous Chemicals Control against epidemic diseases, both of which are paid by the company. If anything Rules on the Treatment of Hazardous Chemicals indicating a possible health problem is detected or diagnosed in a checkup, the As part of our efforts to minimize the negative impacts of chemical accidents, SK employee in question is invited for an in-depth medical counseling session, and all Chemicals has established a set of rules on the treatment of lab waste, according to employees aged 40 and above are entitled to a comprehensive medical checkup. We which the company established an accident prevention plan and embarked upon the also conduct health management education programs and campaigns to create a construction of an emergency water recycling facility, and is now required to notify healthy and dynamic work environment. local residents living in the vicinity of our plants. In 2015, SK Chemicals used 33,355 tons of hazardous chemicals, less than in the previous year, and none of our facilities Health Promotion Programs Run by Plants had an accident involving hazardous materials. Headquarters Ulsan Plant Osan(SK Plasma), Andong(L HOUSE), Our Responses to Hazardous Chemicals Management Rules and Regulations (Eco Lab) Cheongju(S HOUSE) Plant In response to the tightened regulations under the Act on the Registration and Evaluation, etc. of the Chemicals and the Toxic Chemicals Control Act, which took effect in · Resident licensed nurses are hired to provide · Resident licensed nurses are hired to provide · GMP(standard for production 2015, a hazardous chemicals manager has been appointed not only for the plants, but medical services to employees medical services to employees medicines and quality control)-based · In-house fitness center, yoga room, · The nurses should have completed the Health employee healthcare rules also for the procurement, marketing and research departments. The managers monhealthcare center(medical services center) Promotion Leadership Program provided by the · High-quality healthcare services including itor the entire cycle of chemical use from import and research to production, sale and · Offers a ‘Mind-body Control Training’ Korea Occupational Health and Safety Agency regular medical and special checkups, disposal. They ensure compliance with the regulations of other countries, including program that is available to employees and (KOSHA) and medical checkups for employees the REACH and FDA regulations, thereby further increasing the safety of our products their family members · The plant has been running the 9988 and boosting exports. Health Promotion Campaign(Live a Healthy Life up to the age of 99) which encourages employees to quit smoking, manage their weight and adopt a Designating Hazardous Chemicals Manager low-sodium diet, among other initiatives Each department has a designated hazardous chemicals manager whose job includes educating and supervising employees handling these chemicals, inspecting facilities and managing inventory and storage facilities once every week. Our R&D centers Healthcare Support for Employees have appointed a regulations manager and a safety manager who educate employees In addition to the legally required mandatory employee medical checkup, the company on how to put on legally-appropriate protective gear and stay safe. In addition, they offers ‘UB Fortune Service’, an individualized healthcare program, to employees and perform a safety patrol around the facilities to conduct inspections and education on their family members. In particular, employees who handle hazardous materials are the safe use and disposal of hazardous chemicals. required to take a special checkup, are evaluated for job fitness, and assigned the most appropriate job. Management Process of Hazardous Chemicals Reporting to the Stocking chemicals Report to relevant agency (including Storage/ the administrative No-smoking Anti-obesity Low-salt Meal Process Use Disposal (prior report) hazardous chemical Preservation office Campaign Program Program substances) (post-report) · The entire building is designated as a · Exercise and instruction on diet · Phased reduction of Writing and Inputting Recording the Inputting Inputting Writing and non-smoking area · Regular monitoring salinity in soups and sodium content in reporting a case information in storage register information information reporting cases · Decreasing outdoor smoking areas · Selecting and awarding Diet King seasonings and sauces in accordance the SHEQ System in the SHEQ in the SHEQ based on the · In-company non-smoking clinic Record with the or recording System or System or stipulated keeping stated form the chemicals recording the list recording form Out of 34 employees who joined the Selecting 15 final candidates(56%) among 27 Maintaining salinity in soup at a level of management on use the waste first session of the quit-smoking program, subscribers after passing the three month weight0.7% Maintaining the amount of register management 15(44%) successfully quit smoking loss period and three month maintenance period sodium per meal at a level of 1,300-1,500mg register · Growing need to recruit talented employees Material Issue so as to develop new growth engines and respond Core Reporting Aspect. 03 to market change and to better respond to Expanding customer demands Education Programs to Establishing an Improved · Growing social demand for non-discrimination and equal opportunities Enhance Competencies · More options for employee welfare of Employees Corporate Culture Opportunity Component Risk Component · Raise competitiveness through · Brain drain due to lack of professional competencies and systematic career development passion that only high-quality human programs and support resources can provide · Insufficient employee welfare and · Improve job efficiency and rigid corporate culture can lower management performance by keeping morale among employees employees satisfied at work Business Importance Social Importance · The achievement of global · Lead the spread of a desirable corporate Competitiveness in market and culture by actively developing human development differentiated products resources, ensuring fair performance by maximizing employees’ evaluation and offering equal professional competencies · Maximize synergistic effects by opportunities encouraging free communication and · Improve the company’s external building a culture of respect for and corporate image by increasing employees’ among employees satisfaction · Expanding Employees’ Professional Core Aspect Competencies · Recruiting and Supporting Superior Human Establishing an Resources Improved Corporate · Creating a Win-Win Labor-Management Culture Relationship · Securing a Sound Work-Life Balance Promises and Goals for Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture In order to recruit people who are ‘Warm-hearted Professionals’, our recruitment system has been redesigned and brought into line with the expectations of our employees as summarized in the slogan, ‘Warm-hearted Professionals’, and we are planning to expand and improve our education programs in a way that can help us grow into a global chemical and pharmaceutical company, including competency enhancement programs tailored to the needs of employees at varying levels of their career development, global competency development programs, and introductions to the humanities. We will also strive to create a work culture conducive to increasing the value of the earth and humanity, and to maximize employee satisfaction by ensuring that our performance evaluation and compensation systems are fair and reasonable and that our employees can strike a sound balance between their work and the needs of their family. Orchestra Performance at G.rium Hall, Eco Lab S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 44 45 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Expanding Employees’ Professional Competencies Direction in Expanding Employees’ Professional Competencies Job Competence Development Programs Programs designed to develop employees’ job competencies include business In order to ensure that our employees remain qualified and competitive, we have Education System for Employees language programs, data analysis, creative problem-solving, presentation skills, consistently invested in employee education and training even in the midst of business strategic planning process, and feasibility analysis for new businesses. Approximately Fostering ‘Warm-hearted Professionals’ restructuring and economic downturns, and provide all employees including nonby Creating ‘Favorable Workplace to Work’ twenty people participate in each program on average, and the programs have proven permanent employees with the same education. Our HR development mission is to be increasingly satisfactory each year. ‘Realizing Sustainable Performance’. To realize this mission, we have created a framework within which all of our employees can achieve sustainable results by Self-development Intensive Global Language Courses making sure that at least 10% of our employees are enrolled on an educational · Constant efforts by oneself Our English language program focuses on speaking, presentation and writing skills, program at all times. with the aim of making our businesses more competitive by improving the business Fostering employees through work English-speaking skills of our employees. This 10-week intensive language program Improved New Employee Training · Accumulating experiences and exposes learners to an environment in which they are required to speak English, developing careers through each job New employees are required to attend an introductory training program for one and has been helping our employees to improve their language skills to a significant and course for pursuing SUPEX to four months depending on their job assignment immediately upon joining the · Basis for developing capability degree. company. Through this program, employees learn not only job-specific knowledge but also about communication and socializing with other members of the Education and training GC Marketing Competence-Increasing Education organization, leadership and cooperation, and the importance of trust. The program · Systemic short-term and long-term/ We have created a training program for junior employees encompassing the entire also incorporates character-building elements such as volunteer activities and online and offline education and cycle of marketing, accounting, sales, negotiations, contracts, and receivables training soul-searching to provide balanced education. Under the slogan, ‘Warm-hearted management of Green Chemicals Business, and we also plan to develop and offer a Professionals’, all of our short-term and long-term education programs feature customized education program for senior employees in a similar format. On-the-job Training(OJT) as the basic essential element, and maximize the effects through the mentoring system, in which qualified senior employees selected from Mentoring Program LS Marketing Empowerment Program among the very best provide coaching and guidance to junior employees. All of the more than 400 employees of our Life Science Business participated in the ‘2016 LS Marketing Empowerment Program’. It is a leading marketing education Education Programs for Newly Appointed Positions program that domestic pharmaceutical companies have been offering to their SK Chemicals provides specialized education programs for employees who are newly employees since 2001 in a bid to build professional expertise and competence and appointed as team heads, managers and assistant managers, in conjunction with SK share specific marketing strategies designed to promote new products, including our Group’s education programs. The purpose of the program is to help newly-appointed cell culture-derived quadrivalent influenza vaccine, and to support marketing efforts team heads to better perform their new roles and responsibilities as leaders; new LS Marketing Empowerment Education targeting leading global markets. managers to develop their leadership competence to increase their clout within the organization; and new assistant managers to strengthen their self-leadership abilities. Mentoring for Newly Recruited Employees SK Chemicals Company-wide Education System * HIPO : means ‘High-Potential’ referring to employees with strong performance or potential for growth Type Supervisor Assistant Manager Manager Deputy General Manager Team Leader Executive HIPO Team Head Program GLDP HIPO* Jr HIPO GPE Selection Process Domestic and overseas MBA / Diploma course for R&D at home and abroad Executive coaching Domestic MBA, regional expert(GFP), language intensive course at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies Job Short-term dispatch job course, GC MKTG business headquarters education, LS marketing headquarters education, LS ICD, cyber training center, in-company job course Capability In-house intensive language programs Learning account I-MDP Global OLP(On-line language program) and PLS(Personal language study) Humanities lecture / Reading discussion Entry level course for new / Experienced employees Interviewer Education Value / Rank New Team Heads Course for Course for new / Sales / Course for new assistant managers Jr. female leadership program Course for new managers Education for Course for new executives new team Department heads appraisers leaders S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 46 47 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Recruiting and Supporting Superior Human Resources Creating a Win-Win Labor-Management Relationship Direction in Recruiting and Supporting Superior Human Resources Direction in Creating a Win-Win Labor-Management Relationship Under the slogan, ‘Warm-hearted Professionals’, SK Chemicals is striving to recruit We take pride in the fact that we have had no Labor-Management disputes in the and retain employees with a warm heart and excellent professional qualifications. Our forty-six years since the foundation of the company, an achievement made possible by recruitment information sessions are differentiated and our recruiting process is fair mutual confidence. Even when faced with such crises as massive layoffs and business and equitable. Our evaluation process ensures that our employees are fairly evaluated restructuring in the past, we actively engaged in Labor-Management dialogues and rewarded for their performance. We fully recognize the importance of people as a and were able to work out a consensus each and every time. We are constantly key driving force behind the organization’s growth and remain committed to creating trying to build a corporate culture in which both labor and management can win by a workplace where both the organization and individuals can grow together. implementing Labor-Management harmony programs in terms of ‘Study with’, ‘Health with’, ‘Communicate with’, and ‘Discuss with’. Invitation to the Company for Future Employee SK Chemicals held recruitment information sessions and Go! Eco-Lab, a company Introduction of a Wage Peak System tour program conceived for job candidates who wish to work with us. We invited 100 Many companies are introducing a wage peak system as the legal retirement age applicants for a position to get involved in multiple programs including a corporate is due to be raised to 60 in 2016, but reaching an agreement with the labor unions introduction session, a tour of major facilities within the headquarters building, and remains elusive. A high level of mutual trust with SK Chemicals has enabled labor a dialogue with current employees. The special recruitment program provides future and management to engage in honest and open dialogues and finally to agree to employees with accurate information on the goals and culture of SK Chemicals and a wage peak system so that employees can enjoy solid job security despite the the jobs they will be expected to perform. The program helps us to recruit qualified increased retirement age, while the company can still create more jobs for youth. individuals who can better meet our expectations. Our win-win Labor-Management relationship has been further consolidated by the consensus on the wage peak system. A Fair Evaluation System SK Chemicals operates the IT-based Performance Evaluation & Coaching Guarantee of Labor Union Activities System(PECS). Overall performance is evaluated and classified into grades based on Recruiting Information Session and SK Chemicals concretely stipulates content on guaranteeing rights and activities the results of the data analysis performed by the system, and the achievements and Tour around SK Chemicals Headquarters Expo of the labor union in the General Provisions(Chapter 1) and Labor Union competencies of individual employees. Evaluators use the multiple tools provided Activities(Chapter 2) in the collective agreement, which was drawn by agreement by the company in order to ensure that the evaluation process remains fair and between laborers and management. The company also strives to protect rights of objective. In addition, each phase of the evaluation process is followed by a review and employees by guaranteeing activities by the labor union, which are stipulated in the adjustment session, and the results of the evaluation are audited. Upon finalization relevant legislation(Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act, Act on the of the evaluation, the evaluator and the subject of the evaluation have a face-toPromotion of Worker Participation and Cooperation). When there is a change that can face feedback session during which the strengths and weaknesses of the latter are affect employment, we notify the labor union at least three months before the change. explained and a competence enhancement plan is discussed, to help the evaluated employees perform their work more effectively. Reasonable Reward System · Joint Labor-Management leadership education We have put in place a competitive compensation system under which employees · Union leader education · Global LR(Labor Relation) Training are rewarded according to the company’s performance, and do our best to ensure Study · Workshop for managers and labor union members that each employee is rewarded fairly for their performance. Our compensation with program consists of both monetary rewards(annual salary, bonuses, etc.) and nonmonetary rewards(sense of pride, sense of achievement, recognition, vision sharing, · Friendly Labor-Management sports event etc.). Initially, newly-recruited employees are paid equally regardless of gender, but · Athletic event for the labor union after a certain period they eventually become subject to a compensation scheme that · Mental and physical training center, gym, table tennis rewards all employees reasonably yet strictly according to their performance. Health rooms, etc. with · Operating infirmary well-being resultants Evaluation Process Assessment and Reward System Sustainability Performance-based · Meetings for Labor-Management, representative Creating a favorable workplace with a virtuous cycle Operating performance-oriented HR for members, and female employees, etc. to grow together with employees the company’s growth · Can Meeting(SK Group Communication Tool) Communicate · Utilizing the electronic bulletin board with Promoting win-win growth with the company and HR Mission Pursuing challenging and individuals achievable goals · Deliberation among employees on a regular basis · Current Labor-Management issues, discussion for Enhancing motivation for employees and Assessment for complaints strengthening their capability achievement of goals · Labor-Management committee : Consulting the current Discuss issues on a quarterly basis with · System to collect opinions from the labor union and High-quality equalization of labor force by Operating rewards and promotion based employees giving positive tension on the result of assessment Workshop for labor union managers S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 48 49 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Securing a Sound Work-Life Balance Direction in Securing a Sound Work-Life Balance Management of Happiness Index We plan and carry out various activities as part of our efforts to create an improved SK Chemicals is working to establish a corporate culture where employees are corporate culture in order to constantly improve the employee happiness index motivated to conduct their duties effectively and produce sustainable results for the as indicated in the ‘SK Culture Survey’ conducted by SK Group every year. The long term. Our employee compensation programs are designed to create a ‘Favorable results of the SK Culture Survey are incorporated into one of our Key Performance Working Environment’ where employees are highly motivated. Fair and satisfying Indicators(KPI). The results allow the management to become aware of how happy compensation programs will enhance the quality of life at work and consequently or unhappy our employees are with their work and outside their work. Coaching raise effectiveness of employees’ duties, ultimately leading to greater corporate takes place in the form of face-to-face meetings, Can Meetings, on-the-spot praise competitiveness. and external activities in order to address the complaints and needs of individual employees so that they can stay happy at work. Collective annual Leaving work at a Support for leisure Internal employee leave fixed time activities welfare fund Character Point System All employees are entitled Every Wednesday, employees Employees can book up to The fund promotes the finanto a fixed number of days of are encouraged to leave work four nights per year at a concial stability of employees by This system is intended to encourage employees to praise one another as they Supports for Rest and Family annual leave to help employearly to spend time with their dominium at the company’s providing housing loans, tuperform their day-to-day work and to develop the practice into a corporate habit ees recharge and maintain a family, enjoy hobbies or focus expense ition subsidies for their chilMembers good balance between their on self-improvement actividren, and medical expenses and eventually a corporate culture, thereby fostering a mature corporate culture. If work and their personal life ties employee A praises employee B for a certain act or quality and employee B agrees to the praise, employee A receives a character point. Employees are allowed to express their gratitude to their superiors via character points so as to promote reciprocal Support for Internal employee welfare fund In-house day care center The fund promotes the financial stability of employees by proThe company runs an in-house day care facility to help female empraise. In 2015, a total of 210 entries involving praise and character comments were Childbirth and Childcare viding housing loans, tuition subsidies for their children, and ployees avoid an unwanted career hiatus due to childcare responssubmitted. medical expenses bilities and alleviates the child-rearing burden for employees Performance for Accumulated Compliment/Character Points Unit : Case G.rium Program Italy Arete Tour Compliment points Character points The company offers lectures and performances that employees As part of our efforts to promote life-long learning in the field of Support for can enjoy to contribute to making our society healthier by sharhumanities, the company provides employees with opportunities 1,601 Cultural Life ing and spreading universal values, the ideas and teachings of to travel to Italy and broaden their horizons, which in turn can the humanities, and worthy cultural activities help them achieve the mission of the company. 834 657 Work Leave to Improve Work Efficiency 349 170 40 The collective annual leave program, which has been implemented since 2013, is designed to help employees maintain a healthy balance between their work and their 2013 2014 2015 personal life by recharging themselves, to better prepare for a given task by giving them sufficient time to rest and think. In addition to the collective leave program, employees are encouraged to take days off as part of their individual annual leave and G.rium Program get recharged. In 2015, employees took a total of 5 days off as collective annual leave. SK Chemicals’ G.rium Hall is a 209-seat multi-purpose hall for humanities lectures and classic performances. Lectures on a wide variety of subjects including literature, Promotion of Health for Employees and Their Family history, philosophy, art and religion are given twice each month. These lectures help Each individual employee is entitled to book four nights per year at a major employees to expand their job competence and knowledge of the humanities. In condominium around the country at the company’s expense as part of the employee addition, children and youth from disadvantaged families as well as our employees welfare package to support their leisure activities and thus improve their quality of and their own family members are invited to enjoy classic performances at G.rium life. The internal employee welfare fund is operated to help employees with housing Hall. A total of 130 lectures and 82 performances were held at the hall from 2010 to stability by providing loans for buying or renting a home. The entire amount of school 2015. education expenses for employees’ children, including admission fees, tuition, and school support fees, is covered by the company, and the actual cost of medical Italy Arete Tour Program services provided to employees and their spouses and children is also paid by the The Arete Tour to Italy is an on-site education program that identifies lessons from company. All these forms of support for our employees are aimed at creating a history with a view to incorporating them into our corporate culture. The Arete ‘Favorable Working Environment’. Tour(“arête” means excellence in Greek), which began in 2011 and has been run five times up to 2015, is intended to provide participants with opportunities to learn Support for Childbirth and Childcare about the Renaissance Age and the achievements of the great minds of the period, Employees are entitled to one year’s guaranteed childcare leave that they can take understand the nature of human beings at the cradle of the humanities, refine their back to back with maternity leave in our corporate culture, where employees are awareness of the importance of support and mentoring, gain first-hand experience encouraged and supported in their efforts to strike a sound balance between work of what ‘Excellence’ really is, and reflect upon the meaning of a life that is built on and family. In 2015, thirty-two female employees took childcare leave, fifteen of whom the principles of honesty and integrity. The tour has proven to be an enlightening returned to work afterwards, while only eight quit their jobs. Only one male employee experience for the participating employees in that they come back with a new took childcare leave. Our Pangyo Global R&D Center runs an in-house day care perspective of the role each one of them should play in order to realize the corporate center to help female employees prevent interruptions to their career. Italy Arete Tour mission. GENERAL REPORTING ASPECTS OF SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Implementation of Sustainable Management 52 Implementation of Sustainability Management 54 Sound Corporate Governance 56 Systematic Risk Management 57 Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners 58 Environment-Friendly Plants 60 GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation 62 Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Systematic Risk Sound Corporate Management Governance Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners GHG Reduction and EnvironmentEnergy Friendly Plants Conservation Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 52 53 Implementation of Sustainability Management Environment-Friendly Plants Sound Corporate Governance GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation Systematic Risk Management Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners Implementation of Sustainability Management Sustainability Management of SK Chemicals Education on Sustainability management and Awareness Enhancement Education programs for sustainability management and environmental management SK Chemicals aims to become a leading global company in the economic, are classified into the following three types: introductory, regular, and level-up. environmental and social spheres by taking advantage of a virtuous cycle in which Introductory programs are structured so as to encourage employees to manage corporations and society prosper together through sustainability management. Our sustainability and the environment on a voluntary basis by internalizing a green sustainability management mirrors the SK Management System(SKMS) adopted by culture and enhancing employees’ capacity to implement green processes and green the SK Group, and the vision and mission pursued by SK Chemicals. products. Strategies for Sustainability Management Category Introductory education Introductory education Level-up education Separate intensive education for managers and staff members Workshop for mangers and staff members In an effort to address the issues of public health and the environment, we have declared the ‘Development of Sustainable Green Products based on a Green Period Designed for newly Education in Q1 Education in Q2 Education in Q3 Education in Q4 recruited and current Culture and Green Processes’ as the main strategic direction of our sustainability employees management, with ‘Green’ implying eco-friendliness in relation to people’s lives and Training hours 6hr 4hr 6hr 2hr 8hr to the Earth itself. In addition, we have designated six areas and fourteen categories of Details · Sustainability · Training to cope with · Recent issues on · Conducting regular · Reviewing results of sustainable sustainability management specific to the roles and responsibilities of SK Chemicals education for new the greenhouse gas global sustainability maintenance of plant management and making future plans in order to establish an organized approach to sustainability management. employees and energy target · Agendas on sustainable training and online · Responsibilities and roles for dealing · Conducting education management system management education in summer with new environmental laws for experienced · Education for · Education for writing a vacation · Demonstrating the integrated 6 areas 14 categories employees in utilizing the integrated sustainability report · Sharing the current management system for ‘Education for management system · New system and status of operating the environmental information In-house New for environmental strategies for response Green Point and major · Education for dealing with the Sustainability management system · Sustainability management system Employees’ information issues greenhouse gas trading system · Operating and reviewing Green Point System · HR development HR · Healthy balance between work and personal life · Labor-Management relations Performances for Sustainability Management Education Programs Unit : Person Regular education Introductory education Level-up education · Ethics management Fair operation 75 · Fair trade 52 50 50 31 28 32 29 30 Social · Support through supply chain Shared growth contributions · Social contributions 2013 2014 2015 · Prevention of environmental pollution · Efficient use of resources KPI Monitoring System for Sustainability Management SHEQ · Reduction of GHG emissions KPI monitoring system for sustainability management was determined after a · Workplace health and safety review of the KPIs by the heads of the related departments and an interview with · Product liability · Customer satisfaction the heads and members of the related teams; and the KPIs adopted by leading companies have been benchmarked since 2014; while the monitoring KPIs were selected in 2015 after extensive discussions with heads of the related departments Roadmap for Sustainability Management and teams, in order to establish a sustainability management KPI-monitoring system. SK Chemicals upholds the principle of ‘Seek Virtue First and Profit Later’ in the daily A total of 13 departments participated in working out 104 KIPs in 19 areas and, in conduct of our business activities in order to fulfill our social responsibilities. Since 2015, 13 additional KPIs and 30 non-KPI management indicators were identified. we first declared our commitment to sustainability management in 2012, we have The performance of companywide sustainability management will be managed been faithfully following our yearly plans for sustainability management, with the goal objectively and in a more sophisticated manner, while the application of sustainability of becoming a global sustainable leader in the industry by 2020. management will be expanded to partners and suppliers. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Roadmap for sustainability management Establishing a system for Sophistication of Expansion of Proactive environmental management and Establishing a system for Introduction of KPIs for Sustainable companywide management by sustainability management on Environmental activities laying the foundation for sustainability management sustainability management global leading company performance objective supply chain sustainability management Principles of Do Right Thing Create Profit sustainability management S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 54 55 Implementation of Sustainability Management Environment-Friendly Plants Sound Corporate Governance GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation Systematic Risk Management Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners Sound Corporate Governance Composition of the Executive directors Non-executive Directors Board of Directors As of March 2016 Vice Chairman Chey Chang-won President Kim Cheol CEO Han Byeong-ro Director Ahn Deok-geun Director Choi Jeong-hwan Director Kim Hui-jip Director Park Sang-gyu · Recommended by the Board of Directors · Recommended by the Board of Directors · Recommended by the Board of Directors · Recommended by Non-executive Director · Recommended by Non-executive Director · Recommended by Non-executive Director · Recommended by Non-executive Director · CEO and Vice Chairman · CEO(Green Chemicals Business) · CEO(Life Science Business) Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee/Audit Committee · Largest shareholder · Management Committee/Non-executive · Management Committee · Non-executive Director Nomination · Non-executive Director Nomination · Non-executive Director Nomination Director Nomination Committee Committee/Audit Committee Committee/Audit Committee Committee/Audit Committee Composition of the Board of Directors Independence of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors consists of three executive directors and four non-executive In order to ensure that the director appointment process remains independent, the director directors, with the non-executive directors making up the majority to ensure that candidates to be appointed at a general shareholders’ meeting are selected by the Board of the decision-making process and corporate management remain independent and Directors(executive directors) and the Non-executive Director Nomination Committee(nontransparent. With the goal of maximizing the interests of shareholders and investors, Activities of the Board of Directors executive directors) and submitted to the general shareholders’ meeting as an item on the protecting the rights of all stakeholders and achieving long-term company growth agenda. The Non-executive Director Nomination Committee(3 non-executive directors & 1 concurrently, experts from various fields including chemistry, economics and law have No. of regular meetings Unit : Meeting executive director) considers the work experience and expertise of the candidates in their been invited to serve on the Board of Directors as non-executive directors, thereby 2013 2014 2015 relevant field(e.g., economy, environment, society) and reviews the commercial law, its providing professional expertise in making decisions. 12 11 10 enforcement degree, and other relevant laws and regulations to ensure that the candidates meet all of the legal requirements. The Audit Committee, which is made up entirely of nonIssues voted down Unit : Item on agenda Operation of the Board of Directors executive directors and operates under the Board of Directors, reinforces the independence In principle, the Board of Directors meets at least once a month to obtain an accurate 2013 2014 2015 of the Board of Directors and ensures transparency in its activities. assessment of the company’s economic, environmental and social performances, 20 16 22 and to gather opinions from shareholders and employees. Issues to be discussed and Issues passed Unit : Item on agenda Preliminary Briefing and Discussions on Major Issues in Board of Directors and reported at the board meeting are notified to individual directors by the secretariat Committees 2013 2014 2015 of the Board of Directors five days prior to the meeting, along with the date, time Major issues are explained and discussed before the Board of Directors or committees 20 16 22 and venue. The Board of Directors met ten times in 2015 and passed resolutions on officially convene so that non-executive directors can better understand individual issues key agenda items, based on thorough verifications and in-depth discussions after and make informed decisions on the issues to be included on the agenda. This preliminary reviewing the global and domestic economic conditions, and discussing possible Attendance at Board Meetings briefing allows non-executive directors to gain a good understanding of individual issues responses to them. Attendance rate for before they discuss the issues and make decisions at the formal meeting. This procedure executive directors Unit : % represents SK Chemicals' determination to strengthen the sense of responsibility Committees within the Board of Directors 2013 2014 2015 regarding decisions made by the Board of Directors and the committees. Three committees are operated within the Board of Directors in order to further 100 90 97 enhance the independence and efficiency of the Board of Directors’ activities. Notably, Listening to the Voices of Shareholders and Investors Attendance rate for the Audit Committee is entirely composed of non-executive directors and effectively The general shareholders’ meeting is a core communication channel, and it is held each non-executive directors Unit : % performs its roles by adopting appropriate procedures in reviewing, comparing, year to allow the CEO to report the current status of management to shareholders and and conducting due diligence on books, financial statements, and other financial 2013 2014 2015 to listen to opinions regarding major decision-making processes and management. documents, and by reporting issues and taking corrective actions in a timely manner. 94 83 95 Shareholders’ opinions presented at the meeting are reflected in the overall management through the in-depth review process by the management and BOD. Major management matters regarding investors’ profits are announced through the Data Analysis, Retrieval, Management Committee Non-executive Director Nomination Committee Audit Committee and Transfer System of the Financial Supervisory Service, Korea Exchange, and SK Chemicals' website. 2 executive directors 1 inside and 3 non-executive directors 4 non-executive directors Distribution of shareholders Ordinary shares as of March 30, 2016 · Reviews and makes decisions on matters · Nominates non-executive director candidates · Draws up and implements audit plans, evaluates concerning the company’s management to be appointed at a general shareholders’ the results, takes follow-up measures, and Shareholder name Choi Chang-won National Pension Employee Stockholders’ Association · Formulates strategies to enhance corporate meeting proposes recommendations for improvement performance for long-term company growth · Discusses matters regarding the composition · Monitors laws, articles of incorporation and Number of owned shares 4,131,560 2,880,028 731,424 and operation of the candidate nomination bylaws, and other matters entrusted by the Share ratio 17.00% 11.85% 3.01% committee Board of Directors S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 56 57 Implementation of Sustainability Management Environment-Friendly Plants Sound Corporate Governance GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation Systematic Risk Management Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners Systematic Risk Management Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners Risk Management System Policy for Shared Growth SK Chemicals has established a risk management system that is implemented Crisis Management Process SK Chemicals upholds its founding principle of ‘Pursuing Happiness of Stakeholders’ company wide after realizing that properly managing risks amid the rapidly changing by actively pursuing shared growth with its partners. To this end, we provide Recognition and categorization business environment is critical in securing the right conditions for sustainability. substantial benefits including financial support and various education & training Individual departments are responsible for managing risks relevant to their business, opportunities so that a culture of fair trade can be promoted and our partners can taking into consideration the macroeconomic conditions, changing industry trends Analyzing impacts become more competitive. and environment, and business strategies. Matters related to risk management are reported, and decisions are made according to a set of rules. SK Chemicals identified Reviewing hedge measures System for Carrying out Shared Growth ten risk factors in the three areas of economy, environment, and society, and individual units of the company are responsible for devising strategies to respond to these risk Implementing hedge Technical support factors in their own capacity. Supporting suppliers Monitoring Financial support Scope of Risk Management Improvement To ensure one united Sharing the culture Feedback partner Expected HR support Main areas Sub-category Strategies impact Assessment Economic Exchange rate/prices of raw materials High · Exchange rate hedge Direction Strategy Major Task · Investment in securing raw materials Corporate governance Slightly low · Developing alternative raw materials Report · Prospecting the market accurately Support for the Business Stability of Business Partners Business structure Slightly high · Preparing response strategy Revising management methods SK Chemicals set up the SK Win-Win Cooperation Fund in 2013 to help its Business Partners remain stable in conducting their business activities. As of the end of 2015, 4.3 Environmental Regulations High · Improving products/procedure · Introducing facilities for energy billion won was provided from the fund to a total of 9 Business Partners. In addition, Physical factors(climate changes) Average efficiency SK Chemicals supports the financial stability of its Business Partners by adhering to · Conducting in-company campaign the principle of making all payments to the Business Partners in cash within 10 days Changing market conditions Average · Developing eco-friendly products of the date a business transaction is finished. Social Safety accidents High · System-based safety management · Education for emergency Size of SK Shared Growth Fund Unit : KRW billion, partners Corruption Average · Self-purification education · Agreement for confidentiality Category 2013 2014 2015 Security Slightly high · Applying a system for document security Cost for shared growth fund 8 8 8 Stakeholders Slightly low · Media/PR Total loans 6 7 4 Number of Business Partners having loans 15 13 9 Responses to Major Environmental Regulations Support for Competitiveness Enhancement In 2015, laws that may wield serious financial impact on corporations came into SK Chemicals has been providing partners with education programs including CEO effect. These laws include the “Act on the Registration and Evaluation, etc. of seminars, SK Shared Growth MBA(formerly known as ‘Management Development Chemicals(large amount of substance registration cost expected)”, “Chemicals Program’, and online education programs, etc., since 2006 to help our partners Control Act(penalty equivalent to 2.5% of sales for any violation of the Act)”, and increase their competences and competitiveness, thereby ultimately realizing “Act on Allocation and Trading of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Allowances(Emissions shared growth with them. In 2015, the 53 CEOs of our partner companies joined CEO Trading System, risk of paying several billion won in penalties per year).” Corporations seminars, and 6 intermediate managers benefited from the SK Shared Growth MBA. are legally required to purchase environmental liability insurance that may cost up to SK Chemicals organized the ‘SK Shared Growth Job Fair 2015’ in cooperation with 30 billion won in 2016 as the “Act on Liability for Environmental Damage and Relief SK-affiliated companies operating in the Ulsan area in an effort to address recruiting Thereof” takes effect. In addition, Korea declared its commitment to reducing GHG difficulties faced by partner companies and help job seekers in the local community emissions by 37% by 2030 at the COP 21 held in November 2015. As a consequence, find jobs. Korean companies will likely be required to reduce GHG emissions significantly. SK Group Shared Growth Academy Responses to Safety Accidents CEO Seminar SK Shared Growth MBA In May 2015, a fire broke out in the Ulsan plant. There was no casualty, but the fire 12 companies / 53 persons 6 companies / 6 middle managers served as a powerful reminder of how important it is to manage risks and outdated facilities properly. In order to prevent recurrence, the company invested approximately Improving the CEO’s capability, enhancing the Reinforcing management capability of 8.0 billion won in improving the facility, equipment inspection system, and surveillance management perspective core leaders at suppliers through systemic system. SK Chemicals is constantly advancing its SHE(Safety/Health/Environment) · Managing changes in management, management education management systems to deter industrial accidents and fostering a corporate culture economic, and organizations · Strategy, finance/accounting, marketing, in which these systems can be operated as they should. This way, risks of accident Current conditions at home and abroad HR/leadership, etc. Recruiting Expo Jointly Held with Partners in · Global workshop in China can be minimized. Shared Growth S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 58 59 Implementation of Sustainability Management Environment-Friendly Plants Sound Corporate Governance GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation Systematic Risk Management Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners Environment-Friendly Plants Air Pollutant Emissions Control Environmental management system Our Tele-Monitoring System(TMS) keeps a close watch on air pollutants 24 hours a Green Culture · Establishing an environmental management system day, and any irregularities are dealt with immediately and appropriately according to Social contribution · Spreading awareness of environmental management the manual. There has been no ozone layer-depleting substance used or detected, · Reinforcing environmental communication and fugitive emissions are also managed. The Ulsan plant has established a 5-year activities per employee hours reduction plan for volatile organic compounds and published a voluntary compliance Green Process · Integrated management of environmental information report on air pollutant emissions reduction. · Establishing a system for management of Reducing CO2 eco-friendly supply chain Green Triple emissions % · Creating eco-friendly plants Management of Waste and Wastewater 40! Waste Reuse Rate at the Wastewater discharged from our plants is treated at a wastewater treatment plant Ulsan Plant Unit : % within the facilities or retreated at a sewage treatment plant. SK Chemicals manages Green Product · Dealing with environmental regulations proactively · Raising eco-efficiency in products 73 wastewater more strictly than the legal requirements. All wastes are treated in The ratio in 69 68 · Reinforcing eco-friendly business capability strict accordance with the International Basel Convention and Waste Management eco-friendly sales % Act, and strict measures are taken to prevent secondary contamination. Design of Goal Strategic direction Strategy Experiment(DOE) is applied to the entire process of product development so that the generation of byproducts and waste can be minimized. Goals and Strategies for Environmental Management Prevention of Soil Contamination Under the goal of ‘Green Triple 40!’ by 2020, SK Chemicals has been carrying out 2013 2014 2015 The soil around our plants are regularly monitored. Our pollution prevention facilities eco-friendly business activities in line with three strategic objectives. By meeting the will be constantly upgraded in order to minimize the likelihood of soil contamination. quantified objectives set in tandem with the environment management strategies, SK Chemicals seeks to make its products and business activities eco-friendlier and Noise and Odor Control consequently minimize their impact on the environment, aside from engaging in activities SK Chemicals complies with noise and smell standards and shares information on to preserve the environment to remain eco-friendly and make the society eco-friendier. the issue with local communities. SK Chemicals conducted a survey on noise levels in the neighboring areas of our plants to check if the noise exceeds the legal standards. Integrated Management System for Environmental Information Silencers, sound-proof rooms, and activated charcoal adsorbing machines with SK Chemicals has established an integrated management system for environmental capacity of 80Am³/min were installed as part of our efforts to reduce impact on the information under which all environment-related data including raw and subsidiary local communities. materials, air and water pollutants, energy, greenhouse gas emissions, safety, health, and Soil Contamination Monitoring eco-friendly procurement are managed together at the beginning of each year. Eco-Friendly Buildings Major Achievements and Goals of Environment Management(Green Triple 40!) Eco Lab, our headquarters’ building, was planned and designed to be environmentEnvironmental Performance of Eco Lab 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 2020 friendly, and 101 eco-friendly materials and eco-friendly technologies were used for the Electricity reduction rate Unit : % construction. The building acquired domestic and international certifications, and it has Reducing CO2 emissions by 40% [Unit : tCO2eq, %] 2013 2014 2015 become a landmark for eco-friendly architecture. Andong(L HOUSE) plant is the world’s BAU emissions* 520,000 545,000 620,000 689,000 692,000 722,000 35 35 37 first eco-friendly pharmaceuticals plant that has acquired LEED Gold of the United States Target reduction 7.2 12.6 15.2 22.5 24.2 40.0 by meeting the GMP standards and employing a wide range of the latest eco-friendly Water resource reduction rate Unit : % Actual emissions 467,163 481,396 520,034 585,402 technologies including energy and water-saving technologies from the designing stage of Actual reduction 11.9 13.2 16.1 15.0 2013 2014 2015 the construction. Strategy Use Additional use of 23 15 25 Use Additional use of liquefied and Finding biomass energy sources liquefied and gasified biomass continuously gasified biomass Greenhouse gas reduction rate Unit : % Efficient Use of Resources Sales of eco-friendly products by 40% [Unit : %] The used ethanol generated in the process of producing plasma derivatives is distilled 2013 2014 2015 Target 17 19 22 25 30 40.0 into around 1,500 liters of at least 95.1% pure ethanol on a daily average, and the distilled 26 29 29 Actual result 17.6 26.7 32.7 35.7** ethanol is approved for use only after it passes quality tests. This enables reducing the 40 hours of social contribution per employee [Unit : hour/person] Solar power generation Unit : Mwh cost of ethanol procurement and environmental impact. Target 10 13 18 25 30 40.0 2013 2014 2015 Actual result 2 8 8 8 Water Use Management 8.25 7.74 7.83 Strategy*** Make social Expand and promote Develop Develop and Organize social Make social SK Chemicals depends largely on water supply systems that have relatively low impact contribution a social contribution sophisticated implement teamcontribution activities contribution activities Geothermal power Unit : Gcal part of our regular across the Board of social contribution based social in which families of a monthly routine on water sources. The headquarters and Osan(SK Plasma) and Ulsan plants use 2013 2014 2015 corporate activities Directors programs contribution employees can get groundwater to meet part of its water demand. The headquarters and Andong(L HOUSE) activities involved plant collect rainwater for use in landscaping. On the other hand, the Ulsan plant has 0.28 6.82 34.46 * Standard for calculation of BAU emissions : The expected amount of increased CO2 each year from 2010 and amount of emissions by new establishment installed a reverse osmosis system. Approximately 75% of the water discharged from the and expansion planned by 2015 are summed up(Emissions will significantly increase due to energy sales business in 2015) general drainage system, which makes up about 62% of the total net water use, will be ** Eco-friendly sales accounted for a relatively higher portion of the total sales in 2015 because the total sales decreased recollected and reused. *** Action plan to reach the target hours of social contribution per employee : Programs will be developed on a continuing basis to meet the ambitious target S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 60 61 Implementation of Sustainability Management Environment-Friendly Plants Sound Corporate Governance GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation Systematic Risk Management Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation GHG Emission Management System Carbon Neutrality Management Plan and Revised Targets An IT-based GHG inventory system has been established to monitor and manage GHGs GHG Emission Management System SK Chemicals is increasing the use of non-fossil fuels with the introduction of carbon emitted from our Plants. The system allows SK Chemicals to manage energy effectively neutrality(no additional carbon emission caused by economic activities), which aims to 2009 Ulsan plant and respond to legal regulations imposed by the government including the Framework generate zero GHGs or offset emissions by other activities. Initially, SK Chemicals targeted Act on Low-Carbon, Green Growth and its Enforcement Decree. GHG Inventory System 100% carbon neutrality by 2020 based on an assessment of the financial impact and 2011 Cheongju(S HOUSE) Plant feasibility analysis, but the target has been revised to 2030, and the formula has been Responses to the Emissions Trading System adjusted accordingly. The Ulsan plant, which accounts for more than 90% of SK Chemicals’ GHG Management System SK Chemicals has been designated as eligible for allocation of permit under the entire emissions, plans to reach 50% carbon neutrality by 2020 and 100% by 2030. To meet Emissions Trading System(ETS) that was launched in 2015 and assigned a fairly high 2013 Andong(L HOUSE) Plant the target, the plant is considering using Eco Green Boiler and working diligently to develop target of a 15.4% reduction from its Business As Usual(BAU) level from 2015 to 2017. more biogases. Identified sources of GHG emissions To meet this target, a company-wide, integrated management approach was taken. and emission calculation method Specifically, emission reduction targets have been set for each of the plants, and Carbon Neutrality Management Results emissions are closely monitored. ETS-related matters from making decisions to purchase 2014 Andong(L HOUSE) Plant As part of our efforts to use less fossil fuels, we analyze the carbon neutrality data and try emission permits have been systematically organized, and a company-specific emission Managed GHG emissions to improve carbon neutrality management techniques for the following year. We recorded factor is being developed. In addition, expanding the uses of biogas is under review, and associated with vaccine production a 21.3% carbon neutrality rate in 2015. This is attributed to the implementation of Steam ideas are being collected to incorporate eco-friendly emission alternatives into the daily and registered the sources Highway business. We are conducting carbon reduction activities such as the expansion of conduct of our business aside from continuing with emission reduction efforts. 2015 All Plants eco-friendly fuels and the increase of waste wood input. GHG Emission Reduction Activities and Results Began to respond to Emission Specific Reduction Activities in 2015 Trading System in earnest The Ulsan plant, which generates 90% of GHG emissions, monitors the flow of GHGs specifically and consistently. Once the Steam Highway Project is launched, triggering Substituting bituminous Substituting B-C with Substituting diesel sales of large amounts of steam, GHG emissions are expected to rise. With this outlook, coal with waste wood biogas for boilers with bio liquefied oil for we are constantly working out reduction strategies so that we can meet the allocated boilers emissions quota under the Emissions Trading System that has been implemented since 2015. Emission Reduction with Use of Bio Liquefied Oil Using bio gases as fuel creates the double effects of reducing GHG emissions through the substitution of fossil fuels and eliminating GHG(methane) generated in the waste treatment process. For this reason, methane generated in the Yongyeon Sewage Treatment Plant in Ulsan City is collected and used as fuel for bunker-C oil boilers. Bio liquefied oil, a byproduct made in the process of producing biodiesel, is also used as fuel for eco-green boilers in the plant. In 2015, a total of 2,834 tons of bio liquefied oil was used, resulting in GHG reduction of 5,732tCO2eq compared to when diesel was used. SK Chemicals’ Annual Carbon Neutrality Targets Unit : % Operation Flow and Effects of Eco Green Boiler Target Result 50.0 47.5 Combustible Construction 45.2 Living, construction, etc. waste materials 42.9 40.8 38.8 36.8 Aggregate, Covering soil, Boundary 35.0 Waste wood materials stone(in review) 26.7 Collecting renewable energy heat 24.1 Steam 40 tons/hour 21.3 Input Eco Green Boiler Output Reducing greenhouse gas Substituting fossil fuels : 55,000 tons/year Waste wood : Reviewing recycling Incineration test, 250 tons/day Ash analysis, Recycling test(intensity) Reducing air pollutants Within dioxin 0.1ng Eco Green Combustible 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Establishing a preventive Reclamation of ashes : 18 20 tons/day Boiler waste facility based on waste treatment * The formula for calculating the carbon neutrality rate has been changed(the new formula was used retroactively) facilities) Old formula : Emission of carbon dioxide Equivalent tons from use of biomass / total emissions New formula : (GHG emissions reduction from use of non-fossil fuels / total GHG emissions on a BAU basis) * 100 S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 62 63 Implementation of Sustainability Management Environment-Friendly Plants Sound Corporate Governance GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation Systematic Risk Management Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Social Contribution Mission System Eco-Friendliness · Happy Green Class Contributing to realizing healthy and safe eco-friendly (environmental education) lives by carrying out ecofriendly management such as · A.cure(activities for protecting rivers) activities and education for purifying the environment To create a sustainable society Social welfare · Hope Maker by promoting Leading a respected corporate culture by implementing · Regular voluntary work eco-friendliness, social contribution activities with the engagement of · Supporting Silver Theater social welfare, and employees along with the socially disadvantaged · SK Happiness Well happiness for all Spreading happiness · SK Chemicals Probono Spreading health social culture by sharing sound values, · Spreading humanities cultural sectors, and expertise Main Theme Direction Core Programs Direction Various social contribution programs are run to support the three pillars of our social contribution mission: eco-friendliness to protect the earth’s environment, social welfare for the marginalized and disadvantaged class, and happiness through sharing culture and Social Contribution Programs for Social Welfare knowledge. In order to provide effective and substantial benefits, SK Chemicals works with experts and surveys the needs of stakeholders of local communities before planning Hope Maker activities and determines whether or not individual social contribution programs should be Hope Maker is a program intended to sponsor children and youths from low-income families continued, based on objective data including participation rates and satisfaction levels. in Korea and other countries and to provide them with mentoring aid. Over 1,710 employees from various teams of SK Chemicals worked with 14 local community centers located in Eco-Friendly Social Contribution Programs the vicinity of their workplace and provided 160 children and youths with financial aid and opportunities to join cultural events. SK Chemicals sponsors more than 300 children in lowA.cure(activities for protecting rivers) income countries via Compassion Korea, an international child advocacy group. Our support ‘A.cure’ is a word coined by combining ‘Aqua’ meaning water and ‘Cure’. The name of the for children and youths who need it will be increased in 2016, and a survey will be conducted program suggests our strong commitment to keeping the environment clean and healthy by to assess how effective and satisfying the program is to ensure that social contribution preserving rivers and creating a healthy ecosystem. activities are conducted in a more efficient manner. Green Point System Support for Silver Theater(social enterprise) The Green Point System began in 2010 to encourage employees to engage in environment SK Chemicals has provided a total of 820 million won to Silver Theater, Korea’s first movie protection activities and spread the culture of social contribution. Employees can receive and theater exclusive for elderly viewers, since 2009. In addition, employees visit local seniors’ donate points for their participation in eco-friendly activities, with the company contributing community centers located in regional areas marginalized from cultural activities and funds that match the donated points, which then are used to support social contribution welfare systems and play movies and performances through the program titled ‘Visiting programs. The program helps make environment management part of the corporate culture Silver Theater’, to which local residents have responded positively. as it continues to evolve. Rice Farming for Love Environmental Education : Happy Green Class In celebration of the approval and release of SKYCELLFLU, a cell culture-derived influenza Activities for Protecting Rivers Employees of SK Chemicals visit elementary schools and give lectures on environmental vaccine, SK Chemicals planted colored rice on a 9,900m² area in cooperation with the city of issues. Videos and various teaching materials are used to make lessons fun and teach Joint Programs for the Headquarters and Andong and donated 3 tons of rice harvested from the rice paddy for the disadvantaged class Affiliated Companies in Andong. SK Chemicals takes pride in playing a part in improving public health and social students about environmental protection. So far, more than 6,300 students have participated in the program. All Plants of SK Chemicals including Osan(SK Plasma), Andong(L HOUSE), welfare by giving back the fruits of its technological innovations to the local community. Woonjung Stream Ecological Wetland and Cheongju(S HOUSE) to introduce the program in 2016. Blood Donation Ulsan Plant Prevention of Environmental Pollution in Areas Near Our Plants All of our plants participated in a relay of blood donation to help relieve shortages of blood Employees of the Ulsan plant visited Cheoyongam for cleaning and preservation Yeocheon Stream, Cheoyong Park, supply caused by the outbreak of MERS, thereby expediting recovery. The program, joined activities(once) and Pyeongdong Village in Ganjeolgot for the preservation of the ecosystem(3 Ganjeolgot, Solmaru Path by 235 employees, took the form of a matching grant. In other words, when employees times), volunteered at the Yeocheon workshop for the physically challenged, and cleaned donate blood, the company donates Onnuri gift certificates that can be used for shopping Yeocheon Stream(4 times). Employees of the Cheongju(S HOUSE) plant participate in the Cheongju(S HOUSE) Plant at traditional marketplaces. In January 2016, around 140 employees from the head office environment-cleaning activities in Bumo Mountain and Mushimcheon River and during the donated blood and helped cope with shortages of blood supply. Mipyeongcheon Arbor Day event at least twice a year. S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 64 65 Implementation of Sustainability Management Environment-Friendly Plants Sound Corporate Governance GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation Systematic Risk Management Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners Performances of Social Contribution Activities for Each Theme Social Contribution Programs Together with the Local Community Category 2014 2015 2016(planned) Support for Ulsan Plant's Sister Villages and Social Enterprises Number of students participated in environmental education 1,500 persons 1,660 persons 1,800 persons The Ulsan plant maintains sisterhood relations with Geonam and Pyeongdong villages in Ratio of subscription to Hope Maker 91.7% 92.0% 95.0% Nam-gu, Ulsan and conducts a variety of activities to help the villages by identifying the SK Happiness Well Developing & Repairing Developing 2 / Developing 2 / needs of local residents. These activities include purchasing agricultural products from Repairing 10 wells Repairing 10 wells the farming villages, volunteering to help during busy farming seasons, running weekend Number of audiences at Silver Theater 250,000 persons 200,000 persons 250,000 persons farms jointly with the villages, and supporting village festivals and tours organized for elderly members of the village. Employees of the plant visit the Yeocheon Protected Workshop for the Disabled every month and perform volunteer activities including helping manufacture cotton gloves and clean the workshop environment. Happiness-Spreading Social Contribution Programs ‘The Beautiful Hearts’ Group’, the Social Contribution Club of the Ulsan Plant SK Probono Activity The social contribution club has been sponsoring the Green Umbrella Children’s Foundation SK Probono Program is a gift-sharing program run by the SK Group. Employees who have to help local children grow healthy. Ulsan plant works together with the foundation to professional knowledge, skills, or qualifications share them for free with social enterprises organize various support programs. and groups that need their help. Employees of SK Chemicals join the program by sharing with social enterprises the technology and know-how they have acquired from their job. SK-Affiliated Companies’ Joint Social Contribution in Sungnam City Five SK-affiliated companies operating in Sungnam City started joint social contribution Voluntary Work by Plants programs in 2015 for maximum synergistic effects. Major activities include monthly Volunteers have been recruited from across the company to organize a group, and they work environment cleaning in and around Woonjung Stream in Sungnam, ‘Happy Songpyeon(a together with local community centers in neighboring areas to prepare free meals for and kind of rice cake)-Sharing Event on Chuseok’ for low-income elderly persons in collaboration deliver boxed lunches to elderly persons who live by themselves. They also participate in with 5 local community centers, and ‘Duck Racing Event’ in cooperation with Courtyard the programs run by the centers. In addition, they volunteer at rehabilitation facilities for the by Marriott to raise funds for the heating expenses of low-income families. Our support disabled in the local communities and wield a direct positive impact on the bottom line of the programs for the disadvantaged class in local communities will be further expanded in 2016 facilities. to maximize the effects of our social contribution activities. SK Group ‘Happiness Sharing Season’ Voluntary Work G.rium Artist Award SK Chemicals’ employees actively participate in the ‘Happiness Sharing Season’ program, The award, presented jointly by Platon Academy, seeks to nurture and sponsor talented a seasonal volunteer activity organized by the SK Group every November. More than 80 young artists in the field of classical music. Cellist Mun Tae-guk was chosen as the recipient employees and other volunteers joined the Sharing Kimchi with Happiness and made a total of the second G.rium Award in 2015. SK Chemicals will contribute to supporting the growth of 4,000 kg of kimchi using approximately 2,000 heads of Napa cabbages. Volunteers had of talented classical artists and promoting a healthy social culture of sharing the universal the kimchi delivered to elderly persons living alone and families of Hope Maker participant value inherent in classical music by sponsoring the award recipients on a long-term basis. children via local community centers. The Happiness Sharing Bazaar organized a charity sale of SK Chemicals’ products and items donated by employees to raise funds for children who cannot afford to buy lunch at the school cafeteria. APPENDIX 68 Statements of Financial Position 69 Statements of Comprehensive Income 70 Sustainability Performance Data 78 GRI-G4 Index 82 Independent Assurance Report 84 Sustainability Report Summary 85 Sustainability Report TF S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 68 69 Statements of Financial Position Independent Assurance Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Report Summary Sustainability Performance Data Sustainability Report TF GRI-G4 Index Statements of Financial Position Statements of Comprehensive Income SK Chemicals Co., Ltd. 47th period As of December 31, 2015 SK Chemicals Co., Ltd. 47th period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 46th period As of December 31, 2014 46th period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 Unit : KRW 45th period As of December 31, 2013 Unit : KRW 45th period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013 Item 47th Period 46th Period 45th Period Account 47th Period 46th Period 45th Period Assets Sales revenue 1,039,863,882,327 1,232,853,528,219 1,484,565,400,695 I. Current assets 696,264,685,087 625,451,085,374 677,638,720,410 Cost of sales 809,864,749,658 951,757,923,103 1,170,887,086,595 Cash and cash equivalents 251,035,758,788 20,453,807,375 15,691,222,908 Gross profit 229,999,132,669 281,095,605,116 313,678,314,100 Account receivables and other bonds 238,732,079,364 322,892,199,745 385,891,893,941 SG&A 211,508,923,998 245,498,364,434 242,387,066,868 Inventory 200,142,049,313 275,241,880,132 252,481,702,888 Operating income 18,490,208,671 35,597,240,682 71,291,247,232 Other current assets 6,050,792,622 6,559,151,062 9,594,651,554 Other profits 190,802,324,092 33,903,232,265 15,466,141,638 Non-current assets held for sale 304,005,000 304,047,060 13,979,249,119 Other costs 36,246,044,809 62,282,824,314 16,861,466,216 II. Non-current assets 1,857,874,905,573 1,718,849,352,270 1,725,769,319,173 Financial profits 31,506,857,927 21,986,520,559 21,955,941,684 Long-term financial assets 19,399,442,546 14,571,242,771 14,938,439,505 Financial costs 56,041,202,435 53,665,614,297 52,272,033,054 Long-term loans 154,148,493 467,872,212 716,225,355 Earnings before corporate taxes(loss) 148,512,143,446 (24,461,445,105) 39,579,831,284 Deposits 8,202,433,078 9,594,195,620 9,889,643,700 Corporate tax profits(costs) 28,562,157,103 (4,333,195,648) 13,111,994,351 Investment stocks for associates 391,544,947,917 409,670,947,917 455,213,369,891 Net profit(loss) 119,949,986,343 (20,128,249,457) 26,467,836,933 Investment stocks for subsidiaries 566,090,957,835 403,393,311,320 372,265,420,691 Other comprehensive income 1,142,735,868 146,234,813 (3,310,802,904) Property 745,118,213,735 750,872,150,255 718,917,001,136 Items re-categorized as profits and losses for the current term subsequently 4,116,327,849 1,954,132,169 1,000,985,086 Intangible assets 37,941,868,213 33,411,422,627 38,393,473,290 Profits for assessment of financial assets available for sale 4,079,706,671 2,018,942,000 936,175,255 Investment in properties 88,928,313,756 88,988,847,076 115,026,845,605 Profits for assessment of derivatives(losses) 36,621,178 (64,809,831) 64,809,831 Other non-current assets 494,580,000 442,080,000 408,900,000 Items not re-categorized as profits and losses for the current term subsequently (2,973,591,981) (1,807,897,356) (4,311,787,990) Deferred tax assets 7,437,282,472 Re-measured elements for defined benefit debts (2,973,591,981) (1,807,897,356) (4,311,787,990) Total assets 2,554,139,590,660 2,344,300,437,644 2,403,408,039,583 Total comprehensive profits for the current term(losses) 121,092,722,211 (19,982,014,644) 23,157,034,029 Liabilities Earnings per share I. Current liabilities 536,876,478,578 515,005,385,157 648,375,977,495 Earnings per share for basic common share 5,855 (992) 1,289 Sales debt and other debts 196,532,855,760 160,978,402,326 231,013,897,297 Earnings per share for basic preferred share 5,905 (942) 1,339 Short-term borrowings 106,202,361,948 157,977,148,472 145,956,949,060 Long-term current borrowings 212,546,047,297 181,270,708,176 241,495,233,528 Corporate tax payables 7,251,463,036 1,319,982,085 6,561,250,728 Other current liabilities 14,343,750,537 13,459,144,098 23,348,646,882 II. Non-current liabilities 769,727,721,799 894,482,621,523 791,927,332,630 Bonds 641,612,473,946 765,077,845,521 608,351,350,224 Long-term borrowings 87,791,485,957 104,115,505,895 156,430,000,000 Defined benefit liabilities 25,355,027,596 24,455,946,859 23,738,204,217 Deferred tax liabilities 14,062,931,162 2,601,142,712 Allowance 905,803,138 833,323,248 806,635,477 Total liabilities 1,306,604,200,377 1,409,488,006,680 1,440,303,310,125 Capital Capital 135,601,900,000 118,300,860,000 118,300,860,000 Capital surplus 326,127,554,604 145,530,430,546 145,530,430,546 Other capital items (98,068,499,377) (98,068,499,377) (98,068,499,377) Accumulated other comprehensive income 8,441,437,659 4,325,109,810 2,370,977,641 Earned surplus 875,432,997,397 764,724,529,985 794,970,960,648 Total capital 1,247,535,390,283 934,812,430,964 963,104,729,458 Total liabilities and capital 2,554,139,590,660 2,344,300,437,644 2,403,408,039,583 S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 70 71 Statements of Financial Position Independent Assurance Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Report Summary Sustainability Performance Data Sustainability Report TF GRI-G4 Index Sustainability Management Performance Data G4 9 Scale of the Organization_Manufactured Products G4 11 Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements Product Business Line Unit 2013 2014 2015 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 PETG 160,660 161,800 161,207 No. of employees covered by the labor union Green Chemicals Business ton persons 1,757 1,858 1,677 Biodiesel 140,986 141,609 125,909 & labor-management council Plasma derivatives bottle 1,226,733 1,270,850 1,237,592 Ratio of employees covered by the labor Company-wide % 100 100 100 union & labor-management council Vaccines dose 6,321,279 5,421,648 4,813,692 No. of meetings convened by the labor union Fluids Life Science Business kl 248 264 292 meeting 4 4 4 & labor-management council Tablets tablet 743,672,004 434,988,552 507,564,053 Patches patch 49,035,360 47,394,738 39,726,554 G4 13 Total Number of Business Partners Managed G4 9 Scale of the Organization_Sales by Business Line Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Business Products Unit 2013 2014 2015 No. of business partners that are registered and managed Business Partners 1,006 1,001 957 Total procurements from business partners KRW billion 917 820 627 Green Chemicals Business Biomaterials 189 247 210 High-performance materials 59 59 52 KRW billion EC 3 Coverage of the Organization’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations Composite materials 107 98 68 Polyester resin 546 361 317 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Life Science Business Pharmaceuticals 199 Size of retirement pension plan KRW billion 73 84 80 Vaccines KRW billion 120 (Defined benefit·DB) Company-wide New healthcare 0.3 No. of employees covered by the retirement persons 1,529 1,599 1,642 Others KRW billion 80 83 74 pension plan(Defined benefit·DB) Total KRW billion 1,485 1,233 1,040 EC 4 Financial Assistance Received from the Government G4 10 Total Number of Employees by Genders, Employment Type Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Item Classification Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Government subsidiary 3 4 0.7 Company-wide KRW billion No. of employees Male 1,369 1,538 1,337 Tax exemption 6 9 5 Company-wide persons Female 388 320 340 No. of employees by employment type Full-time 1,636 1,640 1,581 EN 1 Materials Used by Weight or Volume, EN 2 Percentage of Materials Used That Are Recycled Input Materials Company-wide persons Contract-based 121 135 96 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 No. of directors Male 30 30 37 Company-wide persons Osan(SK Plasma) 613 614 582 Female 2 2 2 Volume of raw and Ulsan 413,210 415,338 406,193 ton subsidiary materials used Andong(L HOUSE) 163 241 G4 10 Total Number of Employees by Plants Cheongju(S HOUSE) 342 260 377 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Volume of recycled raw and Ulsan ton 3,500 subsidiary materials used Male Headquarters(Eco Lab) 845 822 766 Osan(SK Plasma) 68 66 0 EN 3 Power Generations Using Renewable Energy Ulsan persons 382 357 353 Andong(L HOUSE) 66 99 120 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 71 91 98 Solar heat MW 8.3 7.8 7.8 Female Headquarters(Eco Lab) 233 217 230 Headquarters(Eco Lab) Geothermal heat Gcal 2.6 41.6 34.5 Osan(SK Plasma) 33 31 0 Ulsan persons 24 22 20 Andong(L HOUSE) 25 30 31 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 48 57 59 Full-time employees Headquarters(Eco Lab) 1,053 1,015 966 Osan(SK Plasma) 83 90 0 Ulsan persons 402 375 372 Andong(L HOUSE) 61 78 102 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 97 122 141 Contract-based employees Headquarters(Eco Lab) 25 24 30 Osan(SK Plasma) 18 7 0 Ulsan persons 4 4 1 Andong(L HOUSE) 30 51 49 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 22 26 16 S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 72 73 Statements of Financial Position Independent Assurance Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Report Summary Sustainability Performance Data Sustainability Report TF GRI-G4 Index EN 3 Energy Consumption within Company EN 19 Reduction of GHG Emissions_Progress with Green Triple 40!(Reducing CO2 emissions by 40%) Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Item Unit 2013 2014 2015 Coals ton 159,577 169,316 188,725 BAU emissions tCO2eq 545,000 620,000 689,000 B-A kl 187 0 0 Target reduction % 12.6 15.2 36.7 B-C kl 0 0 0 Actual emissions tCO2eq 481,396 520,034 585,402 Waste wood materials ton 82,119 67,037 66,644 Actual reduction % 13.2 16.1 15.0 Gasoline kl 80 66 33 Strategy Increase volumes of biomass used, Increase volumes of biomass used, Increase volumes of biomass used, Diesel kl 159 140 24 in liquid, gas, and solid forms in liquid, gas, and solid forms in liquid, gas, and solid forms Biodiesel Company-wide ton 0 0 2,834 Refined oil ton 1,633 0 0 EN 21 Intensity of Air Pollutants Discharged LNG 1000m³ 15,660 16,008 17,285 Item Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 LPG ton 16 12 46 Dust Osan(SK Plasma) 10 10 9 Biogas 1000m³ 11,140 11,504 10,152 Ulsan 4 4 4 Electricity MW 154,867 180,988 153,379 ppm Andong(L HOUSE) 0 Heat Gcal 6,404 4,636 3,978 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 6 5 4 SOx Osan(SK Plasma) 0 0 0 EN 4 Energy Consumption Outside Company Ulsan 41 29 28 ppm Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Andong(L HOUSE) 0 Electricity 2,310 1,681 1,243 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 0 0 0 Ulsan TJ Heat 3,347 2,386 3,824 NOx Osan(SK Plasma) 0 0 0 Ulsan 61 55 57 ppm EN 8 Total Water Drawing and Consumption Andong(L HOUSE) 0 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 0 0 92 Item Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 VOC Osan(SK Plasma) 0 0 0 Water consumption Headquarters(Eco Lab) 65,760 78,076 68,812 Ulsan 9 9 0 ppm Osan(SK Plasma) 67,550 54,180 52,025 Andong(L HOUSE) 0 Ulsan ton 7,076,053 6,472,319 6,068,847 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 0 0 0 Andong(L HOUSE) 128,114 119,839 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 53,588 46,540 49,467 EN 22 Total Water Discharge Item Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 EN 10 Total Water Drawing and Consumption from Underground, Recycled, and Reused Water discharge Headquarters(Eco Lab) 22,957 36,291 26,837 Item Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Osan(SK Plasma) 39,420 37,831 36,078 Total volume of water drawn from Headquarters(Eco Lab) 4,882 3,612 3,060 Ulsan ton 694,519 771,610 640,040 underground, recycled, and reused Osan(SK Plasma) ton 29,920 14,112 18,059 Andong(L HOUSE) 79,052 75,152 Ulsan 3,946,126 3,781,238 3,558,774 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 31,916 28,449 31,738 EN 15 Direct GHG(Scope1) Emissions, EN 16 Indirect GHG(Scope2) Emissions EN 22 Intensity of Water Pollutants Discharged Item Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Item Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Scope1 emissions 408,424 434,964 513,216 BOD Osan(SK Plasma) 3 2 4 Company-wide tCO2eq Scope2 emissions 72,975 85,070 72,187 Ulsan 4 3 3 ppm Andong(L HOUSE) 101 126 EN 18 GHG Emission Intensity Cheongju(S HOUSE) 36 2 1 COD Osan(SK Plasma) 7 2 7 Item Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Ulsan 13 12 12 Scope1 intensity ratio 2.8 3.5 4.9 ppm tCO2eq / Andong(L HOUSE) 58 54 Company-wide Scope2 intensity ratio KRW billion 0.5 0.7 0.7 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 53 18 13 SS Osan(SK Plasma) 25 4 9 Ulsan 4 2 2 ppm Andong(L HOUSE) 110 41 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 25 6 5 S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 74 75 Statements of Financial Position Independent Assurance Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Report Summary Sustainability Performance Data Sustainability Report TF GRI-G4 Index EN 23 Total Waste by Type EN 30 Significant Environmental Impacts of Transporting Employees Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Amount of generated regular waste Osan(SK Plasma) 106 145 80 Energy use Headquarters(Eco Lab) 325 Ulsan 32,816 29,229 27,438 (petroleum) Osan(SK Plasma) Unmeasured data ton Andong(L HOUSE) 54 79 Ulsan 426 GJ Cheongju(S HOUSE) 12 137 162 Andong(L HOUSE) 289 Amount of generated designated waste Osan(SK Plasma) 56 107 108 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 79 Ulsan 19,180 4,944 4,759 Total 2,592 2,322 1,119 ton Andong(L HOUSE) 45 53 GHG emissions from Headquarters(Eco Lab) 20 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 1,169 1,543 1,733 use of petroleum Osan(SK Plasma) Unmeasured data Ulsan 29 tCO2eq EN 23 Total Waste by Disposal Method Andong(L HOUSE) 19 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 0 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Total 174 156 67 Incineration Osan(SK Plasma) 101 132 179 Energy consumption Headquarters(Eco Lab) 204 Ulsan 311 368 173 (diesel) Osan(SK Plasma) Unmeasured data ton Andong(L HOUSE) 100 107 Ulsan 85 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 1,209 1,596 1,861 GJ Andong(L HOUSE) 56 Reclamation Osan(SK Plasma) 36 24 0 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 551 Ulsan 6,948 5,460 8,621 Total 3,249 835 896 ton Andong(L HOUSE) 0 0 GHG emissions from Headquarters(Eco Lab) 14 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 68 37 18 use of diesel Osan(SK Plasma) Unmeasured data Recycling Osan(SK Plasma) 48 49 45 Ulsan 6 Ulsan 37,904 23,702 18,644 tCO2eq ton Andong(L HOUSE) 4 Andong(L HOUSE) 0 25 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 4 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 56 69 79 Total 229 59 28 Marine emissions Osan(SK Plasma) 0 0 0 Ulsan 6,831 6,831 0 ton EN 31 Total Environmental Expenditures and Investments Andong(L HOUSE) 0 0 Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 0 0 0 Recycling ratio Osan(SK Plasma) 30 19 0 Headquarters(Eco Lab) 0 0 0 Ulsan 73 69 68 Osan(SK Plasma) 0 0 0 % Andong(L HOUSE) 0 19 Ulsan 0 0 1.7 KRW billion Cheongju(S HOUSE) 5 4 4 Andong(L HOUSE) 0 0 0.1 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 0 0 0 EN 24 Total Use Amounts of Hazardous Chemicals Total 6.4 0.2 0 Item Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Total Use Amounts of hazardous chemicals Ulsan ton 33,637 36,998 33,355 EN 27 Ratio of Eco-friendly Products Sales_Progress with Green Triple 40!(Sales of eco-friendly products by 40%) Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 2017 2020 Target of eco-friendly sales 19.0 22.0 25.0 30.0 40.0 % Actual eco-friendly sales 26.7 32.7 35.7 S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 76 77 Statements of Financial Position Independent Assurance Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Report Summary Sustainability Performance Data Sustainability Report TF GRI-G4 Index LA 1 Total Number and Rates of New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover LA 11 The Ratio of Employees Receiving Regular Performance Review Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 No. of new employees Male 225 162 129 No. of employees eligible for regular performance review 1,130 1,165 1,148 Company-wide persons persons hired Female 70 40 50 No. of employees who received regular performance review Company-wide 1,063 1,104 1,108 No. of employees who left the company Company-wide persons 139 197 127 Ratio of employees who received performance review % 94.10% 94.80% 96.50% Turnover rate Company-wide % 7.3 11 7.6 LA 12 Composition of Employees_Diversity of Employees LA 3 The Number of Maternity Leave Use and Return to Work after Maternity Leave Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 No. of disabled employee hired 12 15 27 Male No. of employees who took a maternity leave 0 0 1 No. of patriots and veterans hired Company-wide persons 37 37 37 persons No. of employees who returned after a maternity leave 0 0 0 No. of foreigners hired 3 3 7 Female No. of employees who took a maternity leave 25 20 32 persons No. of employees who returned after a maternity leave 12 14 15 SO 1 Local Community Engagement, Impact Assessments, and Develop Programs Category Content Unit 2013 2014 2015 LA 6 Type of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and Absenteeism, Total Number of Work-related Fatalities Cost of social contribution activities Cost of social contribution activities KRW billion 1.8 1.8 1.8 Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Volunteer activities No. of employee volunteers persons 1,592 1,659 1,671 Number of accidents 3 1 0 No. of volunteering hours per employee hour 8 8 8 case Death toll Company-wide 0 0 0 Number of lost days day 160 0 0 SO 7 Legal actions for Anti-Competitive Behavior, Anti-Trust, and Monopoly Practices SO 8 Significant Fines and Non-Monetary Sanctions for Noncompliance with Laws and Regulations LA 7 Workers with High incidence or High Risk of Diseases related to Their Occupation · SK Chemicals was declared to be in violation of Article 11-4(Disclosures on Status of Business Conglomerates, etc.) of the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act on March 31, 015 and ordered to pay a fine of 4 million won pursuant to Article 69-2 of the same Act, and the company paid up accordingly. Eligible Employees who Employees who did not Category Scope Unit SK Chemicals is taking steps to prevent the recurrence of such violation in the future. employees underwent medical checkup undergo medical checkup · On November 3, 2015, SK Chemicals was ordered by the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety to suspend the production of SKYCELLFLU prefilled syringe for Comprehensive Headquarters(Eco Lab) 442 437 5 2 months due to insufficient hemagglutinin content medical checkup (Legal basis : Article 62 of the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act; production suspension period: November 11, 2015 ~ January 10, 2016) Osan(SK Plasma) 43 43 0 Ulsan persons 359 356 3 SO 11 Number of Grievances regarding Impacts on Society filed, Addressed, and Resolved through Formal Grievance Mechanisms Andong(L HOUSE) 115 115 0 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 39 39 0 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 General Headquarters(Eco Lab) 639 636 3 No. of grievances filed in 2015 0 0 0 medical checkup case Osan(SK Plasma) 49 49 0 No. of grievances resolved in 2015 0 0 0 Ulsan persons 359 359 0 Andong(L HOUSE) 115 115 0 PR 8 Total Number of Substantiated Complaints regarding Breaches of Customer Privacy and Loss of Customer Data Cheongju(S HOUSE) 104 104 0 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Special Headquarters(Eco Lab) 133 133 0 medical checkup Osan(SK Plasma) 33 33 0 No. of customer data(including personal information) stolen 0 0 0 case Ulsan persons 235 235 0 No. of customer data(including personal information) lost 0 0 0 Andong(L HOUSE) 110 110 0 Cheongju(S HOUSE) 106 106 0 LA 9 Training Hours and Investments for Employees Category Scope Unit 2013 2014 2015 Annual average training hours per employee hour 164 160 297 Company-wide Total amount of investments in employee training KRW billion 4 4 3 S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 78 79 Statements of Financial Position Independent Assurance Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Report Summary Sustainability Performance Data Sustainability Report TF GRI-G4 Index GRI G4 Index General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Index Description Sustainable Development Goals Page Category : Economics Strategy & analysis Index Description Sustainable Development Goals Page Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization regarding the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the G4 1 2-3 organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Economic performance DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization regarding the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the G4 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 68 70 G4 2 30 31, 36 37, 42 43 organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate Organizational profile G4 EC2 SDG.02, SDG.05, SDG.07, SDG.08, SDG.09 60 change G4 3 Name of the organization 5 G4 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations SDG.13 71 G4 4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12 15, 20 23 G4 EC4 Financial assistance received from government 71 G4 5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 4-5 Market conditions DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) Number of countries where the organization operates, names of countries with either major operations or which are specifically relevant to the G4 6 4-5 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to the local minimum wage at major locations of sustainability issues covered in the report G4 EC5 SDG.01, SDG.05, SDG.08 46 operation G4 7 Nature of ownership and legal form 4-5 G4 EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at major locations of operation SDG.08 G4 8 Market served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 4-5 Indirect economic impacts DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 9 Scale of reporting organization 4 5, 70 G4 EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported SDG.02, SDG.05, SDG.07, SDG.09, SDG.11 16 17, 24 25 G4 10 Total workforce SDG.08 70 G4 EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts SDG.01, SDG.02, SDG.03, SDG.08, SDG.10, SDG.17 57, 63 G4 11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SDG.08 71 Procurement Procedures DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 12 Organization’s supply chain 57 G4 EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at major locations of operation SDG.12 57 G4 13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain 4 5, 84 G4 14 Precautionary approach or principle by the organization 56 G4 15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 78 81, 84 Category : Environments G4 16 Memberships in associations(industrial associations, etc.) or national/international advocacy organizations 38, 84 Identified material aspects and boundaries Index Description Sustainable Development Goals Page G4 17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents and any entity not covered in this report 4-5 Materials DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 18 Process of defining the report content and aspect boundaries and methods to apply the reporting principles of defining report content 28 29 G4 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SDG.08, SDG.12 71 G4 19 All material aspects identified in the process of defining report content 29 G4 EN2 Percentage of used materials that are recycled as input materials SDG.08, SDG.12 59 G4 20 20 Aspect boundary within the organization for each material aspect 84 Energy DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 21 Aspect boundary outside the organization for each material aspect 84 G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization SDG.07, SDG.08, SDG.12, SDG.13 75 G4 22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, reasons for such restatements 84 G4 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization SDG.07, SDG.08, SDG.12, SDG.13 72 G4 23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries from the previous reporting periods 84 G4 EN5 Energy intensity SDG.07, SDG.08, SDG.12, SDG.13 Stakeholder engagement G4 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption SDG.07, SDG.08, SDG.12, SDG.13 60 G4 24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 28 29 G4 25 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 29 G4 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SDG.07, SDG.08, SDG.12, SDG.13 G4 26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 28 29 Water Resources DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and organization’s response 30 31, 36 37, 42 43 G4 EN8 Total water drawing by source SDG.06 72 Report profile No water source G4 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by drawing of water SDG.06 significantly affected G4 28 Reporting period for the information provided 84 G4 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused SDG.06, SDG.08, SDG.12 72 G4 29 Date of the most recent previous report 84 Biodiversity DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 30 Reporting cycle 84 G4 EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity G4 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 84 SDG.06, SDG.14, SDG.15 value outside the protected areas G4 32 Organization’s method for “in accordance” 78 81 G4 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and G4 33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 82 84 SDG.06, SDG.14, SDG.15 areas of high biodiversity value outside the protected areas Governance G4 EN13 Habitats protected or restored SDG.06, SDG.14, SDG.15 62 G4 34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 54 55 G4 EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk SDG.06, SDG.14, SDG.15 Process of delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other G4 35 54 55 employees Emission DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or some positions with responsibility for economic, environmental, and social G4 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(Scope 1) SDG.03, SDG.12, SDG.13, SDG.14, SDG.15 72 G4 36 54 55 topics, and whether reporting post hoc directly to the highest governance body G4 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(scope 2) SDG.03, SDG.12, SDG.13, SDG.14, SDG.15 72 Process of consultation between stakeholders and highest governance body on economic, environment, and social topics; if consultation is elegated, G4 37 SDG.16 54 55 G4 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions(SCOPE 3) SDG.03, SDG.12, SDG.13, SDG.14, SDG.15 to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body Composition of the highest governance body and its committees(Executives or non-executives, Independence, Tenure on the governance G4 EN18 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(scope 2) SDG.13, SDG.14, SDG.15 72 G4 38 body, Number of each individual’s other significant opposition and commitments and nature of the commitments, Gender, Memberships of SDG.05, SDG.16 54 55 underrepresented social groups, Competences related to economic, environmental, and social impacts, Stakeholder representation) G4 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions SDG.13, SDG.14, SDG.15 61 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer(and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management G4 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances SDG.03, SDG.12 59 G4 39 SDG.16 54 55 and the reasons for this arrangement) G4 EN21 NOx, Sox, and other significant air emissions SDG.03, SDG.12, SDG.14, SDG.15 73 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, criteria used for nominating and selecting the highest Effluents and waste DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 36 37 G4 40 governance body members(Whether and how diversity is considered, Whether and how independence is considered, Whether and how expertise and SDG.05, SDG.16 54 55 experience related to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered, Whether and how stakeholders are involved) G4 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination SDG.03, SDG.06, SDG.12, SDG.14 59, 73 Processes that enable the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interests are avoided and managed(Cross-board membership, Cross G4 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SDG.03, SDG.06, SDG.12 59, 74 G4 41 SDG.16 54 55 shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders, Existence of controlling shareholders) G4 EN24 Total frequency and volume of significant spills SDG.03, SDG.06, SDG.12, SDG.14, SDG.15 41 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value, or G4 42 54 55 G4 EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Not applicable mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social impacts SDG.03, SDG.12 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4 43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics SDG.04 54 55 G4 EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly Not applicable Processes of evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics SDG.06, SDG.14, SDG.15 G4 44 54 55 affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff (Whether such evaluation is independent or not, including its frequency) Products and Services DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities SDG.16 54 55 G4 EN27 Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services SDG.06, SDG.08, SDG.12, SDG.13, SDG.14, SDG.15 17, 25, 74 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental, and G4 46 54 55 G4 EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials, which are reclaimed by category SDG.08, SDG.12 58 social topics G4 47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 54 55 Compliance DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 56 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are G4 EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with 56 G4 48 54 55 SDG.16 covered environmental laws and regulations G4 49 Process of communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 54 55 Transport DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and G4 EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the G4 50 54 55 SDG.11, SDG.12, SDG.13 resolve them organization’s operations, transporting members of the workforce G4 51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives Overall DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 52 Process of determining remuneration G4 EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type SDG.07, SDG.09, SDG.12, SDG.13, SDG.14, SDG.15, SDG.17 75 SK Chemicals’ G4 53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account with regard to remuneration(if applicable) SDG.16 Supplier Environmental Assessment DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) Business Report for Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual the 47th Period G4 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria G4 54 total compensation for all employees(excluding the highest paid individual) in the same country (pp.274-275) G4 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest paid individual in each country of significant operations to G4 55 the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees(excluding the highest paid individual) in the same country Environmental Grievance Mechanisms DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) Ethics and integrity G4 EN34 Number of grievances regarding environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 59 SDG.16 G4 56 Organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior such as conduct and codes of ethics SDG.16 32 grievance mechanisms G4 57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, matters related to organizational integrity SDG.16 32 33 G4 58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, matters related to organizational integrity SDG.16 32 33 S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 80 81 Statements of Financial Position Independent Assurance Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Report Summary Sustainability Performance Data Sustainability Report TF GRI-G4 Index Category : Labor Category : Society Index Description Sustainable Development Goals Page Index Description Sustainable Development Goals Page Employment DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 42 43 Local communities DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region SDG.05, SDG.08 46, 76 G4 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 63 G4 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major locations of operation SDG.08 47 49 G4 SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities; 77 No business sites having negative impact SDG.01, SDG.02 63 65 G4 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender SDG.05, SDG.08 48, 76 Anti-corruption DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 42 43 Labor-management relations DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 42 42 No human rights grievance has G4 SO3 Number of grievances regarding human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SDG.16 been filed G4 LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements SDG.08 47 G4 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SDG.16 33 Occupational health and safety DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 36 37 G4 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SDG.16 None G4 LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in the formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and 39 SDG.08 advise on occupational health and safety programs Public Policy DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, total number of work-related fatalities, by region 76 G4 SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary SDG.16 SDG.03, SDG.08 and by gender Anti-competitive behavior DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 31 32 G4 LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation SDG.03, SDG.08 39 40, 76 G4 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes SDG.16 77 G4 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions SDG.08 38 39 Compliance DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 30 31 Training and education DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 42 43 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and G4 SO8 SDG.16 77 G4 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, by employee SDG.04, SDG.05, SDG.08 44 45, 76 regulations G4 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in 44 45 Supplier assessment for impacts on society DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) SDG.08 managing career endings G4 SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society G4 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category SDG.05, SDG.08 77 G4 S10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Diversity and equal opportunity DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 42 43 Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 46, 54, 77 SDG.03, SDG.08 G4 S11 Number of grievances regarding impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SDG.16 membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal remuneration for women and men DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 42 43 G4 LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by major locations of operation SDG.05, SDG.08 46 Category : Product Responsibility Supplier Assessment for labor practices DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria SDG.03, SDG.08 Index Description Sustainable Development Goals Page G4 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken SDG.05, SDG.08 Customer health and safety DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 30 31 Labor practices grievance mechanisms DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 17, 25 G4 LA16 Number of grievances regarding labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SDG.03, SDG.08 G4 PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products 77 SDG.16 and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labeling DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 30 31 Category : Human Rights Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, 34 35 G4 PR3 SDG.12 percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Index Description Sustainable Development Goals Page G4 PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 77 SDG.16 labeling, by type of outcomes Investments DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 35 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or which underwent G4 HR1 SDG.05, SDG.08 human rights screening Marketing communications DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights relevant to operations, G4 PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products G4 HR2 SDG.08 including the percentage of employees trained G4 PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including SDG.16 Non-discrimination DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SDG.08, SDG.16 Customer privacy DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 30 31 Freedom of association and collective bargaining DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 42 43 G4 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data SDG.16 33, 77 Operations and suppliers identified wherein the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at Compliance DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) 30 31 G4 HR4 SDG.08 47, 71 significant risk, measures taken to support these rights G4 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 77 SDG.16 Child labor DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) services Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, measures taken to contribute to the effective G4 HR5 SDG.08, SDG.16 abolition of child labor Forced labor DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, measures to contribute to the G4 HR6 SDG.08 elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Security practices DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures relevant to operations SDG.16 Indigenous rights DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken SDG.02 77 Assessment DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Supplier Human Rights Assessment DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria G4 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 17 Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms DMA(Disclosures on Management Approach) G4 HR12 Number of grievances regarding human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SDG.16 SDG SDG SDG No Poverty Affordable and Clean Energy Climate Action 01 07 13 SDG SDG SDG Zero Hunger Decent Work and Economic Growth Life below Water 02 08 14 SDG SDG Industry Innovation and SDG Life on Land Good Health and Well-Being Preserve biodiversity, prevent desertification and 03 09 Increased Restoration Capability 15 create ecological cycle Quality Education SDG SDG Reduced Inequalities SDG Guarantee education opportunities and provide Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 04 lifelong education 10 Reduce inequalities at home and abroad 16 Partnerships for the Goals SDG Gender Equality SDG Sustainable Cities and Communities SDG Strengthen cooperation and partnership for 05 Enhance gender equality and women’s rights 11 Create sustainable living and residential spaces 17 sustainable growth SDG Clean Water and Sanitation SDG Responsible Consumption & Production Sustainability Management of sustainable water Build a sustainable culture of production and 06 resources and sanitation 12 consumption S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 82 83 Statements of Financial Position Independent Assurance Report Statements of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Report Summary Sustainability Performance Data Sustainability Report TF GRI-G4 Index Independent Assurance Statement Introduction SK Chemicals Co., Ltd.(“SK Chemicals”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd.(“DNV GL”), part of Sustainability Context DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of ‘SK chemicals Sustainability Report 2015’(the “Report”). The The report covers the sustainable development situation such as risks and opportunities analysis and social directors of SK Chemicals have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in importance. SK Chemicals’ performance in aspects of economy, environment and social can be found in the report. performing the assurance work is to the management of SK Chemicals in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client Materiality to us as part of our review have been prepared in good faith. The materiality determination process is presented in the Report. The relevant issue pool is formed from the various information(GRI guideline, ISO 26000, Industry specialization index(DJSI), Media research, Benchmarking, Internal sustainability issues). The issues in the pool were rated by combining internal and external interest. Scope of The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period assurance ending on 31st December 2015. This also includes : Completeness The report covers economic, environmental and social impacts of sustainability scope and offers information about · Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) the results of activities and decisions of organization for the key issues of sustainability aspects during the reporting Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 period. · Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In accordance’ with the GRI Guidelines G4 (Core option)(Aggregated level of data that refers to the period between January and December in 2015) · Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to Opportunity for The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to SK Chemicals’ management. material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and improvement However, it does not affect our conclusions on the Report, but is provided to encourage continual improvement. qualitative data in the Report · This 2015 report mainly covers the performance of 2015, since the report has been issued annually. However, it is important to report the emerged important social issue, in a timely manner so that the information Basis of We have performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance protocol, VeriSustain™1) , which is based on our professional is available in time for stakeholders to make informed decisions. our opinion experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements · Stakeholder engagement process and materiality determination process has been conducted with 3000(ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in April through May 2016. The the assistance of external experts, it is recommended to integrate them into the organization’s own processes site visits were made to SK Chemicals Head quarter in Gyeonggi-do and Ulsan Factory. We undertook the following and operated effectively and consistently. activities as part of the assurance process : 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html Competence and DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment · Challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report on a sampling basis and Independence and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team · Interviewed representatives from the various departments; which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or · Conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. associated reporting system and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; · Reviewed the materiality assessment report Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of SK Chemicals’ associated companies, subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service(http://dart.fss.or.kr). These 23 May 2016 Country Representative In Kyoon Ahn documents including financial statements and the announcements are not included in the scope of Assurance Seoul, Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Opinion and On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing has come to our attention to believe that the Report does not properly Observation describe the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; Stakeholder Inclusiveness SK Chemicals has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Shareholders and Investors, Customers, Employees, Suppliers, Government and Local Communities. SK Chemicals engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels and identified key issues, and understand their impact on one another. S K Che mi ca l s S u sta i n ab i li ty Rep ort 2 0 1 5 84 Sustainability Report Summary This 5th sustainability report published by SK Chemicals addresses 3 core aspects of Sustainability Management by examining the list of issues identified, based on analysis of internal management conditions and external business conditions and input from stakeholders. The report explains the rationale behind the selection of core aspects, risks, and opportunities associated with major issues, key policies, activities, and achievements. More details are available in the relevant sections of the report. Reporting Period & Cycle The reporting period is from January 1 to December 31, 2015, and data for 2013 and 2014 were also provided in some cases for time-series comparison. SK Chemicals has been reporting activities and achievements of Sustainability Management since 2012, with the report last updated in July 2015. Sustainability Report TF Reporting Scope CEO Message CEO Kim Cheol, CEO Park Manhn Hoon The scope of the report includes SK Chemicals’ domestic operations including the head office, research institutes, and plants in Osan(SK Company Team Leader Kim Dong-beom SKMS Team Plasma), Ulsan, Andong(L HOUSE), and Cheongju(S HOUSE). It is indicated when the reporting scope is different. Overview Assistant Manager Kim Gwang-hun Promotion Team Business & Green Chemicals : Business Overview Manager Park Hyeon-gyu GC Business Development Team Reporting Principles Product Manager Park Jae-hong Strategy Team 1 The report has been prepared according to the GRI G4 Guidelines-In accordance with ‘Core’ Option, and a materiality test was conducted to Green Chemicals : R&D Head Bong Chan-jong Bio Energy Team determine the content to be included in the report. Financial data in this report were prepared in accordance with K-IRFS, and issues discussed Assistant Manager Kim Ji-seung Research and Planning Team and included in the context of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact can be viewed on pages 84. Manager Park Jae-hong Strategy Team 1 Life Science : Business Overview Manager Lee So-young LS Strategy Planning Team Verification of the Report Life Science : R&D Manager Lee So-young LS Strategy Planning Team The report has been verified by DNV GL, a third-party assurance provider, in order to enhance accuracy of the content and data included in the Assistant Manager Kim Ji-seung Research and Planning Team report and to ensure that the content is presented in a balanced manner. Details including verification standards and scope and evaluator’s Core Reporting Fostering Transparent Ethics Management Manager Lee So-young LS Strategy Planning Team opinions are available in the Independent Assurance Report on pages 82 83 of this report. Aspects of Assistant Manager Lee Hong-gyu Marketing Support Team Sustainability Management Manager Han Gyeong-hee Legal Affairs Team Inquiries on the Report Manager Jung Sang-yun QA Team(Andong) Sustainability Report and Environmental Report Manager Choi Na-young Medicine Information Team SK Chemicals website : www.skchemicals.com Manager Choi Jae-ho QA Team(Cheongju) Website for environment management : www.skecoweb.com Assistant Manager Lee Won-gi Compliance Team Inquiries on Sustainability Management : SKMS Execution Team, SK Chemicals(02-2008-2040) Operating Safe and Healthy Plants Assistant Jung Jae-ha Operational Support Team(SK Plasma) E-mail : dbkim@sk.com Manager Ahn Jae-hong Operational Support Team(Andong) Design : DenoFlat Design Company(02-826-9461) Assistant Manager Kim Dong-woo Business Support Team(Research institute) Staff Yeo Hwan-ho Safety Environment Team(Ulsan) Staff Yeo Hwan-ho Operational Support Team(Cheongju) Deputy General Manager Kim Young-bum Compliance Team Establishing an Improved Corporate Culture Manager Kim Bo-gyeong SKMS Team Manager Kim Hak-deok Work Support Team Manager Song Jong-won Work Support Team Assistant Manager Lee Yong-hee HR Team General Reporting Implementation of Sustainability Management Team Leader Kim Dong-bum SKMS Team Aspects of Manager Kim Bo-gyeong SKMS Team Sustainability Management Sound Corporate Governance Assistant Manager Kim Jeong-min SKMS Team UNGC Compliance Report(Communication on Progress) Systematic Risk Management Manager Kim Beom-gu Compliance Team SK Chemicals joined UNGC in February 2011. It upholds the ten principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. SK Mutual Growth and Support for Business Partners Deputy General Manager Jo Sung-woo Procurement Team Chemicals’ voluntary efforts and activities that follow the ten principles are reported as below. Environment-Friendly Plants Manager Lee So-young LS Strategy Planning Team Major themes Principle Report Assistant Manager Jung Jae-ha Operational Support Team(SK Plasma) Manager Ahn Jae-hong Operational Support Team(Andong) Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Compliance Manager Baek Myeong-gu Work Support Team 2. Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Head Yeo Hwan-ho Safe Environment Team(Ulsan) Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Manager Park Jae-hong Strategy Team 1 4. Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Assistant Manager Shim Min-gi Strategy Team 2 p. 42 49 5. Businesses should abolish child labor effectively. Head Lee Gwang-ho Operational Support Team(Cheongju) Deputy General Manager Kim Young-beom Compliance Team 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assistant Manager Kim Gwang-hun Promotion Team Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. GHG Reduction and Energy Conservation Head Bong Chan-jong Promotion Team 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. p. 58 61 Head Yeo Hwan-ho Safe Environment Team(Ulsan) 9. Businesses encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assistant Manager Shim Min-gi Strategy Team 2 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. p. 32 33 Social Contribution for Win-win and Shared Growth Assistant Manager Kim Gwang-hun Promotion Team
