2016 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUMMARY REPORT Making things better together Contents A message from our CEO | 03 Our strategy | 05 Our issues | 06 Governance | 07 How we’re Making Things Better Together | 08 Our pillars | 09 Safe, Secure World 09 Thriving Communities 11 Sustainable Future 13 Responsible Business 15 Focusing on the future | 18 A message from our CEO For many people around the world, 2016 was a year of avoidance, not simply risk transfer. This means actively uncertainty. Political change, global security and pressing helping customers avoid risk, accelerating the transition environmental issues, including the wildfires in Canada, to a low carbon economy and improving resilience to the country’s costliest natural disaster, all reminded us of extreme weather. It also means an additional focus to life’s inherent unpredictability. Safeguarding customers ensure we keep performing in a world of rapid digital against everyday risk is at the heart of our business at innovation and increased instability. RSA. As the events of 2016 proved, our work to mitigate and prevent the unexpected is more important to 2016 saw us continue to help customers lead safer, more people’s lives than ever before. secure lives. We promoted road safety, especially for younger drivers, and kept people safe in the water, too. We helped 28,500 children in Sweden learn to swim and Having completed the financial urged more than two million adults to be realistic about turnaround of the business we their own swimming ability. are now a stronger, more focused, We supported thriving communities by continuing our forward-looking international insurer partnership with the School of Social Entrepreneurs in that aims to be best in class in the UK and Canada, helping even more social businesses prosper. We help to develop the UK’s future talent our markets, for our customers, through our excellent Ready, Set, Achieve employability shareholders and communities. workshops. I was fortunate to be part of one workshop at Barking Food Bank in June, where I met ex-offenders Our work is already paying off. Amid volatile financial and learned about the barriers they face in attempting to trading in 2016, we outperformed the market’s return to work. expectations, returning record-breaking underwriting profits of £380m, up 73% from 2015 and an operating We demonstrated our global leadership in renewable profit of £655m, 25% up from 2015. energy by insuring cutting-edge technology projects, like floating offshore wind farms which have a real potential Our Corporate Responsibility strategy is part of that success to accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy. story. Making Things Better Together is our response to We reduced our own carbon emissions too, meeting our the most important material challenges that our business, group-wide carbon reduction target two years ahead society and the world faces today. In 2016, we reviewed of time, cutting our emissions by 15% per person from those challenges to ensure we continue to prioritise what our 2015 baseline. We achieved this through property matters most to our stakeholders and business. rationalisation, encouraging sustainable working practices and opting for sustainable alternatives where possible. While our review confirmed that our strategic priorities are still aligned to the most pressing issues, there is a greater need for organisations like ours to address risk 3 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com We also proved that we are there for our customers in their time of need, with an exceptional response to the wildfires in Alberta, Canada. Our dedicated colleagues worked together around the clock to keep those affected safe and provide the help they needed. Looking after our customers in this way is at the core of our business. We can be proud of the remarkable support our people gave to our customers during this crisis. All our achievements are made possible thanks to the commitment of our people across the globe, who last year volunteered an impressive 6,081 hours for causes important in our local communities. In a rapidly evolving world, our people continue to live our values and make our purpose real: Making Things Better Together. Stephen Hester, RSA Group Chief Executive 4 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Our strategy Our Making Things Our contribution to the Better Together vision UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Today’s social and environmental challenges are complex Long-term, global sustainability progress requires – from greater demand for fewer natural resources to businesses, governments and societies to align. The limited employment prospects for young people. UN Sustainable Development Goals have been adopted with this in mind. While our strategy is not designed By actively preventing risk, we strive to create a more specifically around them, we believe we contribute to secure future for all. So as we protect customers on them in many ways: their journeys, we also work to make the roads safer. 11. Sustainable cities and communities As we protect homes, families and businesses, we help communities to thrive. And as we support people We help make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and in managing uncertainty, we try to tackle our greatest sustainable by keeping people safe as they live, work environmental threats. and travel through our Safe, Secure World focus area. 8. Good jobs and economic growth Addressing tomorrow’s risks requires action today. Our vision for a responsible business is one that helps meet We help promote inclusive and sustainable economic society’s challenges in practical ways. That’s what we growth, employment and decent work for all by sharing mean by Making Things Better Together. our skills so that young adults and social enterprises grow through our Thriving Communities focus area. 13. Climate action We take action to combat climate change and its Our strategy themes impacts, accelerating the transition to a low carbon Our strategy focuses on four distinct themes that directly impact our company: future by insuring renewable technology as part of our Sustainable Future focus area. Safe, Secure World Sustainable Future Keeping people safe in their daily lives Accelerating the transition to a low 12. Responsible consumption – on the road, in the water and in their carbon future And we ensure sustainable consumption and production homes and businesses. patterns by investing in our own business operations so that our business, people and suppliers enable us to be a Thriving Communities Responsible Business Responsible Business. Educating and inspiring future talent, Operating in ways that make our supporting social entrepreneurs and stakeholders proud. dedicating time to causes our people care about. 5 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Our issues Our Making Things Better Together strategy is based on the issues that matter most to our business and stakeholders. In 2016 we conducted a formal review of our approach. We RSA Materiality Matrix Helping customers utilised the latest reports and trends, engaging CR experts Delivering excellent avoid risks customer service and internal leaders to ensure we continue prioritising the Ensuring high most relevant environmental, social and ethical issues for a quality management & governance leading insurance company and its stakeholders. Accelerating the transition to Improving Our review showed that our plan remains on track and a low carbon diversity in our economy workforce our strategy themes remain unchanged. However, we were able to identify the following new points of emphasis Investing within each of our four key strategy areas: IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS responsibily Enhancing business reputation Improving resilience to Safe, Secure World & trust extreme Safeguarding Making insurance Going beyond risk transfer to emphasise active risk weather customers’ more accesible data to everyone avoidance. For example, as in our road safety campaigns Using technology to encouraging customers to drive safely and be aware of transform our business other road users. Reducing model underemployment & unemployment Thriving Communities in communities Reflecting our desire to help reduce unemployment Avoiding within our local communities, such as our work to macroeconomic crises increase employability skills for young people. Developing Sustainable Future products with social or environmental Clearly stating our intention to accelerate the transition to beneﬁts a low carbon economy and improve resilience to extreme Attracting talent to weather. Also adding a new material issue, ‘investing our sector responsibly’, echoing growing investor concern for IMPACT ON BUSINESS environmental, social and governance factors when choosing investments. Responsible Business Acknowledging the breakneck pace of digital innovation Safe, Secure World Sustainable Future and the perception of an increasingly unstable world by Thriving Communities Responsible Business ensuring we have the right people, products and processes in place to compete in times of change. 6 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Our CR governance framework Governance Executive Group Chief Comittee Board Executive Oversight Sponsors and challenge Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy is managed by our Group CR function with Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary and Group oversight and challenge from our Director Chief Risk Officer of Corporate Communications. From September 2016, Charlotte Heiss, Our strategy is underpinned by corporate Group Chief Legal Officer and Company CR polices outlining our approach to Strategic oversight, Director Secretary, and William McDonnell, Group human rights, the environment and accountability of Corporate Regional CEOs Chief Risk Officer, became our Executive community and charities. Applicable to all and challenge. Communications co-sponsors for CR, reporting to the Group operating countries and subsidiaries, these Regional leadership Executive Committee and Group Board policies help manage our operational, annually on activities and progress against regulatory and reputational risks while targets. Within each region, country-level putting CR at the heart of our business. senior management have oversight of the strategy. The implementation and delivery of activities to meet targets is managed by local CR representatives. Strategy development, Group Corporate We are strengthening sustainability across co-ordination Responsibility the Group by working with functional and delivery Function departments such as Human Resources, of targets Risk Management, Corporate Real Estate and Procurement to continue to integrate Pursuit of our ambitions sustainability into our core business to be ‘best in class’ performance processes. Through collaboration, we means operating sustainably initiate projects and drive employee engagement to encourage each and every and responsibly, delivering a good one of us to Make Things Better Together. quality of life for our workforce, Regional Regional nurturing our local communities implementation Corporate and delivery and supporting the transition of activities Responsibility Representatives to a low carbon economy.” Charlotte Heiss Group Chief Legal Officer 7 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com HOW WE’RE MAKING THINGS SAFE, SECURE WORLD SUSTAINABLE FUTURE BETTER TOGETHER means keeping people safe in their daily lives – on the road, in the water and in is our commitment to accelerating the transition to a low carbon future. their homes and businesses. In Denmark and 184 of ouremployees Norway, we OUR BIG CHALLENGES celebrated National volunteered their time Our employees help us get our own house in order. Reflector Day in to hand o  ut over 9  5,000 October. reflectors. 1) Changing everyday risks including digitisation, climate change and political uncertainty – we need to help We have reduced our customers avoid risk In the UK we partnered We ran 30 carbon emissions by 15% with Good Egg Drivers to workshops and per person from our 2015 help 500 young people Through our Safe, Secure World baseline, meeting our target engaged over 500 learn to drive safely. 2 years ahead of time. pillar, we keep our customers safe young people. on the road, in the water, in their home and business. As one of the leading insurers We’ve run safety in the Renewable Energy industry, we’re helping 18 campaigns in 18 countries engaging with accelerate the transition to 2) Unemployment in the youth we nearly 3 million people a low carbon economy to countries need to boost employability skills in our to help create a safe, That’s just some of the ways we are create a sustainable future. communities secure world. Making things better Through our Thriving Communities JOB CENTRE pillar, we help young people develop the skills and confidence required for the workplace. together for people, communities and the wider world. 3) Climate change – we need to accelerate the transition to a low THRIVING COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS carbon economy means educating and inspiring future talent, underpins our strategy, and demonstrates supporting social entrepreneurs and dedicating that our company can operate in a way that Through our Sustainable Future pillar, time to causes our people are passionate about. makes our stakeholders proud. we help our customers respond to a changing climate, reduce our own We supported our customers during the impacts, and help make renewable In the UK, our employees have helped wildfires in Alberta, Canada, working energy more viable. young people at schools and colleges around the clock, bringing on extra staff develop the skills they’ll need for the and proactively reaching out to customers future, through our Ready Set Achieve in impacted areas to check they are safe, employability workshops. informed and receiving the help they need. 40 workshops 4) Trust in business – we need to ensure high quality management 23 social We partner with the School for Social and governance entrepreneurs Entrepreneurs in the UK Our 13,394 employees have supported to develop stayed resilient and focused and Canada, providing their business ideas throughout our turnaround. financial support and Through our Responsible Business into commercial mentoring to students. pillar, we engage with customers, propositions. employees and suppliers to ensure we have robust controls in place to run our business Our employees have 30% of time In light of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act, Supplie r f volunteered a total of spent dedicated we have reviewed the way we buy our Code o efficiently. o n d u ct 6,081 hours to help create to supporting goods a  nd services and have introduced C thriving communites employability a Group wide Supplier Code of Conduct. around the world. skills and social entrepreneurs. Safe, Secure World 28,500 children taught to swim through Safety through education On UK roads, our More Th>n Sm>rt Wheels product is helping young drivers get affordable insurance by developing safe habits. Summer 2016 saw us take this Whether in homes and Trygg-Hansa swim schools even further, sponsoring 30 workshops organised businesses, on the roads or in by the road safety initiative, Good Egg Drivers. 500 teenage drivers learned vital tips on keeping our roads water, we want to keep people safe for all. safe in their daily lives. In 2016, our Swedish Trygg-Hansa business, long committed to water safety activities, partnered with Disney’s Finding Dory launch to promote the 400 summer swim schools we support. The schools, run in conjunction with the Swedish Life Saving Society, were featured in the film’s trailer which was viewed 500 over 1 million times on YouTube. In just one summer, our schools helped 28,500 children learn to swim. teenage drivers engaged 9 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Safe, Secure World 95,000 reflectors were handed out to road users by 184 colleagues from our Scandinavian Codan offices Prevention first As insurers, risk protection is our business – but we want to help prevent All the regions we operate risk too. All the regions we operate in (Scandinavia, Canada, UK, Ireland and Middle East) run safety campaigns, with 18 in total throughout 2016. in (Scandinavia, Canada, UK, Ireland and Middle East) run In Sweden, our Everyman’s Water promotion encouraged the public to safety campaigns, with 18 in question their swimming strength and reached 98.8% of 25 to 59-yearold men via TV and social media. 184 colleagues from our Scandinavian total throughout 2016. Codan offices handed out 95,000 reflectors to road users during the annual Reflector Day. Our online customer hub, The Lighthouse, launched in Canada, hosts information designed to keep people safe. And in the UK, four-time Olympic Gymnastics medallist, Louis Smith, helped us keep pets and owners in shape, fronting the first ever celebrity petsercise DVD. Our Risk Control teams assist businesses worldwide to reduce risks before they arise. A £1bn UK food manufacturing business has worked closely with our risk engineers to embed corporate loss prevention standards, reduce losses and improve their overall risk profile. 10 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Nurturing employment and entrepreneurship Thriving Ready, Set, Achieve is the name we gave our employability programme in 2016. Our people volunteered to Communities design and deliver 14 workshops where we taught more than 300 young people and ex-offenders about vital workplace skills, the We are dedicated to inspiring 300 insurance industry and what it is like young people learned about future talent, developing social to work at RSA. We even recruited vital workplace skills as part four of the participants! enterprises and helping our of our Ready, Set, Achieve people support the causes employability programme they care about. Our established partnership with the School of Social Entrepreneurs continued in the UK and Canada, providing mentoring, skills workshops and financial investment. We mentored 16 social entrepreneurs, developing their ideas into viable businesses. Supporting entrepreneurs to deliver positive social impact also gives us valuable insight into the growing social enterprise market, including understanding the products 16 and services which may offer the sector most benefit in future. social entrepreneurs supported to develop their business ideas into commercial propositions 11 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com + 6,000 Our people making a difference Thriving hours dedicated to causes close to our people ‘s hearts So many of our people share their time and talent to strengthen the communities we work in. Our UK Communities volunteer week saw over 200 colleagues clock up 1,000 hours in support of good causes such as local hospices and schools and colleges. Across the group, our people dedicated more than 6,000 hours to causes close to their hearts. Colleagues also gave generously in + C$157,000 support of those affected by an event that had a huge impact on our Canadian business, the Alberta wildfires, raising $26,000 for the Canadian Red Cross. We matched their funding and added a further $100,000 to support the vital donated to support the vital work work the Red Cross performs. the Canadian Red Cross performed in the Alberta wildfires 12 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Sustainable Future RSA are committed to accelerating the 300 transition to a low carbon future. We do this by supporting customers to better respond to our changing climate, insuring renewable energy projects and commercial customers who cutting our carbon contributions. were affected by the floods were visited within three days “ Helping our customers I met a man whose home had been flooded overnight, and if that wasn’t stressful We have been dealing with severe weather events for enough, his wife had given birth that over 300 years and we know what the risks are and morning they were ready to leave the how to mitigate them. We support our customers to hospital but where were they going to go? protect the things that matter most to them by giving We arranged alternative accommodation them practical advice before, during and after a claim. for them the same day and got restoration After the UK floods in December 2015, we got people back on their feet quickly and offered advice on and recovery suppliers in place and future flood resilience measures. All 300 commercial emergency payments made. Their house customers who were affected were visited within was still flooded, but the family had a few three days of the flood and 95% of property claims less things to worry about. calls during the worst weather were answered in twenty seconds. We are original members of the UK’s Craig Monks Flood Re scheme, providing affordable insurance to RSA national events coordinator those at highest risk of flooding. 13 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Reducing our impact By 2018, we aimed to cut per person carbon emissions by 12 % against a 2015 Sustainable baseline. We are proud to have reached this target two years ahead of time, having achieved a 15% reduction in Future 2016 thanks to a leaner, global business model, the outsourcing of UK engineers and measures such as energy efficient installations. This year, we will set a new carbon reduction target. We reduced our carbon emissions by We are also now proud sponsors 15% of WWF Canada’s environmental employee engagement programme, Living Planet @ Work. per person Investing in a renewable future We insured one of the first With extensive years of experience, our international team of Renewable floating offshore Energy underwriters are reducing the risks of renewable energy projects, making them more viable. In 2016, we wind farms focused on new technologies, such as grid-to-grid connections and floating offshore wind turbines. These exciting new developments offer more efficient energy production with genuine in Fukushima in Japan. A truly innovative potential to accelerate the transition project that is being built as a response to to a low carbon future. the nuclear power plant accident in 2011. 14 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Responsible Business We strive to ensure best in class results for customers, shareholders 50 and communities alike. We manage our operations and deliver products and services openly claims adjusters were on and transparently, engaging with hand at evacuation centres customers, employees and suppliers in Fort McMurray, Canada in ways that help build trust. Delivering outstanding service “ when it’s needed most Sup p Cod lier In May 2016, a severe wildfire threatened the … to think that my insurance e of Con town of Fort McMurray in Alberta, Canada. duc company has taken the time to call t 80,000 people were evacuated and 2,000 homes me to make sure my family and and buildings were destroyed. Colleagues from our Johnson business immediately called and I are safe has lifted my spirits on emailed all our customers to offer support. We such a sad day” listened to our customers’ needs, and responded accordingly. 50 claims adjusters were on hand at evacuation centres and a mobile claims support team served Fort McMurray itself, while officeJohnson Insurance based colleagues maintained a 24/7 presence on Customer our website and social media. 15 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Supporting our people to remain focused and resilient RSA is now a more focused, stronger organisation employing 13,394 people across our core regions of UK & International, Responsible Canada and Scandinavia. Throughout a period of change, our outstanding colleagues continued to demonstrate their resilience and commitment to the success of our company. Business We use our global, employee opinion survey, YouRSAy, to listen to our people. Feedback and analysis from the survey is reviewed by 13,394 senior leaders, with subsequent action plans developed to make RSA an even better place to work. Our employee engagement programme also includes town halls, roadshows, buzz sessions and lunch and learns. Our Learning and Performance platform, Horizon, and our bespoke people are employed by RSA Learning video portal, Origin, launched in October. Both systems across our core regions of UK & enable employees to access formal and informal learning at a time International, Canada and Scandinavia and place that suits them. Access to insurance At RSA, we strive to provide better value to all our customers. As an original member of the UK’s Flood Re scheme we give households at high risk of Sup p flooding access to affordable insurance. We utilise Cod lier e of the latest technologies and work with partners Con Our UK Motability scheme duc to develop new types of insurance that add value t to our customers. Devices that monitor real-life provides insurance to 620,000 behaviour in real time are making it possible for us to encourage safer living and for customers to negotiate lower premiums and other benefits. disabled We are signatories of the ABI and BIBA Code of Good Practice and our trained staff can identify, and respond sensitively to, potentially vulnerable customers. Our UK Motability scheme provides insurance to 620,000 disabled customers and has earned a Net Promoter Score of +76. customers 16 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com UK Health Responsible and Wellbeing Week Business We ran our first Health and Wellbeing Week across eight of our UK sites, helping our people achieve a wellbalanced life and raising awareness 1,300 of our existing health and wellbeing opportunities. employees engaged in our first ever Health and Wellbeing Week in the UK Working with suppliers to Sup p address modern slavery Cod lier e of Con With the passing of the UK’s Modern duc t Slavery Act, this year we reviewed Our new Supplier our approach to procurement. We are Code of Conduct ensures rolling out a new Group-wide Supplier Code of Conduct, setting out minimum requirements for supplier behaviour that ensure modern slavery has no place in modern slavery has no place our business or supply chains. in our business or supply chains 17 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com Focusing on the future We are delighted our Group Executive Committee Dive’ water safety campaign and sponsors, Charlotte Heiss and William McDonnell are supporting our CR activity. CR continues to be led by WWF-Canada Living Planet @ each operating region, ensuring we address what Work sponsorship are just three matters most to our businesses, colleagues, customers and communities. Regional CR representatives maintain outstanding examples. focus on material issues like road and water safety, alongside climate change readiness. We aim to improve We intend to go on enhancing our reputation as a business our environmental performance and support local that does the right thing for customers, shareholders, people, communities through skills-based volunteering and communities and environment. charitable donations. We remain committed to embedding sustainability in everything we do: from products and services to governance and risk management procedures. We are proud to have stayed true to the vision of Making Things “ Our business and people operate within a wider social, environmental and economic Better Together through our context. Sustainability must be dedication to responsible business. a fundamental part of our corporate Despite a period of significant DNA so that every business decision change, we have delivered awardconsiders these issues, weighing winning programmes1 – our the risks and opportunities and School for Social Entrepreneurs making the best long-term choices partnership, ‘Don’t Drink and for our customers and shareholders” William McDonnell Group Chief Risk Officer 1 British Insurance Awards: CSR Initiative of the Year 2015; Chartered Insurance Institute: CSR Initiative of the Year 2015; Insurance Marketing and PR Awards: Insurance PR Campaign of the Year 2015; Double bronze for ‘Don’t Drink and Dive’ in 2016 London International Awards 2016 18 RSA 2016 CR summary rsagroup.com 2016 Corporate Responsibility Summary Report This is the summary of our Corporate Responsibility strategy and 2016 activities. You can read more about it on our website: If you have any suggestions, feedback or queries about Corporate Responsibility at RSA, please contact us at corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup.com. www.rsagroup.com/responsibility
