2016 un global compAct [ COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ] CONTENTS OVERVIEW Action Plan Chairman’s message HUMAN RIGHTS Africa54 Gender Equality CSR Activities LABOUR LTG Social Ethics Committee VIE programme Training Initiatives ENVIRONMENT Planète Urgence Sustainable Materials Procurement Strategy Bilan Carbone© ANTI CORRUPTION Supply Chain Management Compliance Programme “Connectedness” the state of being connected and having a close relationship with other things or people. Page 1 Communication on Progress UN GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Environment Businesses should support a Businesses should support precautionary approach to and respect the protection environmental challenges; of internationally proclaimed human rights; and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental make sure that they are not responsibility; and complicit in human rights abuses. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Businesses should uphold the Anti Corruption freedom of association and the Businesses should work against effective recognition of the right corruption in all its forms, to collective bargaining; including extortion and bribery. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Page 2 Communication on Progress OVERVIEW ACTION PLAN UN PRINCIPLES MOBILITAS ACTIONS STAGE ACTIONS FOR 2016 ACTIONS FOR 2017 BUSINESS FOR PEACE 3rd year: Action Finalization of the Africa54 project Development of emerging markets outside of Africa AFRICA54 HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS GENDER EQUALITY 1st year: Action Endorsement of the Women’s Empowerment Principles Commitment to promotion of gender equality CSR ACTIVITIES > 5 years Communicate Communicate on selected initiatives worldwide Continued involvement in local communities and charitable initiatives 3rd year: Training, improved learning and development initiatives linked to staffing LTG SOCIAL ETHICS and equitable ethical recruitment; diversity management and employment Implementation of succession planning and management systems Implementation of COMMITTEE equity; focus on Occupational Health and Safety policies LABOUR LABOUR VIE PROGRAMME > 5 years Continued active participation in the VIE programme Continued active participation in the VIE programme TRAINING INITIATIVES > 5 years Implementation of a staff Training and Skills Development programme Provision of training plans and resources to staff across all branches Assessment of packing materials and progressive move to Encourage smaller scale environmental initiatives at local branches ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 5th year: Action to reduce exclusive use of non-bleached boxes OF BUSINESS environmental impact Bilan Carbone© Demepool / AGS Paris Environment Environment Bilan Carbone© Demepool PLANÈTE URGENCE > 5 years Commitment to continued working with Planète Urgence Commitment to continued working with Planète Urgence Review of Supply Chain Management processes throughout the Group Anti ANTICorruption CORRUPTION CODE OF CONDUCT 5th year: Implement and communicate Improving Anti-corruption policies and processes throughout the Group Implementation of a Group wide Compliance programme Page 3 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Page 4 CHAIRMAN’s MESSAGE 2016 has been a pivotal year for the MOBILITAS Group, one in which despite very real global challenges, we have been able to set concrete plans for future continued development guided by the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. More than ever, MOBILITAS employees have engaged with our Supply Chain Management company’s values of Quality, Performance, Innovation, Respect, and Solidarity, to make a difference in the communities we operate in. Supply Chain Management is a vital aspect of our business and we This report highlights some of the initiatives taken by our subsidiaries do the utmost to ensure that our high standards of service and and staff in various countries. quality go beyond the direct contact we have with our customers. Comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption policies, privacy policies and compliance surveys ensure that all suppliers fully comply with UN Africa54 Global Compact Principles and adhere to internationally recognized environmental, social and corporate governance standards. With an established physical presence in all 54 African countries, 2016 marked the finalization of phase one of this project. Africa 54 is both As chairman of the MOBILITAS group I am pleased to reaffirm our a growth strategy for MOBILITAS and a development strategy for the commitment to the ten principles outlined in the UN Global Compact, countries in which we operate. Our aim is to contribute to inclusive, which we continue to uphold in all of our activities and operations. sustainable growth that creates value and jobs, and improves people’s well-being through strong commitments in the health, education and environmental sectors, among others. The group will now undertake to develop new activities on the continent such as records management and global mobility services, creating further opportunities for growth and employment. Training and Skills Development As the MOBILITAS Group expands and develops new activities, the progression of our staff is a key concern for our company. Focused training and skills development will seek to share knowledge and capitalize on staff strengths, while taking into account our environment, our international presence and the difficulties that sometimes present themselves. Alain Taïeb Chairman of the Supervisory Board MOBILITAS VALUES QUALITY At MOBILITAS we are devoted to finding a better way. We believe that quality begins by focusing on our clients’ needs and all else will follow. Excellence is at the heart of MOBILITAS. We aim to exceed expectations and demonstrate to our peRFORMANCE clients that our standards are world class. Innovation is the keystone of our success and sustainability. We set trends in technology and methodology, measuring them by customer feedback. In this way, we aim to create ideas with the Innovation potential to change our industries and improve how our customers are served. We value others’ viewpoints and diversity of thought. We respect honesty and believe in the RESPECT highest ethical standards, earning trust through commitment, consistency and principled actions. We commit ourselves to working with our neighbours and communities of the world, recognizing Solidarity that although we may not be the same, we live on common ground. In standing together we believe we are always stronger and wiser. Communication on Progress Page 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Finalization of THE Africa 54 Project This year marked the completion of the first phase of the MOBILITAS Groups’ Africa54 project. The project, which commenced in 1993, saw the group attaining its goal of having a physical presence in all 54 African states. The company has operated in Africa for 25 years and became the first privately-owned company to accomplish this significant achievement. MOBILITAS OFFICES ERITREA MOBILITAS identified the need for high quality mobility services Indeed, we have been persistent in pursuing our place under DJIBOUTI shortly after establishing its first African branch in the Ivory the African sun and our hard work paid off; the Seychelles HIOPIA Coast in 1993. There was a growing number of multinationals branch, the final elusive country, opened its doors in the SOMALIA entering the continent and the company immediately second half of 2016 and officially cemented our company’s recognised the region’s growth potential. The rising middledeeply-rooted relationship with the African continent. class, coupled with the increased buying power of its youthful SEYCHELLES population offered new opportunities to foreign businesses. In celebration of this momentous achievement, MOBILITAS hosted three celebratory events in Johannesburg, London and For MOBILITAS, however, the historic Africa54 milestone did Paris in September 2016. The events were well attended by not come without its challenges. The risks of doing business executives, government and social society which was testament in Africa remain high and prospective investors are often to our brand’s established reputation within the industry. discouraged from the get-go. Difficult business conditions, poor infrastructure, political unrest and unfavourable MOBILITAS has worked hard to improve accessibility to the government policies are just some of the contributing factors remotest areas in Africa and we’re not stopping there. We’re that significantly reduce the accessibility of Africa. aiming to increase our activities on the continent to respond to market demand for global mobility and records management We believe we had a slightly different approach which services. We aim to support and accelerate growth and contributed to our company’s successful African execution; economic change on the continent. Today, the Group employs “In order to experience and reach Africa, you have to be 4324 people, with 2807 in Africa alone, and will continue to be persistent and have endurance, you need to go the extra mile, committed to this vibrant continent, aiming to create 6000 jobs familiarise yourself with the local history and traditions go to in Africa in the coming years. Africa to learn and not to teach,” notes Alain Taïeb, Chairman of MOBILITAS Group’s Supervisory Board. Knowing the risks associated with each country and understanding the culture are vital to success. Communication on Progress Page 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Endorsement of the Women’s Empowerment Principles MOBILITAS recognizes that women continue to be under-represented in non-traditional industries and occupations, especially in the mobility and transportation sectors, the core business of the Group. Indeed, our Approx. 23% of own employee statistics reveal a gender imbalance: our workforce is female Number of females employed by MOBILITAS Percentage of Admin vs Operations Staff TOTAL STAFF FEMALE STAFF ADMIN STAFF OPS STAFF Our French and FOT network employs the 800 747 100 highest number of females, approx. 31% 700 600 75 493 502 500 357 50 400 300 131 156 25 Approx. 83% are 200 116 78 employed in sales 50 100 9 or admin roles 0 0 Africa Asia Europe France & Middle Africa Asia Europe France & Middle FOT East FOT East Proportion of Females in Admin and Operations 2. Gender-sensitive recruitment and retention practices will be ADMIN OPS implemented and women will be proactively recruited and appointed to all possible roles, especially in traditionally patriarchal African societies, where cultural barriers impact on the employment of women within our industry. In the 34% country of origin of the Group, France, laws are already 66% addressing the challenges related to gender equality (e.g. equal remuneration and maternity protection) and our European branches are already in compliance. 3. MOBILITAS undertakes to provide safe working conditions for both men and women and protection from exposure to hazardous materials and disclose potential risks, including Although our core business is removals and transportation to reproductive health. In consultation with employees, which is largely reliant on physical strength, MOBILITAS is MOBILITAS will also identify and address security issues, diversifying its services into records management, for example, including the safety of women travelling to and from work which is more likely to attract a greater number of female and on company-related business, especially in high risk recruits and will help to address the gender imbalance. countries. MOBILITAS has therefore committed to take action to promote 4. We will ensure equal access to all company-supported gender equality and women’s empowerment across the Group. education and training programmes, including literacy We welcome the provisions of the UN Women’s Empowerment classes, vocational and information technology training. Principles, and our Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Alain MOBILITAS will also provide equal opportunities for formal Taïeb, has signed the CEO Statement of Support as confirmation and informal networking and mentoring. of our participation. 5. MOBILITAS commits to respecting the dignity of women in The MOBILITAS Group are committed to taking action across all all marketing and other company materials. seven principles: 6. We will encourage the promotion of equality through 1. The MOBILITAS Group affirms high-level support for gender community initiatives at branch level. equality and human rights, and has appointed Werner Steffen, International Human Resources Manager, as our 7. MOBILITAS will establish benchmarks specific to each dedicated corporate leader. Werner will establish companyindustry in which we operate (i.e. removals, relocations, wide goals and targets for gender equality and will engage records management), that quantify the inclusion of internal and external stakeholders in the development of women at all levels. New targets will be set each year and company policies, programmes and implementation plans progress will be measured and reported on, both internally that advance equality. and externally, using data disaggregated by sex. Communication on Progress Page 7 HUMAN RIGHTS CSR ACTIVITIES MOBILITAS is committed to engaging and supporting the local communities in which its subsidiaries operate. In 2016, MOBILITAS staff around the world PARTICIPATED in projects and fundraisers aiming to improvE the lives and conditions of women and children everywhere. NIGER FRANCE ROMANIA AGS Paris assisted ADIFLOR, an association that disseminates French books and magazines For the past two years, AGS Frasers Niger has been sponsoring library memberships for the Throughout last summer, AGS Romania collected internationally, by shipping books to several countries at cost price. A container of books was shipped children of all their staff, offering them a free subscription to the multimedia library of the Francodonations of furniture, toys and clothing from customers. to both Madagascar and Niger, while Serbia and Senegal each received several pallets full. More books Nigerien Cultural Centre in Niamey. A party was organized for the children to welcome them to Those were then handed to the Innocenti Foundation, were distributed in this way than expected, and the recipients were many more. the library, where they were given their membership card and treated to snacks and drinks before a non-profit organization providing education and social the day ended with a story-telling. support to children in need and their families. Staff from AGS Romania joined members of the American Chamber of Commerce in their ‘AmCham Goes Green’ project for a greener Bucharest, with participants planting trees in the AmCham forest. SIERRA LEONE AGS Frasers Sierra Leone assisted two NGO’s, Save the Children and Doctors with Africa CUAMM, to clear their shipments in one day instead of the usual 10 to 15 days minimum. AGS were able to collect medications for children and women the same day, to store it for free and to deliver it HONG KONG when needed. The branch was able to offer its support to these NGOs AGS Hong Kong helped a local charity called Po Leung Kuk thanks to its logistic skills and knowledge of the country. by providing them with some extensive logistics support for their annual charity ball whose aim is to raise funds for scholarships for underprivileged children of Hong Kong. The Scholarship Fund was set up in 2001and helps students from Hong Kong’s low-income families who wish to pursue tertiary education. It has supported 162 scholarship LESOTHO recipients through their college and university education. Stuttaford Van Lines’ Lesotho branch imported containers of shoes free of charge for the Sentebale charity, which was founded by Prince Harry and Prince Seeiso in 2006. Sentebale supports orphans and vulnerable children, many of whom are affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic. MALAYSIA The branch also assisted the African Library Project, a US based charity organisation AGS Four Winds Malaysia has been sponsoring the Kuala Lumpur’s Tigers that sets up libraries in African countries, by importing shipments of books at no cost. Rugby Club since its inception in 2014. As part of its commitment to the club, which benefits 450 children and 50 adults, AGS stores the club’s equipment in its warehouse and delivers the kit every Saturday to the training fields. The staff also set up tents where the children and their families can gather after the training sessions for an afternoon lunch. SOUTH AFRICA the project brought joy to over 9 000 primary school learners from the township ahead of the Stuttaford Van Lines branches across South Christmas’ festive season. Backpacks filled with all Africa assisted organisers of the ‘67 Blankets kinds of wonderful goodies including stationery for Nelson Mandela Day’ project by providing comprehensive logistics support. Truckloads of for school, sweets and toys were delivered to the children. INDIA wool were transported to those knitting, and later AGS Hyderabad sponsored a cultural and sporting event the 10 324 finished blankets were delivered to a Pickfords’ Port Elizabeth branch participated called Insignia which was hosted by the Indus International site where they were laid out and knitted together in the Radio Algoa Charity Golf Day, which was School in Hyderabad. All sponsorship money was donated by an extremely dedicated team of volunteers. held in aid of The Nkosinathi Foundation of and to the school’s NGO to fund the building of a school in the The finished blanket measured an impressive for the Blind and Partially Sighted. The team was small village of Kondakal. 17 181 m2, which set a new world record for the delighted to be able to help support and improve largest blanket. the lives of the children of the foundation. After the record-breaking blanket was dismantled, The Pickfords Durban team volunteered at the the thousands of individual blankets were Mother of Peace’s Organic Garden and Food KENYA transported by Stuttaford Van Lines back to the Forest in Illovo, Kwazulu Natal by planting nut regions that had contributed them, for distribution trees, cabbage, turnips, watermelons, mandarins, AGS Frasers Kenya recently sponsored a family in their quest of MADAGASCAR to the needy. avocados, litchis and many other produce. The climbing Mount Kilimanjaro, with the objective of supporting the Mother of Peace, a non-profit organisation that Rotary Club of Nairobi East in their global fight against polio. Part of AGS Madagascar safely transported and delivered a container filled with donated clothes Stuttaford Van Lines’ Johannesburg branch cares for children who have been abandoned, the funds gathered during this operation will also be used to improve and school supplies to the 104 children of the Paulins orphanage in Antananarivo. The branch offered its support to a project run by a well-known orphaned or abused, has based the garden on the the education of the less fortunate in society, and to assist maternal and also assisted by distributing boxes for a food drive organized by ‘Les Courses du Coeur’, a Gauteng lifestyle residential development, Steyn principles of permaculture and aims to educate child healthcare service clinics in Nairobi’s poorest areas. volunteer organisation providing aid to the underprivileged children of Madagascar. City. Called ‘Delivering Happiness to Diepsloot’, locals on sustainability. Page 8 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Page 9 LABOUR LASER TRANSPORT GROUP – SOCIAL ETHICS The Laser Transport Group (Pty) Limited (LASER), the South African subsidiary of the MOBILITAS Group, rolled out various strategies in 2016 to cement the policies of anti-corruption measures. Building an Ethical Company Culture Occupational Health and Safety Policy The Group continued to build on the principles established As part of their 2-year management systems development with the Ethical Employee Conduct Pledge of 2014. LASER’s plan, LASER will place a renewed strategic focus on ensuring key focus on anti-competitive behaviour has reinforced this that Occupational Health and Safety compliance remains the zero-tolerance to fraudulent activities and ensuring ethical top priority within all operational areas of the group. “Safety behaviour by its employees, clients and the environment. First” is the key priority. The Group’s Social Ethics Committee’s focus is the establishing As part of Human Resource Development of its staff, LASER of a committed diversified workforce, aimed at eradicating all will implement succession planning and management systems forms of fraud and corruption, underpinned by the Board’s to ensure an integrated, systematic approach to identifying, commitment to build an ethical company culture, measuring developing and retaining employees in line with current and adherence to legal compliance and incorporating ethics into projected business objectives. its risk management, and protecting the environment during operations. The implementation of further training, improved learning and development initiatives linked to staffing and equitable ethical recruitment remain a key priority. A total of 376 employees were trained in basic systems in 2016. A key focus was the Professional Drivers Learnership development of safety systems in Occupational Health and Workplace Safety, and ensuring that environmental health and The beginning of 2016 was the start of an initiative to create green initiatives are part of health and safety. a pool of dedicated professional drivers within the transport industry by training and developing staff from previously disadvantaged groups. A total of 31 employees are currently enrolled in the professional driver’s learnership, which is a partnership between TETA (Transport and Education Training Authority) and LASER to up-skill current employees to become code 14 truck drivers. The employees will exit the programme during 2017 as fully qualified professional drivers. Page 10 Communication on Progress LABOUR VIE PROGRAMME Volunteer for International Experience As a growing company, MOBILITAS is keenly aware of the need for highly trained and motivated employees who can continue to grow and develop the business. The Group commits to the 4 UN Global Compact principles on labour as necessary to the development of a skilled and diverse workforce, to meet the needs of the different economies in which we operate. VIE COUNT 8 in Europe x8 x15 VIE COUNT 15 in Africa In 2016, MOBILITAS actively continued its commitment One such graduate, Charles Baudart, to the VIE (Volunteer for International Experience) started his career as a VIE at AGS in 2008. programme. Little did 22-year-old Charles know then, that he would climb the internal ranks to become the youngest CEO of AGS France, • This programme offers a structured entry level the group’s largest subsidiary, before programme for young French graduates showing an the age of 30. interest for positions abroad from 6 to 24 months. • This helps to develop the talent pipeline by offering a well-designed and implemented entry level programme. During his time as a VIE, Charles was invited to participate in a • Candidates are recruited and managed through number of external growth and development projects and had Business France (previously UBIFRANCE), the French the opportunity to attend several of the industry’s international Agency for International Business Development, conventions, effectively acquiring an extensive knowledge of which falls under France’s Ministry for the Economy, the agent world and establishing a vital web of relations. Industry & Employment. • MOBILITAS sees value in energetic and dynamic With the support and guidance of colleagues and managers, additions to the team and also doing its part to Charles rose quickly through the ranks, as opportunities for nurture talent and offer opportunities. promotion presented themselves. • The Group has hired 267 participants since the programme was introduced, and over 350 VIE or “I’ve been very fortunate to have people who trusted and CNSE (which was the previous version of believed in me throughout my career,” Charles said. “My VIE) altogether. managers contributed toward my success and I try to provide • 56 VIEs have gone on to be employed at the same support to my own team today.” management level. The importance of the VIE programme is undeniable. In addition In 2016, 23 VIE candidates were given global corporate to creating a talent pool within MOBILITAS, the programme continues experience in Africa and Europe, allowing them to gain critical to offer a structured approach to addressing the employment of business experience in an international context. youth and giving candidates global corporate experience. Communication on Progress Page 11 LABOUR TRAINING & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT During the last year, MOBILITAS has created a new ‘Training and Skills Development Department’ under the leadership of Alexandre Lebegue, who is responsible for its development and management. As the Group is expanding in size and developing new activities, A key part of the programme will be the development of a the Board decided to create this department in order to number of new training modules which will be posted on our capitalize on each industry’s staff strengths. Sharing knowledge staff intranet by the end of March 2017. These videos will across our diverse crafts will allow more flexibility for employees address several topics, including the correct packing, loading, willing to navigate from removals to records management for handling, unpacking and re-assembly techniques. example. Alexandre’s first task will be to identify the existing needs, assess priorities and expectations across branches The focus of the training programme will be on staff and management. In light of those assessments, he will put expectations, observations and requests, while maintaining a together the training modules and establish a team of trainers quality management approach in the choice of training and its to disseminate and share the knowledge amongst staff. provision, with the sole objective being the skills growth of all MOBILITAS staff. Training plans that are adaptable to different target groups will be developed and rolled out to staff via different channels – internet, internal business universities, selected internal trainers and external training providers. All training and skills development will take into account our environment, our international presence and the various difficulties that sometimes present themselves. This will allow the Group to offer more opportunities for training and skills development to all staff worldwide, and should in time lead to happier staff, facilitating flexibility and internal promotions. Alexandre is tasked with identifying the needs, priorities and expectations of both the Board and the operational branches, produce the necessary and appropriate training supports and The AGS Group has been awarded the FIDI Platinum Award in identify referents per industry and network. In due time, he will 2016 in recognition for driving and promoting industry knowledge implement a schedule of internal training provided by the referents amongst our employees. as well as incorporating external providers when needed. Page 12 Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS PLANÈTE URGENCE MOBILITAS Commitment Preserving and caring for the environment is, for the MOBILITAS Group, both a moral imperative and part and parcel of sound business practices. As part of committing to and embedding the principles of the UN Global Compact, we have developed and rolled out initiatives which minimize the environmental impact of our business and promote environmental awareness. OPERATION “1 MOVE = 1 TREE” Since 2009, MOBILITAS has been partnering with NGO Planète Urgence in support of their Environment & Development programme. The programme works towards ensuring a sustainable future for communities in Mali, Madgascar, Indonesia and Haiti. In an effort to offset the environmental impact inherent to their activities, subsidiaries of the group have committed to contributing to the reforestation of those regions, planting one tree for every international move carried out by the company, and for every 15 archive boxes stored within our warehouses. MALI SINCE 2009 15 boxes Planète Urgence contributes to the fight against desertification in the Mopti and Ségou stored with PRO ARCHIVES SYSTEMES regions of Mali. By providing sustainable resources for fruit and wood production, the = 1 TREE project supports local families working towards income and food security. Together with Planète Urgence, MOBILITAS has planted 172,000 trees since the beginning of our partnership seven years ago. Planète Urgence works with local organizations in countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate disturbances. Through various 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL projects in Mali, Madagascar, Indonesia and Haiti, Planète Urgence provides communities with the skills and resources they need to develop their local economy, in a manner which is both environmentally and economically sustainable. Since the inception of the 2,500 7,500 11,000 14,150 8,650 8,500 6,000 6,000 64,300 programme, the association has planted 5.9 million trees in affected regions, benefitting 15,000 families. INDONESIA SINCE 2010 Following a vast reforestation project on the island of Sumatra through which over 3.3 million trees were planted, Planète Urgence now concentrates its efforts on the conservation and restoration of the mangrove forests of the Mahakam Delta. The region is home to hundreds of species of fish and birds and its inhabitants rely on aquaculture and fishing. The project supports local families by providing them with the skills and financial resources to develop a sustainable aquaculture industry. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL 5,000 7,000 10,400 4,900 8,500 6,000 6,000 47,800 HAITI SINCE 2015 MADAGASCAR SINCE 2012 Planète Urgence has been working in Haiti since the devastating earthquake in Planète Urgence is leading a project for the restoration of the tapia forests of 2010, leading a reforestation project in the south and south-east of the country in Madagascar, home to an ecosystem vital to the development of the region. The partnership with the Haitian Movement for Rural Development. The project aims to reforestation project supports the development of the wood, fruit and silk industries, rebuild the forest areas and to provide sustainable resources for farming and wood. while it contributes to raising awareness to environmental and economic issues. 2015 2016 TOTAL 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL 6,000 6,000 12,000 7,950 18,431 9,519 6,000 6,000 47.900 Page 13 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Page 14 environment AGS rolls out new sustainable packaging In 2016, the MOBILITAS group renewed its dedication to preserving our planet by introducing a more eco-friendly packaging, which has now been rolled out to all AGS branches worldwide. AGS replaced its former white packaging with more ethical Euro 6 compliant fleet across France packing materials that use no whitening chemical products which are harmful to the environment. These new brown As part of the renewal of its fleet, MOBILITAS subsidiaries boxes provide the same optimal protection and security for across France have acquired Euro 6 compliant trucks in an their contents. effort to reduce harmful pollutants from vehicle exhausts, including nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and AGS’ new packaging is a clear indicator of our commitment to particulate matter. sustainable development. The knock-on effect of reducing these pollutants will also mean As part of its commitment to sustainable and environmentalimproved fuel economy and lower CO2 emissions. friendly business practices, AGS Frasers Senegal introduced a recycling initiative with UNICEF in 2016, which sees crushed or The MOBILITAS group will continue taking measures to control shredded paper collected free of charge. pollution and reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from its activities. Since the beginning of the year, the branch has collected 1869kg of crushed paper which has been re-used to protect fragile objects during packing. MOBILITAS commits to encourage similar smaller scale environmental initiatives at local branches in 2017. Communication on Progress Page 15 environment BILAN CARBONE DÉMÉPOOL assesses its carbon footprint As part of the company’s commitment to improving its environmental footprint, French removals specialist DÉMÉPOOL completed their Bilan Carbone® assessment for the year 2016. DÉMÉPOOL has put in place measure indicators to assess the impact of the business on the environment by measuring the CO2 emissions equivalents for all business activities. The assessment covers such areas as fuel and energy consumption, paper consumption and waste management. After successfully reducing their carbon impact in terms of fuel consumption and actual carbon emissions, the company has set objectives to reduce their use of paper resources and ink cartridges. 2014 RESULTS 2015 OBJECTIVES 2015 RESULTS 2016 OBJECTIVES 2016 RESULTS Total carbon emissions by DEMEPOOL headquarters 223,08 -10% 178.96 -10% 161.74 Fuel consumption 5,43 -5% 5.12 -5% 5.04 over global fleet Ink cartridges consumption Not assessed 35 kg 77.7 kg 35 kg 22.5 kg Paper usage Not assessed 4200 kg 5250 kg 4200 kg 4550 kg Page 16 Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION Supply Chain Management ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION, AND DATA PROTECTION (PRIVACY) MANAGEMENT Supply Chain Management is a vital aspect of our business and we do the utmost to ensure that our high standards of service and quality go beyond the direct contact we have with our customers 2016 was an excellent year for our supply chain management Management (Privacy) Survey. These ensure thorough evaluation efforts. Many of our brands underwent the FIDI accreditation before selection, to ensure only good quality suppliers are renewal process and all were successfully re-accredited, chosen. Each branch started to keep a List of Preferred Suppliers bringing our standards of supply chain management on par and so properly evaluated and carefully selected suppliers with the highest of international standards. Amongst others, are always used. A Supplier Evaluation Spreadsheet was also Pickford’s, AGS Frasers (Ghana, Botswana, Johannesburg) introduced and used to ensure that after selection standards and and Magna Thomson all passed their audits successfully in quality are continuously maintained. Suppliers are evaluated 2016, thus raising the bar within their respective markets and after each use, these results are analyzed by management, up to ensuring they truly stand out from the rest. group level, and action is taken when expected standards are not met to rectify when necessary. If the suppliers’ level of service is The FAIM accreditation, offered by the removal industry’s dropping we may discontinue using them, if they are exceeding awarding body FIDI, requires a meticulous audit by Ernst and expectations they will be placed on top of the Preferred Supplier Young of the branches existing supply chain management list and used more often. procedures and provides an opportunity to review existing strategy and improve on it, with international benchmarks. FIDI introduced new requirements in 2016, the FAIM 3.1 Quality Accreditation, and this meant that we examined our supply chain management procedures across the group and applied stricter, more robust measures due to these new requirements. Various new procedures were implemented during the course of the year, and they included the establishment of a formal Privacy Policy. This policy outlines, to our suppliers and customers, our position with regards to the protection of customer’s information. It is communicated to all our employees and throughout our supply chain and all are expected to adhere. The customer is given a platform to voice any concerns and is made fully aware of their rights, and suppliers are expected to provide this same level of service and conform to these recommendations. We continued to follow our comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, which is always used together with the FIDI All our suppliers are also still expected to sign our Supplier Code ABC Policy (FIDI Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy) to ensure the of Conduct and comprehensive SLA’s to ensure contractual highest ethical standards throughout our supply chain, as well as obligations exist in the areas of ethics, quality and privacy. internally. These policies are communicated to all stakeholders and compliance is expected. We take this topic very seriously Many progresses were made in 2016, and we will carry on and enforce these policies firmly. No matter the scale, corrective through to 2017 to ensure there is continuous and consistent action is taken if there is a breach from any supplier. improvement within our supply chain management processes. All the previously mentioned implementations were successful and We conducted a complete overhaul of our supplier evaluation so will continue to be implemented in 2017. We are constantly processes and new processes that were introduced included seeking out new and improved ways to manage our supply chain, three compliance surveys, which suppliers are expected to and so 2017 will be a year of brainstorming, environmental complete in order to ensure they are committed to complying scanning and developing new ideas from experience. More of with our standards. There is an Anti-Bribery and Corruption our brands will undergo their FAIM 3.1 audits and we hope to Survey, a Quality Management Survey and a Data Protection retain and gain these prestigious accreditations. Page 17 Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION AGS introduces a Compliance Programme AGS was the first removals company to join the UN Global Compact in 2009 and has adhered to its principles on anti-corruption ever since. Our commitment to stamp out corruption is held at the highest levels of the company. As part of this commitment, AGS has begun implementing a Training by independent external lawyers is provided annually Compliance Programme across the Group, in order to detect and to all AGS staff, on specific issues such as compliance with prevent violations of law by the agents, employees, officers and competition law, in order to comply with the local laws of the directors of the company. At present, Compliance Programmes country in which the branch is. All staff at risk are required to have been implemented in AGS branches in France, Spain, sign an act of commitment at the request of shareholders. Germany and the French Overseas Territories. The programme will be rolled out to further branches over the next year, Compliance Officers have been appointed at each of the particularly within our Asia network. aforementioned branches, and it is their responsibility to monitor the proper execution of the Compliance Programme, The Compliance Programme is organized around including: three actions: • Supervise the proper compliance of the programme, including the proper training of the AGS staff on the anti-trust regulations and on the AGS Code of Conduct • Identify, gather, monitor and report on any nonconformities • Decide reasonably on the imposition of any Prevention disciplinary sanctions in the event of an infraction • Training or dissemination of information • Take all necessary internal measures to ensure that • Act of commitment signed by each employee such conduct does not take place in the future • Act as a sounding board for doubts about the possible violation of competition law by any member of staff, by contacting lawyers who are specialists in the matter if necessary CONTROL • Appointment of Compliance Officers to identify Internal reporting procedures and mechanisms and report on any non-conformities Every month an email is sent by the Compliance Officer to the Branch Manager, identifying all possible incidents that may have arisen. Every two months an e-mail is sent to all personnel at risk, reminding them of the importance of the strict compliance and the actions that should be taken to notify any type of incident with suppliers or customers, and how to properly record it. Any AGS staff who derogates from the rules of law and the Sanctions commitments we have taken may run the risk of dismissal for • Imposition of any disciplinary sanctions fault. AGS will review its compliance programme annually so that relevant regulations and case law are duly updated and if appropriate will progressively implement this initiative in all branches and sectors of activity. Page 17 Communication on Progress IN SUPPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT
