Alcoa Corporation 2016 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact From the CEO Alcoa Corporation is committed to supporting and upholding the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In this, our first Communication on Progress, we demonstrate how we are transforming these principles into actions within our global operations. Roy C. Harvey Chief Executive Officer Alcoa Corporation Principles Actions Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 1: Businesses • We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at all Alcoa-controlled operations. should support and respect • Our Values include “Care for People,” which entails treating all people with dignity. the protection of internationally • Our Human Rights Policy is comprehensive and transparent. proclaimed human rights; and • The Alcoa Code of Conduct and Supplier Standards mandate respect of human rights. Principle 2: make sure that Implementation they are not complicit in • All employees receive annual training on the Alcoa Code of Conduct. human rights abuses. • Our Global Supplier Sustainability Program assesses key suppliers against sustainability indicators that include human rights. • Our third-party supplier due-diligence program, which manages risk in our supply chain, includes an assessment of various aspects of human rights. • We have an Integrity Line for employees, suppliers and the general public to report ethical and human rights violations. Reports can be made anonymously where permitted by law. All reports are reviewed and, where appropriate, investigated, with recommendations made and follow-up tracked by our Ethics & Compliance organization. Measurement of 2016 Outcomes • We had zero reported human rights violations in our operations. Additional Resources • 2016 Alcoa Sustainability Report (See the Human Rights and Supply Chain sections.) Principles Actions Labor Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 3: Businesses • Our Human Rights Policy, Alcoa Code of Conduct and Supplier Standards address all should uphold the freedom four labor principles. of association and the effec• Our Values include “Care for People,” which encompasses providing a diverse, inclusive tive recognition of the right to work culture, working safely and promoting wellness. collective bargaining; • Our Equal Employment Opportunity statement protects against discrimination. • In 2016, we had diversity targets to increase the number of women globally and minority Principle 4: the elimination of employment in the United States in professional and executive positions. all forms of forced and com• Our safety goal is zero fatalities, serious injuries and serious illnesses. pulsory labor; • We have internal health and safety standards. Principle 5: the effective aboImplementation lition of child labor; and • All employees receive training on the Alcoa Code of Conduct and our environment, health Principle 6: the elimination and safety requirements. of discrimination in respect of • We have joint management/union committees that vary by location for safety, equal employment and occupation. employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion, civil rights and more. • We have employee networks that advocate on behalf of LGBTQ, U.S. veterans, women and various cultural, ethnic and generational employees in all regions around the world. • In 2016, our annual variable compensation plan at the corporate level was linked, in part, to achieving the diversity targets. • We execute against industry-leading safety and health programs. • Our Global Supplier Sustainability Program assesses key suppliers against sustainability indicators that include labor practices. • Our third-party supplier due-diligence program assesses child and slave labor and human trafficking. • Our Integrity Line allows employees, suppliers and the general public to report ethical and human rights violations. Measurement of 2016 Outcomes • We had zero reported human rights violations in our operations. • We experienced zero strikes or lockouts in our operations. • We met our diversity targets for the number of women globally and U.S. minority employment in executive positions and U.S. minority employment in professional positions. • We experienced one contractor fatality and three serious injuries and illnesses. •O  f the key suppliers assessed through our Global Supplier Sustainability Program, 82 percent were leading or active in sustainability. •A  t the end of 2016, more than 60 percent of our targeted suppliers were registered in the third-party supplier due-diligence program. Additional Resources •2  016 Alcoa Sustainability Report (See the Strategic Sustainability Targets, Human Rights, Supply Chain, Our People, Safety and Health sections.) 2 Principles Actions Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 7: Businesses • Protecting the environment is an integral part of our three Values. should support a precaution• We support the precautionary principle. ary approach to environmental • The Alcoa Code of Conduct and Supplier Standards explicitly indicate protection of the challenges; environment. • We have long-term reduction goals for greenhouse gases, energy, water and waste (see Principle 8: undertake initiathe 2016 Alcoa Sustainability Report for specific goals). tives to promote greater envi• We have internal environmental standards. ronmental responsibility; and • Alcoa Foundation invests in global programs addressing climate change and biodiversity. Principle 9: encourage the Implementation development and diffusion • All new employees receive training on environment, health and safety requirements. of environmentally friendly • Employees have ongoing access to training on environmental issues. technologies. • In 2016, our annual variable compensation plan at the corporate level was linked, in part, to achieving carbon dioxide emissions reductions. • We have a comprehensive corporate environmental management system. • Our Centers of Excellence—mining, refining, smelting, casting, rolling and energy— advance our knowledge and ensure continuous improvement through technology and engineering, best practice sharing and core operation standards. • We formed a secondary minerals team to seek alternative uses for coproducts and byproducts from our production process. • We had 65 percent of our locations certified to the ISO 14001 (environmental management systems) standard. • Global and location-specific initiatives reduce our environmental impact (see the 2016 Alcoa Sustainability Report for details). • Legacy Alcoa Foundation provided nearly $5.5 million in environment-based grants in 2016. Measurement of 2016 Outcomes • We reduced our carbon dioxide equivalent emissions by 19 percent, energy intensity by 1 percent, landfilled waste by 38 percent, freshwater-use intensity by 2 percent and area disturbed for mining by 14 percent compared to 2015. • We introduced the SUSTANA™ line of aluminum products, which we produce with low carbon emissions and recycled aluminum content. • Our secondary minerals team sold almost 125,000 metric tons of coproducts and byproducts as raw materials or fuel sources for other industries. • We held Bronze Cradle to Cradle Certification for our primary aluminum, can sheet and bottle stock. Additional Resources • 2016 Alcoa Sustainability Report (See the Strategic Sustainability Targets, Enhancing Product Value and Improving Our Footprint sections.) 3 Principles Actions Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 10: Businesses • Our Values include “Act with Integrity.” should work against corrup• We have an Anti-Corruption Policy and supporting procedures for intermediaries; gifts, tion in all its forms, including hospitalities and travel; and charitable contributions. extortion and bribery. • The Alcoa Code of Conduct and Supplier Standards specifically address corruption. Implementation • All employees receive annual training on the Alcoa Code of Conduct. • All salaried employees receive annual anti-corruption training online. • We have an established and comprehensive Ethics and Compliance Program. • Our global network of Integrity Champions raises awareness and offers support to employees regarding ethical issues. • We have an annual Business Conduct and Conflict of Interest survey and certification, which invite employees to speak with an Alcoa lawyer about any specific concerns. • We have established procedures and tools for ethics investigations and risk assessments. • In 2016, we implemented an initiative to review and monitor the ethics and compliance practices of significant joint ventures where we are not the controlling shareholder. • Our third-party supplier due-diligence program includes assessment of anti-bribery and corruption, trade compliance and criminal history. • We have an Integrity Line for employees, suppliers and the general public to report ethical and human rights violations. Measurement of 2016 Outcomes • Our online anti-corruption training was completed by 4,234 employees. 4
