INFINERA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS About this Report  01 Letter from the CEO  02 ABOUT INFINER A 03 Mission Vision Values  04 Products and Services  05 Sustainability Context Through the Value Chain  07 SUSTAINABILIT Y M ANAGEMENT 08 Stakeholder Engagement  08 Materiality  10 Sustainability Governance  11 Fullfillment of Sustainability Goals 2016  11 Sustainability Goals 2017 11 Memberships & Associations  13 BUSINESS ETHICS  14 Fair Business Practices  14 Risk Management  14 Compliance  15 PRODUCT & SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILIT Y 16 Responsible Sourcing  16 Management and Oversight  17 Supplier Diversity 18 Compliance Across the Value Chain  19 Conflict Minerals 20 Our Products Support Sustainable Development 21 About this Report Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction  22 This is the second annual sustainability report of Infinera Corporation (referred to herein as “we,” “us,” “our” and “Infinera”) and covers the ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILIT Y 25 2016 calendar year. This report provides an overview of our sustainability Environmental Compliance  25 programs and activities based on our identified material aspects. It has Energy and Climate  26 been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Carbon Footprint  26 Standards: Core option. It has not been externally assured. A full GRI Air Emissions  27 Content Index, as well as a cross reference to the United Nations Global Waste and Recycling  27 Compact (UNGC) Principles can be found on pages 40-42. To provide Water Management  28 feedback or ask questions, please contact sustainability@infinera.com. Facilities Supporting Sustainable Growth  29 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y 30 Our Workforce  30 Diversity and Inclusion  30 2016 Facts & Figures  32 Health and Safety  33 Development and Engagement  34 Community Engagement  37 UNGC & GRI CONTENT INDE X 40 01 LETTER FROM THE CEO “Our company is committed to leveraging our role as an established leader in transport networking to model responsible choices that create a positive impact on the world around us.” We are proud of the work our company is doing to help create a more sustainable world at a time when the promise of technology and growing demands on our natural resources require businesses to take a greater leadership role. It is encouraging to see what we have achieved since releasing our first sustainability report in 2016, yet our journey is just beginning. Our company is committed to leveraging our role as an established leader in transport networking to model responsible choices that create a positive impact on the world around us. Environmental stewardship drives us to find ways to continually reduce our environmental impact. It informs the development of new products to meet customer demand for increased network capacity and scale, as well as how we innovate and design solutions that use less energy. Our social responsibility focus leads us to invest in our supply chain and in employee and leadership development, while promoting ethical business practices so we are well positioned for sustainable growth. This report highlights our progress to date in meeting our sustainability goals in the areas of business ethics and product, environmental and social responsibility (page 12). Achievements include: • Demonstrating an innovative new technology to improve the energy and space efficiency of our Infinite Capacity Engine • Reducing our energy consumption by 10 percent as a function of our operational footprint • Implementing a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in our value chain • Organizing more than a dozen employee volunteer events with local charities and making financial contributions to support key causes While we met our water use and waste reduction goals last year, we did not make significant progress toward our 2018 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction goal. Reaching that target is challenging us to consider what more we can do to reduce the power consumption of our operations (pages 26-28). This report highlights our philanthropic efforts worldwide that are contributing to improving the health, education and wellbeing of people in our communities (page 37-39). We made a significant commitment to sustainability last year by joining the United Nations Global Compact. We support the UNGC’s Ten Principles centered on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. These principles will continue to guide our efforts in 2017 and beyond as we deepen our commitment to sustainably advancing communications infrastructure across the globe. We invite you to join us on our journey and encourage your feedback on the steps we are taking to be a better corporate citizen. Please visit www.infinera.com to learn more about our company and follow our progress and contributions to society. Tom Fallon Chief Executive Officer 02 ABOUT INFINERA About Infinera We are committed to sustainable development. We design products to increase optical performance and reliability while reducing physical We provide optical transport networking equipment, software and size, power consumption and heat dissipation. By decreasing power services to telecommunications service providers, internet content consumption, we reduce GHG emissions and the environmental providers (ICPs), cable providers, wholesale and enterprise carriers, impact of our products, while lowering energy usage and costs for research and education institutions, enterprise customers, and customers. government entities across the globe. By providing innovative optical transport solutions, we play a leading Meeting customers’ specific deployment needs and providing role in advancing communications that results in new and more industry-leading customer support is in our DNA. We believe that sustainable ways to communicate anywhere, anyhow and anytime. when our customers win, we win. Stockholm, Sweden Kanata, Canada London, UK Sunnyvale, CA Allentown, PA Beijing, China Annapolis, MD Carrollton, TX Tokyo, Japan Hong Kong Bangalore, India Offices/Facilities AMERICAS EUROPE APAC Sunnyvale, CA Corporate London, UK Sales, service and Bangalore, India Software development headquarters and support manufacturing Carrollton, TX Sales, service and Stockholm, Sweden Research and Beijing, China Research and support development, sales, development service and support Annapolis, MD Research and Hong Kong Sales, service and development, service support and support Allentown, PA Manufacturing and Tokyo, Japan Sales, service and research support Ottawa, Canada Research and development 03 ABOUT INFINERA MISSION Earn a superior return by enabling our customers to build and operate the world’s best optical networks. VISION To enable an infinite pool of intelligent bandwidth that the next communications infrastructure is built upon. VALUES Drive F or Results We are aggressive in the pursuit of our goals. Customer-Centric Focus The success of our customers is paramount and we will do everything necessary to honestly earn our customer’s business. Pioneering S pirit We are courageous and we take risks. We solve problems others are afraid to solve, or can’t even see. Honesty &  Humility We are committed to hold ourselves to the highest standards of conduct and behavior in every action, interaction, and aspect of our work. World-Class Q uality We are committed to ensuring the highest standards of quality in our products, our services and our approach to doing business. Teamwork We are comfortable with cross-functional structures, and, regardless of title, we work as a  team. We make things happen. 04 ABOUT INFINERA Products and Services In 2016, we announced the Infinera Infinite Capacity Engine, our next-generation technology that delivers a family of multi-terabit Our highly scalable optical networking solutions support the opto-electronic subsystems powered by our fourth-generation growing demand for high bandwidth across network locations PIC and next-generation FlexCoherent digital signal processor. from the core to the point of access. Infinera Intelligent The Infinite Capacity Engine is a family of different subsystems Transport Networks allow operators to scale network bandwidth, that can be customized for a variety of network applications accelerate service innovation and automate optical network across our product portfolio. operations. Our end-to-end packet-optical portfolio of purposebuilt products combines optical, digital and packet networking, and is designed for long-haul, subsea, data center interconnect Our Customer Support Services and metro applications. We provide a comprehensive range of support services for all For long-haul and subsea, the DTN-X Family of products hardware and software products. These support services cover feature up to 2.4 terabits per second super-channels leveraging all phases of network ownership from the initial installation large-scale photonic integrated circuit (PIC) technology. For through day-to-day maintenance activities and professional the metro market, we offer the XTM Series packet-optical services. Our support services are designed to enable customers platform along with the XTG Series passive wavelength-division to efficiently manage and maintain network operations based multiplexing (WDM) platform to provide applications for tripleon today’s ever-increasing demands for lower operational costs play broadband, cable, business Ethernet and mobile crosshaul and minimized downtime. Our support organization continues to solutions. The Infinera Cloud Xpress Family provides innovative scale and provide world-class services that successfully support solutions for data center interconnect applications. customers in over 80 countries, and we continue to expand our services portfolio to meet the evolving needs of our customers. Our packet-optical portfolio is designed to be managed with a single network management system. In addition to offering our traditional management system for WDM operations, Our Sales Approach we provide solutions for enabling the programmability of We market and sell products and related support services our Intelligent Transport Networks with our Digital Network primarily through our direct sales force, supported by marketing Administrator network management system, as well as softwareand product management teams. We also use distribution or defined networking (SDN) through the Xceed Software Suite. support partners to enter new markets or when requested by a Our multi-layer SDN platform enables customers to write potential customer. software applications that leverage the scalability, flexibility and openness of our Intelligent Transport Networks to deliver innovative services while efficiently using their network resources. 05 ABOUT INFINERA Our Customers Meeting customers’ specific deployment needs and providing industry-leading customer support is in our DNA. Our commitment is to develop innovative Intelligent Transport Networks and provide customers with the Infinera Experience, which consists of four pillars: • Technology leadership: Our Intelligent Transport Networks provide network operators with unparalleled scale, flexibility and performance. • World-class quality: Our commitment to quality enables network operators to deploy highly reliable networks. • Customer-centric focus: Our team does whatever it takes to help operators solve network challenges and win in their markets. • Time as a weapon: With our Intelligent Transport Networks, operators deploy networks faster, scale bandwidth more quickly and accelerate time to revenue. 06 ABOUT INFINERA Sustainability Context Through the Value Chain The regulatory risks associated with climate change pose a potential financial risk to our business. Changes in fossil fuel We act in a global marketplace with varying business practices taxation, for example, have led to higher transport and delivery and market conditions. It is vital, therefore, to identify and costs. Other risks are flooding, extreme weather conditions minimize risks and capitalize on opportunities along the value and drought that could potentially affect both suppliers and chain to build robust operations and business strategies. transportation. See pages 19-22 and 25-29 for information about Our suppliers are globally distributed, which makes it crucial our environmental management programs. that we are sourcing responsibly and managing the social and Finally, we are driving initiatives that benefit local communities environmental risks in the supply chain. We have extensive and causes and want to attract and develop the right people to management systems in place to identify and mitigate risks. maintain a competitive advantage. We place special emphasis on See page 14 for more information. providing a good working environment and being an employer of From an environmental perspective, we consider both the choice across all our global operations. See pages 34-36 for more environmental impact of our operations as well as the life cycle information on our workplace programs. impacts of our products and services. In particular, we are taking a close look at the potential financial, regulatory and continuity impacts of climate change on our business. SUPPLY CHAIN OUR BUSINESS PRODUCT USAGE • We rely on a global network of • Headquartered in Sunnyvale, • Customers include suppliers to provide everything California, we have manufacturing, telecommunications service from office supplies and leased design and packaging facilities in providers, ICPs, cable providers, office space to semiconductor the United States and Sweden that wholesale and enterprise carriers, maintain robust Environmental research and education institutions raw materials and contract Health and Safety (EHS) programs and government entities across manufacturing. to ensure compliance with all the globe. laws, regulations and customer • Key sustainability issues in the specifications. • Products include optical transport supply chain include business networking equipment, software ethics, responsible sourcing, • We also have design facilities in and services that provide a unique product and legal compliance, Canada, China and India, which combination of highly scalable human rights and labor rights. work closely with suppliers and transmission capacity and easycustomers to develop products to-use bandwidth management • We manage sustainability in the that meet strict quality and tools to simplify transport network supply chain through a robust efficiency specifications. operations. supplier risk management system, a process for tracking/screening • Our global marketing, services and • Key sustainability issues in our sales teams are trained to deliver products and customer use them conflict minerals, and regular exceptional customer service to include the environmental impacts on-site oversight and auditing of ensure that our products are used of our products to ensure that key suppliers. correctly and to their maximum they comply with environmental potential. laws and regulations, as well as improving the energy efficiency • We manage sustainability in our and longevity of our components. business through strong EHS management systems, data • We work closely with our tracking and reporting, business customers to ensure that we ethics and a focus on continuous meet all product specifications, improvement. and have invested significant resources into R&D innovation to continuously improve our impact. 07 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Stakeholder Engagement Engagement with selected key customers was done in meetings and through surveys and professional associations. This group A number of stakeholders influence our business on a daily basis. was interested in the energy performance of our products, We continuously interact with stakeholders in different ways to responsible sourcing, and innovative ways we are reducing our enhance relations, build trust, and gain insights critical to our environmental impacts. business. To get feedback from employees, we conducted a worldwide Our priority is to address our stakeholder groups’ key areas of survey. Employees believe that we act responsibly from a interest through our business and sustainability strategy. Key sustainability perspective but can further strengthen these stakeholders are those that have a high level of influence and activities. Areas such as product power-efficiency and waste direct interaction with our company on a daily basis: customers, management were mentioned. Further engagement in social employees, suppliers, stockholders and the community. responsibility activities was also highlighted, as was encouraging These stakeholders are crucial to enabling us to establish and employee volunteer activities. achieve our overall targets and sustainability objectives. If we In the stakeholder dialogue with suppliers, we engaged key succeed, our success will be mutually beneficial. contract manufacturers (CMs) and suppliers. Discussion topics In 2016, we expanded our engagement with stakeholders on included sustainability aspects that are critical for suppliers and issues of sustainability and focused on getting feedback on: how Infinera can contribute to their efforts. Some suppliers • Validation of relevant material issues asked how we work with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and benchmark against top industry • Cohesive coverage of relevant topics competitors. Sustainability aspects highlighted in the discussions • Confirmation of emerging issues we should keep on our radar were: diversity and inclusion, renewable energy and decisionfor future consideration making from a sustainability perspective. We engaged with the stakeholder groups through interviews, Topics of interest for stockholders identified in interviews were: questionnaires or surveys. corporate governance and risk management, how our Board supports and engages in sustainability strategy and targets, and how we manage and reduce the environmental impacts of our products and operations. Investors conduct environmental, social and governance (ESG) assessments using materials published in annual reports, sustainability reports, financial disclosures, investor presentations and press releases. A majority use third-party evaluation ESG research vendors, most often engaging MSCI or Sustainalytics. Key issues for community members include the environmental impact of our products, social responsibility, community involvement and influence, and business practices. Community members can include governments, civil society, nongovernmental organizations, industry partners, media, academia and the general public. The feedback from the sustainability dialogue has been evaluated and 2016 priorities are shown in the stakeholder engagement table on the next page. 08 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T STAKEHOLDER GROUP KEY PRIORITIES HOW WE ENGAGE Product energy performance Surveys and questionnaires Environmental impact of products Personal meetings Business practices Demos Responsible sourcing Seminars and conferences Customers Innovation to reduce environmental impact Requests for quotation and inspire others Innovation collaborations Professional associations Customer satisfaction Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Increase community involvement and employee engagement Staff meetings worldwide Employees Minimize environmental impact of our products and Incident follow up operations Human rights Intranet and email Continue to act responsibly and with transparency All hands meetings Business ethics Supplier Code of Conduct Labor and human rights Evaluations and procurement Responsible sourcing Annual supplier forum Suppliers Innovate, further improve sustainability performance through In-person meetings benchmarking, incorporate SDG Incorporate sustainability aspects in ordinary business Audits processes Economic performance SEC filings Risk management Interim reports Responsible sourcing Sustainability report Stockholders Environmental performance and legal compliance Website Business ethics and corporate governance Investor and analyst meetings Investor conferences Interviews Surveys Corporate governance, compliance with requirements and Environmental reporting risk management Minimize environmental impact of products and operations Collaborations Community Social responsibility components Media communications and releases Innovation and community involvement Certification audits Economic performance and business practices Participate events Local group leadership Local philanthropy 09 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T Materiality In 2016, we built on the materiality assessment by expanding our stakeholder engagement and soliciting feedback on key The concept of materiality—identifying the sustainability issues issues. Questions included whether one focus area should be that matter most—guides the development of our sustainability emphasized over another, if other sustainability aspects should strategy and the contents of our sustainability communications. be included, and how we can contribute to the most important We undertook a materiality analysis in 2015 that started with sustainability aspects with other stakeholders. an internal workshop of participants from key functional areas Feedback from our stakeholder dialogue gave us valuable evaluating the aspects of our value chain covered by the UNGC information on how to further strengthen our sustainability and GRI reporting frameworks as well as those emphasized efforts but did not indicate any need to update our key focus in customer surveys. Participants also considered competitors, areas or material aspects. Our CEO and members of our legal requirements and best practices benchmarks. management team validated the materiality analysis findings The assessment found that our most important stakeholders and the outcome of the 2016 stakeholder dialogue. This (based on influence and interactions) were customers, methodology is compliant with current GRI guidelines, with employees, suppliers, stockholders and the community. The materiality analysis applied to define the scope of assessment prioritized material aspects based on their impact sustainability reporting. levels and how they affect stakeholders’ views and decisions. Our key aspects were grouped into four focus areas: business ethics, product responsibility, environmental responsibility and social responsibility. SUPPLY CHAIN OUR BUSINESS PRODUCT USAGE Business Ethics Fair business practices and responsible corporate governance Risk management Legal compliance Product Responsibility Responsible sourcing Product compliance Product environmental impact Environmental Responsibility Emissions including carbon footprint Waste management Social Responsibility / Working Responsibility Health & safety Employee development & engagement Human rights & labor practices 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T Sustainability Governance Fulfillment of Sustainability Goals 2016 Our commitment to sustainability starts at the highest level We are building on our 2016 accomplishments and continuing to of our company. Our management team sets the corporate make progress in each of our four focus areas: sustainability strategy and establishes our sustainability • Promoting business ethics and anti-corruption through goals. Responsibility for implementing the sustainability continued implementation of the Code of Business Conduct strategy resides within our dedicated Corporate Quality and and Ethics in our value chain Sustainability team together with respective business units and • Reducing the environmental footprint of our products departments. Dedicated personnel throughout the company are trained to manage, monitor and report on sustainability issues. • Reducing the environmental footprint from our operations In 2016, we strengthened our sustainability initiatives by • Improving working conditions within Infinera to be an engaging employees and inviting them to identify and attractive employer and drive initiatives that benefit local recommend ways to make continuous improvements to our communities and causes initiatives. Ongoing programs and projects were further The table on the next page highlights what we achieved last year. highlighted to increase employee knowledge and awareness of the work we are doing. This includes activities in areas such as product design, product packaging and transportation. We expect to start seeing the result of these efforts in 2017. Sustainability Goals 2017 PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY/ BUSINESS ETHICS RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY WORKING ENVIRONMENT Implement Code of Business Increase product power Targets for green house gas Facilities and working environment Conduct and Ethics in the value efficiency emissions well positioned for sustainable chain growth Establish business amenities and Reduce CO2 emissions and waste Waste reduction Employee development gift policy at transportation Compliance obligations Compliance obligations Responsible use of water Sustainable people and culture growth CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS STOCKHOLDERS COMMUNITY 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y M A N AG E M E N T 2016 Sustainability Goals Performance 2016 TARGETS PROGRESS PERFORMANCE Implement updated Code of >95% of all employees trained and have Business Conduct and Ethics signed to adhere to Code of Business Conduct and Ethics BUSINESS ETHICS Review reseller agreement and Reseller agreement reviewed and Goal: Secure high business ethical establish Partner Code of Conduct Partner Code of Conduct established guidelines in our value chain and posted Establish Business Amenities and Goal moved to 2017 Gift policy PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Release of enabling technology We announced the new technology ‘Infinite Capacity Engine’ that will (Infinite Capacity Engine) in 2016, improve the power and space and have demonstrated early Goals: Minimize environmental efficiency implementations of it within customer impact of our product usage networks 3% reduction in GHG emissions CO2e emissions for 2016 compared to overall by 2018 (baseline is 2015) 2015 normalized to: Full-Time Equivalent (FTE): +9% Operational Space: -8% See Environmental section pg 25 29 for more details ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Goal: Minimize environmental Water efficiency; 3% reduction in Water usage for 2016 compared to 2015 impact of our business operations 2018 (baseline is 2015) normalized to: FTE: +2% Operational Space: -14% 68% landfill diversion in California Tracking at 68% to 69% for California, and 100% in Pennsylvania 100% for Pennysylvania Strive for zero accidents and injuries Reporting process for major sites’ – Implement a company wide injuries and illnesses has been reporting process for major sites implemented. Infinera EHS is collecting accidents and injuries Injury/illness data for all major U.S. and international sites. For more details, see page 33 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY / Leadership development Leadership promotion criteria established. Succession plan framework WORKING ENVIRONMENT completed for 2016. Several leadership development forums conducted during Goal: Facilities and working the year environment well positioned for sustainable growth and contribute Global Culture Survey results and Global Culture survey completed to a sustainable development action planning and the results was shared within the organization. Every executive choose 1-3 areas to focus on in their respective areas Driving initiatives that benefit local Completed. See Social Responsibility community and causes section pg 30 39 for more information = Completed = In progress = Not completed 12 Memberships & Associations We participate in a numerous of industry associations, trade groups and peer-networking organizations—many of which have a special focus on sustainability. Below are a few of the groups we engaged with in 2016: American Society for Quality (ASQ) A global community of experts and the leading authority on quality in all fields, organizations and industries. ASQ Silicon Valley is a knowledge-based local community of quality professionals dedicated to the promotion and advancement of quality tools, principles, and practices in their communities. We have employees on the Leadership and Membership committees of the ASQ Silicon Valley chapter. Learn more at www.asq.org/. Conflict Free Smelter Initiative (CFSI) A program founded by members of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. The CFSI offers companies and their suppliers an independent, third party audit that determines which smelters and refiners can be validated as ‘conflict-free’ in line with current global standards. Learn more at www.conflictfreesourcing.org. QuEST Forum A association of companies including service providers, suppliers and liaisons that is dedicated to impacting the quality and sustainability of products and services in the information and communications technology industry. We are a participant in QuEST Forum’s network function virtualization (NFV) initiative created in 2015 to asses the needs and requirements of organizations developing and offering NFV services, encompassing reliability, performance and security. One of our employees is a TL 9000 expert and serves on the QuEST Forum Leadership team as Americas Best Practices Conference chair and New Member Peer Program chair. Learn more at www.questforum.org/. Silicon Valley Leadership Group (SVLG) A public policy, trade organization representing almost 400 of Silicon Valley’s most respected employers on issues, programs and campaigns that affect the economic health and quality of life in Silicon Valley. These include energy, transportation, education, housing, health care, tax policies, economic vitality and the environment. A number of our executives sit on several SVLG committees. Learn more at http://svlg.org/. United Nations Global Compact (UNCG) The world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. The UNGC is a voluntary program that commits companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor rights, environment and anticorruption, and to take actions aimed at advancing societal goals. Learn more at https://www.unglobalcompact.org/. Women in Photonics, Silicon Valley A group started by and composed of women representing the vibrant and diverse work force of Silicon Valley from both industry and academia, specifically in the field of optic and photonics. Its mission is to provide a platform for networking, career growth, and development in the field of photonics for women at different stages in their careers. Learn more at http://wiphotonics.weebly.com/. 13 13 BUSINESS ETHNICS We are committed to operating with integrity in all our decisions, While the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics does not in all our facilities and throughout our business. From our Code address every possible circumstance an employee might of Business Conduct and Ethics to our risk management and encounter, it does provide guidance for the most common avoidance strategies and our ongoing training for employees, ethical situations. It also outlines the process employees can good corporate governance and fair and honest business use to raise concerns about our ethical, social or environmental practices are expected of everyone. practices, including: • Talking with their local supervisor or a member of local Fair Business Practices management Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics sets out our • Discussing the issue with a Human Resources representative commitments to, and expectations for, employees. It covers all • Reporting violations or suspected violations to the Legal operations, subsidiaries, affiliates and related entities worldwide Department on the following topics: • Calling our third-party Ethics and Compliance hotline Our whistleblower policy provides a mechanism for employees CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS who reasonably believe they are aware of conduct that violates Compliance with laws, rules and regulations our legal duties—including, but not limited to, questionable Conflicts of interest accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, Insider trading or the reporting of fraudulent financial information to our Corporate opportunities stockholders, government or the financial markets—to raise Competition and fair dealing concerns without facing harassment, discrimination or retaliation. Making Decisions Honestly & Ethically Payments to government personnel Political activities Risk Management Money laundering and funding illegal activity We are committed to risk management in all areas of our Following anti-boycott laws business. Members of our senior management team are responsible for the implementation of our day-to-day risk Complying with export and import controls management processes, while the board of directors, as a whole Record keeping Protecting Infinera and through its committees, has responsibility for the oversight Information & Confidentiality of overall risk management. In addition, each of the committees Infinera Assets Protection and proper use of Infinera assets of the board of directors considers any risks that may be within Purchasing policies and supplier relations its area of responsibilities. Labor rights Be Safe & Reliable Human rights Health and safety Environmental impact 14 BUSINESS ETHNICS Compliance Compliance Training We take compliance with laws and regulations very seriously Human Resources and Legal work closely together to ensure throughout the company. We strive to maintain a culture of that our employees have appropriate training on compliancecompliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations in every related issues including our Code of Business Conduct and jurisdiction. We adhere to the highest standards of ethics and Ethics and our Anti-Bribary Compliance Policy. We have an business conduct. online training module that allows managers to assess a new employee’s job responsibilities to ensure that appropriate We comply with the California Transparency in Supply Chains compliance training is identified and assigned. Employees Act 2010 that requires retailers and manufactures of a certain receive a welcome email with login credentials and complete size doing business in the State of California to disclose their the training electronically. Automatic reminders are sent out efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their for refresher training, and status reports are sent regularly to direct product supply chains for the goods they sell. supervisors for employees who fail to complete the training in a We also comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, which timely manner. requires companies providing goods and services with annual sales of £36M ($46M) or more to publish an annual Slavery and . Human Trafficking Statement setting out the steps the company ETHICAL ENVIRONMENTAL JOB SPECIFIC has taken to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking TRAINING HEALTH TRAINING place in its supply chain or business. & SAFETY TRAINING We had no confirmed cases of breaches to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in 2016. There were no formal greviences or Insider Trading Universal and Root Cause legal claims filed against us along with their status during 2016. Policy Hazardous Waste Corrective Action Training Foreign Corrupt Injury and Illness Electrostatic COMPLIANCE AND GRIEVANCES IN 2016 Practices Act Prevention Discharge Training Business Ethics 0 Workplace Ethics Compressed Gas Lockout / Tagout Environment 0 Safety (Electrical Safety) Labor and Human Rights 0 Harassment Storm Water Security Awareness Pollution Awareness Product Responsibility 0 Prevention Customer Privacy 0 Listed in the table are examples of training course in respective areas Total 0 Grievances and legal claims may be filed from within the company or from an external source. Learn more about Infinera’s approach to corporate governance, risk management and executive compensation in our proxy statement at infinera.com. 15 PRODUCT & SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY Responsible Sourcing Topics covered in the Supplier Code of Conduct include: We have developed a network of suppliers that support our SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT business. We see our suppliers and their subcontractors as Compensation integral to our success, and select those that adopt strong Hours of work ethical standards, respect the rights of their employees and Forced labor demonstrate environmental stewardship. Respect for Human Rights & Labor Young workers Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards Rights Harassment expected of our suppliers so they act ethically, responsibly Nondiscrimination and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our Freedom of association suppliers are required to apply our code to their first-tier Providing a safe and healthy workplace suppliers and subcontractors, including providers of contract Health & Safety Health and safety training labor. We expect suppliers to be transparent about their Illegal drugs compliance with this code through self-assessment and Hazardous substance management and disclosure or third-party audits. restriction Non-hazardous waste management Wastewater management Environmental Stormwater management Responsibility Air emissions management Boundary noise Environmental permits and reporting Pollution prevention and resource reduction Compliance with our Ethics Policy Bribery, gifts and favors Business records Conflicts of interest Ethics Competition Money laundering Privacy Responsible sourcing of minerals Commitment to responsible business practices Management accountability and responsibility Management Risk assessment and management Systems Performance objectives Communications Audits and assessments 16 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Key suppliers of raw materials and purchased assemblies are 2016 SUMMARY OF SURVEYS, AUDITS, screened for compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct AND TRAINING before being added as an approved supplier. In addition, Number of supplier reviews 48 every two years, key suppliers are required to extend their commitment to compliance with the code. At the end of 2016, Number of supplier on-site audits 18 100 percent of these suppliers—20 in total—had renewed their Suppliers complying with Infinera Supplier CoC 100% commitment. In addition to complying with our Supplier Code of Conduct, key Infinera procurement of personnel trained in business ethics 100% suppliers are expected to be transparent about the sustainability Number of instances of non-compliance 0 impacts of the materials and components they provide to us. We require that key suppliers report their GHG emissions Number of supplier terminations over ethics / 0 to the Carbon Disclosure Project; disclose on their website compliance / etc. sustainability priorities, goals and progress; and cooperate with our efforts to monitor the supplier’s conformance, including Annual Supplier Forum conducting on-site assessments of their facilities, using questionnaires and surveys and taking other measures necessary For the past 10 years, we have hosted an annual Infinera to properly review their performance. We reserve the right to Supplier Forum (ISF) for senior executives at some of our key disqualify any potential supplier or terminate any relationship suppliers (for semiconductors, mechanical and optical parts with a supplier that has failed to conform to these standards. and assemblies from CMs, installation service providers, and key second-tier vendors). The objective of this forum is to share our vision and product strategies, including our sustainability Management and Oversight and corporate social responsibility initiatives, and enable We expect our suppliers to conduct their business not only direct discussions with suppliers. Featured speakers at ISF in a lawful manner, but also in compliance with the same high 2016 included our CEO, President, and other members of our standards of integrity and ethics that we apply to our operations. management team, along with members from our marketing and Below are some of the ways that we manage supply chain risk operations teams. and hold suppliers accountable. Surveys and On-Site Audits We use surveys and conduct on-site audits of our major CMs and key suppliers to assess and evaluate their performance on topics including labor conditions, child labor and human trafficking. We consider these principles in the selection of our CMs and suppliers, with the intention to actively monitor their compliance through our internal audit program. Supplier audits are announced and conducted by Infinera at selected supplier facilities using audit protocols in line with the standards of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition’s Code of Conduct and our Supplier Code of Conduct. We believe that employees at supplier facilities have the right to freely choose employment, the right to free association, and the right to be free of harassment and unlawful discrimination. 17 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLIER DIVERSITY Suppliers are key to our success. They provide impactful A key part of our Supplier Diversity Program is an initiative innovation in all aspects of our operations and give us a to help develop and grow the small businesses we work with, competitive advantage in the marketplace. Our dedication and contribute to the economic growth of the communities to supplier diversity supports the use of diverse and qualified where we operate. suppliers certified under classifications that include: One program success in 2016 involved outreach to small • Small Business Enterprise (SBE) local businesses for printing. AlphaGraphics Sunnyvale was selected to print the forum agenda. This was a minority • Women Business Enterprise (WBE) owned business not yet certified with the WRMSDC. The • Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) engagement was an opportunity to support the development • Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDB) of this supplier and to be instrumental in helping the business with the application process to become a certified • Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Minority Business Enterprise (MBE)—which, as this report • Veteran Business Enterprise (VBE) went to print, it is. In addition, we introduced the company’s • Service Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise (SDVBE) owner to the Stanford Latino Entrepreneur Leaders Program, a highly immersive six-week program that provides business • Disabled Small Business Owners (People with owners with valuable education, an enhanced network, Disabilities) personal mentorship and a better understanding of how to • LGBT Business Enterprise (LGBTBE) access capital resources to grow their business. Acceptance to this program will give AlphaGraphics Sunnyvale a desired boost toward their goal to grow and double in size. We are actively involved in organizations and outreach events involving groups such as: • Western Region Minority Supplier Development Council (WRMSDC)—This group supports the growth and welfare of minority communities by championing the use of minority-owned businesses in Northern California, Nevada and Hawaii. • National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSCD)—The council is the global leader in advancing business opportunities for certified Asian, Black, Hispanic and Native American business enterprises and connecting them to member corporations. • Technology Industry Group (TIG)—The forum brings awareness of supplier diversity to the high tech supply chain. It brings the foremost industry experts from high tech companies together in a setting where knowledge is shared and connections are made. 18 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Compliance Across the Value Chain REACH We are committed to maintaining compliance with worldwide The REACH initiative sets guidelines for the production and environmental laws and regulations that apply to our operations, use of certain chemical substances on the European Chemical products and services. Agency (ECHA) candidate list for registration and reporting. Our robust REACH program is designed to ensure we meet all Our businesses and operations are subject to federal, state, local applicable requirements based on our compliance obligations. and international laws and regulations put in place to protect the We continually work with our suppliers to provide information environment. and communicate with customers as needed. We accomplished Compliance with these regulations requires us to work diligently with the following in 2016 to maintain compliance with REACH the suppliers manufacturing our products. requirements: We have a comprehensive environmental program that consists • Reviewed and refreshed our operational processes for supply of systems, processes, and tools to maintain data collection and chain REACH substance reporting purposes. retrieval, and the reporting of product information. This includes a • Verified that the chemical substance registrations are in process for continuously updating the system and refreshing data place by the original substance producers as required by the specifically for: REACH initiative. • Banned substances under RoHS • Collected data on REACH substances from suppliers for • Reportable substances under REACH approximately 25,000 components used in products and • Waste management under WEEE identified substances of very high concern. To date, we have not received notification of any product environmental violations related to: the Waste Electrical and WEEE Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive; Directive on the The WEEE directive defines regulations for waste management Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in of electronic and electrical equipment through reuse, recycling Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS); and Registration, and recovery of products. We follow robust processes to Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) manage the requirements of WEEE regulations. We have a regulations. recycling and take-back program and are registered with We accomplished the following in 2016 to successfully meet our European countries as needed. We comply with product compliance for these environmental regulations. identification requirements such as labeling for all products as required. We were compliant with the WEEE directive in 2016 and achieved the following: RoHS • Maintained WEEE registration in all European Union (EU) The RoHS Directive focuses on the use of certain hazardous countries, and re-registered in countries as required by local substances in electrical and electronic products that have proven governance offices. to be harmful to the environment and human health. Our RoHS program attained the following achievement in 2016 by improving • Provided required monthly, quarterly and annual WEEE processes for product life cycle data management, obtaining reporting and payment for the sales of products into EU certification of RoHS compliance and qualification and auditing our • Implemented identification marking and labeling for new CMs and suppliers. In addition, we accomplished the following in products introduced to the marketplace. 2016 to improve our RoHS compliance: • Refreshed the program database for over 25,000 components with supplier RoHS certification of conformance to ensure their compliance to RoHS requirements. • Maintained and updated the RoHS program infrastructure database. • Completed product transitions for those with expiring RoHS exemptions to ensure product compliance with changing RoHS requirements. 19 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Conflict Minerals We have established a conflict minerals program in order to monitor the source of conflict minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, where certain conflict minerals are sometimes mined and sold under the control of armed groups to finance conflict characterized by extreme levels of violence. Our strategy has three main components: Conflict mineral policy: We require all manufacturing suppliers to have a policy in place to reasonably ensure that the minerals in the products they supply or manufacture does not directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the DRC or adjoining countries. Supplier engagement: We communicate our conflict minerals program requirements to our suppliers, and they annually report on conflict minerals in their supply chain using the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template. Following the due diligence framework provided by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, we follow up with suppliers that provide incomplete or contradictory answers for clarification, and provide feedback when necessary on how to improve the quality of their reports. Annual disclosures: In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we report our conflict minerals program to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) annually. Our grievance mechanism and reporting process encourages employees, suppliers and other affected parties to report concerns and violations of this policy. Concerns can be reported anonymously and are covered under our whistleblower protection and non-retaliation provisions. To read our most recent conflict minerals report filed with the SEC, visit infinera.com. 20 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Our Products Support Sustainable Development Reduced Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our customers have historically made their buying decisions Higher electricity costs. Limited space. Availability issues. based primarily on the lowest total cost of ownership. As These are just a few of the challenges network operators face in laws and regulations, public policy and corporate purchasing developing tomorrow’s advanced transport networks. In all types increasingly address environmental sustainability issues, we need of networks—from power-hungry data centers to devices at the solutions that address not just competitive pricing but the overall edge of the network—there is a need to reduce GHG emissions. environmental impact of our products. Our low power design offers a way to meet these needs while The use of our products and solutions is helping reduce GHG reducing environmental impact by providing products and emissions in two ways. First, we design our products for low solutions that are the most energy-efficient in the industry, using power consumption. Operating a network is complex and up to 75 percent less energy than competitive offerings. expensive, with the cost of energy an ongoing concern. The more efficient we make the network, the less it costs for our Reduced Need for Cooling customers and the environmental impact from the use of our Lower power design reduces the need for cooling because it products is reduced. That is why developing energy-efficient results in products and systems that generate less heat. For products is at the top of our list of product development goals. every watt (W) of hardware power that our low power design Secondly, our products enable the efficient use of services such saves, the room temperature and therefore the need for cooling as web conferencing and teleconferencing. By employing these are also reduced by up to 0.5 W. This means every 1 kilowatt services, we can help achieve the reduction of global travel and (kW) savings in hardware power results in an overall savings of its associated negative environmental impact. While harder to up to 1.5 kW in a building’s total power consumption. measure across our customer base, we believe that our products More specifically, our DTN-X Family of products has flexible and technology innovations are a key element of a low-carbon settings to conserve power. For example, the DTN-X XTC-4 future. system changes fan rotations per minute (RPM) depending on the ambient temperature, and the fan power consumption changes based on the RPM as a result. The fan power Low power design consumption is 122 W at the lowest temperature and 1753 W at a glance at the highest temperature. This can save operators up to 93 percent power depending on the ambient temperature when using this product. Similarly, the DTN-X XTC-10 has a fan power consumption range from 208 W to 3505 W, saving up to 94 Lower power consumption percent power. The Infinera XTM Series was developed using our low power design philosophy. This series adapts fan Smaller on-site footprint speed to ambient temperature to keep normal power DIRECT consumption as low as possible, and uses lower-rated SAVINGS fuses than competitive products to avoid expensive Less need power upgrades to existing facilities. The platform for in-building cooling offers low power consumption with just 5W per 10G transponder. For high-capacity transport, the XTM Series has a power consumption of just 55 W per 100G Avoid expensive power upgrade transponder. In 2016, we began developing a next-generation, high-capacity unit for this series that will reduce power INDIRECT consumption further to 20W per 100G. This technology, Reduced CO2 emissions SAVINGS expected to be available in 2017, is designed to be 40 percent more energy-efficient than the nearest competitive product. 21 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Avoid Expensive Power Upgrades Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction Lower power consumption makes it easier to deploy systems We have a dedicated team that manages product quality and in areas where power is limited. Competing systems have customer satisfaction and works closely with internal teams, significantly higher power requirements that require expensive operations and business units to make sure that our products power upgrades. and services meet the highest level of quality. We are registered according to TL9000 and apply those Our Transparency Gives You Power requirements to our quality and customer satisfaction practices, To make it easier for customers and prospective customers to using reviews and surveys for direct customer feedback. understand and compare the energy use of our products, we Companies certified to TL9000 benefit from a well-defined provide detailed power consumption data in accordance with common standard addressing the telecommunications quality the industry-standard recommendations of the Alliance for system requirements for design, development, production, Telecommunications Industry Solutions. delivery and service. As an active QuEST Forum member company (see page14), we also benefit from best practice collaboration, quality benchmarking studies, and recognition for promotion of excellence from the leading companies in the information and communications technology sector. Product Design and Development We work closely with our customers to develop design specifications that meet their needs for performance, quality and compliance. Increasingly, these design specifications call for energy use requirements, restrictions on hazardous substances and compliance with laws and regulations on conflict minerals. Once we have a design in place, we create a production plan. This includes selecting parts and components, qualifying suppliers and CMs, and determining production timelines and quality assurance processes. To mitigate the risk in our supply chain and ensure we are positioned to meet our product specifications on time and on budget, we: • Qualify multiple sources of critical components to spread risk geographically. • Score suppliers using our proprietary risk tool, which covers aspects including capacity, quality, performance, sustainability and responsiveness, along with other risk factors like geography, stability and longevity. • Conduct additional monthly risk reviews, focusing on key items identified by the risk tool. • Maintain an electronic database of product specifications for an interface with customers and suppliers to provide a consistent set of expectations and requirements throughout the value chain. 22 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Quality Manufacturing Customer Privacy We have vertically integrated production facilities, which means We are committed to respecting individual privacy rights that we manufacture our products in factories we own and and expectations, and to protecting personal data against operate, giving us excellent control over the entire process. In unauthorized access, use, retention or disclosure. These aspects some instances, we also use CMs to assemble portions of our are considered throughout the value chain as part of design and products. Each CM procures components necessary to assemble development, installation, deployment and sales. the products in our forecast according to our specifications We are not aware of any complaints about breaches of and bills of material. To make sure we manage risk during customers’ privacy received from any outside parties or manufacturing, we: regulatory bodies, or of any leaks, thefts or losses of customers´ • Maintain quality, health and safety, and environmental personal data from breach of customer privacy. management system certifications. • Validate manufacturing methods and processes. • Monitor and comply with product specifications and legal and SUPPORTING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION regulatory requirements. THROUGH TECHNICAL TRAINING Despite outsourcing certain manufacturing operations for cost-effective scale and flexibility, we perform rigorous in-house Technical training is an essential part of our services that quality control testing to establish the reliability of our products. enables customers and partners worldwide are certified To mitigate risk during this phase, we: to install, operate, maintain and troubleshoot our products. Through technical training, the end users (our • Implement extensive quality assurance and reliability testing. customers) gain the skills needed to use our products • Establish systems integration and validation requirements. to maximize efficiency, reduce unnecessary product replacements and extend the life of our products in their • Conduct testing and validation of software. networks. Our technical training uses a blended learning approach Customer Satisfaction and Feedback to help customers and partners reduce travel time and Our commitment to product responsibility doesn’t stop once our time away from the office. Combining eLearning and products are installed. To go the extra mile to make sure that other distance-learning curriculums with classroom our customers are satisfied, we: training results in more focused and customized • Conduct quarterly operations reviews with customers. These training, which saves time and costs and avoids related reviews cover specific reliability issues for each customer, our infrastructure requirements. services and new products, upgrades and ongoing service Training is delivered worldwide: at a customer’s location; provisions. The reviews provide essential input to customer in training labs in Sunnyvale, Baltimore, London, satisfaction scorecards. Stockholm and Hong Kong; or through live remote • Conduct internal reviews by surveying product and service sessions using Lync, Skype and WebEx. All trainees are data from deployments to sustaining product through metrics, given access to eLearning for refresher training and as a which are developed collaboratively with customers and by support resource. using customer scorecards and TL9000 metrics. To keep the training at the highest quality level, • Use customer satisfaction scorecards to gauge levels of courses are constantly revised to reflect today’s market satisfaction and measure experience. Feedback from these and customer needs, and certification programs are is tracked internally and communicated across the company. maintained. Using certificates helps guarantee that all We convert qualitative to numeric values as a way to measure customers and partners have a verified skill set and customer experience related to problems being reported and knowledge base. defects in the field, among other metrics. Technical training is provided for all our platforms and is • Consider customer requests for improvements to our available immediately after product release. products and services into our product and service development life cycle. 23 Awards for Product Innovation in 2016 Global Telecoms Business Award 2016 Global Telecoms Business (GTB) Award 2016: Next-Gen Technology for University Research Network was awarded to Infinera for our DTN-X platform network at the Mid-Atlantic Broadband Communities Corporation (MBC) that enabled MBC to increase network scale to several terabits per second of connectivity across Virginia. GTB awards showcase and celebrate the most successful telecommunications projects from across the globe. The award recognized how we delivered a successful project, overcame various challenges and obstacles in a project’s lifecycle, and demonstrated true industry innovation. IHS Market Momentum Leader in Global Optical Equipment IHS named Infinera the Market Momentum Leader in Global Optical Equipment based on market momentum in its 2016 IHS Optical Network Hardware Vendor Scorecard. The ranking recognized that we continue to “benefit from the rapidly growing Internet content provider and data center interconnect market, and delivered outstanding market share gains, tight finances and solid customer perceptions over the period assessed.” Lightwave Innovation Review Lightwave Innovation Reviews: Infinera Datacenter Interconnect Solution 4.5 recognized the Infinera Cloud Xpress and XT-500 Datacenter Interconnect Solution as being one of the leading optical transport platforms. Lightwave recognizes optical communications technology based on a number of factors including excellent products with technical features and performance that provide “clear and substantial benefits” and superb products that set “new standards for performance and provide groundbreaking and new technical milestones.” Magyar Telekom’s TOP3 Sustainable Supplier Award In 2016, Magyar Telecom, part of the DTAG Group of companies, recognized Infinera as one of its top three sustainable providers out of 122 companies. The recognition was based on assessing suppliers’ environmental, social and economic aspects. 24 24 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of Responsible Use of Resources: our operations through energy efficiency, waste reduction, Percent Increase from 2015 to 2016 and resource conservation. We have a dedicated team of EHS experts and facility managers who work closely with individual sites to manage environmental risks that consider local and regional concerns. Our precautionary approach is based on a risk assessment process that identifies, assesses and mitigates environmental risk throughout our operations and supply chain. In the U.S. and Sweden, we have environmental management systems registered to ISO 14001. We are considering additional registrations worldwide. Environmental Compliance We take compliance with environmental regulations seriously. The above chart summarizes our responsible use of resources. While the physical space occupied by our global operations increased by 28 percent from We regularly review our programs and operations using a third2015 to 2016, our use of electricity, water, and natural gas increased by only party expert for independent assurance. This review reaffirmed 16 percent, 11 percent, and 7 percent, respectively. We seek to continue this trend as we grow our business operations. Headcount, space, and electricity that our programs are capable of maintaining a high level of data represent our major sites in the U.S., India, China, and Sweden. Water use day-to-day compliance with local, state and federal regulations. data represents our site in the U.S., India, and Sweden. Natural gas usage data Changes in legal requirements and operations are incorporated represents our U.S. sites (as there is no natural gas usage in our non-U.S. sites). into the annual review of our EHS hazard and risk assessment, and calendar of activities. 25 Energy and Climate EMISSIONS BY SCOPE 1 & 2 We believe that climate change is a significent environmental (TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENTS [tCO2E])* challenge facing society today. To identify our risks and 2016 2015 opportunities, we measure energy consumption and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from our business each year. Energy Fleet vehicles (S1) 32 29 consumption has been closely monitored at our facilities since 2014 to identify areas for improvement. Efforts to increase our Facilities (production gases) (S1) 114 115 energy efficiency have reduced our energy use by approximately Facilities (energy use) (S2) 14,598 12,970 3,850 megawatt hours (MWh) since the program was implemented. Total emissions 14,744 13,114 *S1 and S2 stand for Scope 1 and Scope 2 according to GHG protocol. The ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWh)* chart above covers our major sites in the U.S., Sweden, and India. EMISSIONS BY SCOPE 3 2016 2015 (TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENTS [tCO2E])* Electricity 33,060 28,463 2016 Transportation and distribution 27,394 District heating** 731 654*** Business travel 6,330 District cooling**** Employee commuting 2,991 665 404 Purchased office supply 149 Total 34,456 32,686 Fuel and energy related 5,557 Total 42,421 * Major sites and sales offices included: U.S., Sweden, and India. The chart above covers our major sites in the U.S., Sweden, India, China, ** District heating (Sweden): District heating is a system for distributing heat Canada, the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. generated in a centralized location for residential and commercial heating requirements such as space heating and water heating. District heating in Sweden is generated by 86 percent renewable sources. CO2 Emissions Key Performance Indicators (Scope 1 and 2) *** Correction to 2015 data **** District cooling (Sweden): District cooling delivers chilled water to Absolute GHG emissions vary over time and often correspond to buildings like offices and factories needing cooling (Sweden). the expansion or contraction of an organization. It is therefore useful to use reporting metrics that take these factors into Recent Energy Efficiency Highlights account and monitor relative GHG emissions intensity. In 2014 and 2015, we implemented energy efficiency projects at buildings in Sunnyvale, Allentown and Bangalore, India. Projects REFERENCE DATA KPI* included replacing inefficient fluorescent lighting with newer 2016 LEDs, upgrading our HVAC systems, and replacing an inefficient 59,737 square meters of compressed air plant and chillers with higher-efficiency units. 0.24 tCO2e per square meters operational space Between 2014 and the end of 2016, these projects delivered accumulated savings of approximately 1,550 MWh in Sunnyvale, 6.58 tCO2e per full-time 2240 full-time employees (FTE) equivalent employee approximately 1,000 MWh in Allentown and approximately 1,300 MWh in Bangalore, India. Looking forward we are 2015 continuing to implement energy efficient projects in our facilities. 46,544 square meters of 0.28 tCO2e per square meters operational space 6.38 tCO2e per full-time 2056 full-time employees (FTE) equivalent employee *The chart above covers our major sites in the U.S., Sweden, and India. 26 E N V I RO N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Air Emissions WASTE GENERATION (METRIC TONS) The semiconductor fabrication facility in Sunnyvale is the only Non-Hazardous Waste 2016 2015 Recycled 243 205 site subject to air emissions permitting requirements. Monitoring and reporting of air emissions is also required, including Toxic Compost 19 10 Release Inventory (TRI) emissions. We are required to report on Incinerated 62 57 n-Methyl 2-Pyrrolidone (NMP) emissions and off-site transfers Landfilled 106 93 since we use greater than 10,000 pounds per year. NMP is a Total 430 365 common “low-volatility” solvent used to clean wafer surfaces. Hazardous Waste 2016 2015 The majority of the spent material is manifested offsite for Recovery 22 25 reclamation and treatment, with only an estimated small Incineration 6 8 fraction being emitted. TRI reports can be found on the U.S. Treatment Offsite 73 92 Environmental Protection Agency’s TRI website. Landfill 1 <1 Other (Universal Waste) 1 1 Waste and Recycling Total 103 126 Each of our facilities identifies and implements the most This table covers waste generation at our Sunnyvale, California, and Allentown, appropriate options for waste diversion and reduction based Pennsylvania facilities. on operations and the type of waste generated. Production waste associated with manufacturing our products –such as cardboard and paper, scrap metal and foam—is sorted and recycled. Hazardous waste is treated and removed by qualified service providers. Our design and sales offices mainly focus on recycling items including bottles, cans and office paper. Qualified vendors are contracted to manage all waste, with a focus on recycling and safe management of waste that cannot be recycled in accordance with federal and state regulations. Among our 2016 achievements in this area, we reduced the hazardous waste from fabricating our photonic integrated circuits by 12 percent compared to 2015. Our Sunnyvale office kept equipment scrap material out of landfills by selling it. This eliminated the need to haul the equipment away and generated proceeds that were reinvested. Our Bangalore, India office reduced laptop e-waste by recycling more than 300 laptops. We diverted increasing amounts of landfill waste and eliminated related methane and GHG. Our Bangalore office began a composting project in June 2016 by replacing disposable food containers with stainless steel containers, and paper towels with cotton towels in the gym and yoga room. It reduced wet waste by more than 10,000 pounds (4,536 kilograms), increasing our global compost total to 41,918 pounds (19,013 kilograms), up from 22,356 pounds (10,140 kilograms) in 2015. Our Allentown facility continues to be a 100-percent landfill-free site with all waste being recycled or incinerated. 27 E N V I RO N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Waste Categories Water Management Fabricating semiconductors requires significant amounts of water, NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE while offices and design facilities use less water in kitchens, Paper, cardboard, plastic bottles and cans, and bathrooms and landscaping irrigation. Most of our water printer cartridges Recycled management efforts focus on maximizing water efficiency at our Polyurethane and non-polyurethane foam from fab facilities. When the opportunity arises, however, we also office, shipping and receiving take advantage of other opportunities to conserve water. Composted Kitchen waste Over the last several years, we have taken advantage of local Incinerated Mixed non-hazardous trash utility rebate programs to implement low-flow solutions in restrooms and break areas. We continue to evaluate process Landfilled Mixed non-hazardous trash water opportunities and track water use to identify where improvements are needed. Landscape irrigation water is cityHAZARDOUS WASTE recycled water wherever possible. Since our buildings are leased, we advocate for low-water-use landscaping with owners Solvent waste (fuel blended or recycled offsite as Recovery feedstock) and property managers. Flammable wipes used in cleaning of equipment Treatment of process water is accomplished by a permitted, Incineration on-site acid waste neutralization plant and discharged to the Corrosive wipes used in cleaning of equipment municipal sewage treatment system. 95:5 (%) water/hydrofluoric ccid from Treatment semiconductor fab Offsite WATER CONSUMPTION (CUBIC METERS) 2016 2015 Concentrated acidic waste Total Consumption 73,039 65,936 Wafers and solid material not able to be Landfill incinerated This table covers our major sites and sales offices in the U.S., Sweden and India. Universal Waste (approved recycle/recovery facility) Xeriscaping Alkaline and lithium batteries In February 2016, we completed a drought-friendly, turf Other reduction project at our headquarters in Sunnyvale. We started Fluorescent and high-intensity discharge the project in September 2015 when California was facing an (HID) lamps historic drought. We installed a new water meter and replaced Electronic waste (e-waste/universal waste) building lawns with a drought-tolerant, more sustainable landscape. We also reduced potable water usage by more than 900 cubic meters per year at our semiconductor fabrication building, and eliminated lawn chemicals and treatments. As this report went to print, California’s historic drought was declared to be officially over. Even so, with experts predicting that dry seasons will be the new normal for the State, water conservation remains a key priority. 28 E N V I RO N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Facilities Supporting Sustainability Growth Green Teams Each of our facilities has dedicated personnel assigned to facility We also harness the power and enthusiasm of our employees management and building managers that continually investigate to help green the way we operate. We have people from all and implement energy-saving practices. We have implemented our locations participating in Green Teams, a diverse group numerous projects in each location, including: a new building of employees who volunteer to work on our environmental management system, retrofitting light fixtures with LED initiatives. Since we started the program at our headquarters lamps, retro-commissioning building infrastructure to optimize in Sunnyvale in 2011, the teams have identified resource performance and using hot aisle/cold aisle environments for our conservation improvements including composting, segregation labs. of waste and minimization of water and energy use. We actively solicit and evaluate employee suggestions and adopt them In Bangalore, India, for example, we replaced the lighting in as appropriate. The Green Team issues a quarterly newsletter washrooms with LED lights and installed sensors in washrooms for employees on how to take simple steps—such as using and conference rooms to save power when rooms are not in use. online paycheck vouchers and composting—to reduce their In 2016, we completed an energy-reduction project at one environmental impact, and provide support and guidance to of our Sunnyvale buildings, which was a joint effort between help employees “green” their personal lives. We have had Infinera, an energy-efficiency consultant and our energy utility. several “green bag” lunchtime meetings open to all employees The project included a building management system and that feature outside speakers on relevant topics. In 2016, we had modifications that enable the most energy-efficient operations. speakers from Energy Upgrade California. These ambassadors The system let us participate in the utility’s Automatic Demand addressed employees about ways to save energy and water, Response program, helped reduce energy use and saved more reduce carbon footprint, conserve natural resources and make than $100,000 a year. informed energy management choices. Our U.S. facilities have bike lockers and electric vehicle charging stations. Our Sunnyvale employees have access to carpooling resources and are eligible for a regional transportation pass. In 2016, we received a Gold All U.S. employees can be reimbursed for commuter benefits. rating by EcoVadis based on the A worldwide commuter survey in 2016 found that on average, annual assessment. EcoVadis 54 percent of our employees use alternative transportation. scores companies in four areas: environmental, labor practices and human rights, fair business practices, and sustainable procurement. The EcoVadis assessment evaluates a company’s CSR management system and benchmarks their overall score to other companies operating within the same industry. Our Gold rating is an indicator of our commitment to our transparency and visibility of our sustainability program. 29 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We believe a connected world is a better world, but that Harassment can take many forms, including physical actions, connection in and of itself is not enough. Connections need to verbal or written remarks, or visual depictions. We strictly foster mutual respect, appreciation of ideas and the lifting up prohibit any acts of harassment, whether by an employee or a of those most in need. In our realm of social impact, there has non-employee, and require regular training to ensure managers to be movement toward sustained relationships and betterment are aware of what constitutes harassment. within our global community. Our social responsibility efforts are designed with this in mind. Employee Diversity Employees are our most important resource and the basis for Our Workforce our success. We strive for an environment characterized by We grew from 2,056 to 2,240 employees in the last fiscal year. respect for the individual, where cultural and ethnic diversity As our business, products and service offerings continue to grow, are blended by teamwork into a harmonious workforce. We our management, operational and financial resources will face are proud to have a broad spectrum of employees with diverse challenges and opportunities. To manage growth effectively, we social and professional backgrounds. will continue to enhance our information technology, financial We are required to put into place an affirmative action plan at infrastructure and operating and administrative systems, as well each of our U.S. locations. This plan includes equal employment as our ability to efficiently manage headcount and processes. opportunities that guarantee the rights of each person in all With thousands of employees and contractors around the world, actions, including recruitment, selection, training, compensation, our core value of teamwork is a critical aspect of our success. promotion and recreation, all of which are based upon individual We are working hard to see to it that the Infinera culture, which ability, interests and performance. emphasizes collaboration and innovation, is embedded into every effort and operation. Gender Diversity Percent of Women This strategy supports our success through attracting, retaining and developing top industry talent, with an emphasis on excellence, transparency and contributing to a dynamic and engaging environment. Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to providing employees with a nondiscriminatory work environment that promotes open and honest communication and embraces dignity, respect and diversity in all aspects of our operations. Discrimination and Harassment The increase in female workers in Europe from 2014 to 2015 was primarily a To maintain our culture of diversity, all employment decisions result of the Transmode acquisition. are based on a principle of mutual respect and dignity for one another, as well as compliance with local laws. Our equal employment policy prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender, religion, age, origin, sexual orientation or functional disability, as well as any other legally protected class. 30 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Race and Ethnicity Human Rights and Labor Rights We support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights, including the principles reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights issued by the General Assembly of the United Nations. We are always seeking new ways to demonstrate our commitment and dedication to ethical practices. To that end, we publicize our internal standards and supplier requirements, including but not limited to the policies below: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct • Partner Code of Conduct We further support the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor. We do not recruit child labor but Because race and ethnicity categories differ between countries, as do laws do support the elimination of exploitative child labor. regarding tracking of employee racial association, we only report this diversity data in our U.S. facilities, where the majority of our employees are located. We support the right to freedom of association. Our office in Sweden has 100 percent of its workforce covered by a collective bargaining agreement (CBA). In facilities where workers are not unionized, we have mechanisms in place that enable workers to have a voice in operational decision-making. In our manufacturing plants, there are numerous EHS meetings and committees involving employees. We seek to provide adequate notice to employees in advance of any significant changes to our operations. We provide appropriate levels of transparency and notice based on organizational change and labor standards per region and by country. For example, our office in Sweden provides a minimum of four weeks’ notice for operational changes according to its CBA Teknikavtalet (maximum 52 weeks). Notice periods and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in the collective bargaining agreement. 31 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Facts & Figures Our Employees Hires by Age Group, Region & Gender Employees by Management Level & Gender Employees by Region & Gender Employee Category Percent by Gender Employee Category Percent by Age Group 32 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Health and Safety Safety Training We are committed to providing all employees with a healthy and Training is based on the specific hazards of the job and is safe work environment by preventing accidents and improving assigned based on management input with EHS oversight. physical and psychosocial conditions. Our health and safety Training curriculum is selected from a predetermined list of programs focus on the following elements: classes within a learning management system that is managed by our Human Resources department. For example, required • Accountability: Each employee is responsible for maintaining safety classes may include topics like chemical safety, laser a healthy and safe workplace by following health and safety safety, electrical lock out/tag out, forklift training, and office or rules and practices and reporting accidents, injuries, and industrial ergonomics. unsafe equipment, practices or conditions. Our emphasis on the importance of ergonomics stems from • Conduct: We do not tolerate violence or threatening behavior. our heightened awareness of the physical implications of any Employees should report to work in a condition to perform repeatable task that our employees do in their daily jobs. Our their duties, free from intoxication due to drugs or alcohol. ergonomic concerns range from typical office ergonomics The use of illegal drugs in the workplace is never permitted. to industrial ergonomics. We have measures in place to • Compliance: We strive to comply with relevant health and address these issues, from educating employees to mandatory safety regulations everywhere we operate. ergonomic training to information sessions. Additionally, we conduct ergonomic evaluations in-house and by an outside ergonomic specialist—in response to a concern, or as requested Management Systems by an employee. We maintain an Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001-certified safety management system in our Sunnyvale and Allentown facilities that helps us identify, Emergency Preparedness manage and continuously improve safety risks and performance We have trained Hazardous Materials Teams at locations where across all of our activities. This includes using: appropriate. For example, we have a trained team that is • Safety policies that outline requirements and expectations certified by the State of California’s Emergency Management Agency to respond to all on-site emergencies involving • Standard operating procedures that provide detailed hazardous materials. At other sites with hazardous materials, instructions for safely completing tasks we have Emergency Response Teams that can respond to any • Audits and corrective action plans to identify and redress medical emergencies that arise. health and safety gaps • Detailed data tracking and reporting to measure performance SAFETY PERFORMANCE over time 2016 2015 Health and safety is a top priority, particularly in our manufacturing operations, which involve an elevated safety Fatalities 0 0 risk for certain tasks. We have a dedicated team of EHS Number of OSHA Recorded Cases 5 3 professionals that oversees all aspects of EHS for the company, with the help of local representatives at each site. EHS Number of Lost Time Injury Cases 1 1 programs are implemented throughout the company based Number of Restricted Work Day Cases 2 1 on the site’s individual risk assessment. At sites with significant health and safety impact, risk assessment is further detailed This table covers U.S. employees only. At this time, we do not track health and through recognized methods such as job hazard analysis. safety data by gender. 33 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Case Study: Safe Handling Of Chemicals Development and Engagement We continue to make improvements to protect employees and We believe in the value of continuous learning and foster a the public from potential exposure to the hazardous materials culture of professional growth. We encourage employees to used in our fabrication facility. share candid feedback about working for our company through our Executive Suggestion site and on public forums such as In addition to using a state-of-the-art Bulk Chemical Delivery Glassdoor.com. room, an automated closed system for chemical delivery, and multiple engineering controls designed to ensure the safe use In 2016, we conducted a culture survey, and the findings and handling of hazardous materials, we eliminated or minimized are guiding our investment in a more formal leadership and the steps needed to manually handle chemicals. development platform that blends various learning approaches. For hydrogen bromide, we eliminated the manual handling In 2017, we are committed to investing in development offerings of solution mixing and delivery to process tools by designing, designed to enhance leadership capabilities. procuring and utilizing specialized equipment. In 2017, for N-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone, we are on track to go from 40 percent Employee Career Development up to 55 percent bulk operation, and reduce our manual We believe individuals should play an active role in their career operation from 60 percent to approximately 45 percent. development to achieve professional goals. Because we realize We maintain Safety Data Sheets (SDS) for all chemicals. In that experiential learning is the most powerful type, we focus buildings where chemicals are handled, SDS are kept in binders on providing new job-based learning opportunities that include and are also available electronically. Our chemical purchases working on new projects, cross-functional transfers, expanded also go through a formal review process to evaluate safety and roles and relocations to other geographies. environmental impact. New employees are introduced to Infinera through an orientation program where they receive an overview of our industry, products and culture. Our Summer Scholar Development Program for college freshmen provides job-specific skills, mentoring, peernetworking opportunities, and a holistic understanding of our business. We are continuing to invest and grow our university hiring program globally. Training We offer various learning opportunities to employees at all levels. Topics include Project Management, Business Writing, Influencing, Management Essentials, Time Management and Presentation Skills. From a formal learning perspective, our employees were given a variety of offerings and, on average, employees received 4.1 hours of formal learning, including compliance training. 34 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LEADERSHIP LUNCH AND COURSES AND AND LEARN INFO PROGRAMS FOR DEVELOPMENT SESSIONS EMPLOYEES AT COURSES FOR ALL LEVELS MANAGERS Leadership Evaluation, Infinera influencer through coaching acquisition and integration Managing within Our stock and Mastery of the law investor relations mindset strategy Leadership Five tips to Powerful effectiveness getting your presentations emails noticed Transitioning How to negotiate Meditation Our Coaching Conversations are two-way discussions intended from individual anything to drive outcomes in a rapidly shifting environment. Through our contributor to people manager annual trainings and HR guidance, we develop our managers into stronger leaders who are comfortable having healthy Executive Understanding our Project exchanges with their employees, and leading teams that focus coaching earnings report management on solutions. In turn, employees are encouraged to discuss career aspirations and ideas with their managers or a mentor Coaching Managing time on a bi-annual basis. This Career Conversation is intended conversations and priorities to broaden an individual’s skills and knowledge. This is an opportunity for employees to discuss their career interests and Effective communication review activities and progress. Work style analysis: Wages and Benefits individuals and teams Our goal is to provide our talent with a total compensation package competitive with the market. Total compensation Toastmasters club includes base salary, bonuses and equity awards (for eligible employees). Factors such as internal and external comparisons, individual employee performance, potential, and unique skills or Learning Management System (LMS) knowledge required for the success of the company affect the In 2016, we expanded our significant investment in a composition and level of total compensation for each employee. sophisticated learning management system (LMS). Our first use phase for the LMS has been “core training” to automate product Employee Participation in U.S. Employer-Sponsored Benefits training for our workers and customers, and to automate business ethics, safety and compliance training for employees. As we onboard employees in manufacturing and engineering jobs, we are planning to develop a knowledge-management use case to automate their training on our manufacturing and engineering processes and systems. Employee Coaching We believe that once-a-year performance evaluations are not enough. We encourage management and employees to engage in more frequent and regular dialogue and engage in an interactive process to provide timely recognition and ongoing feedback. This helps build relationships with transparency and better align teams and departments. 35 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY U.S. Benefits Americas, EMEA and APAC. Benefits may differ based on All regular full-time employees and regular part-time employees location, statutory requirements and local customary best who work 30 or more hours per week are eligible for all Infinera practices. benefits. All regular part-time employees who work between 24 hours and 29 hours per week are eligible for partial benefits. Wellness Programs Part-time employees working fewer than 24 hours per week will We promote and support the health, safety, and well-being be eligible for such benefits as are legally required. of our employees. Through our wellness program, employees can participate in team sports and various fitness challenges Health Insurance as well as financial wellness and healthy living programs. Last Health insurance is one of the most critical benefits offered year for instance, our Bangalore employees competed in an at Infinera. Our goal is to offer comprehensive benefits while endurance test and cricket and foosball tournaments. For minimizing costs for our employees and for Infinera. We employees without access to our on-site fitness centers, we offer currently provide a comprehensive health benefit program that a reimbursement subsidy for gym membership. includes medical, dental and vision plans for eligible employees and their dependents. We pay the majority of the cost of health Employee Recognition insurance for employees. We are proud of our talented and hardworking team. Our Employees in the U.S. are offered a choice of health plans that standards and expectations are high, but from time to time include medical, dental and vision. Employees may also enroll in individual contributors and sometimes a team of people will a flexible spending account for healthcare, dependent care and perform above and beyond our high standards. These efforts commuter costs. The cost of basic life, accident and disability are worthy of special recognition that can come in a multitude insurance, and the Employee Assistance Plan, is employer-paid. of ways: Offering a choice of medical plans allows employees to choose A personalized thank you during a one-on-one meeting or a plan that best suits their needs. Among the plan choices, most through an email or team meeting employees have enrolled in a preferred provider organization, or • You Rock awards that any employee can use to recognize a PPO, plan that has greater flexibility when choosing a physician colleague who has gone above and beyond and hospital. • Spot bonuses • Guiding Light awards that spotlight employees who exemplify 401(k) Retirement Plan Infinera values We offer a 401(k) retirement savings plan to our U.S.-based • Fiveand 10-year awards to recognize longtime employees employees. Employees are eligible to enroll as of their hire • Annual events such as picnics, Take Your Kids to Work Day, date and contribute a percentage of salary up to the maximum afternoon socials, lunches, and corporate achievement limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. In 2016, we celebrations implemented an employer match. Our 2016 401(k) participation rate was 83 percent. Global Operations Our goal is to provide market-competitive benefits as part of our total reward structure to ensure peace of mind for all employees around the globe and their dependents. Our primary coverages pertain to private medical coverage, life insurance and various forms of accident or disability coverage. We strive to provide these coverages where they are legally required, where group and individual plans can be obtained, and to make them market-competitive. These coverages can be found in all major regions, including the U.S., Sweden, Canada, the United Kingdom, India and China. Additionally, many of these coverages are in places across the rest of the 36 Community Engagement • Promoting gender equality; empowering women; setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans; setting up We actively support the communities where we operate and old-age homes, day care centers and such other facilities for encourage employees to do the same. Through our Infinera senior citizens; and measures for reducing inequalities faced Community Fund (ICF), company-sponsored volunteering by socially and economically backward groups. opportunities, and donation matching, Infinera is fulfilling our commitment to be a good corporate citizen. We are proud of • Promoting healthcare, including preventive health care; the positive impact we have in our surrounding communities. sanitation; eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition; and making available safe drinking water. Community Fund • Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance, protection of flora and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry, Our ICF and all-employee volunteer team was founded in 2010. conservation of natural resources and maintaining quality of ICF’s mission is to foster mutual respect, appreciation of ideas, soil, air and water. and the lifting up of those in need through employee-run events and initiatives in our local communities. We want to support the Organizations we have supported include: causes that matter most to our employees, empowering them to • Animal Food Bank of Lehigh Valley, PA make a difference in their neighborhoods and the world at large. • Cake4Kids We have ICF members throughout our offices. We encourage • Caring Place employees to work and engage with non-profit organizations in their areas to help benefit the communities where we live and • Community Services for Children work. • DESIRE Society ICF offers employees an active internal portal dedicated to • Family Giving Tree helping them find ways to give back locally. Employees can learn about current company volunteer opportunities and • FeetFirst Build a Bike team-building events, and submit matching fund requests. The • HandsOn Bay Area portal has photo galleries of past events, including fundraising • Karunashraya activities. • Maryland Food Bank Volunteerism • Nisvartha Foundation ICF organizes quarterly volunteer events for employees and • One Warm Coat contractors so they have an opportunity to give back to the • Ronald McDonald House community with their coworkers. Volunteers receive paid time off to participate in these events, which are scheduled during • Sacred Heart Community Service the normal workday. • Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled Infinera India uses a structured approach to manage its • Say Trees Corporate Social Responsibility obligations, and its activities are • Second Harvest Food Bank aligned with Schedule VII of the Companies Act (2013): • Promoting education, including special education, and • Toys for Tots employment-enhancing vocational skills especially among • Valley Youth House children, women, the elderly, and the differently abled and livelihood enhancement projects. 37 Below are some of the 2016 volunteer events our employees • Family Giving Tree 2016 Holiday Wish Drive participated in. We partnered with the Family Giving Tree, which since 1990 United States has fulfilled gift wishes for more than one million children in the San Francisco Bay Area. Employees participated in a • Allentown Holiday Donation Drive holiday gift drive for families in need to help them celebrate Employees participated in the One Warm Coat program the holidays. Employees were encouraged to choose a wish and donated coats, hats and gloves to The Caring Place, card from Family Giving Tree posters in lunch and break Valley Youth House and Community Services for Children. rooms in each of our Sunnyvale buildings. More than 170 Donations were also made in the form of goods to the gifts were donated. We also invited employees in other Second Harvest Food Bank of the Lehigh Valley, Animal locations to make donations or fulfill wishes online. Food Bank of the Lehigh Valley and Toys for Tots. • Maryland Food Bank • Build a Bike Challenge in partnership with FeetFirst Employees in Maryland facilitated a food drive for the Employees volunteered to provide children with their Maryland Food Bank, a hunger-relief organization that meets very first bikes. As a fun team-building event, employees the immediate needs of the community and works to find competed in physical and mental challenges in a race to see ways to reduce hunger statewide. Employees collected which team could build a bike the fastest. The winning team nonperishable and dry goods and donated them for the donated and presented the bikes to the Boys and Girls Club. Thanksgiving holiday. Financial donations were also made. • McClellan Ranch Preserve Green Event • Cake4Kids Employees volunteered at the McClellan Ranch Preserve Employees in Sunnyvale held a bake sale as a fundraiser to beautify the surroundings of the 18-acre natural park. for foster children and at-risk youth who are supported by Activities included weeding, mulching, and removal of Cake4Kids. This organization works to raise children’s selfinvasive plants. The preserve is home to more than 100 bird esteem and confidence by providing them with cakes on species and has a nature museum, community garden and their special day. Our employees both baked and purchased nature trails. The preserve offers educational nature classes a variety of goods, then donated the proceeds to pay for and activities including a junior scientists club. birthday cakes for the children. In many cases, the birthday cake was considered their only present. Sweden • Ronald McDonald House at Stanford • Christmas Gift-Wrapping Activity Sunnyvale employees also volunteered their time in a day Employees in our Stockholm office gift-wrapped and of service at the Ronald McDonald House at Stanford, which donated Christmas presents to Stadsmissionen, an provides a home away from home for families with seriously organization that supports homeless people. ill or injured children. We also donated toys, games, diapers, wipes and pacifiers, which are a much needed by families going through financial hardships due to their child’s illness. Monetary donations were also made. 38 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY India • Say Trees We committed to planting 2,000 saplings in plantations in • DESIRE Society and around Bangalore in lakes, schools and parks. Say Trees Our work with this organization centers on improving the focuses on protecting the environment and promoting the facility’s infrastructure—both indoor and outdoor—so that it importance of conservation. It leads more than 50 treeis more hygienic. That work focused on renovating toilets, plantation drives during four months of the monsoon season. the kitchen and dining area, and improving accommodations Initiatives include research, education and advocacy around for children. This group helps disadvantaged children in the importance of environmental preservation and tree Southern India who have HIV, have been abandoned by plantation. one or both parents, were born to sex workers, have been abused, and/or face poor socio-economic conditions. • United Way of Bangalore This project aims to preserve and enhance the biodiversity • Karunashraya Public Charitable Trust at Uttarahalli Lake, and our employees completed projects We supported this organization, which provides free including: cleaning the lake bed and removing water palliative care to advanced-stage cancer patients, by helping hyacinth, installing a water pipeline across the lake to aid in construct a care ward and donating money for medical watering plants, planting 100 sapling trees and engaging in expenses. Doctors, counselors, physiotherapists, nursing a community activity that supported the project. staff and volunteers form an effective support group to help patients and their families. Our support also helped develop free patient home care for these patients. Donation Matching We also support local causes with employee-matching • Nisvartha Foundation donations. ICF offers a quarterly fund-matching program. Our employees in Bangalore supported 14 of the students Employees can apply for funding and the committee reviews selected by the foundation to receive help as they pursue their application to make sure it fits within the program higher education. Students living in poverty are chosen guidelines. Once funds are approved, the committee sends the based on merit and aided to properly learn, earn and matching funds to the non-profit organization. eventually improve their income levels. In 2016, matching donations were made to the following • Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled organizations: We helped support this trust with the construction of a sports • Countywide Coalition to Fix Our Roads and fitness room. The trust aims to provide access to quality education for differently-abled and underprivileged children. • Ronald McDonald House Key objectives are to provide access to education by • Green-o-logy enrolling children in the residential school, ensure academic quality and discipline, enhance leadership and team building • Doctors without Borders spirit in children and ensure their health and hygiene. Visit Infinera.com for more information on our... • Board of directors and management team • Technologies, products and solutions • Financial performance and investor relations • Recent news, press releases, awards and list of customers 39 UNGC & GRI CONTENT INDEX Page Principle # UNGC Principle Number Businesses should support and respect the 14-16, 1 protection of internationally proclaimed 30, 31 human rights Business should make sure that they are 15, 17, 20 2 not complicit in human rights abuses Businesses should uphold the freedom of 15-17, 31 3 association and the effective recognition of We are a proud member of the UNGC, a voluntary initiative the right to collective bargaining based on CEO commitments to implement 10 universal Businesses should uphold the elimination 15-17, 31 sustainability principles on human rights, labor, the 4 of all forms of forced and compulsory labor environment and anti-corruption, and to take actions that advance societal goals. Businesses should uphold the effective 15-17, 31 5 abolition of child labor This report explains our progress in implementing the UNGC principles, cross-referenced in the adjacent table. Businesses should uphold the elimination 14-17, 6 of discrimination in respect of employment 30-32 and occupation Businesses should support a precautionary 25 7 approach to environmental challenges Businesses should undertake initiatives 25-29, 34 8 to promote greater environmental responsibility Businesses should encourage the 21 9 development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Businesses should work against corruption 14-17 10 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 40 UNGC & GRI CONTENT INDEX This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global GRI PAGE Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. It has not INDICATOR DESCRIPTION NUMBER been externally assured. The GRI content index includes General ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Standard Disclosure Items and Specific Standard identified as 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 4 material in our materiality analysis. MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 10 GRI PAGE 103-2 The management approach and its components 10, 11 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION NUMBER 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11 STRATEGY ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 103-2 The management approach and its components 7 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 201-1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed 7 102-1 Name of the organization 1 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 7 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3, 5 opportunities due to climate change 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement 7 102-4 Location of operations 3 plans 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2016 ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Proxy 103-2 The management approach and its components 36, 37 102-6 Markets served 3, 5 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 36, 37 102-7 Scale of the organization 3, 5, 30 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 36, 37 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 30, 31, 32 ASPECT: ENERGY 102-9 Supply chain 7 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply 2 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 26 chain 302-3 Energy Intensity 26 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 25 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 26, 27, 29 102-12 External initiatives 13 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 21 102-13 Membership of associations 13 services REPORTING PRACTICE ASPECT: WATER 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 2016 10-K 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 statements 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 28 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 10 ASPECT: EMISSIONS 102-47 List of material topics 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 26, 27 102-49 Changes in reporting N/A 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 26 102-50 Reporting period 1 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 26 102-51 Date of most recent report July 2015 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 27 102-52 Reporting cycle 1 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 26 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1 ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 1, 41 Standards 103-2 The management approach and its components 27 102-55 GRI content index 41, 42 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 27 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 306-3 Significant spills 25 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 8, 9 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 27, 28 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 31 ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 8 103-2 The management approach and its components 15, 19, 25 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 8, 9 regulations GOVERNANCE ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 102-18 Governance structure 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components through Proxy 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 16 102-34 environmental criteria 41 GRI PAGE GRI PAGE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION NUMBER INDICATOR DESCRIPTION NUMBER ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 103-2 The management approach and its components 15 103-2 The management approach and its components 15 ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-2 The management approach and its components 36, 37 103-2 The management approach and its components 37 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 35, 36 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 37 provided to temporary or part-time employees impact assessments, and development programs ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 103-2 The management approach and its components 15 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 31 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 15 changes policies and procedures ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 15 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 33 103-2 The management approach and its components 14 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 15 work-related fatalities and monopoly practices ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION ASPECT: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 103-2 The management approach and its components 34, 35 103-2 The management approach and its components 15 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 34 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 15 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 34, 35 social and economic area assistance programs ASPECT: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-2 The management approach and its components 17 103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 32 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 17 405-1 Diversity of Governance Bodies and Employees 30, 32 ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES 103-2 The management approach and its components 14, 15 103-2 The management approach and its components ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 17 103-2 The management approach and its components 22 ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 10243 Approach to stakeholder engagement 22, 23 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 22, 23 103-2 Labor grievances 15 ASPECT: MARKETING AND LABELING ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-2 The management approach and its components 15 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 417-1 Requirements for product and service information 17, 20 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 15 and labeling taken 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 15 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR service information and labeling 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 15 communications 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 15 incidents of child labor ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 103-2 The management approach and its components 23 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding concerning 15 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 15 data incidents of forced or compulsory labor ASPECT: COMPLIANCE ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components 14, 16, 19 103-2 The management approach and its components 17 414-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 17 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 15 reviews or impact assessments social and economic area 42 Global Headquarters Asia and Pacific Rim Europe, Middle East, Customer Service and For more information 140 Caspian Court Infinera Asia Limited Africa Technical Support Contact Us Sunnyvale, CA 94089 8th floor Infinera Limited North America infinera.com/contact-us USA Samsung Hub 125 Finsbury Pavement Tel: 877 INF 5288 Tel: 1 408 572 5200 3 Church Street London EC2A 1NQ, Outside North America Fax: 1 408 572 5454 Singapore 049483 United Kingdom Tel: 1 408 572 5288 www.infinera.com Tel: +65 6408 3320 Tel: +44 207 065 1340 © 2017 Infinera Corporation. All rights reserved. Infinera and logos that contain Infinera are trademarks or registered trademarks of Infinera Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Infinera specifications, offered customer services, and operating features are subject to change without notice. AR-SR2016-2.0
