Vision We strive to be the World’s Largest Natural Rubber Manufacturer & Exporter.  We abide by fairly treat other businesses based on sustainable operation either in term of sale, purchase and procurement related to the company.  Environmental-friendly manufactures in process, export and promote the use of natural rubber to the world as an environmental friendly raw material.  We engage our business and also fairly, morally and transparently, legally and to sustain respectable affiliation among the stakeholders including individual, government sector, customers and other related businesses.  We concerned about retention of top talent of our employees and encourage workers to stay extensive. Search out for our employees with their talents and utilize their expertise will remain in jobs that challenge them with provides meaning.  We practice of environment preservation effectively support and promote tangible environmental management with awareness to the value of resources for optimal benefit including to determine pollution preventive measures for all employees and community. Von Bundit Company Policies 1. To search and develop new technology and processing technique to produce natural rubber that meet the higher requirement of our worldwide rubber consumers. 2. Using modern machinery and implementing quality management system to improve efficiency, environmental care and lower production cost to be the best standard rubber factory. 3. To use and add value to local produce and hence improve the income of natural rubber farmers and their community. 4. Set up and expand our organization to have the opportunities of developing people and creating job for the community. 5. To act swiftly on accurate information, using our professionalism, honesty, reliability, and the greater capacity to promote more consumption of the Thai natural rubber worldwide. Mission VON BUNDIT CO., LTD. is the LARGEST natural rubber manufacturer and exporter in Thailand. For over 29 years, we have been supplying high quality natural rubber to customers around the world through our strategically located hi-tech factories. We take great pride in being the supplier who is approved by all the top tire manufacturers. By continuing to innovate, we promise and aim to provide our worldwide customers with the VON BUNDIT Quality. Von Bundit produces are made mixture of natural rubber where the rubbers are recyclable and environmental friendly. Our driven is ethically and environmental friendly.  We aim to maintain be the leader of the Natural Rubber industry.  We aim to provide our customer’s satisfaction on the top of the measurement quality.  We empower the delivery of quality products through the worldwide.  We aim for efficiency and reasonable pricing. Corporate Social Responsibility For over 29 years, we have been supplying high quality natural rubber to customers around the world and we are committed to comportment industry in practices of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Our target is to be Leader in Natural Rubber Industry and trail sustainable business growth. Our philosophy is build durable customer’s satisfaction is our quality. Von Bundit Co., Ltd., strongly commits to operate our business based on the responsibility to the society, stakeholders, customers, business partners, community and environment. Moreover, we have the policy to emphasize on CSR as practical guidelines for the managements and employees, of which, comprise 9 elements. This policy is to make sure that, the managements and all employees should conduct themselves as the good model, understand and perform in order to achieve the prescribed objectives. The 9 elements are as follow:1. Fair business operation: The company engage our business and also fairly, morally and transparently, legally and to maintain good relationship among the stake holders including individual, government sector and other related businesses, such as the shareholders, business partners, contractual parties, contractor, customer and competitors. We will promote all related parties to fairly treat other businesses based on sustainable operation either in term of sale, purchase and procurement related to the company. 2. Social responsibility: The Company support and promote all related business partners and stakeholders to jointly implement CSR for optimal benefit to the society including also the assessment, inspection, management, and risk management with business partners all the time both inside and outside the organization. 3. Anti-corruption: The company operate our business to strongly prevent, observe and continuously comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies, we shall continuously support and supervise the employees, agents, business partners, contractual parties and contractors the awareness of corruption or bribery which may be occurred by demonstrating our roles of leadership in anti-corruption and anti-bribery. 4. Respect for Human Right: To respect company culture, promote surveillance and comply with internal human right measures of organization and activate the compliance with the international standard of human right measures covering all affiliated business of the affiliated companies, business partners to educate human right knowledge and cultivate sense of awareness to observe and comply with the principles of human right. 5. Fairness Treatment: The company commit to fairly treat our employees, comply with law, ethical principle, respect to the justice and human right to enhance stability, peace and shall promote opportunity, working growth including also to develop potential and improve living standard of all employees. 6. Responsibility to the consumer: The company shall offer goods and service with efficiency, building reliability and good relation with the customers both pre-sale and postsale service, establish backup system and provide sufficient actual and timely information including to educate knowledge supporting decision making to purchase goods and services, to conduct research and development for products and services innovation by emphasizing on the process and activities for social and environmental benefits. 7. Environment preservation: The Company effectively support and promote tangible environmental management with awareness to the value of resources for optimal benefit including determining pollution preventive measures for all employees and community. 8. Community and social development: The company promote social and community codevelopment with the aim to build community participation, promote and support local cultural and ethical education, generate employment and skill development and prevent threaten to the health and promote well-being. 9. Innovation and dissemination: The Company shall innovate new and valuable product leading to positive change which shall result better change to business, society, culture and environment to increase the productivity or value of natural rubber in Thailand for sustainable wealth to the economic, society and environment. Anti-Corruption Von Bundit Suratthani Co.,Ltd supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. Operate our business to strongly prevent, observe and continuously comply with anti-corruption and antibribery policies. The company has been practice of having roles and responsibilities, which implement in the Company with business decisions that are truthful and ethical. The Company will oversee the environment situation around the factories as this is our responsibility on society development as to deliver precise and transparent data to all parties equally. Every activity is being discussed with the committees accordingly or would present creative benefits of the company. The company always has an aim for all the conclusions from the meetings. Risk management system and an internal control had been set to ensure the Company’s operations in compliance with laws, rules and regulations. All relevant parties have to be treated with fair and justice. The human resources department would keep track on the employees as to provide supervision and advices. Implementation Our CSR guidelines and our policies continuously support and supervise the employees, agents, business partners, contractual parties and contractors on anti-corruption and respond to incidents. Measurement of outcomes We have a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines. Awareness of corruption or bribery may be occurred by demonstrating our roles of leadership in the anti-corruption and anti-bribery. All the transaction are recorded and being check through and well-controlled by the Finance and HR department and being reported to the CEO. Some incidents have been reported since the system has been implemented. Environment Von Bundit Suratthani Co.,Ltd is strongly aware of environmental concern as we support the UNGC principles on the Environment. International Standard for Environmental Management System conforming to ISO 14001:2004. Von Bundit has given education on the environmental policy, as we had received award certificate of Green industry. Besides developing the best quality products, we also support and protect the environment by producing products that are environmental friendly. We disclose and disseminate environmental policy to the public. We abide through all the laws and regulations for all the requirements on concerning the environment. We support recycling and prevent, reduce waste to avoid environmental impact. We have regular inspection to progress the environmental management system. We do have the best air pollution control systems for rubber processing factory to control the emissions from the factory. We have installed air treatment system to decrease the odor emission as there are 2 wet scrubbers being used in every factory. We do have waste water treatment system as to avoid waste water. Prevent on environmental impact, we recycle 100% of our water to reduce the input of natural water from outside sources into the factories. Implementation Von Bundit Suratthani Co.,Ltd strives to minimize the environmental impact of our activities. We have had a thorough audit of our business and put in place several actions to further minimize our environmental impact. SNRi criteria with the International Rubber Study Group are always being learned in the company and Environmental policy to follow and prevent from environmental pollution and affecting the national health. Measurement of outcomes The company have emphasize to control the consumption of natural resources and effects to the environment and effectively support and promote tangible environmental management with awareness to the value of resources for optimal benefit including to determine pollution preventive measures for all employees and community. We have a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines. We also work with nearby neighbor to report us if they see or smell something from our factories. We have received some reports but after investigation with the neighbor the origin of the smell or waste water did not come from us. Labour Von Bundit Suratthani Co.,Ltd support the UNGC principles on labour standards, in addition the company pursue accordance under the ILO ( International Labour Organisation). Company handbook covers the policies of collective bargaining where the process of trade union negotiates terms and conditions with an employer. The agreement, known as a collective agreement, is not intended to be legally binding unless expressed to be so in writing concerning our employee’s right, compensation and responsibility. We commits to the elimination of all forms of forced labor especially on child labor issue. Treating all the employees fairly and equally without discriminations. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Our written CSR guidelines and conduct complies with the OHSAS18001 as for employee health and safety, SA8000 standards and other international conventions are compliant with UNGC principles. Measurement of outcomes We have a system in place that encourage stakeholders to report back if they suspect any wrong doing in labour issues. Employees comply with standard wage, allowance and working hours accordance to International Labour Standards and domestic labour laws and regulation. Company does not force or involuntary labour, including bonded, indentured and involuntary prison labour. 100% of our employees are covered by social security and is 100% approved by our ministry of manpower. Our wages are over minimum wage as required by Thai Government and our workers are carrying on average 30% higher than the minimum required. Human Rights Von Bundit Suratthani Co.,Ltd goal is to respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights that influence our employees and all our business partners. Based on our commitment we acquired Thai Labor Standard in 2003 and is working closely with our customers in getting SA8000. The Company has been deeply values the importance of human rights and the rights of equality in the work place. All the opinions are accepted equally at any level of employee. The company provides great opportunities and right career path on progress with decent recompenses. The company also holds a policy against child labor and forced labor. The company conduct with 9 CSR principles that are fair business operation, social responsibility, anti-corruption, respect for human right, fairness treatment, responsibility to the consumer, environment preservation, community and social development, innovation and dissemination. Implementation We have published and actively informed all our suppliers, partners and employees of our commitment and encouraged them to prevent human rights violation in its work. Commit to fairly treat our employees, comply with law, ethical principle, respect to the justice and human right to enhance stability, peace and promote opportunity, working growth including also developing potential, improving living standard of all employees and also ensuring the employees safety with health & safety facilities, as well as safety checks report. Measurement of outcomes Our Management operates an open door policy where every employee has the access to our office and phone numbers. They are encouraged to contact management 24hours a day if they feel they have been mistreated or treated unfairly. Acquiring SA8000 would be the next step for Von Bundit to have an internationally accepted standard and policies in place. Participant Von Bundit Co.,Ltd Published 2017/06/15 Time period June 2017 – June 2018 Format Stand-alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment  Includes a CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Von Bundit Co.,Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr. Pongsak Kerdvongbundit Managing Director
