Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016-2017 Communication on Progress Vega Sea A/S 1 A letter from the CEO Its been almost two and a half year since I took the reins at Vega Sea, and everyday I continue to be inspired by the effort of all the people working at the company that strive to create a great workplace environment, improve safety and wellbeing for all employees, advancing seafood safety standards and increase the sustainability of our operation. In Vega Sea, we want to add value and take responsible choices for the way our business impact society while delivering the highest quality products made from salmon and trout to our customers. Fundamentally, we want to behave responsibly both as individuals and as a company. We want to acknowledge that people are the heart of our business by working hard on creating an environment able to nurture and I am pleased by the way that we have been inspire, an environment where everyone feels committed to do business responsible. welcome and were people are encouraged to Holding ourselves to high standards of ethics share their ideas and contribute on how we and corporate responsibility, including that of can improve and do things better together. following the United Nations Global Compact. We are collaborating with others in order to It is with pride that we continue to renew our improve working conditions at our production commitment to the Ten Principals in the areas sites and reduce environmental impact to of human rights, labor, environment and antimake our products more sustainable. corruption. Yours sincerely, Michael Budtz Berthelsen CEO, Vega Sea A/S 1 CORPORATE PROFILE €192 2.5 Million Hundred Turnover Employees 2 30+ Facilities Countries Used for Where products production are sold PROFILE AND HISTORY Vega Sea is a Danish producer of smoked and The answer was to combine the latest fresh salmon products. The main production technology with lean production principles. unit Vega Salmon was established in 2004. We designed a unique, new processing facility Back then, the fish processing industry was in Handewitt, Germany, which was to become mostly competing on price, and cost cutting one of the most advanced fish processing was the name of the game. Quality, food factories in the world. safety and sustainability were buzzwords, In 2012 the new factory was ready, and we which seldom made it to the cooling disks, as could take Vega Sea to the next level. price concerns dominated. Today, we are able to provide a quality and We quickly realized that the game needed to uniqueness in all aspects and to create value change. Consumers were becoming more in all stages. Our aim is to be the best and focused on quality and food safety, and the most relevant salmon partner – an active world needed a more gently way to produce contributor to our customers’ business and food. So, we set out to find a way to deliver future development better quality in a sustainable way while maintaining competitive cost levels. 2 Brand Promise PURITY Vega delivers high quality products to Described as one of nature’s diamonds, Purity retailers, wholesalers, food service and food Salmon is raised by two impassioned and industry suppliers across the globe under dedicated northern Norwegian farmers who private label brands and in Vega brands. This care for the environment and constantly includes two new fish concepts, Purity, a follow the impact of their salmon farming in premium brand of Vega specified salmon, and Astafjord; it is absolutely premium in every New Nordic, conventional specified salmon aspect, from the Norwegian Fjords to serving. that will also be under the premium brand Every Purity Salmon has its own passport bracket; there is also Vega Basic and private because we want our customers to know that label products. we are not just pretending, but it is our mission to become as environmental friendly as possible and add value to our products. Our New Nordic “salmon” passport will ensure the traceability Named after the New Nordic area, which has of every Purity salmon from the supplier to a reputation for craftsmanship, sustainability, the end customer and it will be guaranteed by high quality, healthy and delicious salmon that Global G.A.P certification through the supply is hand salted and smoked on beech wood. chain from salmon egg until final product. 3 Vega Sea Certifications Vega Sea have established, and follows strict internal procedures in production and for product information and labelling in accordance to various regulations in order to be a certified producer and ensure that the consumers can purchase products of highest quality. Our flagship factory in Handewitt is certified by the international Food Standards (IFS) and ISO 50001, that includes regulations on product labelling in order to provide consumers with all relevant product information and energy audits to decrease our carbon footprint. In addition, our flagship factory have several other certificates including but not limited to MSC and ASC. These certificates ensures that product sustainability are declared according to set standards and in compliance with both legal requirements and the requirements of the individual certificates. Vegas production site in Hörviks, Hörviks Rökeri have been certified and approved to comply with the requirements of the ISO 22000 management system standard for food safety, which also includes regulations on product labelling. All of these certifications and regulations ensures that consumers of our product always know what are in their food and allows them to take healthy and educated choices related to their food. 4 4 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Support At Vega we support and respect international mean to avoid accidents, illness and lost human rights contained in the International working days. Bill of Human Rights. We asses our actual We provide all of our employees with an potential adverse impacts on these and we employment framework that follows remedy adverse impacts in case we are applicable laws and collective agreements in involved in such. our areas with regard to the payment of fair We respect the privacy of our customers and wages as well as other employment employees and work to ensure that nonconditions. We work to ensure that our discrimination and equal opportunities exist employees have development opportunities both internally in regards to our employees at work by offering education and training. and externally in our value chain. We provide our employees with a safe and Vega acknowledges that attention towards healthy working environment. We protect our employee satisfaction, health and safety employees against any corporal punishment, improves the quality of life of individual mental coercion or harassment. employees and the society as a whole. Focus We are using internal as well as external labor on employee satisfaction, health and safety is forces in order to ensure the appropriate linked to positive trends in morale among our flexibility in our production processes. We are employees, to improved productivity and always aiming at taking care of external work ensures a good work-life balance. forces in the same way as our own internal Employee satisfaction, health and safety is employees. also an essential part of risk management as a 5 Implementation Vega publishes our CSR policy at our website www.vegasalmon.dk to make it available for all interested stakeholders. In general, we follow national labor market regulations and make sure that the salary of our employees is fair and equal; that the average workweek is limited to an absolute maximum of 48 hours; that overtime is infrequent and limited; and that employees are given reasonable breaks and rest periods. All employment related decisions are taken based on relevant and objective criteria. We have established and follow adequate health and safety policies and procedures and All employees and visitors are provided with we have an Occupational Health and Safety the correct protective equipment and we organization at all sites1. We also focus on strive to make use of new technology in order improving the work environment through to constantly improve health and safety. external work environment agencies and daily meetings for all production departments. Any All employees at Vega receive the necessary health and safety issues brought to the training to perform their tasks safely. This attention of the management at these training includes both personal and food meetings are swiftly taken care of in order to safety through implementation of standards ensure a safe and healthy environment and and adequate procedures. remove the risk of accidents to employees and The Handewitt site is certified by the visitors. International Food Standard version 6. This We take concrete measures to improve health certification includes health and safety issues and safety and all our sites have appointed a for employees. person who is in charge of health and safety. Health & Safety 2016/17 Number of occupational injuries for employees 9 Lost working hours because of occupational injuries 250 Fatalities arising from occupational injuries 0 Sickness absence 4,97% 1 GRI G4 LA-05 6 LABOUR RIGHTS -& WORKING CONDITIONS Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargain Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation Our Support Implementation At Vega we ensure that no discrimination According to Danish standard we have takes place in the workplace because of age, implemented a policy on equal opportunity, sex, race, color, disability, religion or belief, supporting diversity and non-discrimination language, nationality or social origin, trade with regards to gender. union membership or any other discrimWe ensure that accommodation and living ination grounds recognized by international conditions for all external labor at our German law. All decisions taken regards hiring and production site meets the requirements employment are based on relevant and according to German legislation and yearly objective criteria and applicants are only audits are performed by an independent 3rd assessed and their qualifications and party. experience. We recognize our employees right to freedom of association and collective bargaining and denounce forced labor and child labor and ensures these principles are uphold throughout our supply chain. 000000000000000000000000000000000000 000000000000000000000000000000000000 0 7 Progress None of our operations or suppliers were identified, in which the right to exercise freedom of association or the option for collective bargaining were violated or at significant risk2. There were found no significant risk for incidents or child labor at any of our suppliers and we do not ourselves hire children or young employees below the age of 18. In addition, no claims of child labor were reported in 2016.3 We do not support forced or compulsory labor and the risk for such incidents were not significant at any suppliers. At Vega all employees are provided with a contract of employment which clearly states the agreement between both parties. When it comes to age and gender we have a relatively diverse workforce. Vega Employee Statistics Gender Composition Male Female Total Board & Management 10 2 12 White Collar 24 27 51 Blue Collar 100 86 186 Total 134 115 249 Age Composition Age < 30 Age 30-50 Age > 50 Board & Management 0 6 6 White Collar 12 29 10 Blue Collar 70 92 24 Total 82 127 40 2 GRI G4 HR-04 3 GRI G4 HR-05 8 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and… Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Support At Vega, we find it important to prioritize A key area is the work directed at environmental considerations, equally to systematically and continuously managing other matters in the way we do our business and improving environmental performance, activities. to reduce our impact on the environment and to promote greater environmental responsWe are committed to sustainable seafood and ibility. through our UN Global Compact membership, we are generally committed to undertake Our Handewitt site is certified by the interinitiatives to implement and promote national Food Standard version 6 to guarantee environmental responsibility not only at our the quality and food safety of our products own sites but also throughout our supply including the way we process salmon and chain. other type of fish. It is also certified by the International Organization for Standardization Our decisions reflects that we at Vega support with the ISO 50001 certificate which implies a precautionary approach to environmental that our site monitors and focus on reducing challenges and we acknowledge the importenergy consumption. ance of environmental responsibility to our business. We also have the Certified Sustainable Seafood MSC and ASC Chain of Custody Certificate. This implies that our sites are authorized to supply and process fish and fish Implementation products from sustainable and well managed We work systematically to comply with farms and fisheries. environmental legislation, including through ongoing training of employees and monitoring of processes and resource usage. 9 Progress Materials Use of materials is recorded in our financial system verified by accountants. An external audit company performs independent third party audits every year to verify our IFS certification. Use of materials and recycling Raw material used for production Salmon 18.891 tons Trout 765 tons Materials used for packaging purpose Plastic foil / Plastic 598 tons Cardboard 1.225 tons Energy Natural Gas 37.398 m3 Electricity 5.295.592 kWh Water Water withdrawal 158.939 m3 Wastewater 153.024 m3 Waste Fish waste sold for animal food 6.268 tons Styropore sold for recycling 234 tons Fat sludge sold for recycling 442 tons 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption n all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our Support L We maintain a high level of integrity and In addition, all employees who represent Vega accountability in all our external relationships, are instructed in good business etiquette and and we do not participate in corruption or standards are in place that defines correct bribery. We do not offer, promise or give any behavior in any interactions with external kind of bribes to improperly influence public relations. officials, judges or business associates. We will also refrain from receiving or accepting any bribes ourselves. Progress Our agents, intermediaries or other persons We have not received any administrative or acting on our behalf are subject to the same judicial sanctions for failure to comply with obligation to not participate in corruption or anti-corruption laws5. No claims or request for bribery. monetary sanction for corruption and no legal corruption cases against any of our sites were reported in 2016-20176. Implementation All our operations undergo an overall risk assessment related to corruption. Based on this risk assessment we will act generally against corruption by establishing internal procedures that support the anti-corruption commitment and ensure that relevant employees are properly informed4. 4 GRI G4 SO-03 6 GRI G4 SO-05 5 GRI G4 SO-08 11
