GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 CONTENTS I. Human rights II. International labour standards III. Environment IV. Anti-corruption 222 2 Family name Given name CEO’s message Plastibell signed the Global Compact in January 2016. We did this to mark our commitment to our new CSR initiative, an essential ingredient of sustainable, responsible growth. To ensure the initiative is effective, we have built it around our four values: respect, creativity, adaptability and good corporate citizenship. This commitment also fits into a group initiative tied to PSB Industries’ CSR project. As the group’s Healthcare & Industry business unit, Plastibell has succeeded in embracing the group direction, without losing sight of its own convictions. That is why we are committed to adopting, promoting and ensuring compliance with the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Signing the Global Compact is a way for us to commit to the future of our environment and take action to protect it, ensuring via the principles it promotes that we behave as a good corporate citizen. Through this COP (Communication On Progress), we are pleased to reaffirm our commitment to and support for the UN Global Compact. Emmanuelle Bouvier CEO, Plastibell 333 3 3 I. Human rights 444 4 A. Labour policy  Description & results We aim to: protect the health and safety of our staff, satisfy our customers, stakeholders and employees, reduce our environmental impact, comply with the 10 principles of the Global Compact (see appendices page 23) In line with our commitment to continuous improvement, we review our QHSE policy periodically. 555 5 5 B. Making staff aware of our COP  Description & results In our newsletter, we informed all staff that a CSR Global Compact report would be posted on the website at the end of the year: “As part of our integration into PSB Industries group, in 2016 we became part of the corporate social responsibility initiative by signing the Global Compact. In doing so, we made commitments relating to the environmental and social aspects of our work, such as human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption. A CSR report detailing the various actions taken during 2017 will be available in the Sustainable Development section of the Plastibell website at the end of the year.” This newsletter was translated into Spanish, English and Polish for our sites in Mexico, the USA and Poland. Consequently, all our staff can understand the Global Compact project. 666 6 6 C. Percentage of men and women  Description & results Total (across all sites) 2017 Men 2017 Women NB: these figures exclude the Mar-Lee and Deltaplast Mexico sites, because legislation in Mexico and the USA forbids the collection of this type of data. As the diagram shows, we take gender parity into account on all our sites. Our HR department never discriminates on gender grounds. Our recruitment is based solely on the candidate’s abilities. Over the coming years, we aim to develop gender parity and recruit candidates that meet the needs of the specific role. 777 7 7 II. International labour standards 888 8 A. H&S committee & Safety Officer memo  Description & results We issued a memo to our French sites about the roles of the health, safety and working conditions committee and the safety officer (see appendices page 24). It gave all staff (permanent, temporary and agency) a better understanding of their working environments. It also informed staff that health and safety committee members are there to: offer a listening ear, support them, and communicate issues faced to management. Health, safety and working conditions committee members also defend the interests of staff when new projects are developed by ensuring that the physical constraints experienced by each staff member are taken into account when a new machine is installed. 999 9 9 B. Regulatory monitoring  Description & results Over the last two years, we have started a regulatory monitoring programme to help us meet the needs of our stakeholders and stay abreast of constantly changing legislation. Our French sites use Red-On-Line software to track changes in the law and monitor compliance with existing and new legislation. Through this process, we are able to achieve regulatory compliance of over 90% across all our sites. COMPLIANCE RATE Selected sites Items compliant Items not compliant Items partially compliant Items under compliance monitoring We have implemented an internal action plan to deal with non-conformities. In the short term, our target is for sites to obtain regulatory compliance in excess of 92%. To achieve this, each site has an action plan through which it can evaluate regulatory compliance and monitor it in real time. 10 1010 10 10 C. Adapting work to staff  Description & results To improve quality of life at work for our staff, we have made safety and ergonomics part of our HR policy. We have created a Safety and Ergonomics Checklist based on AFNOR standards and recommendations from occupational health ergonomists, to improve comfort at work and prevent problems (see appendices page 26). This checklist is used for each new project. The document was created in September 2017. The Safety and Ergonomics Checklist aims to: reduce pain suffered by staff at new workstations, improve well-being at work (safety cutters, working areas in line with AFNOR NF EN ISO 14738 standards, etc.). The old cutter and the new cutter 11 1111 11 11 D. Safety training  Description & results Hours of training provided, by site As safety is one of our top priorities, we carry out a large amount of safety-related training: Risk management plan, First Aid at Work, Health, Safety and Working Conditions committee member training, Safety Officers, Electrical accreditation, safe driving certificates, etc. We have created a safety culture among our staff, and we aim to develop it further. As part of this, we are working towards implementing joint initiatives with other members of PSB Industries group, such as Management Safety Inspections. These inspections are used monthly across PSB Industries to make staff more safety-aware. We have been carrying out five such inspections per month since January 2017. Our training programme exceeds the statutory minimum requirements. Through it, we aim to increase the number of safety-trained staff in the company each year (target: 2% annual increase). 12 1212 12 12 III. Environment 13 1313 13 A. Environmental policy  Description & results We aim to: protect the health and safety of our staff, satisfy our customers, stakeholders and employees, reduce our environmental impact, comply with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. (see appendices page 23) In line with our commitment to continuous improvement, we review our QHSE policy periodically. 14 1414 14 14 B. Water, gas and electricity consumption report  Description & results Water consumption (L) Electricity consumption (MW) Between 2016 and 2017, we reduced water and electricity consumption across our sites as a whole by an average of 2%. The reasons behind this include new investments (e.g. more energy-efficient hybrid presses and refrigeration units) and company information campaigns (see appendices, page 25). We involve everyone in protecting the environment. Our aim for 2018 is to decrease water and electricity consumption by 2%. This will help us reduce the impact we as a company have on the environment. Our long-term goal is to support the sites in moving towards a new approach to water and energy. This could include, for example, solutions to collect the calories lost from machines (as warmth) to heat offices. This new approach will include a transition to “green electricity”. By using electricity produced from renewable sources, we will reduce our impact on the environment. 15 1515 15 15 C. Hazardous industrial waste report  Description & results Hazardous Industrial Waste (Tonnes) We produced less hazardous industrial waste (HIW) in 2016 than we did in 2015. As we work in the plastics injection moulding sector, our main sources of hazardous waste are oil-soaked items and the chemical products used to clean tools. We have organised an “eco-action” communication campaign for all staff in an effort to reduce our ecological footprint (see appendices page 25). We encourage all our sites to handle their waste in line with local legislation. All the waste collection and handling partners we use are committed to protecting the environment (Chimirec is our partner in France). Between 2015 and 2016, we reduced HIW by 1%. Our target for the next two years is to continue to reduce HIW by 1% annually. 16 1616 16 16 D. Non-hazardous waste and recycling report  Description & results Non-Hazardous Waste NOT recycled (Tonnes) Non-Hazardous Waste recycled (Tonnes) Note: some data (Deltaplast Mexico and Deltaplast Poland) will be communicated in 2018. We currently recycle 39% of our waste, the majority of which is packaging waste: plastic film, cardboard boxes and damaged pallets, together with scrapped production, machine purges, etc. We now manage and recycle all types of waste. We recycle a large proportion of our plastic waste internally by reusing material during production (subject to approval from the customer). However, there are some materials which we cannot grind or recycle in-house. We work with specialised collection companies who process and recycle the non-hazardous industrial waste that we cannot reuse ourselves Our short-term goal is to improve the way we sort our waste within the company to improve the recycling of various types of waste. In the long term, we aim to reduce the amount of waste we produce and increase the proportion we recycle. Our target is to recycle 95% of our waste. 17 1717 17 17 E. Eco-design  Description & results We have placed eco-design at the heart of our innovation and development process. From the ideation phase, as we define needs we take into account environmental, social and technical/economic requirements, and also the impact of manufacturing the project and using it throughout its life cycle. Technical/economic requirements These needs are then used to produce the objectives and specifications that will form the framework of the product development cycle. Viable Fair For example, in the healthcare sector, we develop medical devices centred Sustainable Social on the patients and their environments, with the aim of improving their Environmental requirements daily lives. In the transport sector (aeronautical and automotive), we are requirements Quality working on secondary materials that make recycling easier, so that we can of Life reduce the quantities of new raw materials we use. 18 1818 18 18 IV. Anti-corruption 19 1919 19 A. Anti-corruption policy  Description & results We have engaged an external company (FC Consulting) to support us as we implement PSB Industries Group policy and to help us understand all the provisions of the “Sapin II” law. There are three parts to this project: risk-opportunity analysis, risk and consequence mapping, training for all top managers (ExCom members, plant managers, etc.) and then for exposed staff. Following a needs analysis, during 2018 PSB Industries will be providing training to our staff who are in regular contact with customers, external service providers or suppliers. The group will thereby constitute a pool of product suppliers who are committed to the UN principles and comply with them. Around 15 Plastibell staff have been trained so far. The training, which has initially been delivered to top managers and executive committee members, will be progressively rolled our to all staff in contact with customers. Our aim for 2018 is to train 100% of the staff whose roles expose them to a risk of corruption (a total of around 40 people). 20 2020 20 20 CONCLUSION Plastibell will be withdrawing from the Global Compact project in 2018, but we remain committed to its principles and will continue to work towards them as part of PSB Industries group. The group has decided to take a universal approach to CSR which will encompass all its business units. We will continue our work against forced labour and corruption and in favour of sustainable development under this umbrella. 21 2121 21 21 Appendices 22 2222 22 Labour policy 23 2323 23 23 H&S Committee Memo 24 2424 24 24 Eco-actions memo 25 2525 25 25 Extract from our ergonomics checklist 26 2626 26 26
