MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET NORDEN A/S Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Joint Efforts – Mutual Benefits 2 | CSR REPORT 2016 2 | CSR REPORT 2016 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Contents Introduction Letter to stakeholders 3 NORDEN’s business model 4 Governance and Progress 7 CSR Direction 2016-2018 9 Joint Efforts – Mutual Benefits Reliability 10 Assistance 11 Anti-Corruption 12 Operational foundation Vessel Safety and Security 14 Climate Action 16 Environmental Management 19 Responsible Supply Chain Management 21 Human Rights 23 People 25 Other Contributions 27 Data Independent Assurance Report 29 CSR Performance 2016 30 CSR Accounting Policies 31 About this report: This report is the 8th annual CSR report about NORDEN’s CSR performance. The report covers the calendar year 2016 and constitutes NORDEN's Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact as well as NORDEN’s reporting on CSR in compliance with the Danish Financial Statements Act section 99a / 99b. Your feedback is valued. Please send any comments or feedback to csr@ds-norden.com 3 | CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION CSR REPORT 2016 | 3 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Letter to stakeholders Welcome to NORDEN’s strategies to manage these. Together with new Danish statutory CSR reporting requireCSR report 2016. ments, this has been a strong driver in rethinking the strategy behind the CSR Report 2016. I hope you find the information rele2016 was the first year of NORDEN’s CSR vant, welcoming and worth reading. Direction 2016-2018 “Joint Efforts – Mutual Benefits”. With the CSR Direction, NORDEN Continued engagement has embarked on a new journey within Highlights from our CSR activities during CSR, which increasingly focuses on shared 2016 include NORDEN's continued close invalue creation. Working with the linkages volvement in the Maritime Anti-Corruption between social and economic progress in Network working towards a maritime indusglobal trade holds potential to increase valtry free of corruption. NORDEN will continue ue for NORDEN’s customers, for society and the company’s support for the collective acthe long term competitiveness to NORDEN. tions that are implemented by the network We continuously work to integrate CSR into in local communities, in 2016 in Nigeria, daily business and the CSR Direction ties Argentina and Indonesia, and going forward into NORDEN’s business strategy “Focus & India, Egypt and China to mention a few. Simplicity” and NORDEN’s Corporate Soul Purpose that were both rolled out in 2016 Another highlight was the adoption of a new and together set the overall direction for the Human Rights Policy that reflect NORDEN’s company. approach to implementing respect for human rights in line with the UN Guiding PrinCorporate Soul Purpose ciples on Business & Human Rights. NORDEN’s Corporate Soul Purpose is anchored in the Company’s values and outlines And by means of the Danish Shipowners’ how we, as custodians of smarter global Association, in 2016 NORDEN also took part trade, are conscious, soulful people uniting in the development of a new Climate Polia world, where every person and action cy and climate study, the latter proposing a matters . The Corporate Soul Purpose is science-based framework for the political intrinsically linked to CSR, in the sense that discussion of global shipping’s responsibility NORDEN works to leverage smarter global and fair share of CO₂ reductions going fortrade by unleashing the full potential of the ward. organisation and each other, and thereby contributing positively to society Looking ahead Jan Rindbo In the coming year, the market conditions Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chair of CSR Executive Body will still be challenging, but 2017 will also In 2016, I took over the chairmanship of be a year where NORDEN is ready to seize NORDEN’s CSR Executive Body, the governnew business opportunities and bring the ing body of CSR in NORDEN. This has given organisation’s full potential into play to the me the opportunity to experience the growmutual benefit of employees, the company, ing stakeholder interest in the CSR area first its business partners and the local communihand and NORDENs efforts to incorporate ties, where NORDEN operates. Joint Efforts these. I see this interest as an opportunity – Mutual Benefits. to explain and communicate more about CSR, in particular in relation to NORDEN’s business strategy, the inherent CSR risks in Kind regards the global shipping industry and NORDEN’s Jan Rindbo, CEO 4 | CSR REPORT 2016 4 | CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Corporate Soul Purpose Values As custodians of smarter global trade, we are conscious, soulful Flexibility · Reliability people uniting a world where every person and action matters. Empathy · Ambition NORDEN’s business model Based on a global network of offices and good access to customers, NORDEN generates earnings by combining cargoes with vessels and earning more money on transporting the cargo than what it costs NORDEN to provide the capacity. Dispatchers/cargoes Transport Recipients Mines (Coal, iron ore, etc.) Power plants Agriculture (Grain, corn, etc.) Food industry Forestry Construction (Wood pellets) industry Plants (Cement, steel, etc.) Industry Refineries Transport sector (Gasoline, diesel, etc.) Cargo contracts Transport NORDEN’s characteristics: are entered into through takes place on COA Owned contract for multiple transvessels ü Established in 1871 ports typically over several ü Active in both Dry Cargo and Tankers years Longterm chartered ü Owned core fleet supplemented by vessels (+13 months) extensive chartered fleet Spotmarket ü Combination of longterm, stable cargo contract for single voyages Shortterm chartered contracts and significant operator vessels activities in the market FFA ü Global network of offices and port captains in direct contact with paper market for transportacustomers tion contracts ü One of the world’s largest operators of product tankers through part owner­ ship (50%) of Norient Product Pool ü Listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen ü Transparency in financial reporting, Corporate Governance and CSR 5 | CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION CSR REPORT 2016 | 5 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Corporate Social Responsibility NORDEN’s approach to CSR is strategic, longterm and business-driven. CSR is a responsibility and a precondition for running a resilient business that creates long term value for stakeholders and society. Sphere of Influence and Responsibility Limited influence Commercial Operator: • Contracting voyages and cargoes for destinations • Arranging support activities for voyages • Optimisation of the voyage in collaboration with the shipowner and the customer In addition to the above, shipowners also hold the below Tripcharter responsibilities. Shortterm time-charter Shipowner: Controlling influence Longterm • Legislative responsibility towards flag state and internatime-charter tional regulation and conventions • Employment and training of crew Own vessels • Dry-docking, stores, repair and maintenance • Vetting and Port State Control inspections Shipowner Commercial Operator NORDEN Value Chain Newbuildings Second hand Chartering – own Loading/port Shipping Unloading/port Redelivery of tonnage vessels and T/C operations operations T/C tonnage and sale New vessels are Secondhand Owned and charCargo is Vessels are Cargo is claimed ordered from vessels are tered vessels are delivered by manned with by the customer. Vessels are sold shipyards acquired and used to ship cargo the customer own crew, or off to other sold onto a third for customers crew recruited Port operations shipowners Existing fleet is party Port operations via Employment are supported maintained. Vessels from are supported & Recruitment and facilitated Time-charter other shipowners and facilitated Agencies by port agents, vessels are are chartered in by port captains, stevedores, redelivered. to support own port agents, Chartered vessel linesmen, pilots, operations stevedores, s are manned by surveyors etc linesmen, pilots, the shipowner. surveyors etc. 6 | CSR REPORT 2016 6 | CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Key CSR risks in NORDEN’s value chain Value chain Key CSR risks Guiding NORDEN’s approach • Common CSR risks refer to the safety and employment conditions • Risk assessment and inspections of yards. Newbuildings of workers at shipyards and potential negative impacts on the environment from yard activities. • There is a risk that the vessels, which NORDEN buys from other • Pre-assessment of quality of vessels for Second hand shipowners fail to live up to NORDEN’s quality standards. acquisition. tonnage Chartering – • There is a risk that compliance with NORDEN’s integrity standards is • Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme own vessels not safeguarded in commercial contracts and activities. incl. Anti-Corruption Policy. and time charter • There is a risk that NORDEN engages with business partners, who fail to live up to NORDEN’s standards when assuming NORDEN’s business around the world. • Ship agents typically arrange for all support activities while calling • Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme Loading /port and loading vessels in ports, including coordination with local incl. Anti-Corruption Policy. operations authorities on NORDEN’s behalf. This makes the Company vulnerable to sub-standard performance of agents when they represent • Supplier Code of Conduct. NORDEN. • During port calls, NORDEN receives provisions, spare parts and bunker fuel from suppliers, if needed. In doing this, there is risk that NORDEN engages with suppliers, who fail to live up to NORDEN’s standards. • Some of NORDEN’s owned vessels are managed in-house and some • Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme Shipping by external ship management companies as per NORDEN’s requireincl. Anti-Corruption Policy. ments. Vessels chartered in from other shipowners are managed either directly by these owners or their external managers. Vessels • Human Rights Policy. in external management means reduced control and oversight, and there is a risk that vessels managed externally do not perform to • Protective measures in accordance with NORDEN’s expectations. the BMP4¹ standard. • For vessels on bareboat charter to other shipping companies, the • Provision on how to deploy and train external charterer is in charge of managing and staffing the vessel security providers on board vessels. during the time of charter, before returning the vessel to NORDEN. There is a risk that the external charterer does not adhere to the • Safety & Environmental Protection Policy. same standards as NORDEN when operating NORDEN’s vessels and this pose a reputational risk to the company. • Seaborne transport involves safety and potentially also security risks. There is a risk that security threats cannot be curbed appropriately by the security guards, who are contracted to protect the crew, cargo and vessels, in high-risk situations. • There is a risk that discharges from vessels, such as spills, waste, ballast water and emissions are not managed in line with local and global standards, potentially impacting ecosystems negatively and posing a risk to human health. Redelivery of • Vessels are redelivered or sold to other shipowners for further trade • Position paper on Ship Recycling, outlinT/C tonnage before recycling becomes relevant. However, there is a risk that ing NORDEN’s support for the UN’s Hong and sale these shipowners choose to dispose of the vessel in an unsustainaKong Convention as a minimum standard ble way shortly after sale. in addition to social issues. ¹ Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy 7 | CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION CSR REPORT 2016 | 7 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Governance and Progress NORDEN’s CSR Executive Body The CSR Executive Body has cross-functionglobal sustainable development priorities al representation from key functions and is and aspirations for 2030. The SDGs mobichaired by the CEO is ultimateresponsible for mandating NORDEN’s CSR lises global efforts around a common set of ly responsible for CSR in the Direction, ambition level and policies as suggoals and targets and call for action among gested by the CSR Department. NORDEN’s governments, business and civil society alike. company. CSR governance structure was defined together with the CSR strategy 2013-2015 and During 2016, NORDEN undertook an initial the establishment of the CSR Executive Body. review of the 17 SDGs and the 169 underlying targets, identifying the goals where NORGlobal outlook and commitments DEN has potential to advance positive social NORDEN’s commitment to the United Naor environmental impact, and where NORtions Global Compact contribute to frame DEN has a responsibility to prevent harm. our CSR Direction and reporting priorities. The identified goals are highlighted with Within CSR, the UN is an important global icons in the relevant sections of this report signpost, guiding companies in where the and in the graphic below. world is going and what is expected of the private sector. NORDEN’s commitment and In 2017, all SDG goals and targets will be support of the UN Global Compact, the Suspart of a more in-depth assessment claritainable Development Goals, the UN Guiding fying how these can be further integrated Principles on Business & Human Rights and into NORDEN’s CSR Direction and in the CSR more, all contribute to put NORDEN’s CSR materiality assessment, described on the folactivities into a global context. lowing page. Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by the UN in 2015 and define NORDEN and the UN Global Goals for Sustainable Development The SDG model above highlights those SDG’s, where NORDEN has the greatest impact. 8 | CSR REPORT 2016 8 | CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION NORDEN's CSR Materiality Matrix 2016 5 Health & Safety CO₂ emissions and Corporate energy consumption Significance to stakeholders 4 Tax Practices Impact on Marine Environment Labour Rights Employee Welfare 3 Third party Conduct Supplier Conduct SOx and NOx Anti-Corruption 2 Risk and Diversity and Conflict Zones Inclusion Ship Recycling 1 Degree of importance 1 2 3 4 5 The extent to which topics can impact NORDEN positively or negatively * Human rights is not part of the issue list, because these transcend most topics on the list depending on the context. Assessment of CSR issues NORDEN’s key stakeholder groups comprise or the business either positively or negaCSR materiality matrix 2016 customers, suppliers, employees, shareholdtively. As part of the assessment, NORDEN Through the CSR materiality process, the list ers, financiers, industry associations and also takes the Danish statutory reporting of material CSR issues has been calibrated regulators. The Company seeks to engage in requirements that NORDEN is subject to and prioritised into a matrix. New issues in dialogue with these, whenever relevant. To into account. The previous assessment was the matrix in 2016 include Third Party Condefine which CSR issues are most important carried out as part of the development of duct, Ship Recycling and Corporate Tax Practo work with and report on, NORDEN carries the CSR Strategy 2013-2015. Going forward, tices, which has not been part of the exercise out an internal assessment of each issue on NORDEN will seek to calibrate the materiality previously. a regular basis – a ‘CSR materiality assessassessment on an annual basis. ment’. The results of the 2016 assessment are preIn 2017, the SDGs will be included in this assented in the matrix above. All issues includThe assessment most recently carried out in sessment as they can be seen as an expresed in the matrix are considered important 2016 takes into account how the issues can sion of global stakeholder expectations. and are addressed in this report. potentially impact NORDEN’s stakeholders NORDEN is part of the following global partnerships and initiatives 9 | CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION CSR REPORT 2016 | 9 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION CSR Direction 2016-2018 Joint Efforts – Mutual Benefits The shipping industry handles about 90% of NORDEN’s Corporate Soul Purpose: Recognising that smarter global trade is the world’s transported goods. In this way, closely tied to sustainability, NORDEN’s CSR shipping links production, people and comDirection is based on the premise that workpanies in global trade and contributes to ing with the linkages between social and development and growth all over the world. economic progress holds potential to inDeveloping efficient, reliable and smart solu“As custodians of smarter global crease value for customers, for communities tions for transporting goods from producers and long term competitiveness to NORDEN. trade, we are conscious, soulful to buyers is increasingly a key component in ensuring sustainable development through people uniting a world, where trade. every person and action matters” The CSR Direction 2016-2018 is called Joint Efforts – Mutual Benefits and explores 3 inter-­connected areas of shared value²: Reliability Assistance Anti-Corruption Reinforcing crew and vessel quality Optimising supply chains Fighting corruption and enabling trade The quality of the crew and the vessel deEvery day lost due to barriers in the supply The cost of corruption on economic, political termines the safety of the cargo, reliability chain drives up costs. By coupling customer and social development is high. Corruption of operations and the flexibility to deal with understanding and local insight, inefficienadds unnecessary cost and delays to most unexpected situations. By reinforcing focus cies and barriers to trade might be removed. trades across the spectrum. NORDEN seeks on crew and vessel quality further, NORDEN NORDEN seeks to optimise local supply chain to eliminate the corruption burden on local seeks to lower trade costs for business and solutions and contribute to enable trade for society and on companies. society. business and society. Read more about the 3 areas in the following section. 2 Shared value is defined as policies and operating practices that enhance the competitiveness of a company while simultaneously advancing the economic and social conditions in the communities in which it operates. The CSR Direction is developed based on a socio-economic impact study. 10 | CSR REPORT 2016 10 | CSR REPORT 2016 JOINT EFFORTS – MUTUAL BENEFITS MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Reliability Reinforcing crew and Competencies instrumental to reliability Continuous service reliability requires that vessel quality shipowners are able to bring the right competencies and leadership skills into play on each trip. Recognising that the workforce at Competent crew and a well-maintained vessea is instrumental in this ambition, NORDEN sel is crucial to customers. The quality of the wants to attract and retain the best people crew and the vessel determines the safety of and be the preferred employer in the market. the crew and cargo, reliability of operations, and the flexibility to deal with unexpected By virtue of NORDEN’s business model, the situations and finding the right solutions. By Company has full control of owned vessels, reinforcing focus on crew and vessel quality but limited influence on time-chartered tonfurther, NORDEN seeks to increase reliability nage and vessels in external management. and lower trade costs for business and society. See also page 5. Quality key to on-time performance “Skilled people at sea is key Said about NORDEN to NORDEN News: Well-maintained vessels are key to ensure to a competitive and reliable on-time delivery and a smooth voyage. It can prevent expensive delays, idle costs and service that makes a difference repairs, and ultimately keep crew and cargo to our customers. Reinforcing from undue risks. “Over the past 4 years, Enviva retention and leadership skills has found NORDEN to be an On-board training, early action on mainteunderlines NORDEN’s strategic nance and high-quality workmanship are conexcellent shipping partner – tinuous priorities to NORDEN to deliver a conambitions.” sistent and safe service to customers. In 2016, flexible, reliable and dedicated reliability and customer understanding have Torben Lykkegaard Pedersen, Head of Marine HR to quality.” been strong contributory factors in NORDEN landing a series of long term contracts. Thomas Meth, Executive Vice President, Sales & Marketing, Enviva. Rentention rate of workforce at sea 88% Senior officers 90% Junior officers 91%Overall at sea A high retention rate indicates that NORDEN has an experienced pool of seafarers, of which many have been with NORDEN for 10-20 years. 11 | CSR REPORT 2016 JOINT EFFORTS – MUTUAL BENEFITS CSR REPORT 2016 | 11 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Assistance Optimising supply chains have been instrumental in reducing the total frequency of safety incidents considerably to zero incidents at the site. Every day lost due to barriers in the supply Finding new routes in Brazil chain drives up trade costs. By coupling cusShipping only constitutes a small part of the tomer understanding, local presence and total export costs for business. Yet barriers in expertise, inefficiencies and local barriers to other parts of the supply chain can quickly estrade can be removed. NORDEN seeks to opcalate the indirect cost of trade. Barriers can timise supply chain solutions and contribute stem from congestions or inefficiency in port to enable trade for business and communihandling, unpredictability in inland transporties. tation or difficulties in transitions from inland transportation to ocean going vessels. FindSafety training in the Philippines ing collaborative ways to remove these barNORDEN is closely connected to the Philriers holds potential to create shared value. ippines. Through a local office in Manila, “Offering the customer more NORDEN employs about 600 Philippine seaThis was the case for a customer in Brazil, who than transport from A to B, farers and provides support for 26 Philippine experienced difficulties in connecting small cadets. NORDEN also funds local projects of barges from the inland production site to a creates strong relationships benefit to the local communities that NORlarger loading terminal controlled by the local and opens the door to new DEN is engaged with. authorities. During 2016, NORDEN worked with the customer to bypass these barriers business opportunities.” Throughout 2016, NORDEN has collaborated and set up alternative routes and to enable closely with a Philippine customer, in profaster transit. The proposed solution included Captain Søren Retz Johansson, viding all-round safety training for port staff, a transition to barge-to-ship loading, thereby Singapore, Port Captain pilots, tug boat crews and mooring gangs oprestoring independence and minimising douerating at the production site. These efforts ble handling costs for the customer. The Panamax dry cargo vessel NORD SUN discharging coal at power plant in the Philippines 12 | CSR REPORT 2016 12 | CSR REPORT 2016 JOINT EFFORTS – MUTUAL BENEFITS MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Anti-Corruption Fighting corruption and and controls are key tools in implementing the anti-corruption policy. NORDEN’s ambitions enabling trade • Continue to integrate anti-corruption compliance into operations, Performance 2016 decision-making and business reMateriality and scope lationships. Stronger internal integration Corruption impedes access to global marIn 2016, NORDEN’s Legal Department took Performance 2016 kets and constitutes barriers for economic over responsibility for anti-corruption com• Anti-corruption compliance proand social development around the world. pliance from the CSR Department. Many gramme updated For businesses in the maritime sector, corprinciples of NORDEN’s compliance pro• Compliance controls reviewed ruption also escalates costs, endangers the gramme are regulated by law and shifting safety and well-being of the crew and poses the responsibility to the Legal Department is Looking ahead legal and reputational risk. In 2016, NORDEN a natural next step to ensure stronger organ• Launch of updated anti-corruphad around 4,800 calls3 across 120 countries, isational integration. Through 2016, NORtion e-learning for onshore and some of them in regions where concepts of DEN’s anti-corruption programme has been off-shore employees integrity and good business conduct vary. In reviewed and aligned with an updated risk • Initiate at least 1 collective action this context, making the right choices beassessment. comes more complex and more important. Relevant policies Employee training • Anti-Corruption Policy Anti-corruption compliance programme Annual anti-corruption training is mandato• Employee Code of Conduct NORDEN has a zero tolerance policy towards ry for all NORDEN employees and comprise bribery and continuously works to prevent e-learning and tests. For exposed employee Sustainable Development Goals and reduce facilitation payments. To progroups, NORDEN also conducts face-to-face mote a culture of integrity, NORDEN has in training. During 2016, it has, however, provplace an anti-corruption compliance proen difficult to validate the training complegramme including an anti-corruption policy tion rate for employees at sea. In 2017, this applicable to all employees and managewill be solved by providing access to training ment. Due diligence, monitoring, training via a new onboard IT application that also 3 Includes transits and stops to dock, discharge, bunker, and repair. In focus Creating impact through collective actions Complex, systemic issues like corruption necessary leverage to the table, generated stitutions, laws and culture. Through the require a collaborative response as it is not through collective actions spanning shipcross-sector collaboration facilitated by only a problem of individuals or a single comowners, other companies from the shipping MACN, NORDEN works towards a maritime pany. industry, local governments and civil society industry free of corruption, enabling interorganisations. national trade to the benefit of society, busiTo this end, NORDEN is part of the nesses and individuals. industry initiative the Maritime Anti-CorFighting corruption is a longterm commitruption Network (MACN) that brings the ment requiring firm grounding in local in13 | CSR REPORT 2016 JOINT EFFORTS – MUTUAL BENEFITS CSR REPORT 2016 | 13 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION tracks completion of training, including for CSR due diligence for agents and other busiNORDEN vessels in external management. ness relationships going forward. CSR Due Diligence Whistleblower system NORDEN relies on agents to look after the Employees in NORDEN have access to raise NORDEN has a zero tolerance company’s interests while the ship is in port, workplace and operational concerns directly policy towards bribery e.g. in relation to transits or when arrangwith their manager or with the HR function. ing for pilots, tug boats or ship provisions. If the matter cannot be managed effectiveDuring 2016, NORDEN piloted a CSR due ly through these channels, employees may diligence project for agents on contract with contact NORDEN’s whistleblower system NORDEN. With the pilot, NORDEN is able to SafeLine at safeline@horten.dk. design a robust CSR due diligence process and to strengthen the dialogue with our In 2016, the independent Ombudsman in agents on CSR and integrity risks. In 2017, charge of SafeLine received no reports. NORDEN will explore how to proceed with 14 | CSR REPORT 2016 14 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Vessel Safety and Security Materiality and scope procedures as well as cultural initiatives that promote strong safety behaviour: NORDEN’s ambitions Operating at sea involves health, safety and • Zero accidents security risks that must always be managed • Focus on change management and critical • Zero incidents of piracy carefully to safeguard the crew, the cargo, equipment procedures Performance 2016 the environment and the vessel. A healthy • Safety campaign focusing on protecting • Zero fatalities ocurred as part of and safe working environment for employhands and fingers operations ees comes before anything else. All employ• Reinforcing Roving Safety Officers system • LTIF* rate negative with same ees must return home from work safely. on board amount of injuries (5) but less ex• Safety culture workshop at officer seminars posure hours This means that NORDEN’s ambition is zero • Development in rest hour accidents and that the Company operates by 1 fatality during delivery of stores non-conformity positive the principle that no injury or environmental During 2016, a third-party service technician • Observations per SIRE inspection incident is acceptable. To support a robust about to transfer from a service boat to a reduced to 3.5 safety culture, NORDEN has in place a safety NORDEN vessel anchored off Skaw, Denmark, • Rate of deficinecies per Port State management system and safety policy, comfell into the water. Despite rescue operation Control Inspection reduced to 0.9 pliant with the International Safety Manageand evacuation to shore hospital, the techment Code. nician regrettably lost his life. Fatal incidents Looking ahead are rare, but when they do occur, NORDEN • Further efforts towards achieving works with the authorities to investigate and zero accidents by integrating safePerformance 2016 identify the root cause and if needed implety awareness into everyday work ment thorough preventive measures. practice Reinforcing safety culture Every year, NORDEN carries out a review of No piracy attempts Relevant policies the company’s safety management system In 2016, NORDEN saw a further drop in the • Safety and Environment Protecand performance. In 2016, NORDEN has piracy activity off the coast of Somalia, in the tion Policy taken several steps to support solid safety Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean. NORDEN Sustainable Development Goals experienced no piracy attempts on the Company’s owned vessels during the year. However, in 2016, NORDEN experienced 1 case of oil theft in China, 1 case of theft in Brazil, 1 attempted theft in Peru and 1 case LTIF see page 15. of a stowaway passenger in Nigeria. The Southern part of the Red Sea, the coast of West Africa, and Southeast Asia also remain a major security concern. In focus Identifying and managing security risks to people, vessels and cargo therefore continues to be a top priority to NORDEN. To enSafety Officers on the sure adequate safeguards, NORDEN has in move to improve safety place a company security function that assesses security risks on an on-going basis in NORDEN's Roving Safety Officers visit conjunction with risk intelligence providers vessels around the world, interacting and military organisations. with the crew to raise understanding “Our main objective is to of processes and how to perform keeping all colleagues safe at tasks safely. The Roving Safety Officers complement the safety work work and ensuring that we all carried out by the existing corps of return home from work safely” internal inspectors. This includes providing support in introducing Jens Christensen, Senior VP and safety initiatives on board and verifyHead of Technical Department ing robust implementation. 15 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION CSR REPORT 2016 | 15 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Safety performance Injuries Areas at risk 2016 vs. 2015 Fatalities4 Off signed5 32% 0 1 Head, neck and eyes 3 minor eye injuries re52% ported . None of these caused permanent damages. Unchanged Reduced by 2 Arms, hands and fingers Days off duty6 LTI's7 Minor injuries to 13 5 hands and fingers 0% are the most frequent. None of these caused permanent Reduced by 14 Unchanged damages. Torso and other No back or chest-related injuries during 16% the year. Injury trend8 – 24 month moving average LTIF TRCF Legs, feet and toes 2 cases of ankle Injuries trend injuries reported in 3.5 2016. 1 resulted in a fracture, requiring 3.0 off-signing. 2.5 2.0 1.5 4 Work related accidents with fatal consequences for an employee at sea. 5 People signed off due to a work related injury. 1.0 6 Days off duty while on board, due to work related injuries. 0.5 7 LTI (Lost Time Injury) measures the number of work related accidents and LTIF measures the frequency of work related accidents, causing a seafarer to be unable to work for more than 24 hours. 0.0 8 TRCF (Total Recordable Case Frequency) measures the frequency of any work related injuries 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 beyond first aid. In focus Vessels are put to the test NORDEN’s fleet of product tankers are conCustomer inspections Port State Controls stantly put to the test by inspectors. Oil NORDEN's tanker vessels are chartered by A Port State Control (PSC) is a vessel inspecmajors and authorities regularly check that oil companies who conduct vettings and astion by the authorities in port, verifying NORDEN meets the safety requirements to sesses NORDEN’s ability to ensure safe workthat the condition of the vessels and safety vessel condition, training, operation of the ing conditions and protection of the marine equipment comply with international regvessel and the officers’ experience and years environment. NORDEN’s Ship Inspection Reulations and that the vessel is manned and of service with NORDEN. port Program (SIRE) performance improved operated in compliance with these rules. in 2016 from 4.2 observations per inspection in 2015 to 3.5 in 2016. The improved perforNORDEN improved the rate of deficiencies mance was due to a continued high focus on registered per PSC inspection from 1.02 in inspection preparation. 2015 to 0.9 in 2016. 16 | CSR REPORT 2016 16 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Climate Action Materiality and scope tion throughout the value chain, including when buying, chartering and operating vesNORDEN’s ambitions Climate change derived from CO₂ emissels. NORDEN’s due diligence activities in• 25% reduction in relative CO₂ sions is a risk to the environment and to clude: emissions from 2007 to 2020 livelihoods, and can pose operational and from owned dry cargo and tanker commercial challenges to NORDEN’s busi• Developing tools for evaluating fuel effivessels respectively ness. NORDEN has worked with limiting opciency, when deciding which vessels to erational air emissions for several years and buy and charter in Performance 2016 our commitment to curb CO₂ emissions is • 9.2% reduction in CO₂ emissions demonstrated in the Company’s work to re• Monitoring data from vessels to ensure per tonne cargo transported 1 duce fuel consumption and increase efficienoptimal performance and energy efficienmile for dry cargo vessels comcy across the value chain. cy pared to 2007 • 12.3% reduction in CO₂ emissions This commitment is expressed in the Climate • Adding new and more efficient technology per tonne cargo transported 1 Policy developed by the Danish Shipowners’ to existing vessel systems mile for tanker vessels compared Association in the autumn of 2016, and ento 2007 dorsed by NORDEN. The Climate Policy specDecrease in relative CO₂ emissions ifies the international shipping industry’s reSince 2007, NORDEN has reduced the relLooking ahead sponsibility to reduce CO₂ emissions in line ative CO₂ emissions by 9.2% for owned dry • Development of tools for charwith the rest of the world economy and the cargo vessels and 12.3% for owned tanker tering decision support on fuel Paris Agreement. vessels9 respectively. This marks a decline efficiency compared to 2015, where relative CO₂ emissions from dry cargo were reduced by Relevant policies Performance 2016 23.7% and from tankers by 17.5%. Cargo • Climate Policy for Danish ShipEEOI measures CO₂ efficiency by expressing owners Due diligence processes the level of CO₂ relative to the cargo transCO₂ emissions from shipping primarily stem ported. It excludes ballast sailing and port Sustainable Development Goals from consumption of bunker fuel that in stays. The past years of unfavourable market 2016 accounted for 44% of the voyage cost. conditions have contributed to increase the NORDEN focuses on reducing fuel consumppercentage of ballast sailing time, because 9 As measured by the Cargo Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI)I Reduction in relative CO₂ emissions Cargo EEOI Total EEOI CO₂ emissions CO₂ grams per tonne CO₂ emissions CO₂ grams per tonne reduction in % of cargo per mile in reduction in % of cargo per mile in since 2007 2016 since 2007 2016 Owned vessels (excl. vessels on contract to 9.2% 5.2 -8.6% 8.3 Dry cargo third parties) Total operated vessels 6.7% 5.4 -5.9% 8.1 Owned vessels (excl. vessels on contract to 12.3% 8.6 -2.2% 18.3 Tankers third parties) Total operated vessels 10.7% 8.1 6.5% 16.7 Minus indicates an increase in CO₂ emissions. 17 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION CSR REPORT 2016 | 17 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION vessels have to travel sometimes long distrigger an increase in average ship operating pact of climate change on the business. In tances in ballast to load cargo. Ballast sailing speed – and the commercial activities during 2016, NORDEN’s annual disclosure was rated and port stays are reflected in the Total EEOI the year. ‘B’ and falls into the Management category results on page 16. expressing NORDEN’s ability to take coordiIn 2016, NORDEN has also made a strategic nated action on climate change issues. The absolute CO₂ emissions from owned shift to smaller vessel types, which also revessels were reduced by 3.3% in 2016 comduces efficiency as the fuel consumption per NORDEN remains the highest ranking shippared to 2015, but must be seen in relation transported tonne is higher with a small vesping company in the Nordics. to a similar reduction in transport work in sel compared to a large vessel. 2016. Find the absolute numbers under CSR Find NORDEN’s results in the Nordic edition Performance Data on page 30. Disclosing climate data to the CDP of the CDP report 2016. For the past 9 years, NORDEN has reported The 2016 results are driven by a combination to the organisation CDP10 on the Company’s of the fuel price – lower fuel prices generally efforts to reduce CO₂ emissions and the im10 CDP is formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project In focus What affects efficiency and EEOI results? The Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) is Fuel price: Optimal vessel speed is based on efficient than bigger vessels and a shift will an efficiency measurement defined as CO₂ a combination of the prevailing cargo rates lead to an increase in EEOI. emitted per tonne of cargo transported 1 and the fuel prices. Low fuel prices will often mile. EEOI is influenced by commercial efenhance the commercial incentive to speed Fuel type: The amount of CO₂ produced fects, including availability of cargo, waiting up, consequently increasing EEOI. when a fuel type is burned is a function of time and inactive port stays. the carbon content of the fuel. Fuel types Vessel size: Vessel size determines the with low carbon content emit less CO₂. Speed: Raising vessel speed will lead to an amount of cargo that can be transported. increase in fuel consumption and hence an Even though smaller vessels might be the increase in EEOI. right mode of transport, they are less energy 18 | CSR REPORT 2016 18 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION In focus New science-based CO₂ study and Climate Policy Maritime transport is one of the most enoutlining shipping’s responsibility, fair share The study CO₂ Emissions from Global Shipergy efficient modes of transportation. Yet of CO₂ reductions and future scenarios for ping – possible reduction targets and measCO₂ emissions from shipping are expected shipping in alignment with the global climate ures11, was published in October 2016 toto grow significantly by 2050 under a busiagreement agreed at COP21. gether with a new Climate Policy for Danish ness-as-usual scenario in line with the growShipowners by means of the Danish Shiping transport demand from international owners’ Association. trade. 11.3 CO₂ emission in 2016 With this backdrop, during 2016 Danish shipowners developed a science-based study grams per tonne -3.3% cargo per mile compared to 2015 11 The study has been undertaken by the University College of London Energy Institute and MATRANS. Access the full study here or at www.shipowners.dk In focus Optimising energy efficiency while transporting fossil fuels for others – is that sustainable? The ratification of the Paris Agreement at While the world is slowly phasing out fossil Therefore, NORDEN seeks to be as energy efCOP22 in October 2016 was a turning point fuels and transitioning towards sustainable ficient as possible and continuously grow the in the global fight against climate change, as energy sources, NORDEN recognises the inshare of transport of other commodities such the world’s nations agreed to limit the global herent dilemma of transporting fossil fuels as wood pellets, soya and grain. See page 4. average temperature rise to below 2 degrees. for customers around the world. However, This ambition will limit the growth in the the world’s energy consumption is still largeThe past years, NORDEN has had succes in global demand for fossil fuels like coal, gas ly based on fossil fuels powering production growing the share of grain considerably. In oil, and diesel – commodities transported by and trade. 2016, grain constitutes NORDEN's second NORDEN's tankers today. largest dry cargo commodity. The Supramax dry cargo vesselNORD MANATEE unloading soya at the port of Aarhus, Denmark. 19 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION CSR REPORT 2016 | 19 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Environmental Impact Materiality and scope on board and on shore in accordance with NORDEN’s safety management system. NORDEN’s ambitions Shipping carries risks to the environment, • Zero oil spills into water through spills, discharges and emissions to Less sulphur from 2020 air, land and water. Managing these outputs Airborne sulphur (SOx) emissions are harmPerformance 2016 is critical to environmental protection, the ful to human health and the environment, • 0 spills from owned vessels industry, to NORDEN and to our customers. and NORDEN works to reduce emissions • 43,740 tonnes of SOx emitted Close monitoring and management are key from vessels’ exhaust in line with the IMO's • 91,635 tonnes of NOx emitted tools to minimise the environmental impact MARPOL regulation12. From 2020, the sulof NORDEN’s activities in this area and enphur content in marine fuel must be trimmed Looking ahead sure compliance with international and local from 3.5% to 0.5%. This was decided by the • Implement new ballast water regregulations. International IMO during 2016. ulation on all owned vessels. NORDEN’s policy on Safety & Environmental A sulphur cap of 0.1% for sensitive coastal arRelevant policies Protection spells out our commitment to eas, so-called emission control areas (ECA’s), • Safety & Environmental Protecenvironmental due diligence and to activehas been in force since 2015. These areas tion Policy. ly prevent spills and manage operational comprise the Baltic Sea, Iceland, the North emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides, Sea, the English Channel, most of the US and Sustainable Development Goals waste and other discharge. Canadian coast and parts of the Caribbean. Adding to this, a handful of countries have implemented local regulation. Performance 2016 NORDEN acknowledges the importance of Prepared for emergencies this step for reducing the environmental NORDEN has clear procedures in place to preimpact from shipping. However, the added vent operational spills. However, spills may cost of the new SOx cap will be significant occur due to reasons such as operational failand without compliance across the indusure or accidents. Therefore, as part of NORtry, the new regulation will distort compeDEN’s emergency preparedness, oil pollution tition. Therefore, in 2016 NORDEN joined prevention drills are regularly carried out both the ­Trident Alliance that advocates global 12 International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships In focus Ballast Water Management Convention in force While ballast water is essential to ensure tember 2017, the convention comes into systems that might not be approved for tradsafe and stable vessels at sea, it can pose force. In the meantime, the United States ing in US waters. a risk to eco-systems, due to the invasive have implemented its own regulation, and species that can be transported and disas of December 2016, the US Coast Guard To be able to trade worldwide, all NORDEN charged from ballast water tanks into local (USCG) has granted type approval to only 3 vessels are to be fitted with systems that are waters. treatment systems. approved by both the US and IMO going forward. In 2016, IMO’s Ballast Water Management Until more systems have been approved, Convention (BWMC) was ratified and in Sepshipping companies run the risk of installing 20 | CSR REPORT 2016 20 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION enforcement of SOx regulation with the aim focuses on reducing NOx emissions from IMO’s MARPOL regulation. To minimise the to minimise non-compliance and unfair pracmarine diesel engines installed on ships. amount of generated waste, NORDEN entices in the industry. Going forward, given that flexibility is an incourages suppliers to reduce or take back tegrated part of NORDEN’s business model, packaging, resulting in less packing on board. New NOx zones in the North Sea and NORDEN will ensure to only operate vessels Baltic Sea that live up to the new NOx cap in order to In October 2016, the IMO passed a new be able to trade all vessels worldwide. proposal to limit the nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions from vessels in the Baltic Sea and Managing waste onboard the North Sea by 75% from vessels built in NORDEN continues to focus on discharge 2021 and onwards. NOx is known to cause from vessels, and all waste is disposed of in smog and acid rain and the new regulation accordance with the rules set forth by the 21 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION CSR REPORT 2016 | 21 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Responsible Supply Chain Management Materiality and scope NORDEN expects all suppliers in the programme to conduct a self-assessment NORDEN’s ambitions The supplier landscape of many shipping against the stipulations of the Supplier Code • Expand NORDEN’s RSCM procompanies, including NORDEN, is complex of Conduct and as such, the Code is a valgramme with at least 5 additional and comprise several thousand providers uable tool for dialogue on supplier perforfirst-tier suppliers each year worldwide. Shipping suppliers count providmance and risk management. ers of bunker fuel, provisions, spare parts Performance 2016 and working clothes, but also service agenAgent due diligence • 5 additional first-tier suppliers cies who play a key role in supporting port In 2016, NORDEN piloted a CSR due diligence enrolled in RSCM programme in operations and business activities around process with the aim to implement a system2016 the world. atic process for assessing CSR related risk in • 20 first-tier suppliers part of relation to agents on contract with NORDEN. RSCM programme since 2013 Responsible Supply Chain Management Read more on page 13. • Agent due diligence piloted Programme NORDEN’s Responsible Supply Chain ManLooking ahead agement (RSCM) Programme and Supplier • Expand scope of CSR due diliCode of Conduct aim to drive responsible gence procurement practices and to build capacity of suppliers in relation to compliance with Relevant policies NORDEN’s CSR standards. The Supplier Code • Supplier Code of Conduct of Conduct incorporates the UN Global Compact’s principles on core labor rights, enviSustainable Development Goals ronment and anti-corruption, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Performance 2016 Engaging suppliers As part of the RSCM programme, NORDEN engaged with 5 new first-tier suppliers in “By teaming up with other 2016. These suppliers are selected based shipowners in IMPA ACT, we on an assessment of 3 criteria; total spend, dependency and frequency of interaction. use our combined buying powSome of these suppliers are still undergoing er to improve processes and the RSCM process, as it takes time to implement the UNGPs into the company and touniformity across the industry” wards business relationships. Ole Lykke, Head of Strategic Purchasing 22 | CSR REPORT 2016 22 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION In focus Improving supply chain management in the shipping industry IMPA ACT is a responsible supply chain manWhen signing up to IMPA ACT, buyers like By supporting the IMPA ACT programme, agement system run by the International NORDEN agree to implement the stipuNORDEN contributes to a consistent set of Marine Purchasing Association and devellations of the Code of Conduct, just as the social, environmental and economic princioped by NORDEN, the Danish shipowner suppliers in the programme commit to be ples across the industry and to build a joint J.Lauritzen and IMPA in 2012. It is the first part of the work and implement the processdatabase of buyers and suppliers of benefit standard for the shipping industry on this es necessary to ensure that they operate in to all members. area. alignment with the Code of Conduct. IMPA ACT six step process 1 2 3 4 5 6 Commiting Informing Choosing and Partnering Implementing Auditing engaging In focus Recycling of ships Vessels are hazardous waste that must be end of their operational lives, do not pose a ship should be up for recycling in the future, recycled under safe conditions with respect risk to safety of workers or to the environthis will be done at an approved yard and for human health, safety and environment. ment. However, the Convention is still far as a minimum in compliance with the UN’s In 2016, the Danish government took the from entering into force, as only very few Hong Kong Convention and in alignment first step to ratify the Hong Kong Convention, countries have ratified the convention to with the 10 principles of the UN Global Comadopted in 2009 by the UN’s International date. pact covering not only environmental issues, Maritime Organisation. but also social issues and anti-corruption. NORDEN’s vessels are sold to other shipownThe Hong Kong Convention aims to ensure ers for further trade long before recycling is that ships, when recycled after reaching the relevant. In the event that a NORDEN owned Handysize product tanker vessel NORD PRINCESS at Fayard Shipyard, Denmark. 23 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION CSR REPORT 2016 | 23 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Human Rights Materiality and scope Performance 2016 NORDEN’s ambitions NORDEN is committed to respect interUpdated Human Rights Policy • Ensure that NORDEN conducts nationally recognised human rights as exIn March 2016, NORDEN’s Human Rights Polbusiness with respect for human pressed in the UN Guiding Principles on Busiicy was updated to express the Company’s rights as a process of continuous ness and Human Rights (UNGPs). commitment to the UNGPs and expectations improvement towards employees and business relationAssessing human rights impact is a complex ships. Performance 2016 task for any company, especially companies • Human rights action plan for imwith global operations and business relationHuman rights due diligence pact assessment implemented ships all over the world. The responsibility NORDEN conducted 2 human rights impact does not increase in this business context, assessment in 2015 focusing on 1) own vesLooking ahead but the challenge of fully meeting those resels and employees at sea, and 2) offices and • Review impact assessment and sponsibilities may do. employees on shore. expand assessment scope • Develop priority list of human With this backdrop, NORDEN recognises that Findings from these assessments have led to rights risk based on impact asimplementing the necessary policies and the below key activities in 2016: sessment processes in line with the requirements of the UNGPs is part of a continuous process. • Mapping policies and procedures with Relevant policies linkages to the relevant human rights • Human Rights Policy Governance of human rights • Supplier Code of Conduct NORDEN works to embed respect for hu• Exploring internal business procedures man rights into everyday practice and deciand identifying potential gaps Sustainable Development Goals sion-making by ensuring: • Consultation with stakeholders and devel• Coordination and guidance on human opment of action plans for prioritised risks rights provided to functional units by the CSR Department In 2016, NORDEN focused on addressing the gaps of the impact assessments. Find the key • Ownership of human rights issues allocatfindings on page 24. ed between key functions incl. HR, Marine HR and Procurement NORDEN reviews the impact assessment every second year, and during 2017 the next • Regular reporting to Executive Manageimpact assessment will be carried out focusment on identification of human rights ing on NORDEN’s supply chain. impacts and management of these NORDEN’s Responsible Supply Chain Man• Consultation with human rights experts agement Programme also places the UNGPs at its core and is an important part of the human rights due diligence process in the Company. Read more on page 21-22. 24 | CSR REPORT 2016 24 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Key findings of human rights impact assessment NORDEN’s impact assessment points to 2 severe13 issues, both at sea, which are described in the list of key risk areas below: Topic Relevant right NORDEN's context NORDEN’s approach in brief • Right to safe and • Vessels are high-risk workplaces • NORDEN ensures that vessels are properly Health and healthy working conand severe injuries and even maintained and that our crew has the Safety ditions. fatalities can happen if safety necessary safety training at all times. instructions are not followed at • Right to life. all times. The health and safety This includes promoting a strong health of NORDEN’s crew and people on and safety culture and having in place a board our vessels will always be a comprehensive safety management system severe issue to the Company. and training compliant with the International Safety Management Code. • Right to life, liberty and • NORDEN operates globally and • NORDEN conducts due diligence on securiSecurity security of person. monitors global security threats. ty providers on contract with the Company When calling areas exposed to in order to ensure that they are qualified to • Right of detained piracy or other security risks, it handle high risk and conflict settings. persons to humane can be necessary to make use of treatment. security providers on board vessels • Security providers receive training in adto protect people and assets. Due vance of any deployment. • Right to freedom from to the potential impacts of such torture or cruel, inhua situation, this will always be a man or degrading treatsevere issue to NORDEN. ment or punishment. • Right to rest, leisure • NORDEN may have an impact on • NORDEN operates by the Maritime Labour Crew and paid holidays. the crew’s right to rest on board Convention that defines seafarers’ right to vessels, whenever rest hour regudecent working conditions. lation is not followed. Non-compliance with rest hour regulation can • NORDEN continuously works to ensure have an adverse impact on vessel compliance with regulations and convensafety and employee well-being, tions concerning working hours, rest hours which makes this area a priority and leave to ensure employee well-being area to NORDEN. and a healthy and safe working environment onboard vessels. • Right to family life. • The working conditions for sea• NORDEN seeks to provide an attractive farers can mean longer periods workplace for our seafarers, which includes away from family and friends. This the opportunity to keep close contact with may have an adverse impact on family and friends at home and providing family life and personal relations for family insurance. at home. It is NORDEN’s priority that seafarers can always keep contact via internet or phone and that officers can bring their family on board from time to time. • Right to non-discrimi• Non-discrimination, equal treat• NORDEN works to mitigate discrimination Equal nation, equal treatment ment and diversity are important and to promote diversity and equal optreatment and diversity. focus areas to NORDEN, both portunity among sea and land-based staff, in terms of ensuring the rights, for example by conducting ‘global mindset well-being and respect towards training’ for employees and by ensuring employees – and in terms of transparency around promotion criteria navigating respectfully in different and needed competencies. cultural contexts worldwide. NORDEN’s internal grievance mechanisms can be used to voice potential concerns in this area. 13 Severe human rights issues refer to issues where the scale, scope and consequence of the impact is significant for those affected. 25 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION CSR REPORT 2016 | 25 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION People Materiality and scope Common NORDEN culture With 24 nationalities represented in the NORDEN’s ambitions Enabling strong leadership and engaging emworkforce, NORDEN has a wide range of • Preferred employer in the shipployees, colleagues, partners and customers skills and insights to benefit customers and ping industry are key aspects of NORDEN’s future success. business. To improve collaboration and unTaking the lead on smarter, global trade rederstanding of cultural differences and simiPerformance 2016 quires that NORDEN is able to unleash the larities, in 2016, NORDEN conducted a range • 22% women in leadership full potential of every person in NORDEN. of ‘global mind-set’ workshops. • Integrated leadership programme rolled out With this aspiration, during 2016 NORDEN Feedback from these have been very posihas initiated a host of efforts focusing on tive, and the workshops will be repeated in Looking ahead strengthening the organisation’s leadership 2017. • Launch quarterly employee encapabilities and working smarter together. gagement measurements Equal opportunity and diversity¹⁴ Employee Code of Conduct NORDEN is committed to ensure equal opRelevant policies NORDEN’s Employee Code of Conduct portunities and takes pride in the diversity • Employee Code of Conduct frames the standard of conduct expected of of the employee base across gender, age, • Policy for Gender Equality all employees in the NORDEN Group. In adnationality and ethnicity. In terms of gender dition to the company values of Reliability, balance, in 2016 33% of the workforce on Sustainable Development Goals Flexibility, Empathy and Ambition, the Code shore were women, whereas, due to both of Conduct covers amongst other topics anhistorical reasons and industry tradition, ti-corruption, environment, safety, social isonly about 2% of our seafarers were women. sues and compliance. NORDEN seeks to reach a balanced gender representation where possible through clear Performance 2016 Exercising leadership requirements for diversity in recruitment NORDEN’s Corporate Soul Purpose and busiand employee development as stated in ness objectives rely on strong individual enNORDEN’s policy for Gender Equality. Specifgagement and leadership. Biannual appraisal ically, NORDEN works to attract female candialogues between leaders and employees “NORDEN has strong values, didates to shipping trainee positions in order ensure that all strive towards common oband there are many skilled to grow the share of women in shipping. In jectives, accelerate results and teamwork, 2016, NORDEN employed 10 trainees in total and help each other to grow. To bolster officers on board who want us with a gender distribution of 40% female and NORDEN’s long term leadership capabilities, to learn as much as possible. 60% male trainees. in 2016 an integrated leadership programme was rolled out. I really like the diversity on NORDEN’s target for shareholder elected board, as it gives you the opwomen on the Board of Directors was to reThe programme is a mix of group sessions tain representation of at least 16% (1 out of 6) and coaching, and is implemented in 2 paces, portunity to get to know other and aim to increase this share to 33% before starting with leaders on shore and following cultures, working methods and 2017. In 2015, the share of women board with leaders at sea. The format for leaders members increased to 20% due to a decrease at sea will be determined in 2017. With this languages” in the number of shareholder-elected board foundation in place, the results are expected members from 6 to 5. This representation to support a long term organisational transiThilde Hedegaard, was maintained during 2016 and the Board tion. Cadet, Marine Engineer programme 14 Refers to section 99b in the Danish Financial Statements Act. 26 | CSR REPORT 2016 26 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION In focus Skills for the future NORDEN takes part in relevant career and educational events and has close relationships with educational institutions and universities in key markets around the world. NORDEN offers a range of educational opportunities for trainees, student jobs, scholarships and sailing time for cadets. Denmark – Hellerup 6 shipping and business trainees 1 technical trainee 9 student assistants 40 cadets USA – Annapolis China – Shanghai 1 shipping trainee 1 shipping trainee 2 teacher scholarships, and 5 student scholarships at Shanghai Maritime University India – Mumbai Singapore Philippines – Manila 1 shipping trainee 2 shipping trainees 26 cadets at different schools 2 scholarships at Nanyang across the Philippines Technological University 1 MaritimeOne scholarship at Singapore Management University Our people in numbers 642 employees 284 employees 90% retention rate 91% retention rate at sea onshore onshore at sea of Directors has now set a new target of 40% lished an International Shipping and Trade itime Academy of Asia and the Pacific in the (2 women members out of 5) by 2020. programme, which is completed with a 9 Philippines. month internship. In 2016, 2 interns comWhen recruiting new board members, the pleted their degree at NORDEN’s head office. From 2017 and onwards, NORDEN will also Board of Directors consistently consider invest in a programme for Indian cadets – women candidates. This adds to NORDEN’s current cadet procontributing to the education of future ofgramme for Danish mariners and marine enficers in one of NORDEN’s key markets. Investing in education gineers, along with NORDEN’s deep involveWith input from NORDEN and the industry, ment with the Shanghai Maritime University, the Copenhagen Business School has estabSingapore Management University and Mar27 | CSR REPORT 2016 OPERATIONAL FOUNDATION CSR REPORT 2016 | 27 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Other Contributions Corporate Tax Contribution15 NORDEN is subject to the Danish tonnage tax NORDEN follows the tax regulation in the In addition to this, NORDEN employs 186 regulation, to taxation on capital income and countries, where the company operates. In land based people in Denmark and 79 in loin some instances to taxation on profits from 2016, NORDEN paid USD 2.5 mio. direct tax cal markets, who in 2016 paid approximately sale of vessels. In some countries a special in Denmark and USD 0.6 mio. in foreign subUSD 10 mio. in indirect, income tax in Denfreight tax is levied. The amount of tonnage sidiaries primarily in NORDEN’s largest submark and abroad. tax payable is defined by the size of the fleet, sidiary in Singapore. This despite of the fact flagged in Denmark. that NORDEN ran a total loss (EBIT) of USD NORDEN’s total tax contribution for 2016 65 mio. in 2016. amounts to USD 13.1 mio. 15 Covered by NORDEN's financial statement and described in the Annual Report 2016. Engaging with Community D/S Orients Foundation has a background D/S Orient has had a majority interest in On recommendations from NORDEN, D/S in the shipping company D/S Orient, which NORDEN since the 1950's and in 1994 Orients Foundation may choose to support was founded by the East Asiatic Company in the 2 companies merged under the name recommended projects. In 2016, a variety 1915. Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S. The of projects of benefit to broader society or D/S Orients Foundation has continued as a the maritime community were funded by For the benefit of the employees of D/S Orinon-profit organisation and as a shareholder D/S Orients Foundation including the below ent, a pension fund was set up and from this in the company Motortramp, which is major projects: fund, the D/S Orients Foundation was later shareholder in NORDEN today. established as a separate entity. Save the Children – primary Greenship of the Future Nayang Tecnological Sustainia – Plastic Change schools in Somalia Green Ship of the Future is a University Singapore Project Orients Foundation supports the partnership, by which compaSince 2014, NTU has offered a During 2016, D/S Orients FounEuropean Union’s engagement nies across the Danish Maritime bachelor degree in Maritime dation supported a research in a comprehensive educationCluster collaborate to develop Studies focusing on shipping, voyage in the Pacific Ocean al programme in Somalia led by and test climate friendly techbusiness, management, maridocumenting plastic content in Save the Children. The aim is to nologies that increase energy eftime science and technology, the marine environment. Adrestore schooling for 45.000 stuficiency and reduce operational building up the expertise of ditionally, the foundation has dents at 240 schools in Somalia costs. the local shipping industry. D/S supported the ‘Plastic Change and thereby reduce the incenOrients Foundation supports Challenge’ 2017, which is a tive to engage in piracy activities. annual scholarships to students competition that encourages inThe foundation has previously at NTU. itiatives to reduce the extensive funded a similar project focusing plastic pollution of the oceans. on building technical schools for older students in Somalia. 28 | CSR REPORT 2016 28 | CSR REPORT 2016 DATA MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION 29 | CSR REPORT 2016 DATA CSR REPORT 2016 | 29 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Independent Assurance Report To the Stakeholders of Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S (NORDEN) We have undertaken a limited assurance • Whether NORDEN’s CSR Report 2016 supA limited assurance engagement is substanengagement of the CSR data stated on page ports the 10 principles of UN Global Comtially less in scope than a reasonable assur30 in the NORDEN CSR Report 2016. A multipact, and ance engagement in relation to both the disciplinary team including assurance pracrisk assessment procedures, including an titioners, engineers and other experts con• Whether the consolidated CSR data statunderstanding of internal control, and the ducted this engagement. ed on page 30 in the NORDEN CSR Report procedures performed in response to the 2016 are prepared in accordance with the assessed risks. Consequently, the level of Management’s Responsibility CSR accounting policies. assurance obtained in a limited assurance The Management of NORDEN is responsible engagement is substantially lower than the for the preparation of the consolidated CSR We conducted our limited assurance enassurance that would have been obtained data in accordance with Group CSR accountgagement in accordance with International had we performed a reasonable assurance ing policies. NORDEN’s CSR accounting polStandard on Assurance Engagements 3000, engagement. Accordingly, we express a limicies are available on www.ds-norden.com/ “Assurance Engagements other than Audits ited assurance conclusion. public/dokumenter/CSRrep2016/Accountor Reviews of Historical Financial InformaingpoliciesCSRreport2016.pdf. This respontion”. The standard requires that we plan and Limited Assurance Conclusion sibility includes design, implementation and perform this engagement to obtain limited Based on the procedures we have performed maintenance of internal controls relevant to assurance about whether the consolidated and the evidence we have obtained, nothing the preparation of the consolidated CSR data CSR data and information are free from mahas come to our attention that causes us not and information ensuring that data are free terial misstatement. to believe that from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. A limited assurance engagement undertaken • NORDEN’s CSR Report 2016 support the in accordance with ISAE 3000 involves assessUN Global Compact principles, and NORDEN’s CSR accounting policies contain ing the suitability in the circumstances of NORManagement’s reasoning for the selection DEN’s use of stated accounting policies as the • that the consolidated non-financial data of topics and indicators as well as define rebasis for the preparation of the NORDEN conpresented on page 30 in the CSR Report porting scope for each data type. solidated CSR data. Furthermore, it involves 2016 are prepared, in all material reassessing the risks of material misstatement spects, in accordance with the stated acOur Independence and Quality Control whether due to fraud or error, responding to counting policies. We have complied with the “Code of Ethics the assessed risks as necessary in the circumfor Professional Accountants” issued by the stances and evaluating the overall presenta“International Ethics Standards Board for tion of the consolidated CSR data. FurtherAccountants”, which includes independence more, procedures we performed were based Copenhagen, 1 March 2017 and other requirements founded on fundaon the circumstances of the engagement and mental principles of integrity, objectivity, our professional judgement and included: PricewaterhouseCoopers professional competence and due care, conStatsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab fidentiality and professional behavior. • Inquiries regarding methods, procedures CVR no. 33 77 12 31 and internal control, observation of proPwC applies “International Standard on cesses performed and selected interviews Quality Control 1”, and accordingly maintains with data and reporting responsible pera comprehensive system of quality control sonnel; Bo Schou-Jacobsen including documented policies and proceState Authorised Public Accountant dures regarding compliance with ethical re• Checking data on a sample basis to unquirements, professional standards and apderlying documentation, and evaluation Jens Pultz Pedersen plicable legal and regulatory requirements. of the appropriateness of quantification M.Sc.(Eng.) methods and compliance with stated Our Responsibility non-financial accounting policies; Our responsibility is, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence • Assessment of how NORDEN has reported we have obtained, to express a limited assurupon the 10 principles of the UN Global ance conclusion: Compact. 30 | CSR REPORT 2016 30 | CSR REPORT 2016 DATA MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION CSR Performance 2016 CSR performance data 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Environmental performance Energy and fuel consumption (1,000 mt) Intermediate fuel oil (owned and operated vessels) 219.3 98.0 116.0 125.7 114.9 Marine diesel oil and marine gas oil (owned and operated vessels) 9.4 2.7 5.9 19.6 25.3 Intermediate fuel oil (other operated dry cargo vessels) 654.1 809.8 675.2 649.9 715.1 Marine diesel oil and marine gas oil (other operated dry cargo vessels) 14.3 14.5 18.5 50.8 49.8 Intermediate fuel oil (other operated tankers) 140.7 133.2 131.7 107.2 102.6 Marine diesel oil and marine gas oil (other operated tankers) 9.3 7.7 8.5 38.3 19.1 Fuel consumption total (owned and operated vessels)(a) 1,047.1 1,066.1 955.8 991.5 1,026.8 Transport work (mio. metric tonne of cargo sailed 1 mile)(b) Owned vessels 56,581 35,797 39,154 45,891 38,845 Other operated dry cargo vessels 238,701 312,983 271,659 278,407 296,487 Other operated tankers 25,538 29,451 27,401 28,846 24,023 All operated vessels 320,820 378,231 338,214 353,144 359,355 CO₂ emissions (1,000 mt)(c,d) Owned vessels 716.4 314.1 380.0 454.3 439.0 Other operated dry cargo vessels 2,093.0 2,568.7 2,162.0 2,186.9 2,386.6 Other operated tankers 470.1 439.7 437.5 456.7 380.8 Direct CO₂ emissions (Scope 1 GHG protocol) 716.4 314.1 380.0 454.3 439.1 Indirect CO₂ emissions (Scope 2 GHG protocol) 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 Other indirect CO₂ emissions (Scope 3 GHG protocol) 2,566.9 3,011.6 2,602.8 2,646.5 2,807.1 Other discharge SOx emissions (1,000 mt) (owned and operated vessels) 48.4 46.5 40.7 40.1 43.7 NOx emissions (1,000 mt) (owned and operated vessels) 99.7 102.3 90.7 86.7 91.6 Waste (average pr. owned vessel per month) (m3) 2.8 5.5 5.3 4.4 5.1 Spills > 1 barrel (owned vessels) n/a n/a n/a 0 0 Spills < 1 barrel (owned vessels) n/a n/a n/a 2 0 Social performance People Employees on shore 274 280 305 288 284 Employees at sea 884 805 673 689 642 Women in onshore workforce (%) n/a n/a n/a n/a 33 Women in leadership (%) n/a n/a n/a n/a 22 Share of female board members (%) 16 16 16 20 20 Nationalities represented n/a n/a n/a 21 24 Retention rate employees at sea (%) 81 96 95 94 91 Retention rate employees on shore (%) 90 85 87 84 90 Rest hour non-conformity per FTE (%) (owned vessels) 0.46 0.62 0.86 0.43 0.39 Fatalities (owned vessels)(e) 1 1 0 0 0 Lost time injury frequency(f) (mio. working hours) (owned vessels) 1.31 0.74 1.13 0.88 0.89 (a) Energy consumption from owned vessels and vessels operated by NORDEN. (b) Transport work expresses the mass of cargo moved times the distance. Compared with the amount of CO₂ emitted it provides a picture of fleet efficiency. (c) Calculated from the fuel quantity consumed on a voyage times the duration of the voyage times the CO₂ emissions factor for each bunker type (for residual fuel oil 3,114 and 3,206 for marine diesel oil and marine gas oil) (2nd IMO GHG Study 2009). (d) Scope 1 includes owned cars and owned vessels operated by NORDEN. Scope 2 includes NORDEN’s offices (excl. Annapolis, Santiago and Melbourne). Scope 3 includes chartered vessels, business travel by air transport and leased company cars. (e) Excludes external personnel and any fatalities resulting from an act of crime or own will. (f) Measures the frequency of work related accidents, which caused a seafarer to be unable to work for more than 24 hours. Covered by PwC's 2016 report on non-financial data 31 | CSR REPORT 2016 DATA CSR REPORT 2016 | 31 MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION CSR Accounting Policies Boundary setting Data quality and collection • Employment level by gender and region • % workforce represented in formal health The CSR report boundary includes assets In collecting information and data on NORand safety committees and employees in the parent company and DEN’s CSR performance, the reporting prin• Climate Action Plan in subsidiaries, as well as assets in joint venciples of balance, clarity, accuracy, reliability, • # Near-miss reporting per owned vessel) tures (JVs). timeliness and comparability have been ap• # Onshore/sea based employees to complied. Where possible, data has been preplete anti-corruption training Assets in JV’s include vessels owned by NORsented with comparative data from the past • # Observations of third party vessels DEN together with partners in the company 5 years. Some data do not have historical • Onshore energy consumption NORD SUMMIT Pte. Ltd. NORDENs owns data dating back 5 years. 50% of the JV Polar Navigation Pte. Ltd that In 2016, NORDEN includes the following new holds assets in the form of chartered vessels. Significant changes in data are explained in indicators in the CSR Report: Common to the vessels in JVs is that they are the relevant section of the CSR report. The managed and operated by NORDEN, but all CSR assurance provider PwC provides inde• Total tax contribution (new) material decisions regarding the commerpendent assurance on NORDEN’s CSR perfor• Gender distribution of leaders (% females cial, operational and technical management mance indicators. of total pool of onshore leaders) (scope of the vessels are made in agreement with adjusted) the partners. • First tier suppliers engaged in RSCM proChanges to reported CSR data gramme since 2013 (new) The reporting boundary includes: in 2016 • Gender distribution in total workforce (% based on FTE) (scope adjusted) • Owned vessels In 2015, NORDEN decided to discontinue • Retention rate senior officers (new) • Operated vessels with the reporting standard Global Report• Employees on shore ing Initiative (GRI). This decision has led to Find the complete CSR Accounting Policies at • Employees at sea changes in the indicators presented in the NORDEN’s corporate website under the CSR • NORDEN site offices CSR report 2016. section. Operated vessels refer to vessels that NORIn 2016, the following CSR indicators have DEN is the operator for but not necessarily been excluded from the CSR report: the owner. Operates comprises coordination of the voyage, arranging for support and port • Active core fleet table: Owned vessels, Dry calls. cargo fleet, Tanker fleet, Chartered vessels with purchase option, Dry cargo fleet, ToOwned, operated vessels refer to vessels tal active core fleet that NORDEN owns and operates. Both con• # Onshore part-time/full-time employee ditions must be fulfilled to be in scope, leavby gender and region ing out vessels in external management. • # Onshore, permanent fixed contracts by gender and region Owned and operated refer to vessels that • Rate of new employees hired NORDEN either owns or operates or both, • Employee turnover by age group, gender but exclude vessels that are on time-charter and region to other shipowners. MENU INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS – OPERATIONAL DATA PRINT MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S 52, Strandvejen DK-2900 Hellerup Denmark Telephone: +45 3315 0451 Fax: +45 3315 6199 CVR no. 67 75 89 19 Contact regarding content of this report csr@ds-norden.com Nicolai Bro Jöhncke Director – Head of Corporate Communications & CSR Email: nbj@ds-norden.com Telephone: +45 3271 0865 www.ds-norden.com
