COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Environmental management is an integral part of Oslo Airport’s governance and management system where COWI is lead consultant. When engineering the new Non Schengen terminal, which has a footprint of 4.000 m² and a total area of 23.300 m², there is a strong focus on environmental issues related to the building. This includes environmental assessments when selecting building materials, noise ratios, energy consumption, etc. to reduce the carbon footprint while they expand. 04 COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO 12 ENVIRONMENT 06 SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI 14 GREEN ACCOUNTS 08 HUMAN RIGHTS 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 LABOUR RIGHTS 18 ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT COWI is a leading consulting group that PUBLISHED BY EDITORIAL INPUT ENDED creates value for customers, people COWI Holding A/S February 2017. and society through our unique 360° Parallelvej 2 approach. Based on our world-class 2800 Kongens Lyngby competencies within engineering, Denmark economics and environmental science, Tel 56 40 00 00 we tackle challenges from many vantage Fax 56 40 99 99 points to create coherent solutions for our www.cowi.dk customers − and thereby sustainable and www.cowi.com coherent societies in the world. www.cowiholding.com COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO In COWI, sustainability is part of our vision We see it reflected in the increasing awareness and at the heart of our business model. In a among the world’s decision-makers and world where populations and urbanisation business leaders. Sustainable growth is key are dramatically increasing, societies and to dealing with the challenges facing the customers need solutions that are efficient global community right now. This increased and sustainable, and which enable quality of awareness translates into both new legislation life for the entire community. COWI is part of and voluntary standards for sustainability – the solution as we have been for more than a situation we welcome and for which we 85 years. Every day, we strive to deliver highare more than prepared. We see it not only quality, smart and sustainable solutions that as necessary for the future of our children meet the needs of societies and customers and grandchildren. From our perspective, around the world. it provides COWI with great business opportunities now and in the future. Our vision is to create coherence in tomorrow’s societies, and we are committed to doing so In our way of doing business, we remain with long-term societal, environmental and fully and continuously committed to the people interests in mind. United Nations Global Compact, and this Communication on Progress report is We see this way of working ascending the produced with reference to the ten principles agenda of global leaders. We see it mirrored of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. in the UN Sustainable Development Goals of September 2015 and the Paris Agreement on climate change reached in December 2015. Lars-Peter Søbye, President, CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT BIOMASS IN NAMIBIA THE WEST LINK PROJECT (VÄSTLÄNKEN) Namibia’s first biomass power plant is expected to As part of the West Link Project, the Swedish Transport open in 2020. It will reduce the country’s carbon Administration awarded NCC the construction of ‘Centralen’. footprint considerably. The power plant project The contract covers an underground station and an aims to reduce the use of fossil fuels, restore the approximately two kilometre long train tunnel. As a key Namibian savannah and give the local economy member of the Centralen team, COWI is responsible for a much needed boost. The northern savannah of design, geotechnics, traffic management, environment, Namibia is being encroached on by bushes and risk management and building information modelling (BIM) Photo: Metro Arkitekter trees stealing grass from the cattle and in turn on the project. The West Link Project aims to interconnect taking the bread out of the population’s mouth. The Gothenburg and improve access to the city centre. The biomass project will use the invasive bushes as customer has a strategic wish to reduce its carbon footprint. fuel. The power plant will be able to generate more The construction team is meeting this request through, among electricity than Namibia’s total energy consumption. other initiatives, careful selection of materials and use of rail for transportation of materials to the extent possible. SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI challenges is the Port of Copenhagen The report serves as the required annual project in Copenhagen, which will help solve Communication of Progress for the United AT THE END OF 2016, problems brought on by extreme rainfall. Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As such, its content is structured around the ten principles COWI HAD POLICIES COWI’s specialist competencies together of the UNGC. COVERING THE with the commitment of our customers OUR APPROACH represent and sustain the creativity and In addition, COWI being a company based Our chief potential for reducing environmental impacts lies in our service To this end, we promote diversity and cultivate a culture with clear and high ethical FOLLOWING AREAS: innovation that are needed to meet these in Denmark, the report serves to meet the Through our services, we contribute to sustainable development. delivery and in the solutions we develop standards. Both of these are critical to our global challenges. These are at the core of requirements of Danish law, and contains Sustainable development with and for our customers. This is where efforts to attract talented candidates and our services and our business model, and the green accounts of our Danish company. ›› Transparency and anti-corruption COWI’s vision is to create coherence we direct our efforts, because projects retain outstanding people. where we are able to achieve our greatest It also describes our activities within the ›› Sustainable supply chain in tomorrow’s sustainable societies. providing sustainable solutions are our impact on sustainability. environment, human rights and social ›› COWI Whistleblower hotline Our vision frames our approach to business. SOLUTIONS MEETING GLOBAL responsibility. ›› Business integrity corporate social responsibility (CSR) and CHALLENGES INTEGRATED IN DAY-TO-DAY ›› Diversity and inclusion sustainability, which is to create value for Naturally, we also focus on the sustainable COWI supplies solutions, knowledge and BUSINESS ›› Health and safety (HSE). our customers, key stakeholders, COWI operation of our own facilities. ideas for the development of the modern To mitigate risk, we apply, as an integrated and society. world and the challenges it faces – among part of our quality management system, All policies are available at: Our commitment to sustainability and these, achieving sustainable growth. a project screening tool, which takes into www.cowi.com/sustainability We have a three-pronged approach corporate social responsibility is an account health and safety, as well as security, www.cowi.com/policies where we integrate CSR and extension of our fundamental values and One set of challenges is related to the environmental, social and community sustainability into: mission. This commitment is also reflected growing world population and the increasingly outcomes for all projects carried out by COWI. in our memberships of the UN Global high urbanisation rates across the globe, ›› Business conduct: The way we carry out Compact and the UN Caring for Climate with ensuing pressure on infrastructure, built POLICIES AND GUIDELINESZ our own activities. initiative, as well as our support to the environment, water and energy. These four We have developed a number of policies and ›› Employee behaviour: The way we behave International Federation of Consulting areas frame COWI’s key service areas, which Further challenges are climate change and guidelines on sustainability and CSR, which at the workplace and our obligation to act. Engineers’ (FIDIC) Code of Ethics. means that they are instrumental in providing environmental degradation, which constitute set out the overall framework for how we work ›› Business deliverables: The way we ensure future and sustainable solutions that can threats that need to be overcome by, for on a daily basis. These policies and guidelines that the solutions we design for customers It is essential to COWI and to realising meet the challenges. COWI’s involvement example, low-energy buildings, security are described in this report, and underpin the take environmental and community our strategy that we are among the most in light rail projects in Denmark and Norway measures against adverse weather, and strong correlation that exists between our impacts into consideration. attractive employers for professionals looking exemplifies our commitment to improving recovery of contaminated land. One project values and our business practices. for a career within the consulting industry. liveability in cities. working with the mitigation of such climate COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS 01 02 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should support Businesses should make sure and respect the protection that they are not complicit in of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses. human rights. WORKING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS these, we continue to raise awareness of According to COWI’s 2020 strategy and The support of human rights is rooted in the importance of COWI not contributing our approach to procurement, our goal COWI’s culture and reflected in one of our negatively to human rights in our external is to ensure that all COWI suppliers are five guiding values, ‘respect’, which states: activities, including the work we do for certified. To ensure that our pool of suppliers Through our policy on sustainable customers, our procurement practices and is aligned, in 2017, we aim to recertify all POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES development, we integrate human rights our partners. Internally, our main focus is present suppliers and certify all new suppliers RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS on the right to a safe workplace, with our according to the same requirements. health and safety policy as the overall guide. Respect is one of COWI’s five values. “We respect those DEALING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS HEALTH AND SAFETY WORK In 2016, our work on health and safety › COWI Whistleblower. › FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI. we work with, ON PROJECTS Employee conditions and compliance with continued to focus on the psychosocial working environment and the prevention of PRINCIPLE RELATING TO › Policy on health and safety. › Policy on sustainable development. nature and society. human rights are important to COWI. To work-related stress as well as supervisory HUMAN RIGHTS We respect each ensure that we do not have adverse impacts work on construction sites. The risk of Employee conditions and compliance with All policies are available at on human rights through projects in which physical work injuries is very low in our human rights are important to COWI. To www.cowi.com/sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies other in decisionwe are involved, we operate according to two procedures: Supervision and the obligation to operations. In 2016, 11 injuries causing absence from work were reported compared ensure that we detect any human rights violations on projects in which we are making and act, described on the following page. to 10 injuries in 2015. involved, we operate according to two procedures: implementation. All new employees are introduced to these Due to legal restrictions, we have no specific › Health and safety supervision: COWI seeks We respect two procedures as part of COWI’s ondata on the occurrence of absences due to to increase our influence on project sites boarding programme, and the procedures work-related stress. However, we are aware by offering supervision of safety and health POLICY ON HEALTH AND SAFETY friendship across are included in our training, including in COWI’s award-winning project management of the fact that with a highly committed work force in a knowledge-based company, stressconditions. This allows us to ensure that internationally accepted standards are COWI strives for a healthy and safe working environment, both in our own the organisation, academy, COWI Academy. related illness may represent a substantial risk. To mitigate this risk and in line with our core enforced on a project. operations and in our project-related activities. › Obligation to act: Employees at COWI independent of KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES values, we have designed and implemented have the so-called obligation to act, To meet our objectives, we will: › comply with relevant health and safety › provide employees with an opportunity to influence their own the hierarchy.” Since 2012, COWI has had a sustainable procurement system, which is now used in a robust programme to prevent stress or bring people back to their jobs in cases of meaning that everyone is obligated to act if they see human rights being violated on legislation and standards. working environment in dialogue with › ensure that a safe working environment management. Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Through the debilitating temporary stress. a project. is never compromised for economic or › inform our customers and business in our business. In the policy, we commit system, we assess suppliers on human and productivity reasons. partners if we find violations of health ourselves to taking social aspects into labour rights, ethical standards, social and In 2016, we initiated a health and safety The two procedures are included in our › ensure that project managers instruct and safety standards, labour rights, consideration when carrying out projects, environmental policies, health and safety, project encompassing COWI operations in project management training and COWI’s their teams on specific project-related human rights or unnecessary or illegal and to enhancing our employees’ attention diversity and anti-corruption. We store all Denmark. The aim of the project is to obtain on-boarding programme. health and safety risks and necessary environmental degradation on projects to and knowledge of social conditions. information concerning every supplier in OHSAS 18001 certification (Occupational preventive measures, including the use in which we are involved. our system, which means that the entire Health and Safety Assessment Series). organisation has access to all relevant Completion and implementation are expected of personal protective equipment. This policy is integrated into our risk assessment and training systems. Through supplier information. to take place in the first six months of 2018. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES During 2016, we continued our activities to ensure that COWI employees have state-of-theart skills and competencies, ensuring not only LABOUR RIGHTS their performance on COWI projects, but also their marketability outside COWI. We enhance skills and competencies through COWI Academy and a broad range of training programmes and courses on other subjects. Business ethics are taught and debated as part of the project management training in COWi Academy, ensuring awareness as well as knowledge of the Whistleblower system. PARTNERING FOR TRAINING OF DEAF PEOPLE IN INDIA 03 05 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Indian law requires a mandatory spend of two Businesses should uphold the per cent of net profits on CSR initiatives. To fulfil Businesses should uphold the this obligation, COWI India Private Ltd. (CIL) freedom of association and elimination of all forms of partners with the Noida Deaf Society (NDS), a effective recognition of the right forced and compulsory labour. non-profit organisation bringing education and to collective bargaining. training to hearing impaired in India. For deaf people in India, access to both education and 04 06 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: work is quite limited. Through CIL, we are able to contribute relevant education and employment Businesses should uphold Businesses should uphold the opportunities. the effective abolition of elimination of discrimination child labour. in respect of employment and NOIDA DEAF SOCIETY SCHOOL occupation. Our contribution supports the NDS school, and supports directly the operational costs of educating 120 youths as well as facilitating their access to the labour market. LABOUR RIGHTS ON PROJECTS described in the human rights section also COWI’s diversity action plan for 2016, gender COWI’s relationship with NDS began in 2013, POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS The almost 6,600 people working for applies here. diversity became a focal point in leadership COWI have working conditions in line with training and talent programmes. when five students from NDS were given special RELATING TO LABOUR RIGHTS photogrammetry training; the same training international labour rights. The COWI Whistleblower system is available was conducted again in 2015. Three of these › Respect is one of COWI’s five values. for reporting observations or suspicion of Moreover, COWI included the requirement of students are still employed by COWI India in the › COWI Whistleblower. We support and practise diversity and equal discrimination. gender diversity in framework contracts with Mapping Division. › Policy on sustainable development. opportunities, our employees are free to search and headhunter agencies. Finally, DIVERSITY IS MORE THAN COWI has included gender as a separate › Policy on diversity and inclusion. organise themselves and bargain collectively The agreement between COWI India and NDS › Policy on health and safety. as they wish, and they are all paid a fair A RIGHT item in its bi-annual People Reporting. will be extended for another three years in 2017. › FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI. wage. COWI dissociates itself from all kinds COWI is an international company with The aim is to educate more than 200 youths, of child labour. projects all over the world. We need a WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT and we will continue to offer jobs when suitable diverse work force to develop the best and The share of women in management was 22 All policies are available at job opportunities arise. The main challenge for COWI in terms of best priced solutions, and a management per cent in 2015, but 24 per cent* in 2016 www.cowi.com/sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies labour rights is that potential violations of that reflects the diversity of our business and compared to 30 per cent of all employees these often take place outside our sphere of markets. We believe that embracing diversity being women. influence. They frequently concern migrant is one way of sustaining our position as a labour in the construction industry. We market leader in our fields. In 2013, at board level, COWI set the attempt to meet this challenge by working target that at least two of COWI’s six board according to the following guidelines. It is our standpoint that equal opportunities members should be women by 2017. At the POLICY: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION should be given to everyone, regardless of end of 2016, the board had one female board EMPLOYEES IN THE COWI GROUP COWI views diversity as a competitive advantage that helps us achieve gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic member. Consequently, COWI has been 2015-2016 When COWI has the management the best results for our customers. responsibility of the construction phase of and social origin, disability, political and unable to meet the goal of two female board 2015 2016 a project, we are able to influence labour sexual orientation. members by 2017. To meet our objectives, we: › ensure that our employment and Employees 6,364 6,586 rights conditions at the construction site and › aim to have a diverse workforce that recruitment practices adhere to local act if they are not aligned with national and In 2016, COWI continued its talent A new goal of two female board members has Average age, years 41.5 41.4 mirrors the diversity of our business legislation, wherever we work in the world. international ratified legislation. If we are not management process to identify and build been set for 2020. and markets. › continuously improve equal Women 30% 30% in charge of the supervision of the project, talent as well as improve focus on diversity. › give equal opportunities to everyone, opportunities in our employment and we do not necessarily have access to the We continue to be engaged in relevant Men 70% 70% regardless of gender, age, race, religion, recruitment practices. construction site, and are therefore unaware mentoring programmes with universities. nationality, ethnic and social origin, › work towards creating a culture of Women in management 22% 24% of the human rights and/or labour rights With the aim of increasing the number disability, political and sexual orientation. tolerance and appreciation of difference. standards practised. The obligation to act of women in management, a key item in COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENT 07 09 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: Businesses should support Businesses should encourage a precautionary approach to the development and diffusion POLICIES, PRINCIPLES environmental challenges. of environmentally friendly AND TOOLS RELATED technologies. TO ENVIRONMENTAL 08 PRINCIPLE: PROTECTION Businesses should undertake constant threat to future generations. safeguarded against future cloudbursts In 2016, COWI started work on the and the floods following. Business Line ›› Respect is one of COWI’s five values. initiatives to promote greater ›› Policy on sustainable development. development of two long-term master Denmark is collaborating with architects environmental responsibility. plans dealing with sanitation. The cities and process consultants on integrating ›› Policy on diversity and inclusion. of Lusaka, Zambia, and Nairobi, Kenya, climate proofing in the historic and ›› Policy on health and safety. wished for a strategic approach to preservation-worthy Enghave Park. ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI. dealing with their sanitation issues, and While the general structure of the park COWI is helping them to achieve their is preserved, the project creates space All policies are available at The area of environmental protection is increase the awareness of resourceimprove social cohesion. At the same ambitions. By 2030, their sanitation for 24,000 m³ of excessive water from www.cowi.com/sustainability and where COWI has the greatest potential to conscious behaviour. time, the project will create an arena for situation should be under control. cloudbursts, while the park functions as a www.cowi.com/policies make a difference through our activities. creative professionals, entrepreneurs, green space for citizens when the weather KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES producers and the public sector in the CLOUDBURSTS AND is regular. The project future-proofs the We focus on being a leading consultant A large proportion of our projects carry field of sustainable and innovative ecoURBAN DESIGN area for challenges in the next 100 years. within the development of climate-change some element of climate-conscious agroforestry. By implementing recreational qualities mitigation measures and adaption technologies. Below is a selection of such ›› COWI is preparing input for a white paper in the urban landscape of Copenhagen, solutions in sectors and business lines projects from 2016. on forest and agroforestry management the inhabitants of the capital will be where we have a strong foothold. In strategies. Peri-urban areas and forests line with our climate-change strategy, CLIMATE KIC NORDIC hold an untapped potential to increase we contribute actively to evaluating the COWI is a partner of the Nordic branch regional sustainability and resilience potential for climate solutions and argue of Climate KIC – the EU’s largest through the provision of improved for their implementation, in partnership public-private innovation partnership on carbon sequestration, biofuels, food with our customers. We continue to climate change. It consists of companies, and feed, improved ecosystem services upgrade and develop our skills in this academic institutions and the public sector. and adaptation as well as stimulating area to be able to propose new and more The aim is to transform knowledge and local economic activities. The paper will ASKER PANORAMA environmentally friendly solutions to our ideas into economically viable products highlight the challenges to switching Asker Panorama is one of the first urban building customers. and services that help mitigate and adapt from conventional forest management to projects in Norway that combines biological diversity to climate change. dynamic agroforestry and forestry regions, with dedicated efforts to sustainable handling of water. We will seek to reduce our own impacts and link this to needed innovation in areas, The energy A rated office building uses, among other through carbon-conscious policies and In 2016, COWI started two KIC projects, such as technology, business models and means, groundwater for heating and cooling of the initiatives on the efficiency needs of our Pathfinder and a white paper: value chains, governance and policy. facilities, and its green roof gardens help detain rainwater. customers and our organisation. The data ›› The Pathfinder project aims to create Both the building and the surrounding park are certified to document our progress in this area is climate smart eco-based agroforestry SANITATION in accordance with BREEAM.NOR. For instance, more only available for our Danish activities, and through green business innovation for With the move towards increasing than 100 plant species are integrated in the surrounding is provided in the green accounts on the local production and distribution, and urbanisation, sanitation is a major challenge landscape. In addition, the stream, Drengsrudbekken, has following pages. to contribute to social sustainability and for many cities. Ungoverned flows of been restored so that it be part of the solution to solving integration. Local green sustainable polluted water are not only damaging to the problems of flooding in Asker city centre. Finally, we promote the voluntary development in peri-urban areas and in the health of the inhabitants, but also to the participation of employees in environmental interaction between urban and rural areas environment. The ensuing degradation of initiatives and locally run campaigns to can contribute to creating new jobs and the environment caused by dirty water is a COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COWI’s high-rise head office in Lyngby, COWI’s new office in Oslo is one of the most Denmark, was environmentally upgraded prominent sustainable building projects Photo: DISSING+WEITLING architecture in 2014. The high-rise was awarded a gold in Norway. The overall idea has been to DGNB sustainability certification in 2016, which minimise the building’s footprint on the makes it one of the first Danish offices in use to environment. The eight-floor office building achieve this recognition. The certification criteria is environmentally classified as BREEAM – include environmental and financial qualities, Excellent. It is a passive house and energy sociocultural and technical qualities as well as rated as category A. The building contains process quality. The air quality, acoustics and innovation laboratories in addition to offices indoor temperatures were given high priority, as and it houses an insect hotel on its grounds. they influence employee satisfaction. The entire building and the grounds are integrated in the local landscape. CLIMATE EFFECT PER WORK STATION GREEN ACCOUNTS 3.5 Air travel, as always, accounts for a large part of our 3.0 climate impact: 49 per cent in 2016. The impact per 3.0 2.7 employee in 2016 was 1.1 tonnes CO2 compared to 2.4 2.5 2.5 2.3 1.3 tonnes in 2011. In these figures, the impact of lower 2012 emissions per travelled kilometre due to better airplanes 2.0 2013 Every year, as part of our reporting two of our offices. Naturally, we are has not been taken into account. The decrease is 2014 1.5 2016 2015 on the Communication on Progress, investigating the reasons for this in order CLIMATE EFFECT ON CATEGORIES therefore caused by a higher awareness regarding we publish our carbon footprint for a to pick up on the downward trend. responsible use of air travel. 1.0 given year and the trend for the last five 0.5 7500 years for COWI activities in Denmark. Emissions per employee from road Data covers all activities in Denmark, transport have increased, while train 0.0 including corporate functions, as well as transport has decreased. This is due 6500 the Danish part of our global business to an increase in road transport by the line, Bridge, Tunnels and Marine. employees’ own cars, which may be due 5500 to a more complicated ticketing system In 2016, we continued the positive trend for Danish public transport, making of reducing our environmental footprint transport by own car more enticing. We 4500 as shown in the graphs. The numbers also need to look into this factor. displayed are CO2 equivalents which GUIDELINE: SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 3500 encompass all greenhouse gases. The emissions from transport in COWI COWI procures goods and services at the best terms, assessing total costs, Since 2011, we have reduced our CO2 cars have decreased even further quality and sustainability. emissions per employee by 33 per thanks to the continuing switch to 2500 cent and since 2008 by 50 per cent. hybrid and electric cars in the COWI To meet our objective, we will: › avoid products containing hazardous The decreasing emission factors for fleet. Our paper usage has gone 1500 › integrate sustainability requirements substances. electricity in Denmark and the renewal up, but we still almost solely use in our supplier and sub-consultant › consider the emissions of CO2 when of the car pool contribute to this positive environmentally certified paper. approval process. booking business trips. development together with our constant 500 › give preference to water and › consider whether a business trip can striving to reduce the use of heat, Finally, the reuse of waste led to CO2 energy-efficient products to reduce be replaced by a video conference or electricity and water. savings of 90 tonnes in 2016. These 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 -500 consumption rates. other information and communication results are due to our procurement Heat, natural gas District heating Electricity › give preference to environmentally friendly technology. Unfortunately, 2016 saw an increase in principles and our constant attention to Water Paper usage Mail products and recyclable products. › report on the results of our efforts. the amounts used compared to 2015, saving energy where we can. Transport by car Transport by train Transport by air Recycling, total Incineration, total Landfill, total mainly due to a very large increase at Special waste, total COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY AND TOOL: COWI WHISTLEBLOWER COWI wishes to maintain a high standard of business ethics and encourages anyone to talk to their line manager about BRIDGES TO PROSPERITY: RIO ABAJO BRIDGE concerns regarding business ethics. If they The Rio Abajo Bridge in Nicaragua is a Bridges to Prosperity feel uncomfortable doing so, they can use project. Bridges to Prosperity is a non-profit organisation that the COWI Whistleblower system. works with bridge designers, constructers, local governments and student groups to build essential footbridges To meet our objectives, we will: together with rural communities in less developed parts of 10 › ensure that any concerns raised through the world. The Rio Abajo bridge is an 81-metre footbridge PRINCIPLE: the Whistleblower are investigated, and over a fast-moving river. It provides people living on the Businesses should support appropriate action taken. other side of the river with year-round access to the schools, › allow everyone, including employees, clinics and markets of a nearby town. The COWI team comand respect the protection pleted the project on an accelerated construction schedule former employees, sub-contractors, of internationally proclaimed despite challenges caused by the rural environment and agency staff and business partners, to human rights. use the Whistleblower system. language barriers. › allow whistleblower notifications within: › Violation of law, regulations and internal policies › Misbehaviour with regard to accounting and auditing › Fraud, theft and conflicts of interest AGAINST ALL FORMS In COWI, we believe that the adoption is carried out in one of those areas. In › Improper giving or receiving of gifts OF CORRUPTION of good governance, transparency and 2016, 100 countries were on the list. › Discrimination and harassment We strongly believe and every day we accountability into day-to-day business is the › Violation of environmental protection, prove that it is possible to achieve success best prevention against corruption. WHISTLEBLOWER USE health and safety legislation without accepting or engaging in any form Six cases were reported into our › Unfair bidding procedures and of corruption. We have a business integrity COWI’s Whistleblower system enables Whistleblower hotline in 2016 as opposed scientific misconduct employees and external stakeholders to three cases in 2015. These were › Make the Whistleblower publicly to report anonymously any violations of all reported to the Board of Directors, available via www.COWI.com › Continuously train our employees “We will not in our principles on business integrity and sustainable development. It is important that investigated at corporate level or passed on to local management for follow-up. to maintain our culture of integrity our services our employees have a joint under-standing of our business integrity and honesty, and inform them of the Whistleblower system. or in any other policy and are familiar with the COWI POLICY: BUSINESS INTEGRITY Whistleblower system, which can help the activity, directly or business and prevent future offences as well COWI wishes to maintain its impartiality indirectly, accept as unethical behaviour. and independence, and contribute globally to the fair conduct of business, avoiding POLICIES, PRINCIPLES bribery, extortion, KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES In 2016, COWI’s business integrity AND TOOLS RELATING extraneous influence on selection, execution or compensation procedures. We will not fraud, collusion or compliance project was approved and TO ANTI-CORRUPTION in our services or in any other activities, directly or indirectly, accept bribery, Group-wide roll-out initiated. It entails any other undue that we are expanding our due diligence › Integrity is one of COWI’s five values. extortion, fraud, collusion or any other business activity.” practice to include an increased number undue business activity. › Business integrity policy. of partners and customers in relation to › Corporate practice on business integrity. anti-corruption. This means that, in 2017, To meet our objectives, we will: › COWI Whistleblower. policy to support this belief, which states: processes and IT systems in COWI will be › continuously train our employees in the › FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI. Each member of the COWI Group is restructured to handle the new practices. area of business integrity. required to implement business integrity › continuously develop and maintain All policies are available at management. This should be done in As part of our risk management system, proper tools to help and guide our www.cowi.com/ sustainability accordance with the FIDIC Code of Ethics, COWI reviews twice a year an internal employees. www.cowi.com/policies COWI’s business integrity policies and list of countries that our business lines guidelines, and with the laws applicable define as high-risk areas in terms of in the company’s home country and the concerns related to personal security or countries of operation. business climate. We apply enhanced risk management, if, as an exception, a project COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact is an initiative launched in January 1999 by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. It is a call to businesses worldwide to help build social and environmental frameworks that ensure open and free markets, and to help people everywhere get a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses ten principles spanning everything from international declarations on human rights and labour rights to environmental and corruption issues. This insect hotel is located on the premises of COWI’s new headquarters in Oslo. Insect hotels are becoming increasingly popular, because they are able to provide the insects naturally living in the area with accomodation reminiscent of their natural habitat. The idea is to provide insects with a ‘home’ until the surroundings again resemble the wooded areas they were before construction began. Aarhus Light Rail brings a whole new dimension to Denmark’s second ADDRESS Parallelvej 2 largest city. COWI is a consultant on this exciting project which will enable 2800 Kongens Lyngby the population of Aarhus to travel in an environmentally-friendly way. Denmark The light rail not only significantly reduces the number of cars in the city, PHONE +45 56 40 00 00 it lowers the emission of exhaust gasses. Environmental concerns are EMAIL cowi@cowi.com an integrated element of this project. For instance, heat pumps reduce WWW cowi.com energy consumption in the Workshops and Control & Maintenance Centre, and greens roofs ensure that the water is handled locally. In addition, where possible wildlife passages are being constructed to ensure that fauna can continue to cross the track. Photo: Aarhus Letbane
