Building Bridges forPATIENT CARE 2 0 1 6 R E G I S T R AT I O N D O C U M E N T SUMMARY GENERAL INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS 2 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 135 3.1 Human resources 136 INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES 3 3.1.1 Group workforce 136 3.1.2 The Group’s Human Resources policy 138 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 5 3.2 Environment, Health and Safety 140 1.1 Group’s overview and strategy 6 3.2.1 Regulatory Issues 140 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company 6 3.2.2 EHS Policy 141 3.2.3 EHS 2016 Performance 142 1.1.2 Group Strategy 8 3.2.4 Internal resources 151 1.2 Group’s activity and corporate structure 9 3.2.5 2  016 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication 1.2.1 The Group’s products 9 on Progress 151 1.2.2 Major Contracts 14 3.3 Social & societal information 154 1.2.3 Research and Development 18 3.3.1 Social relations 154 1.2.4 Intellectual Property 23 3.3.2 Societal information 155 1.2.5 Main Markets 25 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1.2.6 Regulations 26 AND LEGAL INFORMATION 165 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure 27 4.1 Corporate governance 166 1.2.8 Risks Factors 28 4.1.1 P  resentation of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee 166 4.1.2 R  eports of the Chairman of the Board 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 39 and the Statutory Auditors 186 2.1 Management report for the financial year 40 4.1.3 Compensation of directors and officers 203 2.1.1 Significant events during the year 40 4.1.4 A  greements entered into by the Group with 2.1.2 Analysis of results 41 its senior executives or principal shareholders and Statutory Auditors’ Report 221 2.1.3 Net cash flow and financing 47 4.2 Information Related to the Company 2.1.4 Appendices 50 and its Share Capital 225 2.1.5 Subsequent events 56 4.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association 225 2.1.6 Group outlook 56 4.2.2 Share Capital 227 4.2.3 Shareholding 234 2.2 Consolidated financial statements 57 2.2.1 Consolidated income statement 57 5 ANNEXES 239 2.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation 5.1 Person responsible 240 of net profit 59 5.1.1 A  ttestation of the person responsible 2.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow 60 for the registration document 240 2.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ 5.1.2 Person responsible for financial information 240 equity 61 5.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees 240 2.2.5 Notes 63 5.2 Third party information, statements by experts 2.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated and declarations of interests 241 financial statements 114 5.3 Consultation of legal documents 241 2.3 2016 Company financial statements 116 5.4 Components of the registration document, Board of directors’ report included in the registration 2.3.1 Summary document 116 document and Annual Financial Report 241 2.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements 118 5.4.1 Component of the Annual Financial Report 241 2.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial 5.4.2 Correspondence table for the registration document 242 statements 131 2.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity 132 6 INDEX 247 This registration document has been established in accordance with the Appendix 1 of the European Commission Regulation n°809/2004 dated April 29, 2004. Société anonyme with a share capital of 83,580,494 euros Registered office: 65 quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt 419 838 529 R.C.S. Nanterre 2016 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Pursuant to the provisions of its general regulations, in particular article 212-13, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) has registered this registration document on 27 March 2017, under number D.17-0231. This document may not be used in support of any financial operation unless it is accompanied by a prospectus approved by the AMF. This document has been prepared by the issuer, and its signatories assume responsibility for its contents. Pursuant to the provisions of article 28 of EC regulation 809/2004 of 29 April 2004, readers are referred to the Document de Référence for Ipsen recorded by the AMF on 29 March 2016 under number D.16-0216 for the 2015 financial year and on 27 March 2015 under number D.15-0221 for the 2014 financial year, for the following financial information, prepared under IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standard): historical and consolidated financial statement (including the auditors’ reports). GENERAL INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS In this registration document, unless stated otherwise, Investors are urged to pay careful attention to the risk factors the terms “Company” and “Ipsen” refer to Ipsen S.A. and described in paragraphs 1.2.8.1, 1.2.8.2, 1.2.8.3, 1.2.8.4, the term “Group” refers to Ipsen and its subsidiaries and 1.2.8.5 and 1.2.8.6 of this registration document before shareholdings. making their investment decision. One or more of these risks may have an adverse effect on the Group’s activities, This registration document contains for ward-looking condition, results of operations or on its targets and forecasts. statements about the Group’s targets and forecasts, especially Furthermore, other risks not yet identified or considered as in Chapter 2.1.4. Such statements may in certain cases be significant by the Group could have the same adverse effects, identified by the use of the future or conditional tense or by and investors may lose all or part of their investment. forward-looking words including but not limited to “believes”, This registration document also contains details of the markets “targets”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “should”, “aims”, “estimates”, in which the Group operates. This information is notably taken “considers”, “wishes” and “may”. These statements are based from research produced by external organizations. Given the on data, assumptions and estimates that the Company very rapid pace of change in the pharmaceutical sector in considers to be reasonable. They are subject to change or France and the rest of the world, this information may prove to adjustment owing to uncertainties arising from the vagaries be erroneous or out of date. inherent in all research and development activities, as well as in the economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and climatic Forward-looking statements, targets and forecasts shown in environment. In addition, the Group’s business activities and this registration document may be affected by risks, either its ability to meet its targets and forecasts may be affected known or unknown, uncertainties or other factors that may if certain of the risk factors described in Chapter 1.2.8 – lead to the Group’s future results of operations, performance “Risk factors” of this registration document arise. In addition, and achievements differing significantly from the stated or attainment of the targets and forecasts implies the success implied targets and forecasts. These factors may include of the strategy presented in section 1.1.2 – “Strategy” of this changes in economic or trading conditions and regulations, registration document. as well as the factors set forth in Chapter 1.2.8 – “Risk factors” of this registration document. The Company makes no undertaking and gives no guarantee as to attainment of the targets and forecasts shown in this registration document. 2 2016 Ipsen Registration document INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES 2016 Group sales by therapeutic areas 2016 Group sales by geographic areas Specialty Major Western Care Oncology European Other 80.3% 57.1% countries European 36.1% Countries 22.0% Endocrinology 5.1% Neurosciences 18.1% Primary Care North America Rest of the World 19.7% 17.2% 24.7% Core Operating Income (in millions of euros)(1) Core consolidated net profit (in millions of euros)(1) 364 328 264 234 2015 2016 2015 2016 Ownership of the Company’s share capital Dividend per share paid for the financial year (in euros) at 31 December 2016 0.85 0.85 FCPE Mayroy SA 0.2% 56.6% Treasury shares 1.4% Other registered shareholders 0.9% Directors Free Float (ex. Mayroy SA) 2015 2016 40.7% 0.2% (1) New definition of Core financial measures which excludes amortization of intangible assets (excluding software), gain or loss on disposal of fixed assets, restructuring costs, impairment losses and other non-core items. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 3 INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES Share price performance on the stock exchange Ipsen shares joined the Deferred Settlement System on Shares in Ipsen S.A. have been traded on the Eurolist by 28 March 2007. Euronext™ market (Compartment A) since 7 December 2005, Ipsen has implemented a Sponsored Level I American when the IPO (Initial Public Offering) price was €22.20 per Depositary Receipt (ADR) program and trades on the overshare. the-counter market in the United States under the symbol Ipsen shares joined the SBF120 index on 24 December 2007. IPSEY. Share information 2016 trading data ISIN Code FR0010259150 Average share price €56.8 Euronext Code IPN.PA Highest price (29/12/2016) €69.0 ADR Code IPSEY Lowest price (21/03/2016) €47.1 SRD / PEA Eligibility Yes / Yes Stock market capitalization (1) €5,740.4M Total Shares (1) 83.6 M Average daily volume 82,393.0 (1) As of 31 December 2016. Comparison between Ipsen’s share price performance and the principal stock market indicators between 4 January 2016 and 30 December 2016 (Source: Reuters) Price (€) Volume 75 1,000,000 70 800,000 65 600,000 60 55 400,000 50 200,000 45 40 0 January 16 January 16 February 16 March 16 March 16 April 16 May 16 May 16 June 16 July 16 July 16 August 16 August 16 September 16 October 16 October 16 November 16 December 16 December 16 Volume Ipsen SBF 120 S&P 500 Pharma CAC Mid 60 4 2016 Ipsen Registration document 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1.1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 6 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company 6 1.1.2 Group Strategy 8 1.2 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 9 1.2.1 The Group’s products 9 1.2.2 Major Contracts 14 1.2.3 Research and Development 18 1.2.4 Intellectual Property 23 1.2.5 Main Markets 25 1.2.6 Regulations 26 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure 27 1.2.8 Risks Factors 28 1.2.8.1 Specific Risks to the Group and its Structure 28 1.2.8.1.1 Dependence on products 28 1.2.8.1.2 Dependence on third parties 28 1.2.8.1.2.1 To ensure the Research and Development portfolio success 28 1.2.8.1.2.2 To manufacture certain products 28 1.2.8.1.2.3 To develop and market certain products 29 1.2.8.1.2.4 Related to intellectual property 29 Group’s intellectual property 29 Third party intellectual property 29 1.2.8.1.2.5 Dependence on certain managing executives scientists, and social relations 29 1.2.8.1.3 Risks associated with the Group’s international activities 30 1.2.8.1.4 Risks associated with information systems 30 1.2.8.2 Risks Associated with the Pharmaceutical Industry 30 1.2.8.2.1 Risks associated with market competition 30 1.2.8.2.2 Dependence on drug prices and their inclusion on the list of reimbursable drugs 30 1.2.8.2.3 Risks associated with Research and Development failures 31 1.2.8.2.4 Uncertainty as to the approval of products under development and their marketing 31 1.2.8.2.5 Risks associated with supply shortages and other disruptions 32 1.2.8.2.6 Risks associated with the sale of products for unauthorized uses and to generic drugs 32 1.2.8.3 Legal Risks 32 1.2.8.3.1 Reference shareholder 32 1.2.8.3.2 General business risks 32 1.2.8.3.2.1 Undesired disclosure of critical information 32 1.2.8.3.2.2 Legal and administrative proceedings 33 1.2.8.3.2.3 Dependence on the Group’s intellectual property rights 33 1.2.8.3.2.4 Risks associated with patent infringement 33 1.2.8.3.2.5 Risks associated with the counterfeiting of Group products 34 1.2.8.3.2.6 Risks associated with product liability 34 1.2.8.4 Financial Risks 34 1.2.8.4.1 Market risks 34 1.2.8.4.2 Exchange rate risks 34 1.2.8.4.3 Interest rate risks 35 1.2.8.4.4 Liquidity and counterparty risks 35 1.2.8.4.5 Risks associated with economic and financial crisis 35 1.2.8.4.6 The Company’s share price may fluctuate 35 1.2.8.5 Industrial and Environmental Risks 35 1.2.8.5.1 Use of dangerous substances 35 1.2.8.5.2 Environmental risks 36 1.2.8.5.3 Dependence on production facilities 36 1.2.8.6 Insurance and Protection Against Risks 36 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 1.1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company ■■1.1.1.1 Legal Entity Overview the pursuit of its inspiring vocation more vital than ever: finding Registered name effective therapeutic solutions to cure or relieve patients and bring value to the community. Ipsen • Ambition Registered office Ipsen aims to be among the top 10 pharmaceutical companies 65 Quai Georges Gorse, 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt cedex in the world in terms of growth and profitability and wants to Telephone number become respected above all for its strategic model, success, +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00 and the commitment of our teams towards patients. Legal Form and applicable laws The Group’s competitive edge The Company is a limited liability company incorporated The Group believes that it has the following competitive under French law with a Board of Directors governed by the advantages: provisions of Book II of the French Commercial Code. • Proven financial strength through a significant and recurring Registration details cash flow and strong balance sheet; The Company is registered in the Trade and Companies • An international presence in over 100 countries, with Registry in Nanterre under registration number 419 838 529. core operations in Europe’s five largest markets (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom). The Group Date of incorporation and term also benefits from an important historical presence in The company was incorporated on 28 July 1998, for a fixed emerging markets, such as China and Russia. Moreover, in period, except in the case of early dissolution or extension, 2008, it entered the US market – the largest pharmaceutical of ninety-nine years from its registration in the Register of market in the world – and today has achieved solid growth Commerce and Companies, or until 18 August 2097. there; ■■1.1.1.2 Group Overview • Proven expertise in cutting-edge technologies, such as peptide and toxin engineering and advanced drug delivery Ipsen is a global specialty-driven pharmaceutical group systems, which can be employed together at an early stage created in 1929 with a total worldwide staff of 4,907 people, of development; over 20 products on the market and sales in excess of €1.5 billion. Its portfolio comprises specialty care drugs in • The geographic proximity of its integrated technological development or commercialized worldwide in targeted fastplatforms based in the United States (Cambridge, MA) growing therapeutic areas (Oncology, Neurosciences, and and in Europe (Abingdon-Oxford, Dreux, Dublin, Paris, Endocrinology) which represent the Group’s development and Slough) to highly-regarded university research centers priorities. Moreover, the Group markets drugs in other that enable the Group to benefit from available scientific therapeutic areas in which it has historical expertise, in expertise and to hire highly qualified personnel; particular gastroenterology and cognitive disorders. • A recognized ability to establish and manage large-scale Ipsen’s strategy is also supported by an active policy of partnerships with the world’s leading pharmaceutical partnerships. Ipsen’s specific Research & Development (R&D) companies, such as Roche, Teijin, Exelixis and Menarini; centers and engineering platforms of peptides and toxins • An effective management team with significant experience provide the Group with a competitive advantage. In 2016, wor k ing with the world’s le ading phar maceutical R&D spending reached €208.9 million, which represents companies, as well as a new cross-divisional organizational about 13.2% of total sales. structure. The new organizational structure is built around The Group’s vision and ambition the Research and Development department to propose new molecules and conduct proof of concept (Phase IIa) • Vision testing and has franchises in each therapeutic area Improving the lives of patients is what drives Ipsen, and the (Oncology, Neurosciences, Endocrinology), responsible for search for innovative solutions to disabling conditions is at the defining target product profiles from Phase IIb to marketing heart of everything it does. Increased life expectancy makes approval. 6 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY ■■1.1.1.3 Group’s Main Products The following table presents the main therapeutic indications for the Group’s main products. 2016 sales Product name Therapeutic area(1) (in millions of Principal therapeutic indications(2) euros) Specialty Care: 80.3% of full year sales Somatuline® Oncology 538.3 Neuroendocrine Tumors; acromegaly Decapeptyl® Oncology 339.8 Advanced metastatic prostate cancer; uterine fibroids; precocious puberty; endometriosis; female sterility (in vitro fertilization) Hexvix® Oncology 18.3 Improvement of the detection and resection of non-invasive bladder cancer Cabometyx® Oncology 7.2 Renal cell carcinoma Cometriq® Oncology 1.2 Medullary thyroid cancer Dysport® Neurosciences 284.7 Motor disorders and muscular spasticity (cervical dystonia; cerebral palsy; blepharospasms and hemifacial spasms) NutropinAq® Endocrinology 57.7 Growth failure in children due to growth hormone (GH) deficiency, Turner syndrome or chronic renal failure and GH deficiency in adults Increlex® Endocrinology 23.7 Long-term treatment of growth failure in children and adolescents with severe primary insulin-like growth factor-1 deficiency (severe primary IGFD-1) Primary Care: 19.7% of full year sales Smecta® Gastroenterology 111.0 Chronic and acute diarrhoea; symptomatic treatment of pain linked to oesogastroduodenal conditions and colic Forlax® Gastroenterology 39.3 Constipation Tanakan ® Cognitive disorders 43.6 Mild cognitive impairment related to age; pathophysiological deficiencies; vertigo; retinal deficits; acute or chronic hearing impairment; tinnitus (1) Products are classified into therapeutic areas based on their primary indications. (2) Therapeutic indications of products vary from country to country. ■■1.1.1.4 Important Events in the Group’s History During the 1980s, ties were forged with Debiopharm. These partnerships led to the marketing of Decapeptyl®, which was The Group started in 1929 when Doctor Henri Beaufour set up the first oncology drug launched by the Group in 1986 and Laboratoires Beaufour in Dreux for the launch of Romarène®, drove the Group’s international expansion. a naturally-occurring product derived from rosemary for the treatment of digestive disorders. In 1954, the Group launched In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Group continued Citrate de Betaïne ®, a product used in the symptomatic its international expansion by setting up subsidiaries and treatment of dyspepsia. Following the opening in 1969 of the offices outside of France and acquiring foreign companies. Group’s French research facility, the Institut Henri Beaufour, In 1992, the Group initiated its expansion in China, initially the 1970s was a period of expansion for the Group’s activities by establishing representative offices and then by setting in organic products. During these years, Ipsen launched up a subsidiary in 1997 to establish an active presence Tanakan® and Smecta®, which remain major products for the there. In 2000, the Group opened a manufacturing facility Group. to produce Smecta ® for the Chinese market. The Group employs approximatively 600 people in China today. During the 1970s, the Group decided to focus its activities on engineering peptide products, which represented a In order to strengthen its presence in the United Kingdom, visionary strategic advancement. In pursuit of this goal, Northern Europe, and the United States, as well as to build a the Group fostered close relationships with universities in sales platform for its biological products, the Group acquired the United States and set up Biomeasure (now known as the UK-based company Speywood (known at the time Ipsen Bioscience, Inc), which is the Group’s peptide product as Porton International) in 1994, which is responsible for research facility based close to universities around Boston. developing Dysport®. In March 1995, the Group launched its Through Biomeasure, relationships were established and second sustained-release peptide, Somatuline ® in France, fostered with several American universities. and then launched Forlax® in February 1996. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 7 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY During the 2000s, the Group defined and implemented toxins. The Group‘s active policy to build partnerships allows a strategy for Ipsen. This two-fold strategy consisted of it to obtain the resources for programs it does not wish to optimizing its primary care presence by making selective finance independently or to create value through the licensing investments in lifecycle management through partnerships of products that arise from its research but are not deemed or research and development and of pursing the growth and as part of its core business (see part 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). globalization of its specialty care activities. In this context, the Group has granted exclusive European rights for the development, and distribution of its botulinum The Group went public in December 2005 on the Eurolist toxin type A in its aesthetic indications to Galderma. This market of Euronext™ in order to accelerate and support partnership was reinforced in 2014 for the development and its growth in specialty care and to enter the world’s largest commercialization of neurotoxins mainly in the US, Canada, pharmaceutical market in North America. and Brazil. During the 2010s, the Group increased its focus and In 2014, the Group implemented a new organization by investment in technological platforms, i.e. peptides and separating its Specialty Care and Primary Care businesses. 1.1.2 Group Strategy The Group’s strategy is built on a focus on Specialty Care Primary Care: in niche therapeutic areas and on Primary Care in the • optimization of the GI portfolio; gastrointestinal field. • diversification on adjacent GI pathologies; Specialty Care: • reinforcement of geographical coverage. • a focus on three niche therapeutic areas where Ipsen has The Group is also building an OTx(1) commercial model to the potential to become a leader: neuroendocrine tumors, benefit from its strong brand recognition and to maximize its spasticity, and the aesthetic indication of Dysport® through commercial reach. our partnership with Galderma; • the reinforcement of the Group’s presence in its External growth: historical therapeutic areas: urology-oncology and adult The Group continues its business development efforts by endocrinology; simultaneously targeting molecules under development and • the exploration of adjacent therapeutic are as: in commercialized products in the Group’s targeted therapeutic gastrointestinal (GI) and orphan cancers. areas, in the US, Europe, and emerging markets. The Group is also considering external growth to reinforce its Primary Care In order to bring new specialty care products to the market business in Europe and emerging markets. In line with the in the Group’s targeted therapeutic areas, Research & strategy of exploring adjacent therapeutic areas, the Group Development (R&D) continues to focus on two differentiated will also look for opportunities in gastrointestinal and orphan and innovative technological platforms, peptides and toxins. cancers. In line with the strategy of exploring adjacent segments, R&D will also deploy resources for the development of molecules for the treatment of gastrointestinal and orphan cancers. Moreover, R&D will continue its efforts to enter partnerships and make acquisitions to complement its internal pipeline. (1) OTx: Dual channel approach (Rx/OTC). 8 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.1 The Group’s products ■■1.2.1.1 Specialty Care products Somatuline® Depot® received “orphan drug” exclusivity in the United States for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors Oncology which runs until 2021. Somatuline® and Somatuline® Autogel® In 2012, Japanese authorities approved Somatuline® Autogel® Active substance and indications for the treatment of acromegaly. The Group’s Japanese partner, Teijin Pharma, commercially launched the product in Somatuline ® is made of the active substance lanreotide, January 2013. which is a somatostatin analogue that inhibits the secretion of growth hormone and certain hormones secreted by the As of 31 December 2016, Somatuline® Autogel® (lanreotide) digestive system. was marketed in 57 countries (including 27 in Europe) for the treatment of acromegaly and neuroendocrine tumors. The main indications of Somatuline ® and Somatuline ® Autogel® are the following: In 2016, Somatuline ® sales represented 34% of total Ipsen sales, of which 39% were generated in North America. • Acromegaly Somatuline ® Autogel ® / Depot ® is prescribed mainly by Treatment of acromegaly when circulating levels of growth endocrinologists, oncologists, gastroenterologists, and hormone and/or Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 remain digestive surgeons. abnormal after surgery and/or radiotherapy, or in patients who otherwise require medical treatment. Competition The main competitors of Somatuline ® Autogel ® are Somatuline ® inhibits growth hormone release and thus (i) Sandostatin ® L AR ®, a somatostatin analogue called improves control of this disorder by relieving the symptoms octreotide developed by Novartis for the treatment of associated with elevated levels of this hormone. acromegaly and neuroendocrine tumors; (ii) Somavert ®, a • Neuroendocrine tumors growth hormone receptor antagonist developed by Pfizer and indicated in acromegaly only; and (iii) Signifor ® LAR®, a –– Treatment of symptoms associated with carcinoid new generation of somatostatin analogue® targeting different syndrome related to neuroendocrine tumors (ex-US). somatostatin receptors developed by Novartis and indicated Somatuline inhibits the production of certain hormones in Europe for the treatment of adults patients with acromegaly secreted in excess by these tumors; for whom surgery is not an option or has not been curative and who are inadequately controlled on treatment with a first–– Anti-proliferative treatment of gastroenteropancreatic generation somatostatin analogue. neuroendocrine tumors (Somatuline® Autogel® / Depot®). Sandostatin® LAR Depot ®, Somavert ® and Signifor ® LAR® A new galenic formulation was launched in 2001. This are available in many countries, including the United formulation, Somatuline ® Autogel ®, is the first semi-solid States. A number of pharmaceutical companies, including formulation for injection without any polymeric excipient since Midatech and Camurus/Novartis, are engaged in research the active substance itself controls the sustained release. and development activities on octreotide sustained-release Somatuline® Autogel® releases the active substance over the formulations. duration of at least 28 days, thus requiring just one deep subcutaneous injection per month when compared with the two Decapeptyl® or three injections previously required. This unique formulation Active substance and indications allows the product to be presented in a pre-filled, ready-touse syringe (single use only) for easier administration. More Decapeptyl ® is a synthetic hormone made of triptorelin, a recently a new pre-filled ready-to-use device was launched in decapeptide analogue of GnRH (Gonadotrophin Releasing 2011 with a retractable needle enabling the safe delivery of the Hormone). GnRH is a hormone secreted by the hypothalamus, full dose at every injection. which initially stimulates the release of pituitary gonadotrophins (hormones produced by the pituitary gland) and in turn controls Marketing hormonal secretions by the testicles and ovaries. Somatuline ® was initially launched in France in 1995 and The indications of Decapeptyl® are as follows: the Somatuline® Autogel® formulation in 2001. Somatuline® Depot ® was first approved by the US Food and Drug • Treatment of locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer: Administration in August 2007 for the treatment of acromegaly In this indication, Decapeptyl® temporarily increases the and was then approved in 2014 for the anti-proliferative concentration of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone, treatment of GEP-NET. Somatuline® Depot® became the first but continuous administration paradoxically leads to a and only somatostatin analogue FDA-approved for this last reduction in plasmatic testosterone concentration. After indication. two to three weeks of treatment, testosterone is reduced 2016 Ipsen Registration document 9 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE to levels below the castration threshold, thereby depriving NMIBC. These benefits have been proven in several clinical prostate tumors of one of the main hormones promoting trials as well as in real-life studies. tumor development; Diagnosis with Hexvix® guided blue light cystoscopy relies • Uterine fibroids: Decapeptyl is used to reduce the risk ® on the selective accumulation of protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) in of blood loss following ablative surgery to remove uterine neoplastic cells. After Hexvix® instillation, PpIX accumulation fibroids and to relieve symptoms such as abdominal pain, in tumors is improved by up to 10 times compared to dysmenorrhoea (painful menstruation), and menorrhagia normal tissue. Intracellular porphyrins are photosensitizing (excessive menstrual bleeding) associated with uterine compounds that emit red fluorescence under subsequent fibroids through the reduction in their hormonal stimulation; blue light excitation, which enables accurate visualization of the tumor. • Endometriosis: Decapeptyl ® is aimed at suppressing oestrogen secretion, which deprives the ectopic endometrial Marketing tissue of the critical stimulus it needs to grow; Hexvix ® was developed by Photocure, which operates in • In vitro fertilization: Decapeptyl is used in association with ® Scandinavia and the United States. Ipsen is responsible gonadotropins to induce ovulation for in vitro fertilization for the commercialization of Hexvix ® in other territories, followed by embryo transfer; particularly in Europe. • Precocious puberty: Decapeptyl ® is used to inhibit an Cabometyx® over secretion of hormones by the pituitary gland, which Active substance and indications improves the height age/bone age ratio. Cabometyx ® (active substance: cabozantinib) is a smallDecapeptyl® is available in daily, monthly, quarterly, and semimolecule administered orally in the form of tablets that acts as annual sustained-release formulations. a targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). With a unique mechanism of action targeting MET and Marketing AXL beyond VEGFR (Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor At 31 December 2016, Decapept yl ® had marketing Receptor), Cabometyx® has the potential to overcome the authorizations in over 66 countries, including 29 in Europe. resistance induced by prior antiangiogenic therapies. The mechanism of action for Cabometyx ® has been shown to In 2016, Decapeptyl® sales represented 21% of total Ipsen inhibit angiogenesis and the migration and proliferation of sales, of which 49% were generated in the major Western tumor cells. European countries (G5). Emerging countries represent an increasingly large portion of Decapeptyl ® sales and China Cabometyx ® is indicated for the treatment of advanced was the first contributor to Decapeptyl ® sales in 2016. In renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in adults following prior vascular China, Ipsen was the first pharmaceutical company to launch endothelial growth factor (VEGF) targeted therapy. a 3-month formulation as early as 2010. Decapeptyl ® is This is based on the results from the randomized study prescribed primarily by the following specialists: urologists, METEOR, an open-label, multi-national, multi-center Phase 3 oncologists, radiotherapists, paediatric endocrinologists, trial that compared the efficacy of cabozantinib with that of gynaecologists, obstetricians, and in vitro fertilization everolimus in patients with advanced RCC who received at specialists. least one prior VEGFR-TKI. Decapeptyl ® stems from a partnership with Debiopharm Marketing (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). On 1 March 2016, Exelixis granted the Group exclusive Competition licensing rights for the commercialization and fur ther development of cabozantinib indications outside of the Competitors’ products vary depending on their therapeutic United States, Canada, and Japan (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major indications, the main ones being: Enantone® (Takeda/Wyeth/ Contracts”). Abbott), Zoladex® (AstraZeneca), Eligard® (Astellas) and, for in vitro fertilization, Cetrotide® (Merck Serono) and Orgalutran® In September 2016, the European Commission approved (MSD). Ipsen’s Cabometyx ® (cabozantinib) for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in adults following prior VEGF-targeted therapy. Hexvix® RCC drugs are generally prescribed by oncologists but can Active substance and indications be prescribed by urologists in some countries. Hexvix ® (hexaminolevulinate, 85 mg) is a photosensitizing agent used in the detection and treatment of bladder cancer. Competition Hexvix® enhances the detection of tumors and helps in the In second line RCC, five other treatments are approved in surgical resection of the bladder, and therefore improves the Europe. Three products have been marketed for several treatment for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). years: Nexavar ® (Bayer), Afinitor ® (Novartis), and Inlyta ® The agent was designed to generate selective fluorescence in (Pfizer). Two products received approval in 2016: Opdivo ® neoplastic cells in the bladder during transurethral resection, (BMS) on 6 April 2016, and Kisplyx® (Eisai), in combination thus improving detection, resection, and time to recurrence of with Afinitor® on 25 August 2016. 10 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE In the most recent ESMO RCC guidelines, only Cabometyx® Dysport ® is used in therapeutics and aesthetics for the and Opdivo® are considered standards in second line postfollowing indications: TKI. Nexavar ®, Afinitor ®, and Inlyta ® are only considered options, while Kisplyx®+Afinitor® was not included. • Treatment of local spasticity in adult upper and/or lower limbs. Spasticity is characterized by uncontrollable muscle Cabometyx® is the first and only targeted therapy in second contractions that are often accompanied by pain and line RCC to demonstrate clinically and statistically significant reduced muscle function, e.g. difficulty in walking and a improvement across three endpoints (PFS, OS and ORR), reduced use of the hands or the entire upper limb. Spasticity with a convenient one pill once daily regimen. can appear after a stroke, in patients suffering from multiple sclerosis, in spinal cord and trauma brain injury patients, Cometriq® and in adult patients suffering from cerebral palsy; Active substance and indications • Treatment of lower limb spasticity in pediatric patients two Cometriq ® (active substance: cabozantinib) is a smallyears of age and older. Pediatric spasticity mainly occurs molecule administered orally in the form of capsules that acts in children suffering from cerebral palsy, a brain injury that as a targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). generally occurs before, during, or after birth; Cometriq ® targets three important intracellular pathways • Treatment of Cervical Dystonia (CD). CD is characterized in medullary thyroid cancer (MTC): RET, VEGFR, and MET. by abnormal contraction of neck muscles, which leads to a The mechanism of action for Cometriq ® has been shown deviated neck that causes pain; to inhibit angiogenesis and the migration and proliferation • Treatment of blepharospasm & hemifacial spasm. of tumor cells. Cometriq ® has also been found to disrupt Blepharospasm is the involuntary closing of the eyes tumor vasculature and induce tumor cell death in preclinical caused by a spasm of the muscles surrounding the eyes. models. Hemifacial spasm is a benign and involuntary contraction of Cometriq® was approved in the US and Europe based on muscles located on one side of the face (hemifacial); the Phase 3, international, multicenter, randomized, double• In aesthetics, Dysport ® is indicated for the treatment of blind study (EXAM). This study demonstrated a statistically glabellar lines. significant and clinically meaningful improvement in progression free survival with Cometriq ® as compared to Marketing placebo, corresponding to a decrease of 72% of the risk Dysport ® was initially launched in the United Kingdom in of disease progression in patients with progressive locally 1991. As of 31 December 2016, Dysport ® had marketing advanced (not amenable by surgery) or metastatic MTC. authorization in more than 80 countries. Cometriq® is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with In the United States, on 30 April 2009, the FDA approved progressive, unresectable, locally-advanced or metastatic the Biologics License Application (BLA) for Dysport ® in medullary thyroid carcinoma. Cometriq ® has orphan drug cervical dystonia and for the temporary improvement in the status and fulfills an unmet medical need in medullary thyroid appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines in adults cancer. aged 65 years and under. In July 2015, the FDA approved Dysport ® in the symptomatic treatment of focal spasticity Marketing affecting adult upper limbs. In July 2016, the FDA approved As of 31 December 2016, Cometriq ® obtained marketing Dysport® in the symptomatic treatment of lower limb spasticity authorization in 27 countries, with Germany representing the in pediatric patients two years of age and older. largest amount of product sales. Cometriq ® is prescribed From 2007 the Group granted Galderma (France) the exclusive primarily by the oncologists and endocrinologists. Cometriq® right to develop, promote, and distribute its botulinum toxin stems from a partnership with Exelixis (paragraph 1.2.2 type A product for aesthetic indications in some European “Major Contracts”). countries (under the brand name Azzalure® in Europe) and Competition in other territories including the United States and Canada in 2014 (these agreements are presented in detail in section 1.2.2 The main competitor for the product is Caprelsa® (Sanofiof this registration document). Genzyme) which is used to treat patients with MTC that cannot be removed through surgery or that has spread to In 2016, Dysport® sales represented 18% of total Ipsen sales. other parts of the body. Dyspor t ® is prescribed by experienced physicians: neurologists, physical rehabilitation specialists, neuroNeurosciences pediatricians, or thopedic surgeons, ENT specialists, Dysport® ophthalmologists, dermatologists and plastic surgeons. Active substance and indications Competition Dysport® is a botulinum neurotoxin type A product, which is Dysport ®’s main competitors are Botox ® (Allergan) and a substance derived from a bacteria that inhibits the effective Xeomin (Merz). Lanzhou Biologics Institute launched a transmission of nerve impulses and thereby reduces muscular botulinum toxin A under the brand names Prosigne®, Lantox® contractions. or BTXA® in Asia, Russia, and Latin America. Medy-tox, Inc. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 11 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE launched Medytoxin® in South Korea in 2006 and continues and cartilage in children. The only approved indication for its geographical expansion in Asia, Latin America, and Increlex® is the treatment of severe primary IGF-1 deficiency in Eastern Europe under different brand names (Neuronox ®, children and adolescents. Botulift®, Siax®). Marketing Endocrinology Increlex® has been marketed in the United States since the NutropinAq ® beginning of 2006. It was granted orphan drug status by Active substance and indications the EMA on 5 April 2006, and marketing authorization in the European Union on 9 August 2007. NutropinAq ® is a liquid formulation of recombinant human growth hormone administered using the “NutropinAq ® ■■1.2.1.2 Primary Care products Pen”. Growth hormone is involved in several physiological processes, such as growth in stature and bone development Gastroenterology in children. Smecta® NutropinAq® is indicated for the following: Active substance and indications • Long-term treatment of growth failure in children due to Smecta ® is an oral formulation of pharmaceutical clay inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone; indicated for the treatment of acute diarrhea in both adults and children, and the symptomatic treatment of digestive • Long-term treatment of growth failure associated with pain and chronic diarrhea in adults. The active substance in Turner syndrome; Smecta® is diosmectite, a natural clay processed and purified for therapeutic use. • Treatment of growth failure in pre-pubescent children associated with chronic renal failure ahead of kidney Marketing transplantation; As of 31 December 2016, Smecta® had market authorization • Treatment of adults with growth hormone deficiency of in about 60 countries. In 2016, Smecta® sales represented either childhood or adult onset. 7% of total Ipsen sales, of which 79% were generated in China, France, and Russia, the product’s main markets. Marketing Smecta® is Ipsen’s leading Primary Care product in terms In September 2002, Genentech, a US company specialized in of sales. Smecta ® is prescribed by general practitioners, biotechnology, granted the Group exclusive marketing rights gastroenterologists, and pediatricians. The product can also for NutropinAq® worldwide outside North America, Mexico, be dispensed without prescription under pharmacist advice or Canada, and Japan. as an OTC self-medication for patients. To position Smecta® As of 31 December 2016, the Group had obtained marketing as an OTC self-medication product, Ipsen launched a media authorizations in 34 countries. The product has been launched campaign in France and Russia along with new products of in 23 countries across Europe since 2004. Smecta® Fraise (advised by pharmacist) and Smectalia® Prêt à l’emploi (self-medication) in France. Growth hormones are prescribed by pediatric and adult endocrinologists. Competition Competition Smecta ®’s main competitors are Imodium ®, Ercéfuryl ® (Sanofi), Ultralevure ® (Biocodex), and Tiorfan ® (Bioproject Six other companies have marketed recombinant growth Pharma). hormones for several years: Pfizer (Genotropin ®), Eli Lilly (Humatrope ®), Novo Nordisk (Norditropin®), Merck Serono On 20 May 2009, the French Health Authority (ANSM) (Saizen ®) and Ferring (Zomacton ®). Omnitrope ® (Sandoz), informed the Group that it had granted marketing authorization a biosimilar product to Pfizer’s Genotropin®, was launched to a generic product of Smecta® in France. Today, a nonmore recently. A substantial number of developments focus reimbursed generic product of Smecta ® is marketed by on sustained-release formulations (weekly injection), which Mylan, called Diosmectite Mylan. could improve acceptance of the treatment by patients and their parents. Forlax® Active substance and indications NutropinAq® is a ready-to-use liquid formulation presented in the form of a powder to be reconstituted. This formulation Forlax® is an oral osmotic laxative, designed and developed presents a significant advantage in a competitive market by Ipsen, and indicated for the treatment of constipation for where the leader ex-US is Genotropin®. both adults and children. Increlex® The active substance in Forlax® is Macrogol 4000, a linear polymer of polyethylene glycol (PEG) of high molecular weight. Active substance and indications T he acti ve substa nc e in Incre lex ® (me c ase r min) is Marketing a recombinant insulin-like growth factor of human origin Forlax® was first registered in France in 1995. The marketing (IGF-1). IGF-1 is the direct hormonal mediator of stature and authorization was later extended to 21 other EU countries bone growth and must be present for normal growth of bones through a mutual recognition procedure. 12 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE As of 31 December 2016, Forlax® has been granted marketing The active substance in Tanakan ® – EGb 761® – is authorizations in about 50 countries. In 2016, 48% of Forlax® a standardized extract from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba sales were generated in France. (dioecious tree in the Ginkgoaceae family) cultivated and extracted under controlled conditions. Forlax ® is primarily prescribed by general practitioners, gastroenterologists, gynecologists and pediatricians. Marketing Competition As of 31 December 2016, Tanakan ® was approved in approximately 50 countries, mainly in Europe, Russia, and Asia. Forlax ®’s main competitors are other osmotic laxatives, including lactulose products such as Duphalac ® (Solvay In 2016, 18% of Tanakan® sales were generated in Russia, Pharma), other PEGs such as Transipeg® (Roche Nicholas) where the product is offered as a self-medication OTC and Movicol® (Norgine Pharma), and stimulant laxatives (i.e. product. bisacodyl) such as Dulcolax® (Boehringer Ingelheim). Rheumatology In France, two generics of Forlax from Mylan and Qualimed ® Adenuric® entered the market in March 2009. Today, Ipsen produces Active substance and indications two generic products marketed by Biogaran and Sandoz. Adenuric® (febuxostat) 80 mg and 120 mg (tablets) is indicated Fortrans® for the treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia with clinical Active substance and indications manifestations of urate deposition (including a history or presence of tophus and/or gouty arthritis). Fortrans® is used for intestinal cleansing before endoscopy procedure (coloscopy), surgery, or radiology. The active In 2015, some indications were added for Adenuric® 120 mg substance in Fortrans® is Macrogol 4000, a linear polymer of for the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in polyethylene glycol (PEG) of high molecular weight with added adult patients undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic electrolytes. malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS). Marketing Marketing Fortrans ® is considered as the “gold standard” for bowel cleansing preparation before coloscopy. As of 31 December In 2009 Ipsen gained EU Marketing Authorization, and on 2016, Fortrans ® held marketing authorizations in about 20 October 2009, the Group granted exclusive licensing rights 50 countries. to the Menarini Group for Adenuric ® in 41 countries. Ipsen retains rights to Adenuric®’s co-promotion in France. Fortrans® is available in more than 40 countries. Russia and Poland are the two largest markets, which represents 47% of Competition Fortrans® sales. The only competitor of Adenuric ® is allopurinol, which has long been available as a generic drug. Eziclen® Adrovance® Active substance and indications Active substance and indications Eziclen® is a next generation osmotic laxative, indicated in adults, aimed at cleaning the bowel before an endoscopy Adrovance® is indicated in the treatment of post-menopausal procedure (coloscopy), surgery or radiology. osteoporosis in patients at risk of vitamin D deficiency. Marketing Marketing In 2009, Ipsen acquired from Braintree the exclusive MSD currently markets this product under the brand name manufacturing, marketing and distribution rights for the Fosavance®. The Group markets Adrovance® in France. proprietary formulation BLI-800 for the European Union, the Competition Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), some Asian countries (including China) and some North African and South The drug’s principal competitors are other bisphosphonates American countries. such as: Actonel ® (Procter and Gamble Pharmaceuticals France), Fosavance® (MSD) and selective oestrogen receptor As of 31 December 2016, Eziclen® had market authorization in modulators such as: Evista® (Lilly France), Optruma® (Pierre about 21 countries and was marketed in 15 countries. Fabre Médicament), Protelos ® (Ser vier) and Aclasta ® (Novartis). Cognitive disorders LP 299V® Tanakan® On 26 April 2016, Ipsen and Probi jointly announced Active substance and indications the signature of a license and supply agreement for the Tanakan® is indicated for the treatment of various neurological commercialization of Probi’s probiotic strain Lactobacillus and neuro-sensorial disorders. Tanakan ® contains natural plantarum 299v (LP299V®). Probi is a Swedish publicly traded substances with antioxidant and neuro-protective properties. bioengineering company that develops effective and clinically Tanakan is indicated for the treatment of cognitive disorders documented probiotics with patents in the gastro-intestinal (memory or attention deficit) in the elderly. field. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 13 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE The agreement covers in total 18 markets, many with high This agreement establishes Ipsen’s entry in the probiotic growth potential, with an option to include additional countries. world and demonstrates the Group’s willingness to enter in The product is expected to be launched by mid-2017. the microbiota field. 1.2.2 Major Contracts The Group markets its products either directly through its commercializes Decapeptyl® under a daily formulation as well sales force or through third parties to whom it has entrusted as under monthly, 3-month, and 6-month sustained-release responsibility for selling its products under licensing or formulations. For the latter formulation, the Group obtained other agreements. Furthermore, the Group has earned marketing authorizations in France, The Netherlands, and the confidence of third parties that have entrusted it with Portugal under the European decentralized procedure in selling their products such as Decapeptyl ®, Hexvix ®, and October 2009. NutropinAq ®. In certain cases the Group has entered into agreements with third party companies to manufacture drugs This licensing agreement is due to remain in place in the or raw materials. countries covered by this agreement, or on a country-bycountry basis, until the following dates: (i) at the earliest T he Group complements the implementation of its of 31 December 2022, for each country of the agreement internal Research and Development program by entering not covered by Debiopharm’s patent protection. Under this into partnership agreements with university teams and agreement, the Group pays different royalties to Debiopharm pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These based on revenues generated on sales achieved by partnerships help the Group gain access to cutting-edge Debiopharm. technologies in complex areas of expertise. In addition, on 30 April 2008, the Group and Debiopharm This partnership strategy helps the Group finance the entered into a license agreement granting the Group the development of its products while extending its range of exclusive right to commercialize triptorelin under the trade existing products. The Group is constantly looking to forge names Salvacyl®, Salvacyl LP®, Moapar®, and Salvapar® for high-quality, complementary, and long-lasting marketing and the treatment of paraphilia (sexual perversions) in the same Research and Development partnerships. territories as for Decapeptyl®. Exelixis (California, USA) ■■1.2.2.1 Agreements in Specialty Care On 1 March 2016, the Group and Exelixis Inc. signed an 1.2.2.1.1 Agreements in Oncology exclusive licensing agreement for the commercialization and further development of cabozantinib, Exelixis’ lead Debiopharm (Lausanne, Switzerland) oncology drug. The parties have agreed to collaborate on The Group has maintained an ongoing relationship with the development of cabozantinib for current and potential Debiopharm since 1983, when it entered into its first licensing future indications, and Ipsen has exclusive commercialization deal to manufacture and market Decapeptyl ® in locally rights worldwide outside the United States, Canada, and advanced or metastatic prostate cancer. This licensing Japan. This agreement includes the rights to Cometriq® and agreement was renewed in 2002 and in 2007. The agreement Cabometyx®. covers Debiopharm’s expertise and patents related to the On 21 December 2016, the agreement was extended to active substance triptorelin and its various salts (particularly include Canada. the pamoate formulation), which are sold under the Decapeptyl® and Pamorelin® trademarks, both of which were Cometriq® is approved in the United States and the European assigned to Ipsen in 2010. The daily, one-month, and threeUnion (EU) for the treatment of adult patients with progressive, month, acetate and pamoate formulations of Decapeptyl® are unresectable, locally-advanced or metastatic medullary no longer protected by any invention patents. thyroid cancer (MTC). In April 2016, Exelixis obtained marketing authorization of Cabometyx® from the U.S. Food The licensing agreement with Debiopharm grants the Group and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of patients the right to (i) manufacture Decapeptyl® around the world (with with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who have received the exclusion of North America and certain other countries, prior antiangiogenic therapy. In the EU, Norway, and Iceland, principally Israel, Japan, English-speaking African countries the European Commission granted marketing authorization Switzerland and Liechtenstein in which the commercialization for Cabometyx® on 14 September 2016. right is granted to Debiopharm) and (ii) market Decapeptyl® worldwide with the exclusion of North America and certain Under the agreement Exelixis received a $200 million upfront other countries, principally Israel, Japan, and English-speaking payment and a $60 million milestone upon the approval of countries in Africa. Pursuant to the agreement, the Group cabozantinib in Europe for advanced renal cell carcinoma 14 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE (RCC). Exelixis will receive $50 million upon the filing and 2036, the Group holds an exclusive worldwide license to use approval of cabozantinib in Europe for advanced hepatocellular and sell the botulinum neurotoxin type A produced by the PHE carcinoma (HCC), as well as additional regulatory milestones and the co-exclusive right with the PHE to manufacture this for potential further indications. The agreement also includes toxin using the PHE processes. Further to a 2001 amendment, up to $545 million of potential commercial milestones and production by the Group of botulinum toxin type A began in provides for Exelixis to receive tiered royalties up to 26% on 2004. The Group is now discharged from the obligation to Ipsen’s net sales of cabozantinib in its territories. purchase botulinum toxin from PHE. Photocure (Oslo, Norway) Under this agreement, the Group pays the PHE royalties On 26 September 2011, the Group signed a marketing and based on revenues generated from the sale of products supply agreement with Photocure, a specialty pharmaceutical containing botulinum toxin type A, particularly those realized company specializing in photodynamic technologies applied under the Dysport ® brand name, together with minimum to cancer and dermatology. Under the agreement, the Group royalty clauses. was granted an exclusive license to commercialize the product Galderma (Lausanne, Switzerland) for the diagnosis and resection of bladder cancer under the Hexvix ® trademark, a brand owned by Photocure. Ipsen In February 2007, under the terms of a development and obtained the exclusive license worldwide, except in the United distribution agreement, Ipsen granted Galderma Pharma States, the Nordics, and certain other countries where Ipsen S.A., a Swiss company owned by Nestlé, exclusive rights may decide to return to Photocure under certain conditions to develop, promote, and distribute specific formulations mentioned in the contract. The product is designed to improve of its botulinum toxin type A product in aesthetic medicine the detection and resection of non-invasive bladder cancer indications, in the European Union and certain Eastern by inducing specific fluorescence in malignant cells in the European countries and Central Asia. The Group also bladder during a cystoscopic procedure. The product has granted Galderma first rights of negotiation for aesthetic been approved in Sweden since 2004 and was subsequently medicine indications in the rest of the world, excluding the approved in many European countries as well as in the United United States, Canada, and Japan, as well as rights for future States. formulations. In return for the exclusive licensing rights, the Group paid Since 2009 the product is distributed in Europe under the an upfront payment of €19 million to Photocure and GE Azzalure® trademark owned by Galderma. Azzalure® is mainly Healthcare (who commercialized the product in Europe commercialized in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, since 2006) as well as additional manufacturing milestones Portugal, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and Poland. Ipsen owns to Photocure of €5 million. In addition, the Group will pay all regulatory approvals and all data arising from development royalties on annual net sales and commercial milestones upon activities. the achievement of specific sales thresholds. The Group supplies the finished product to Galderma, and Telesta Therapeutics (Montreal, Canada) Galderma pays Ipsen royalties based on sales of the product. In October 2015, the Group entered into an exclusive licensing In December 2007, the Group also granted to Galderma agreement with Telesta Therapeutics for Ipsen to develop exclusive rights, until 2017, to promote and distribute under and commercialize MCNA, for the treatment of high risk the trademark Dysport ® certain formulations of botulinum non-muscle invasive bladder cancer, worldwide except in toxin in aesthetic and dermatological indications in Brazil, the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan, South Africa, Argentina, and Paraguay. The commercialization of Dysport® and South Korea. Ipsen was to initiate discussions with has started in these indications in Brazil and Argentina. regulatory authorities to identify the regulatory path and Exclusive promotion and distribution rights in the aesthetic potential requirements for the approval of the product in and dermatologic indications were extended to Australia in Europe and other key licensed territories. 2012 and Mexico in 2013 for an initial five-year period. On 2 Februar y 2016, Telesta announced that it had In July 2014, the Group and Galderma signed an agreement to received a complete response from the U.S. Food and expand their agreement and collaborate on the development Drug Administration (FDA) to further its Biologics License and commercialization of new neurotoxins, including their Application (BLA) for MCNA in the U.S. The FDA informed respective liquid formulations. Under the terms of the Telesta that an additional Phase 3 clinical trial for MCNA agreement, the Dysport distribution rights in the US and would be necessary to adequately establish MCNA’s efficacy Canada, initially held by Valeant, were granted to Galderma. In and safety. Considering the lack of pathways for the approval addition, the rights granted for the US, Canada, Europe, and of MCNA in the countries licensed to Ipsen, the parties Brazil were extended until 2036. agreed to terminate their collaboration on 31 July 2016. Ipsen will manufacture and supply the finished product 1.2.2.1.2 Agreements in Neurosciences to Galderma and receive royalties from Galderma. In Public Health England (PHE) (former Health Protection addition, the companies increased the scope of their R&D Agency (HPA)) (Porton Down, United Kingdom) collaboration. The licensing agreement entered into by the Group in 1994 In this regard, Ipsen gained control of the intellectual property with the PHE covers the botulinum toxin type A complex, for Galderma’s liquid toxin in the US, Canada, Brazil, and which is the active substance in Dysport®. Until December Europe, while Galderma retained commercialization rights. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 15 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE In December 2014, the expanded partnership set up in July Teijin (Tokyo, Japan) 2014 was extended to include Mexico, Argentina, Australia, The Group granted Teijin exclusive rights in Japan to develop and New Zealand. and market Somatuline ® Autogel ® for the treatment of Finally, in January 2016, the Group and Galderma announced acromegaly, SSTR-2 for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy, the expansion of their partnership to China, India, South and BIM 44058 (PTHrP analogue) in the treatment of severe Korea, and under certain conditions, to Indonesia. osteoporosis. GW Pharmaceuticals plc (Salisbury, United Kingdom) In June 2012, Teijin received marketing approval in Japan for Somatuline® 60/90/120 mg for subcutaneous injection for the On 14 January 2014, the Group and GW Pharmaceuticals treatment of acromegaly and pituitary gigantism. (GW) entered into an agreement under which GW licensed the promotional and distribution rights in Latin America for On 28 July 2016, Ipsen and Teijin announced that Teijin had filed Sativex®, a companion drug to Dysport® that is indicated as an a supplemental application with Japan’s Pharmaceuticals and add-on treatment for symptom improvement in patients with Medical Devices Agency to use Ipsen's subcutaneous drug moderate to severe spasticity due to multiple sclerosis (MS). Somatuline® (lanreotide) for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors (NETs). The exclusive agreement gives Ipsen the rights to promote and distribute the finished product provided by GW in Latin Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Woodlands, TX, USA) America, excluding Mexico. Sativex® is now commercialized In October 2014, the Group entered into an exclusive licensing in Brazil, and marketing authorization applications have been agreement with Lexicon Pharmaceuticals for Ipsen to filed in other Latin America countries. commercialize telotristat ethyl (previously knoumas telotristat etiprate) outside of North America and Japan, with a focus on 1.2.2.1.3 Agreements in Endocrinology the treatment of carcinoid syndrome. Through an amendment Genentech (San Francisco, CA, USA) in March 2015, Ipsen was granted exclusive rights in Canada. Distribution agreement covering NutropinAq® Lexicon retains sole rights to commercialize telotristat ethyl in The exclusive distribution agreement reached in 2002 by the US and Japan. the Group with Genentech covers NutropinAq ®, a liquid Lexicon has conducted Phase III clinical trials for telotristat formulation of human growth hormone for daily use produced ethyl in carcinoid syndrome which is a serious condition using recombinant DNA technology. Under this agreement, caused by symptomatic neuroendocrine tumors that the Group has the exclusive right to market worldwide (with produce large amounts of serotonin. Telotristat ethyl has the exception of North America, Mexico, Brazil, and Japan) received fast-track status and orphan drug designation from NutropinAq ® and the NutropinAq® Pen Cartridge ® (i.e. the the FDA in the US and has received orphan drug designation configuration used for the daily administration of the liquid from the EMA. formulation of NutropinAq®) and any improvement made to these products for a period of 20 years starting from the date Lexicon will continue to be responsible for the potential on which NutropinAq® was launched. registration of telotristat etiprate in the US and Japan. Ipsen will seek regulatory approvals in Europe and other countries The Group agreed to pay Genentech milestone payments within the Ipsen licensed territory with the Group assuming when certain net sales figures are reached. The Group the responsibility in those markets. also agreed to pay royalties based on the total amount of annual sales of each product in the territory covered by the Under the agreement, Lexicon is eligible to receive up to distribution agreement. The European patent owned by $148.5 million, comprising a $24.5 million upfront payment Genentech protecting the product expired on 29 July 2013. and additional payments contingent upon achievement of clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones. In addition, If the annual sales of a product in a specific country fall below Lexicon is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of telotristat a predetermined threshold, Genentech may decide whether ethyl in the licensed territory. the rights and licenses granted may become non-exclusive in the relevant country. On 31 May 2016 Lexicon announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had accepted for filing the New Drug Increlex® agreements Application for telotristat ethyl, an oral drug for the treatment The Group and Genentech entered into two Increlex ® of carcinoid syndrome. On 18 July 2016, the European (IGF-1) license agreements: in 2002 for the US and 2003 for Medicines Agency (EMA) accepted the filing of the marketing the rest of the world. Under these agreements, the Group was application for telotristat ethyl. In addition to this European granted the exclusive global right to develop, manufacture, submission, Ipsen continues the implementation of its global and commercialize IGF-1 in all indications except central regulatory filing applications for marketing authorization in nervous system diseases. Under the terms of these contracts, the territories where the Group operates. Thus, the Marketing Genentech is granted an option to develop and commercialize Authorization Application was submitted to SwissMedic the product jointly with Ipsen in all non-orphan indications and (Switzerland’s regulatory agency) on 5 July 2016. diabetes. Radius (Cambridge, MA, USA) In consideration for these rights, the Group shall pay certain In 2005, the Group signed a licensing agreement with Radius amounts to Genentech dependent on sales reaching certain under the terms of which the Group granted Radius the levels and royalties on sales. exclusive right to develop, manufacture, and distribute a 16 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE compound belonging to the Group known as BIM 44058 using In October 2016, Allergan (formerly Actavis) exercised its the sustained-release formulation technology developed by option to acquire Motus Therapeutics, which is developing the Group for the development of a drug for the treatment of the peptide ghrelin agonist for the treatment of diabetic osteoporosis. gastroparesis and other GI functional disorders and paid an exercise price of $200 million at closing to Rhythm Holding, This license has been granted globally, with the exception Motus Therapeutics’s parent company. Rhythm Holding of Japan (except for manufacturing), where the Group has will also be entitled to a contingent payment upon the first already granted an exclusive license to this compound to commercial sale of relamorelin. the Japanese group Teijin. Furthermore, the Group will have the option of promoting and selling the finished product ■■1.2.2.2 Agreements in Primary Care on a co-marketing basis with Radius in France. Radius is responsible for the overall development of the compound and Teijin (Tokyo, Japan) will incur all the relevant costs. Radius will be responsible for In July 2003, the Group entered into a Research and manufacturing the compound and be also hold the marketing Development partnership with Teijin, a Japanese industrial authorizations and the responsibility for marketing the conglomerate that specializes in the production and sale of product. In November 2015, Radius submitted a marketing pharmaceutical, medical and homecare products, as well as authorization application to the EMA following positive results fibers, chemicals and plastics. This partnership covers the of Phase III studies. development of four of the Group’s products and the marketing of the products that complete the development program by Radius will pay the Group different fixed sums depending Teijin in Japan. Secondly, this partnership covers the Group’s on the success of the various development phases and development and marketing in Europe of febuxostat (Adenuric®), registration of the end product, as well as royalties based a product owned by Teijin and used in the treatment of the on the level of sales generated by the product. The licensing symptoms associated with hyperuricaemia. agreement will end upon (i) the expiry of the last remaining patent covering the product or (ii) the expiry of a period of In accordance with the distribution and promotion agreement ten years from the date on which the product was first sold, signed by Teijin and the Group in July 2006, the parties have whichever is later. Upon expiry of the agreement, Radius is determined the definitive terms of Ipsen’s exclusive rights set to benefit from a free and perpetual license to the licensed to febuxostat in Europe. Febuxostat’s development costs rights. in Europe will be covered by the Group, except for the any costs associated with conducting clinical trials that may be In October 2016, the Group initiated proceedings against requested by the regulatory authorities prior to the registration Radius before the International Court of Arbitration of the of febuxostat in Europe, which will be shared between Teijin International Chamber of Commerce based on potential and the Group. breach of various provisions of the license agreement, including the Group’s option to co-promote the finished In October 2009, the Group granted the Menarini group product with Radius in France and on the license related to exclusive licensing, development, and commercialization Japan (See section 1.2.8.3.2.2 “Legal and Administrative rights in Europe for Adenuric® while keeping co-promotion Proceedings”). rights in France. Febuxostat was launched by Menarini in March 2010 under Rhythm (Boston, MA, USA) the trade mark Adenuric® (with a co-promotion right for the In 2010, the Group granted Rhythm an exclusive worldwide Group in France). The product was launched in the United license for the research, development and commercialization States by Takeda in March 2009 under the trademark Uloric® of Ipsen’s compounds and intellectual property related to and launched in Japan by Teijin in May 2011. analogs of the peptide hormones ghrelin and MSH, which Schwabe (Karlsruhe, Germany) regulate food intake, energy homeostasis, and gastrointestinal function. Under the terms of the license agreement, Ipsen The Group has longstanding links with Schwabe, particularly will receive progressive payments of up to $80 million upon concerning Ginkgo biloba extracts and EGb 761®, the active the achievement of certain development and commercial substance in Tanakan®. The relationship between the Group milestones and royalties on future sales of the products. and Schwabe are based notably on the 2005 cooperation Rhythm will continue to use Ipsen’s recognized formulation agreement concerning, among other things, the procurement expertise to develop innovative delivery systems for the and supply of Ginkgo biloba leaves, and the manufacture of peptide programs. Ginkgo biloba extracts, notably EGb 761®. In 2013, Rhythm was split into two subsidiaries in order Mayoly Spindler (Chatou, France) to separate the two development programs. Rhy thm Effective January 2014, the Group and Mayoly Spindler, Pharmaceuticals (now renamed Motus Therapeutics) is an independent French family-run laboratory recognized in developing the ghrelin program, while Rhythm Metabolic (now gastroenterology, rheumatology, ENT, and dermocosmetics, renamed Rhythm Pharmaceuticals) is developing the MC4 entered into a cross-promotion agreement for primary care program. These two companies are held by Rhythm Holding activities in France. The agreement provides the implementation Company. Ipsen owns 6.11% of equity shares in Rhythm of a platform with complementary competencies and product Holding and holds one seat on Rhythm Holding’s board of portfolios. Ipsen will promote Météospasmyl® and Colchicine® managers. to general practitioners; and Mayoly Spindler will promote 2016 Ipsen Registration document 17 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Smecta®, Forlax®, and Tanakan® in pharmacies. Under the launches and commercial sale thresholds. Additionally, terms of the agreement, each company will continue to book Braintree will receive royalties on Ipsen’s sales. The European the sales of its own products. decentralized registration procedure involving sixteen countries was launched in Q1 2013. The product is marketed The Parties decided to terminate the agreement for the under the Eziclen ® trademark in most countries of the French territory effective as of 31 December 2016. European Union and under the Izinova® trademark in some Braintree Laboratories (Braintree, MA, USA) other countries, including France and the United Kingdom. In September 2009, the Group signed a licensing agreement The product has been launched in the Czech Republic, with Braintree Laboratories Inc., a US company specialized in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and Poland. the development, manufacturing, and marketing of specialty In addition, in December 2010, the Group entered into a pharmaceuticals. Under the agreement, the Group purchased licensing agreement with Braintree, whereby Braintree was exclusive distribution, marketing and manufacturing rights granted the exclusive right to develop and commercialize to Braintree’s proprietary formulation, BLI 800, in colonic Diosmectite (the active ingredient of Smecta®) in the United cleansing before colonoscopy, a diagnostic procedure for States and Canada for the treatment of Clostridium Difficile colorectal cancer screening. This agreement covers countries infection and the associated symptoms and manifestations. within the European Union, Commonwealth of Independent The Group will receive payments from Braintree upon the States, selected Asian countries (including China), and some occurrence of certain regulatory milestone events, including North African countries. the launch of the product. The Group will also receive royalties Under this agreement, Braintree will receive payments upon on Diosmectite sales by Braintree. the achievement of certain milestones such as product 1.2.3 Research and Development ■■1.2.3.1 Research and Development Activities Additionally, although internal research focuses on peptides and toxins, the Group partners on in-licensing opportunities As of 31 December 2016, about 300 Group employees were outside of these when appropriate to deliver its strategy. assigned to Research and Development with an additional 200 contributing through CMC (Chemistry Manufacturing Research teams select biological mechanisms of action and Control). targets aligned with Ipsen’s therapeutic areas of interest in order to develop peptide and toxin drugs with the potential In 2016, the Group spent €208.9 million on Research to bring significant clinical benefit to patients. In the oncology and Development (compared to €192.6 million in 2015), area, many of the projects are based on inhibiting proteins: which represents 13.2% of Group’s net consolidated sales protein interactions, in order to inhibit tumor cell proliferation (compared to 13.3% in 2015). and metastasis directly or indirectly through modulation of The Group’s Research and Development ambition can be the tumor microenvironment including immunomodulation. summed up in three verbs, DARE, SHARE, and CARE. Through Furthermore, modulation of GPCR activity, through peptide the entrepreneurial mindset (DARE) and the collaborations agonists or antagonists is a major area of study. Novel peptide with leading academic and industry partners (SHARE), the radiotherapy (PRRT) programs for neuroendocrine and other Group aims to deliver innovative care for patients (CARE). tumor types are also being designed and developed. In R&D aims to respond to unmet medical needs utilizing an neuroscience, a deep understanding of botulinum toxin entrepreneurial, collaborative approach that has been part of biology and conditions such as spasticity provides the the company from the beginning. foundation for the next generation of recombinant toxinbased drugs. Research and Development primarily focus on two areas: The engineering of peptides is mainly carried out in the • Managing the lifecycle of products marketed by the Group, Research and Development Center in Cambridge, MA through: (USA), in partnership with Les Ulis (Paris-Saclay) and/or in collaboration with academic research centers and biotechs. –– The extension of labelled indications; Ipsen has a long standing expertise in the discovery, delivery, –– The development of new formulations and delivery and development of bioactive peptides that is being leveraged systems; to create highly differentiated drugs for targets that are not readily addressed by small molecules or antibodies. –– The registration in new geographical areas. This work is coupled with pharmaceutical development • Discovery, development, and regulatory approval of new that is located at the Dreux site, which aims to design and molecular entities based primarily on two differentiated core develop formulations and innovative delivery systems for compound moieties: peptides and toxins. new chemical entities or for marketed products. These 18 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE converging technologies are able to optimize the efficacy of Hospital, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical active ingredients while improving the quality of life of patients School in Boston, Biostar in Singapore, and Inserm in France. and facilitating the use of these products by health care Ipsen has been involved since 2008 in a long-term partnership professionals. with the prestigious Salk Institute (La Jolla, California) on basic research in areas of Ipsen’s interest. The Group has The integration of the two groups fosters the discovery of also forged partnerships on specific projects with innovative products for the treatment of very severe and life-threatening biotechs, thereby accessing new compounds and promising diseases in the Group’s targeted therapeutic areas. One of technologies for the discovery of new drug candidates. the best examples of this approach is the trademark and patented formulation Somatuline® Autogel®, a product that A detailed description of par tnerships is provided in illustrates the Group’s ability to combine the results of its chapter 1.2.2 “Major Contracts” of this document. research in the field of innovative peptide drugs with advanced drug delivery platforms. Most recently the U.S. Food and ■■1.2.3.2 Research and Development Centers Drug Administration (FDA) approved Somatuline ® Depot ® The Group has strategically established an international for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable, wellor network of research and development centers in geographical moderately-differentiated, locally advanced or metastatic areas where it has access to world class expertise in scientific gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NETs) and clinical research. The Group believes its Research and and is currently reviewing Somatuline® Depot® to supplement Development programs and the geographical distribution the label to include treatment of symptoms associated with of its Research and Development centers allow it to attract carcinoid syndrome in patients with neuroendocrine tumors. talented scientists, which makes the Group highly competitive The engineering of new botulinum toxins is primarily in the field of pharmaceutical research compared with other carried out in Milton Park, (Oxford) UK, in partnership with groups of similar size. Les Ulis (Paris-Saclay) and/or in collaboration with academic The Research and Development Center Paris-Saclay research centers and biotechs. Botulinum toxin has a unique (France) potential for very broad therapeutic applications in many areas The Research and Development Center at Les Ulis, located including: urology, oncology, endocrinology, regenerative in the Paris-Saclay hub, was opened in 1969 and a new medicine, etc. The R&D team in Milton Park has a wealth of facility was built in 1996. The scientists are focused on drug experience in toxin biology supported by an extensive patent discovery of novel medicines in the fields of neuroscience and portfolio. Additionally, the Group is one of the few to master oncology. Notably, the Pharmacodynamic and Metabolism the manufacturing and testing of botulinum toxin at its plant group in Les Ulis has expanded to support Ipsen projects in Wrexham (United Kingdom) as well as the technologies from discovery to market. The Group has also established needed to explore new applications and to develop new toxina pre-clinical and clinical development organization together based products. with the Global Regulatory Affairs Group to support the Investment in translational sciences design and execution of the worldwide development strategy Research and Development strives to be at the forefront of to bring compounds to market. major changes currently emerging in science and medical The Research and Development Center in Cambridge practice: progression of molecular medicine and biomarkers (Massachusetts, United States) which are revolutionizing the diagnosis and prognosis of Ipsen Bioscience, located at 650 East Kendall, reinforces diseases and the selection of the best treatment and the Ipsen’s leadership in the field of peptides and open-innovation emergence of personalized medicine. This commitment to with academic centers and biotechs. The Research and translational sciences is reflected in a willingness to invest Development Center in Cambridge builds on expertise in the in in-depth knowledge of pathophysiological/molecular discovery, delivery, and development of bioactive peptides mechanisms of diseases and from the outset to identify that is being leveraged to create highly differentiated drugs, in biomarkers which will accompany the development of the areas of endocrinology and oncology, for targets that are candidate drugs with the potential to become companion not readily addressed by small molecules or antibodies. diagnostics. The Group also has clinical research and development teams Partnership policy whose task is to coordinate and perform clinical research in Internal Research and Development ef for ts are also North America related to oncology and endocrinology, and supported through an active partnership policy, which is led a dedicated regulatory group that focuses on the Group’s by the Scientific Affairs group, from basic research through regulatory activities with the FDA. clinical development. The Group’s partnership philosophy stems from the recognition that Ipsen’s R&D staff members The Research Center in Milton Park (Oxford, UK) are highly skilled in their fields but are a tiny fraction of the In 2015, Ipsen initiated a project to relocate the UK R&D team expertise available worldwide in the scientific community. to a new facility within a leading innovation hub at the Milton Thus, it is essential to look for synergies between internal Park campus in Oxfordshire. projects and skills and those of other leading-edge players in The new site, Ipsen Bioinnovation, represents Ipsen's medical and pharmaceutical R&D. technological platform for toxins, with expertise in engineering At the research stage, the Group has established numerous recombinant toxins for new therapeutic solutions in academic collaborations with Massachusetts General neuroscience and co-locates research scientists with the 2016 Ipsen Registration document 19 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE major R&D activities of clinical development, scientific affairs, humans and for preparing the regulatory dossier to start regulatory affairs, pharmacovigilance, project management, clinical trials that are subject to approval from regulatory and publication. authorities and ethics committees. The development continues with clinical trials that are ■■1.2.3.3 The Portfolio of Research principally intended to provide evidence of the safety and and Development Projects efficacy of the drug in humans. When the results support the 1.2.3.3.1 The research and development process targeted indication, a registration dossier is then submitted to the regulatory authorities to assess and decide on its At the end of the research stage that results in the selection marketing authorization. of a candidate molecule for development, the process of securing approval for this new molecule or compound by the After a clinical candidate has been selected, new projectregulatory authorities may take eight to twelve years and is centric and cross-functional development approaches typically broken down into five stages: the pre-clinical stage are conducted at Ipsen. The scope of the Exploratory and clinical trial Phase I (or first-in-man study) to assess Development phase (PROVE) is up to the clinical proof of pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics and tolerability of concept (PoC). Once both early efficacy and short-term safety the compound; Phase II to early characterize safety and have been established from the PoC and meet the Product efficacy across a dose-range of the tested compound Target Profile, the drug can proceed to the confirmatory in patients; Phase III to confirm both safety/efficacy and development phase (CONFIRM). Exploratory Development therapeutic benefit in a large patient population and Phase IV benefits from innovative question-based development plan, (post-approval). adaptive design, modeling and simulation, biomarkers, and translational science/medicine. During the research stage, which usually lasts three to five years, the Group’s researchers synthesize innovative This approach allows: 1) shortening of the time to decision molecules and study their effects on cell systems or isolated (Go/No-Go) to proceed to confirmatory trials using a parallel organs, in vitro, or in animal subjects, to better understand rather than sequential development path, 2) de-risking their pharmacological, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological projects before large investments are made, and 3) more properties. An analysis of the study results makes it possible efficient management of the project portfolio. to select the compound that meets the set treatment goals to 1.2.3.3.2 The research programs move forward in development. The Group currently has several innovative molecules in As in the first stage, the pre-clinical stage of development the research phase. The table below and the following aims to gather the pre-clinical safety toxicological and explanations summarize the major programs currently pharmacokinetic data essential for initial administration in undertaken by the Group. Research Programs Indications New Oncology Drugs Intracellular oncology target Oncology Transmembrane oncology target Oncology Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) GEP-NET Novel radiopharmaceuticals (licensed from 3B pharma) Pancreatic cancer New Endocrinology drugs G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) Adult Endocrinology New Neuroscience Drugs Novel Botulinum toxins Neurosciences LRRK2 (partnership with Oncodesign) Parkinson’s disease 20 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Oncology research programs Neuroscience research programs The Group’s engineering technology platforms allow for the The Group’s neuroscience research programs focus mainly exploration and development of new approaches for the on the development of next-generation botulinum toxins. The treatment of cancer indications in areas of focus. These work is being carried out within the Group’s research entities research programs are conducted in collaboration with and through targeted partnerships such as with Harvard universities, contract research organizations (CROs), and Medical School to explore the possibilities of toxins with pharmaceutical companies. The Group is exploring a number differentiated characteristics. of novel targets which can be addressed by different forms of peptide drugs. 1.2.3.3.3 The development programs The table below lists the Group’s clinical programs. This table Endocrinology research programs is subject to change depending on numerous factors that The Endocrinology research project teams are working on a can be extremely unpredictable. The Group might experience range of agonist and antagonist programs, including novel delayed completion of clinical trials, treatment failures, PRRT (Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy) molecules absence of marketing authorization, and the occurrence for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors and adult of a technical or administrative event beyond the Group’s endocrinology diseases. In addition to peptide design using reasonable control. A summary of risks is described in molecular modeling, the team uses phage display to identify chapter 1.2.8 “Risk Factors” of this document and a detailed new peptide leads for both endocrinology and oncology description of the products development programs is given in targets. chapter 1.2.1 “The Group’s Products”. The portfolio of molecules under development is as follows: Product under development Indications Development stage New molecules under development 177 Lu-OPS201 2nd line GEP-NET treatment Phase I/II 68 Ga-OPS202 NET imaging tool Phase IIb Cabometyx® Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 1L Phase II Molecule licensed by Ipsen Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) 2L Phase III from Exelixis, Inc.(1) “Chimeric” somastatin and Treatment of Cushing’s disease and Acromegaly Phase IIa dopamine agonist molecule (back up) VSN16R (option to acquire) Spasticity in multiple sclerosis Phase IIa (Canbex Sponsored) Novel Botulinum toxin Early intervention in adult spastic patients Phase I Product lifecycle management programs Somatuline® Autogel® PRF(2) NET, Acromegaly Phase II Somatuline Autogel ® ® Acromegaly – China Phase III Decapeptyl® Endometriosis (China) Phase III Dysport ® Pediatric upper limb spasticity Phase III Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity Phase III Glabellar Lines – China Phase III Dysport® Solution Glabellar Lines Phase III (1) Excluding the United States and Japan. (2) PRF: Prolonged Release Formulation. New development programs symptom of MS that consists of involuntary spasms of limbs VSN16R and torso musculature. With VSN16R, Canbex aims to set a new standard in the treatment of spasticity and to improve VSN16R results from the call option granted to the Group by the lives of people worldwide with this serious and incurable Canbex Therapeutics, in February 2015. disorder. VSN16R is a novel, orally active small molecule compound VSN16R was shown to be safe and well-tolerated in the Phase I intended for the treatment of spasticity in MS and other clinical safety trial. In the Phase I study, 72 healthy volunteers disorders. Preclinical and Phase I clinical studies have were enrolled in a placebo-controlled, single ascendingand demonstrated that VSN16R has the potential to provide multiple-ascending dose design. A Phase IIa proof of clinical substantially better patient care than existing systemic anticoncept study is ongoing under the sponsorship of Canbex. spastic treatments. Spasticity is a debilitating and painful 2016 Ipsen Registration document 21 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 177 Lu-OPS201 and 68Ga-OPS202 Dysport® The Group acquired these molecules with the acquisition of The Group is leading several Phase III studies that started in OctreoPharm Sciences in June 2015. OctreoPharm Sciences 2011 to reinforce therapeutic indications in the United States. was a private German life sciences company focusing on the development of innovative radioactive labeled compounds for In January 2015, Ipsen announced topline results of two molecular imaging diagnostics and therapeutic applications. double-blind Phase III studies of Dysport ® in lower limb spasticity in children with cerebral palsy (CP) and in adults. Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) uses the ability of peptides to target specific receptors to deliver a In July 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) radionuclide directly to a tumor. This targeting approach approved Ipsen’s supplemental Biologics License Application provides an exciting theranostic opportunity that offers for Dysport (botulinum toxin A) injection for the treatment of the promise of use for both detection and treatment of the lower limb spasticity in paediatric patients ages two and older, disease. 68Ga-OPS202 is an NET imaging tool utilizing positron and the dossier was filed in the second quarter of 2016 with emission tomography (PET, PET/CT) and is currently in clinical the EMA. development, and 177Lu-OPS201 is a PRRT therapeutic. In addition, Ipsen has started two Phase III clinical trials Telotristat ethyl assessing Dysport® in the treatment of Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity (NDO) in patients with urinary incontinence not In October 2014, Ipsen announced that it had entered into an adequately managed by anticholinergics in 2016. exclusive licensing agreement with Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to commercialize telotristat ethyl (previously known as Furthermore, the Group is also developing a liquid, readytelotristat etiprate) outside of North America and Japan with to-use formulation of toxin A, Dysport ® Solution. Ipsen a focus on the treatment of carcinoid syndrome. Telotristat announced the results of the European Phase II clinical trial ethyl completed Phase 3 development with positive topline of Dysport® Solution in glabellar lines, and has completed results. enrollment in two Phase 3 clinical trials in glabellar lines in 2016. Lexicon conducted Phase 3 clinical trials of telotristat ethyl for carcinoid syndrome. Carcinoid syndrome is a serious 1.2.3.3.4 R esearch and Development programs licensed condition caused by symptomatic neuroendocrine tumors to partners that produce large amounts of serotonin, which can lead to severe diarrhea, flushing, and occasionally to heart valve To ensure optimal development of all molecules in the damage. Telotristat ethyl is an oral, small-molecule inhibitor research stage, the Group granted worldwide licenses for of tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) that reduces peripheral the development and marketing of some of these innovative serotonin production without affecting brain serotonin levels. molecules to address unmet medical needs: Telotristat ethyl has received fast track status and orphan Endocrinology – Parathyroid hormone-related peptide drug designation from the Food and Drug Administration in (PTH-rP) analog (BIM-44058). The Group granted Radius, the United States and has received orphan drug designation a biotechnology company, the exclusive right to develop, from the European Medicines Agency. Lexicon has submitted manufacture, and distribute its proprietary PTH-rP analog, a filing for review to the FDA in the first quarter 2016, and Ipsen BIM-44058 (as well as the library of related compounds), for submitted a filing to the EMA in second quarter 2016. These restoration of bone mass in the treatment of osteoporosis. filings are currently under review. A detailed description of this partnership is provided in A detailed description of par tnerships is provided in paragraph 1.2.2 of this document. chapter 1.2.2 “Major Contracts” of this document. On 7 November 2015, Radius announced that it had Lifecycle Management submitted a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for an investigational, once-daily subcutaneous injection of Somatuline® Autogel® abaloparatide (BIM-44058) for treatment of postmenopausal The Group is keeping its lanreotide, prolonged-release women with osteoporosis. Concurrently, a New Drug formulation development programs for a longer period. Application (NDA) is under regulatory review in the US by the Food and Drug Administration, with a Prescription Drug User The Group continues to develop lanreotide, working on a Fee Act (PDUFA) date of 30 March 2017. prolonged-release formulation development program as well as additional devices to improve patient care. Endocrinology – Melanocortin receptor 4 (MC-4) agonist (BIM-22493), and Ghrelin analog (BIM-28131). After Decapeptyl® securing venture capital funding, the Group helped Rhythm On 10 October 2014, Ipsen announced positive results from Pharmaceuticals, a biotechnology company to develop its the Phase III clinical study of Decapeptyl® (triptorelin pamoate) proprietary compounds, BIM-22493, a MC-4 receptor agonist 11.25 mg administered by subcutaneous injection to prostate for treatment of obesity and diabetes, and BIM-28131, a cancer patients. Ipsen then applied for the addition of the ghrelin analog, for treatment of GI motility disorders and subcutaneous route, alongside the intramuscular route, to the cachexia. The group granted Rhythm an exclusive worldwide label of triptorelin pamoate 11.25 mg. Ipsen has been granted license for development and marketing of BIM-22493 and approval in Portugal, the Czech Republic, Ireland, and Poland BIM-28131. A detailed description of this partnership is for administration along the subcutaneous route. provided in paragraph 1.2.2 of this document. 22 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE On 20 July 2016, Rhythm published (New England Journal of patients, both genetic diseases of obesity. Separately, on Medicine) positive data from its Phase II study of setmelanotide 27 October 2016, after achieving positive Phase IIb results (MC-4 agonist, BIM-22493) in treating obesity in POMCfor the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis, Allergan exercised deficient patients, and on 4 November 2016, positive data an option to acquire and develop relamorelin (ghrelin analog, was reported for treatment of leptin receptor deficient BIM-28131). 1.2.4 Intellectual Property ■■1.2.4.1 Patents intellectual property in other countries that are important The Group’s intellectual property strategy consists of seeking for the Group’s operations. As a result, the 57 applications protection for patents, copyrights, and brand names related in Europe and the 9 PCTs currently filed are likely to yield to its products and processes and to defend its intellectual a significantly higher number than the 66 national patents property rights vigorously throughout the world. already issued. The Group considers that protection of patented technologies In countries where the Group seeks legal protection through and products is essential to the success of its businesses. As patents, the duration of legal protection of a particular of 31 December 2016, the Group held 1,798 patents, 1,099 product is generally 20 years from the Group’s filing date. This of which were issued in European countries and 141 in the protection may be extended in some countries, particularly in United States (in the majority of cases, each international the European Union and the United States. The protection, application includes several national applications and one which may also vary by country, depends on the type of European application upon expiry of the 30-month priority patent and its scope. In most industrialized countries, any new period). active substance, formulation, indication, or manufacturing process may be legally protected. The Group conducts As of the same date, the Group had 524 patent applications ongoing checks to protect its inventions and to act against pending. any infringement of its patents and/or trademarks. Both European patent applications and international patent The expiry dates of patents currently held by the Group for applications (PCTs) are often recognized by regulatory its main products are listed in the table below. The Group agencies in other countries. This patent recognition offers benefits from protection in terms of intellectual property rights the opportunity to seek patent protection in multiple countries through licensing agreements for products and compounds with a European or PCT filing. The Group often pursues that have been patented by other companies. patent protection in Europe and through PCTs to protect its Product Patent holder Patent expiration date Specialty care Oncology Somatuline® Autogel® – formulation Ipsen Patent expired Europe(1) and 2020 (USA(2)) – preparation process Ipsen 2031 (if patent granted) Somatuline® Tulane University Patent now expired Decapeptyl® – Pamoate formulation Debiopharm Patent now expired – Acetate formulation Syntex Patent now expired Decapeptyl® 6 month formulation Debiopharm 2028 (if patent granted) Cabometyx ® – compound Exelixis 2024 (Europe)(3) – polymorphic form Exelixis 2030 (Europe)(4) – process/formulations Exelixis 2030-2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) (1) An application for a supplementary protection certificate has been issued in Austria, Belgium, Spain, Greece, Luxembourg, Sweden, Denmark and Portugal (expiring in 2016). Similar requests have been made and rejected in France and the United Kingdom. (2) In the United States, an extension (PTE) has been granted which extends the patent term until March 2020. (3) Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in a number of European countries (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain) which will extend the patent term until 2029 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (4) Oppositions have been filed against the EP patent. At the end of the opposition procedure, the EP patent has been maintained under an amended form which still covers the product. Opponents appealed the decision. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 23 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Product Patent holder Patent expiration date Cometriq ® – compound Exelixis 2024 (Europe)(1) – polymorphic form Exelixis 2030 (Europe)(2) – process/formulations Exelixis 2030-2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) Hexvix® Photocure 2016 + SPC (3) École Polytechnique Lausanne 2019 Telotristat ethyl – compound Lexicon 2027 (Europe) – polymorphic form Lexicon 2028 (Europe) –p  reparation process and Lexicon 2028 (Europe) (if patent granted) intermediates – dosage forms Lexicon 2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) Neurosciences Dysport®(4) – No patent filed Dysport liquid formulation ® Ipsen 2025 (Europe)(5) 2025 (USA) BN 82451 Ipsen 2020 (Europe and USA) Endocrinology NutropinAq® Genentech Patent now expired (Europe) Increlex ® – Medical use Genentech Expired – Medical use Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals (previously known 2024 (Europe) and 2025 (USA) as Tercica) – Formulation Genentech 2017 (USA) – Manufacturing process Genentech 2018 (USA) Primary Care Smecta® – process Ipsen 2025 (if patent granted) – new aroma formulation Ipsen 2028 (Europe) and 2028 (USA – if patent granted) – new formulation Ipsen 2031 (if patent granted) Forlax ® – No patent filed Tanakan® Schwabe Expired (Europe) Indena Expired (USA) Nisis® and Nisisco®: – active substance Ciba Geigy Expired – preparation process of oral Novartis 2017 formulation Adenuric® (febuxostat) – active substance Teijin Expired – polymorphic form 2019 (Europe)(6) – solid composition 2023 (Europe)(7) Eziclen® / Izinova® Braintree 2023 (Europe)(8) (1) Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in a number of European countries (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain) which will extend the patent term until 2029 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (2) Oppositions have been filed against the EP patent. At the end of the opposition procedure, the EP patent has been maintained under an amended form which still covers the product. Opponents appealed the decision. (3) The European patent is extended (via SPC) in a number of European countries until 2021 in Switzerland and 2019 in the other countries (Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, France, Great Britain, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands and Portugal). (4) There is no patent on the indications and formulation currently marketed but applications are pending in the field of botulinum toxin. (5) An opposition had been filed against a first EP patent. At the end of the opposition procedure, the EP patent has been maintained under an amended form without limiting the scope of the patent. The opponent appealed this decision. Oppositions were also filed against the second EP patent granted in February 2015. (6) The EP patent granted in November 2009 has been maintained under an amended form relating to a therapeutic composition of a polymorphic form of febuxostat during the opposition procedure. The patent will expire in June 2019. Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in a number of European countries (Albania, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain) which will extend the patent term until 2023 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (7) Based on this EP patent, a SPC has been granted in Estonia which extends the patent term until 2023. (8) Requests for Supplementary Patent Certificates have been filed in a number of European countries (Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, Estonia, France, Great Britain, Greece, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal and Romania) which will extend the patent life until 2028 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. 24 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE The Group deems it appropriate to clarify the terms of review The Group’s key products, namely Somatuline ® (and of patent applications: Somatuline ® Autogel ®), Decapeptyl ®, Cabometyx ® and Cometriq®, Dysport®, Smecta®, Tanakan®, Forlax®, Fortrans®, (1) Submission of the patent application. Eziclen® / Izinova®, and the number of trademarks held by the (2) Review of the application by the patent offices (e.g. the Group at 31 December 2016, are shown in the table below. National Institute of Industrial Property – INPI – France or The European Patent Office – EPO). Patent offices are Brands and trademarks Number of applications independent and do not give visibility on the timing of Somatuline® 155 examination or on the status of requests. In general, the review of a patent application takes between three and six Autogel ® 149 years. Decapeptyl® 74 (3) O nce the review is completed, offices grant patents Cabometyx / Cometriq ® ®(1) 150 / 15 or reject the application. Rejection can be appealed, a Dysport ® 329 procedure which can take two more years, again without visibility on the timing of the boards of appeal that exist in Smecta® 850 patent offices. Tanakan® 261 As a result, the Group is not able to give more information on Forlax® 188 the schedules of patent applications under review. Fortrans ® 111 ■■1.2.4.2 Brand Names and Trademarks Eziclen® / Izinova® 68 / 63 Brand name and trademark protection vary from country to (1)  The Trademarks Cabometyx® and Cometriq® are owned by the country. In some countries, this protection is based primarily company Exelixis, Inc. on the use of the brand name, while in others it results The Group also holds registrations for the company names from its registration. Brand name rights are obtained under that make up the Group as well as the slogan and logo which national trademarks, international registrations or EU-wide constitute its graphic charter. trademarks. Registrations are generally granted for a period of ten years and are indefinitely renewable, although in some The Group defends its trademark rights by forming cases, their maintenance is related to the continued use of oppositions against deposits of identical or similar trademarks the trademark. and initiates, if such is the case, legal actions to have its rights recognized. Regarding trademarks, the Group, in particular, holds the product names used. These trademarks provide protection ■■1.2.4.3 Domain Names for pharmaceutical products included in Class 5 of the As of 31 December 2016, the Group had 1,456 domain International Classification of Products and Services. names (reserved or in the process of being reserved). Registrations protect not only the product names in Latin characters but also the product names in local characters (Cyrillic, Chinese, etc.). 1.2.5 Main Markets ■■1.2.5.1 Market Data mainly specialists, who are responsible for drug prescriptions or who may generate a prescription from other practitioners. Sectorial information for therapeutic area and region is By developing a strong reputation with these prescribing detailed in section 2 of this registration document for the 2016 specialists in highly specific and specialized areas, the Group and 2015 financial years. believes it is able to direct its marketing activities selectively and cost efficiently, thereby reducing the need for a large The Group is specialized in healthcare solutions for targeted, sales force. debilitating diseases. Three franchises support Ipsen’s development strategy: Oncology, Neurosciences and ■■1.2.5.2 Competitive Position Endocrinology. Ipsen’s commitment to oncology is exemplified through its growing portfolio of key therapies improving the The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. In recent care of patients suffering from neuro-endocrine tumors, years the pharmaceutical industry has experienced an prostate cancer, bladder cancer and renal cancer. The Group increasing level of horizontal and vertical concentration. also has a significant presence in primary care. The Group’s Within this competitive environment, the Group faces main drug markets and their sizes are detailed in section 1.2.1 competition from other companies to develop and secure of this registration document (“The Group’s Products”). marketing authorizations for new pharmaceutical specialties in targeted therapeutic areas, as well as for specific products Additionally, in terms of marketing, this strategy has led the that generate similar therapeutic results to those generated Group to concentrate its efforts on key prescribing physicians, by medicines marketed by the Group. Numerous companies 2016 Ipsen Registration document 25 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE that compete with the Group to develop and secure marketing For example, Dysport ® faces competition from Botox ® authorizations for new medicines are significantly larger than (Allergan), a well-established botulinum toxin, while the Group and are accordingly able to invest more resources Somatuline® faces competition from Sandostatin® (Novartis). in Research and Development as well as in marketing, which The Group also competes with other pharmaceutical may provide them with the advantage of offering a larger companies in its search for suitable partners to ensure range of products and having access to larger sales forces. the growth of its research and development and marketed product portfolio. The Group’s competitive position is detailed in section 1.2.1 of this registration document. 1.2.6 Regulations The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulation reimbursement policies and price setting in most of the covers nearly all aspects of the Group’s activities from countries in which the Group operates, particularly in Europe. Research and Development to manufacturing facilities, Measures intended to curb direct costs come in various forms, processes, and marketing. In each country where Ipsen which include mandatory price cuts (or a refusal to accept markets its products or conducts research, the Group has price increases), a larger share of the cost being covered by to comply with the standards of local regulatory authorities the patient (reduction in the amount reimbursed by the third and any other national regulatory authority. These authorities party), the withdrawal of certain products from the lists of namely include the European Medicines Agency (EMA), reimbursable products, the alignment of reimbursed prices the French Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health with the lowest product price in a given therapy category, Products (ANSM), the Medicines & Healthcare Products analysis of the cost/benefit ratio of drugs prescribed, and Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom, and the efforts to promote growth in the generic drug market as Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States as the co-pay regulation (“tiers-payant contre génériques”) well as various other regulatory bodies, depending on the introduced in July 2012 in France. relevant market. In some European countries, governments also influence the Price-setting and control prices of drugs indirectly through control of national health Regulation may cover the setting and control of selling prices systems that fund a significant portion of costs related to in certain countries in which the Group markets its products. these products. In France, for instance, the government These controls are implemented pursuant to law or because authority sets the price of reimbursable drugs taking into the government or other healthcare agencies in a given account the product’s value. The price set for a drug depends country are the principal purchasers of products or reimburse notably on the improvement in medical performance of the purchasers for their cost. Price control mechanisms vary new drug with existing treatments. In addition, when fixing the in the way they operate from country to country. This may price of a product, the national agency takes into account the lead to significant differences between markets, which may price of the same drug in other countries. be amplified by exchange rate fluctuations. These pricing The governments of many countries in which the Group differences may also be exploited by parallel import companies operates continue to introduce new measures to reduce which buy branded products in markets where prices are low public health expenses, some of which have affected the and sell them in markets where prices are higher. Group’s sales and profitability in 2016. In recent years, ef for ts by government authorities to curb healthcare spending have led to tighter controls on 26 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure Ipsen S.A. acts as a holding company with regards to As indicated in chapter 4.2.3, Ipsen S.A. is controlled by its affiliated companies and has no operational activities. a company incorporated in Luxembourg, Mayroy SA. Certain senior managers are employed by Ipsen S.A. under Description of this company and its shareholding is detailed certain conditions and invoicing provisions described in in chapter 4.2.3. paragraph 2.3.4. The Group comprises 49 affiliates, which are consolidated as shown in note 29 in chapter 2.2.5. ■■1.2.7.1 Organizational Structure These companies are categorized as research and development, The stated percentages indicate the proportion of share manufacturing, management, or commercialization entities. capital and voting rights(1) held in each company. Group Organization chart as of 31 December 2016 Free Float Mayroy S.A. Other Luxembourg 40.71% 56.57% 2.72% IPSEN S.A. France 100% IPSEN PHARMA S.A.S. France IPSEN RÉ S.A. 0.0001% 35.76% 64.24% 1% Luxembourg 75% 100% 0.0001% IPSEN PRODUTOS SUTREPA S.A.S. IPSEN POLAND LLC 100% FARMACEUTICOS S.A. France 99% Poland SOCAPHARMA S.A.S. Portugal 24.99% 100% 0.0001% IPSEN FARMACEUTICA BV IPSEN MANUFACTURING France IPSEN SpA The Netherlands 100% IRELAND Ltd 100% Italy Ireland BEAUFOUR IPSEN INDUSTRIE S.A.S. France IPSEN KOREA 75% 25% IPSEN PHARMA GmbH 100% IPSEN PHARMA S.A. 100% South Korea Spain 100% Germany IPSEN PHARMA BIOTECH S.A.S. 10% 9.16% 100% France 100% IPSEN BIOINNOVATION LIMITED United Kingdom 90.84% BEAUFOUR IPSEN Int. H.K. Ltd OCTREOPHARM SCIENCES GmbH ST JEAN D’ILLAC SCA 90% Hong Kong IPSEN E.p.E Germany France 50% Greece 80% SURAYPHARM S.A.S. ELSEGUNDO Ltd 100% France 100% INSTITUT PRODUITS 100% Ireland IPSEN INNOVATION S.A.S. SYNTHESE (Ipsen) France 100% 16.75% Sweden 39.75% 100% 0.001% IPSEN OOO PETERSFIELD Ltd IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS Inc. Russia 10% WALLINGSTOWN COMPANY Hong Kong 50% United States Ireland 83.25% 100% 0.003% 10.14% IPSEN PHARMACEUTICALS Ltd 0.10% IPSEN N.V. Ireland LINNEA S.A. Belgium 0.399% 50% 89.85% 100% Switzerland IPSEN DEVELOPMENTS Ltd BEAUFOUR IPSEN TIANJIN United Kingdom WALLINGSTOWN COMPANY Ltd PHARMACEUTICALS Co. Ltd 50% Ireland 100% 96% China 100% IPSEN BIOSCIENCE Inc. LINNEA Inc. United States 90% United States 100% STERIX Ltd PERECHIN COMPANY GARNAY Inc. IPSEN TIANJIN 100% United Kingdom Ireland United States 50% PHARMACEUTICAL TRADE Co. Ltd China OLISAPHARM S.A.S. 10% NAIAPHARM S.A.S. France 100% France 100% BEAUFOUR IPSEN 99.99% 90% 0.01% FARMACEUTICA LTDA 100% IPSEN Ltd PORTPIRIE COMPANY IPSEN (BEJING) PHARMACEUTICAL Brazil United Kingdom Ireland SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Co. Ltd 0.399% China 100% IPSEN BIOPHARM Ltd IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS CARA PARTNERS United Kingdom 100% 10% Ireland CANADA Inc. 100% IPSEN PHARMA SINGAPORE Canada 0.001% 100% IPSEN Pty Ltd Singapore 100% 39.75% Australie 0.10% 100% POTHOLD Ltd BB & Cie S.A.S. United Kingdom 100% France 100% SPECWOOD Ltd MONTANA Ltd United Kingdom 50% Ireland IPSEN MEXICO S. DE RL DE CV 99.96% IPSEN UKRAINE SERVICES LLC 1% 0.04% Mexico Ukraine 99% 0.03% IPSEN PHARMA TUNISIE S.A.R.L. Tunisia 99.97% (1) The stated percentages for Ipsen SA shareholders indicate the proportion of share capital. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 27 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE ■■1.2.7.2. Acquisitions and Discontinuation Appendices to consolidated financial statements of the In order to facilitate and encourage the development of the Company contained in section 2.2 “Consolidated Financial Group’s activity on a local scale, a company has been created Statements” in this registration document. in Singapore, Ipsen Pharma Singapore Pte Ltd. Non-controlling interests exist in two Group’s subsidiaries, Moreover, in the context of simplification and rationalization mentioned in note 29 in chapter 2.2.5: of the Group’s legal and administrative organization, the • Beaufour Ipsen (Tianjin) Parmaceutical Co. Ltd (China): company Suraypharm SAS was dissolved by transfer of all interest of 4% held by a local partner (Tianjin Pharmaceutical of its assets to its sole shareholder, Ipsen Pharma SAS, and Holdings): a representative from the minority shareholder deregistered from the Trade and Companies Register on participates in the Board and a pre-emption right is provided 2 January 2017. From this date, Ipsen Pharma SAS is the sole in the JV contract; shareholder of the company Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. • Ipsen E.P.E (Greece): interest of 20% held by a local partner ■■1.2.7.3 Information on Subsidiary Stakes (Marinopoulos Bros SA): a representative from the minority shareholder participates in the Board and a pre-emption The participations of the Company only cover the Group right is provided in the company’s articles of association. Companies. Their financial impacts are described in the 1.2.8 Risks Factors The Group operates in a rapidly evolving environment that The Group enters into collaborative agreements with third poses many risks to the Group, some of which are outside of parties to enhance its Research and Development portfolio. its control. Investors are advised to carefully review each of the The Group depends on the technology and expertise of risks described below as well as all the information contained in third parties both to undertake research in new molecules this registration document. The risks and uncertainties set out and to carry out pre-clinical and clinical trials. The Group’s below are not the only ones faced by the Group. Other risks success depends on the quality of the partners it manages and uncertainties of which the Group is not currently aware to attract and the performance of those partners in fulfilling or of which it does not consider material may also have an their obligations under the collaboration agreements. unfavorable impact on its business, financial situation, or results. The Group could find itself unable to maintain its current collaboration agreements on acceptable terms or to Within the Legal Division the Group has a “Risk and Insurance” enter into new collaboration agreements on satisfactory function that reports directly to the General Counsel. Within commercial terms. If the Group was unable to maintain this registration document this function is described in or enter into such agreements, it would have to develop section 4.1.2.1.6.3 of the report relating to the organization of products at its sole expense. Such a situation would have Board activities and section 4.1.2.1.6 on the Group’s internal the effect of increasing the Group’s capital requirements control procedures. or limiting or delaying its development in other areas. In addition, the Group’s partners could fail to fulfil their ■■1.2.8.1 S  pecific Risks to the Group obligations or perform them in an unsatisfactory manner, and its Structure which potentially could cause delays and expenses for the 1.2.8.1.1 Dependence on products Group. A significant part of the Group sales and results relies on 1.2.8.1.2.2 To manufacture certain products a few major products. The three main ones: Somatuline ®, Decapeptyl ®, and Dyspor t represented 70% of 2016 Although the Group currently manufactures active substances consolidated Group sales, respectively 34%, 21% and for several of its products, it subcontracts the production 18%. The major development, marketing and competency of certain of these active ingredients to third parties or challenges for each of those products are described purchases finished products directly from its partners or in the detailed presentation of the Group’s products (see their subcontractors. The Group is therefore exposed to the section 1.2.1 “The Group’s products”). risk of a supply shortage if its suppliers experience financial 1.2.8.1.2 Dependence on third parties or operational difficulties such that they were no longer able to manufacture all or part of the required quantities of the 1.2.8.1.2.1 To ensure the Research and Development product. If a supply shortage occurs as a result of difficulties portfolio success with subcontractors, this could adversely impact the Group’s The Group is dependent on the support of third parties ability to meet the market demand for its products and, in to ensure the success of its Research and Development particular, could damage the Group’s reputation and its portfolio, and the inability to secure such support or any relations with its customers, which could in turn have a shortcoming in its control over such third parties could have a negative impact on the Group’s business, financial situation, negative impact on the Group. or results. 28 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.8.1.2.3 To develop and market certain products property rights are concerned, these partners could refuse The Group depends on third parties to develop and market to grant licenses to the Group on acceptable terms for Ipsen. some of its products. Although this type of business generates The Group is also dependent on unpatented technology, substantial royalties for the Group, these third parties could methods, expertise, and data that it considers to be industrial behave in ways that are damaging to the Group’s business. secrets. This information is protected often by confidentiality The Group develops and markets some of its products in agreements between the Group and its employees and collaboration with other pharmaceutical companies. The consultants as well as among some of its subcontractors. The Group has entered into significant collaboration agreements Group cannot be certain that these agreements or any other (see paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). The royalties type of protection with respect to its industrial secrets will be received by the Group from some of these partners could or effective or that satisfactory means of redress will be available currently make a substantial contribution to the Group’s net in the event of any breach. operating income and cash flow. Where the Group markets • Third party intellectual property its products under the terms of collaboration agreements, it The Group is dependent on intellectual property rights held by exposes itself to the risk that certain decisions, such as the third parties in order to manufacture and market several of its preparation of budgets and promotional strategies, may be products, including six of its main products. controlled by its partners and that those decisions made by the Group’s partners may have a negative impact on Intellectual property rights (including patents, expertise, the Group’s business carried-out under the terms of those and trademarks) are covered by licensing agreements that agreements. The Group cannot be certain that its partners will are granted to the Group by third parties who are either the fulfil their obligations and may be unable to obtain any benefit owners of those rights or are authorized to sub-license their from those agreements. In addition, the Group’s partners use. Some of the Group’s main products are manufactured could choose to develop their existing new products, rather and/or marketed under licenses from third parties (see than products marketed in collaboration with the Group. paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). Although the Group Finally, although it has legal remedies against its partners in currently maintains good relationships with these third parties the event that they cause Ipsen damage, the Group is not in a and has taken the necessary steps to protect its interests position to ensure that its partners have sufficient insurance to in the related agreements, Ipsen cannot guarantee that it cover fully their liabilities for their overall business, especially will be able to continue to benefit from these intellectual as its relates to other third parties or the Group. If partners did property rights or that the provisions of these contracts will not to have sufficient insurance, the Group could be forced be respected. For example, the Group could find itself in to bear, either directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of the future unable to negotiate new licensing agreements or any damage thus caused, which potentially could entail an collaboration agreements, or the Group could have difficulty adverse impact on its business, financial situation, or results. maintaining the current terms of agreements that could lead to less favorable terms. Furthermore, the future development The failure of any of the Group’s par tners or intense and sale of certain products could depend on license terms. competition could result in some of the Group’s products: Finally, the Group’s ability to grant exclusive patent licenses or (i) having their development programs delayed or stopped, patent sub-licenses to third parties could be limited by rights (ii) not being approved by the competent authorities, having held by other third parties with respect to those same patents their approval delayed or being approved for indications or other patents. which are more restrictive than those originally anticipated, or (iii) generating lower than expected sales and/or other 1.2.8.1.2.5 D ependence on certain managing executives revenue. Such situations could have a negative impact on the scientists, and social relations Group’s business, financial situation, or results. The Group’s success depends in large part on certain essential 1.2.8.1.2.4 Related to intellectual property managing executives and scientists. The departure of these senior employees could damage the Group’s competitiveness • Group’s intellectual property and compromise its ability to achieve its objectives. In The Group’s collaboration with third parties exposes the addition, the Group is convinced that its continued expansion Group to the risk that those third parties might claim the in sectors and activities that require additional expertise and benefits from intellectual property rights for the Group’s resources (such as marketing, clinical trials, and regulatory inventions or might not ensure that the Group’s unpatented licenses) will require it to recruit new executive management technology remains confidential. and scientists. The Group could find itself unable to attract or retain the required executive management and scientists. The Group works with numerous partners (universities and other public and private bodies) and exchanges information The Group’s success also depends on the motivation of its and data with them in various forms in order to research, employees at all of its operational sites. Maintaining positive develop, produce, and market its products. In spite of social relationships within its varied entities is an important precautions taken by the Group vis-à-vis these bodies, factor in implementing the Group’s policy. However, changes particularly through contractual precautions, the partners (or in economic conditions in the pharmaceutical industry some of their members) could claim ownership of intellectual could lead some Group sites to envisage or embark on property rights arising from trials carried out by their reorganization or restructuring operations that could have an employees or any other intellectual property rights related to adverse impact on employee motivation and on the quality the Group’s products. In addition, where their own intellectual of social relations in the Group. Any negative impact on 2016 Ipsen Registration document 29 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE employee motivation or the quality of social relations could include major international pharmaceutical groups whose jeopardize the achievement of some Group targets related size, experience, and capital resources exceed those of the to research, production, or marketing activities and lead to Group. Consequently, the Group cannot be certain that its a corresponding impact on the Group’s results or financial new products: position. • will be able to obtain the required regulatory approval 1.2.8.1.3 Risks associated with the Group’s international or be brought to market more quickly than those of its activities competitors, The Group operates throughout the world, including countries • will be able to compete sustainably with safer, more other than the European Union Member States and the United effective, or less expensive products marketed by certain States. Specifically, these include China, Russia, and other major competitor groups, Central and Eastern European countries. As such, the Group faces various risks specific to its international activities, in • will adapt quickly enough to new technologies and scientific particular, the following: advances, • Risks arising from unexpected regulatory changes such as • will be preferred by medical centers, doctors, or patients changes in tax regulations and regulations on trade and over existing treatments used for the same pathologies, tariffs; • will be able to compete effectively with other products used • Risks arising from difficulties in interpreting or implementing to treat the same pathologies. certain specific regulations; New developments are expected both in the pharmaceutical • Risks arising from limitations on the repatriation of earnings; industry and in public and private research facilities. In addition to their ability to develop safer, more effective or less • Risk of financial default on the part of certain public and expensive products than those of the Group, the Group’s private operators with which the Group conducts business; competitors could also manufacture, market, and distribute • Risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations; their products more efficiently than the Group is able to do for its own products. Finally, rapid technological developments • Risks arising from the validity of various intellectual property introduced by competitors could make the Group’s new rights being deferred; or future products obsolete before Ipsen has been able to • Risks arising from various labor regulations; recover the costs incurred in the research, development, and marketing of those products. • Risks arising from political or economic changes affecting a given region or country; Details of the competitive environment of the Group’s main products are set out in section 1.2.1 of this registration • Risks arising from increased difficulties in recruiting staff document. and managing operating entities abroad; 1.2.8.2.2 D  ependence on drug prices and their inclusion • Risks arising from failure by the Group’s employees to on the list of reimbursable drugs observe the ethical principles laid down by the Group (see The Group is dependent on prices that are set for drugs section 4.1.2.1.6 of this registration document, “Internal and is vulnerable to the potential withdrawal of certain drugs control procedures”); from the list of reimbursable products by governments and • Risks arising from the occurrence of natural disasters in the the relevant regulatory authorities in the countries in which it areas at risk in which the Group and/or its major partners operates. do business; In general terms, the Group is faced with uncertainty related • Risks arising from the absence of an international agreement to the prices set for its products, since pharmaceutical prices on regulatory standards. have come under severe pressure over the last few years as a result of various factors. These factors include the following: 1.2.8.1.4 Risks associated with information systems The Group’s activities are largely dependent on information • a tendency for governments and suppliers of medical care systems. Despite the procedures and security measures in to recommend the use of generic drugs in several countries place internally and at the providers with which the Group by way of laws on generic substitution, which authorize operates, the Group may have to deal with incidents connected or require pharmacists dispensing drugs to substitute, as to malicious acts against such information systems that could much as possible, less expensive generic drugs for those lead to activity disruptions, the loss or alteration of critical manufactured by the original pharmaceutical company, data, or the theft or corruption of data. • a tendency for governments and private medical insurance organizations to lower prices or reimbursement rates for ■■1.2.8.2 R  isks Associated with the certain drugs marketed by the Group in the countries in Pharmaceutical Industry which it operates, or even to remove those drugs from lists 1.2.8.2.1 Risks associated with market competition of reimbursable drugs, The Group operates in well-stablished, rapidly-evolving, and • other restrictive measures that limit increases in the cost of intensely-competitive markets. The Group’s competitors medical services, 30 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE • parallel imports that enable wholesalers to take advantage Thus, in order to develop viable products from a commercial of price differentials by buying drugs at lower prices in perspective, the Group must demonstrate that the molecules certain markets and reselling them in other markets at in question are effective and are not harmful to humans higher prices. through pre-clinical and clinical trials. The commercial success of the Group’s products depends The Group cannot be certain that favorable results obtained partly on the proportion of the drug’s price that is reimbursed during pre-clinical trials will subsequently be confirmed during by private medical insurance companies, health insurance clinical trials or that clinical trial results will be sufficient to bodies, and public healthcare programs. demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product in question in order to obtain the required marketing licenses. In the event The continued sale of a drug as an over-the-counter product of the failure of certain Research and Development projects, after its delisting does not necessarily prevent a decline in the Group cannot be assured to find new, equivalent projects its sales. The decisive factor in the drug’s continued sales to replace them, whether from Ipsen’s own research activities is whether patients themselves agree to bear the cost of or from research carried out under partnerships. If this was their treatment. On the basis of experience with other drugs to happen, the Group’s Research and Development pipeline delisted in France and in other European countries, products could dry up, and the Group would not have a sufficient affected by such measures usually experience a decline in number of drugs to market in the longer term, which could sales. have an adverse impact on its results or financial position and As such, if a drug that is marketed by the Group and also on the value of its shares. represents a significant proportion of its sales were to be delisted, the delisting would likely have an unfavorable impact Following the Research and Development phase, the Group on the Group’s business, financial situation, or results. The has to invest substantial additional resources to obtain the Group would nevertheless retain the option of entering into an required government authorizations in a number of countries agreement with a partner to market delisted drugs over the without any guarantee that these authorizations will be counter. Such an agreement may partially limit the unfavorable granted. impact of any delisting on the Group’s business, financial Before a given product can be sold on the relevant market, position or performance. the Group must obtain and retain the required regulatory 1.2.8.2.3 Risks associated with Research and approvals for its drugs from the European Union, the United Development failures States, and other regulatory authorities. The submission of an application for an authority’s approval does not In order to maintain competitiveness, the Group invests guarantee that marketing approval will be granted for the substantial amounts in Research and Development. Ipsen product in question. Each authority is free to impose its will be unable to recover these investments if clinical trials of own requirements, which may include the requirement to the Group’s products are not as successful as anticipated carry out local clinical studies, and can delay or refuse or if such products do not receive the required regulatory marketing approvals even when the product has already approval. been authorized in other countries. The procedure for In order to remain competitive, the Group has to invest large obtaining marketing approvals for new products in the amounts in Research and Development. Group’s main markets is complex and lengthy. The time taken to obtain the required marketing approvals varies by In order to remain competitive in the highly competitive country, although it is generally between six months and pharmaceutical industry, the Group must allocate substantial two years from the date of application. In addition, where resources to Research and Development every year to a marketing approval is granted, the approval may include develop new products. Even if the Group’s Research and limitations on the uses for which the product in question Development efforts bear fruit, its competitors could develop may be marketed or a requirement to carry out further trials more effective products or successfully bring a larger after the product’s registration. Marketed products are also number of new products to market. In 2016, the Group spent subject to ongoing monitoring after the initial approval is €208.9 million on Research and Development, representing granted. The subsequent discovery of problems, which were around 13.2% of consolidated sales. The Group’s current unknown at the time of applying for a marketing approval, or investments related to the launch of new products and the any failure to comply with regulatory requirements, can result research and development of future products could entail in restrictions being placed on the marketing of the product higher costs without a proportionate increase in the Group’s in question or its withdrawal from the market in addition to revenues. legal penalties. In addition, the Group is subject to rigorous official inspections of the manufacture, labelling, distribution, The Research and Development process is long and there is a and marketing of its products. All these factors can increase substantial risk that products may not succeed. the costs associated with developing new products and the The Research and Development process typically lasts eight risk that those products may not be marketed successfully. to twelve years from the date of a discovery to a product 1.2.8.2.4 Uncertainty as to the approval of products being brought to market. The R&D process involves several under development and their marketing stages. At each stage there is a substantial risk that the Group could fail to achieve its objectives and be forced to abandon Some products developed by the Group are still in the very its efforts on products in which it has invested significantly. early stages of development, and even when products are 2016 Ipsen Registration document 31 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE in more advanced stages of development, the Group cannot Consequently, the Group cannot guarantee that it will manage be certain that they will be gain approval from the relevant to secure the required future supplies. regulatory authorities and be successfully brought to market. If difficulties of this nature were to persist for a period of If products developed by the Group were not approved time in relation to one or more products, this could also during pre-clinical and clinical trials or were not approved have a negative impact on the Group’s sales and thus on its by the regulatory authorities, this would have a negative profitability and earnings. impact on the Group’s growth. The approval of a product can take several years, and the Group may not bring all its new 1.2.8.2.6 R  isks associated with the sale of products for products to market. New products may also appear promising unauthorized uses and to generic drugs during the early stages of development or after clinical trials, The Group must or may have to face competition from: but either never be brought to market or fail to sell. This can (i) generic products, particularly in relation to Group products happen for various reasons, including the following: which are not protected by patents, (ii) products that, although not strictly identical to the Group’s products or which have • products may prove ineffective or cause side-effects that not demonstrated their bioequivalence, may be granted outweigh their therapeutic benefits during pre-clinical or marketing licenses for indications similar to those of the clinical trials, Group’s products pursuant to the bibliographic reference • the Group could fail to devise appropriate clinical trials for regulatory procedure (well-established medicinal use) before products which perform satisfactorily during pre-clinical the patents protecting its products expire, (iii) products sold trials or in the very early stages of clinical trials, for unauthorized uses once the protection afforded to the Group’s products and those of its competitors by patent • the Group could fail to obtain licenses from the relevant law expires, and (iv) from generic products of the Group’s regulatory authorities to allow it to carry out the required competing products. clinical trials or could be forced to repeat trials in order to comply with regulations in different jurisdictions, Such a situation could result in the Group losing market share, which could in turn affect the Group’s ability to maintain its • the Group could fail to obtain the required licenses from the current level of sales growth or profitability. In order to avoid relevant regulatory authorities to sell its products on certain or reduce the impact of such situations, the Group could markets or on any markets, seek to protect its rights by bringing legal action against counterfeiters. • it could prove too costly or difficult to manufacture new products on a large scale, Because producers of generic products do not have to incur the costs associated with the various stages of the drug’s • the marketing of certain products could be prohibited as development to prove that the products are not dangerous a result of third parties holding intellectual property rights, and are fit for their intended purpose, generic producers • the Group could fail to find distributors to market its can sell their products at prices lower than those at which products, or its partners on jointly developed products the Group sells its products. The Group’s products could could decide not to market its products, lose market share due to competition from these alternative treatments causing the Group to be unable to maintain its • the Group’s products may not find market acceptance, current level of sales growth or profitability. • the Group’s competitors could develop products that ■■1.2.8.3 Legal Risks are more effective or which for other reasons are more successful at obtaining market acceptance, 1.2.8.3.1 Reference shareholder As of 31 December 2016, the Company’s main shareholder, • new products could render the Group’s products obsolete, Mayroy, held 56.57% of the Company’s equity and 71.96% • the Group could fail to sell its products at prices that enable of voting rights. This means that it can control the passing of the products to generate a satisfactory return on investment. resolutions at Shareholders’ Meetings, which could have a material unfavorable impact on the Company’s share price. 1.2.8.2.5 Risks associated with supply shortages This concentration of capital and voting rights in the hands and other disruptions of a single shareholder, and that shareholder’s ability to freely The marketing of certain products by the Group has been and dispose of all or part of its shares in the Company, could have could be affected by supply shortages and other disruptions. a material unfavorable impact on the Company’s share price. Such difficulties may be of both a regulatory nature (e.g. 1.2.8.3.2 General business risks the need to correct certain technical problems in order 1.2.8.3.2.1 Undesired disclosure of critical information to bring production sites into compliance with applicable The Group is involved in Research activities leading to the regulations) and a technical nature (e.g. difficulties obtaining filing of numerous patents and exchange of information with supplies of satisfactory quality, difficulties manufacturing numerous third parties in the normal course of its Development active ingredients, or drugs complying with their technical or Marketing activities. specifications on a sufficiently reliable and uniform basis at the required volume). This situation may result in a significant The Group has set up procedures to control the dissemination reduction in the sales of one or more products. of this information to protect either the confidentiality of 32 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE sensitive information, particularly to protect its intellectual product, process patents, and intermediate elements for property or competitive positions, or to ensure that privileged the economical manufacture of active ingredients, patents information is disseminated to investors in a manner that covering special formulations of the product, administration complies with the legislation in force. However, the Group methods as well as the transformation of the active ingredients cannot be certain that it will not be faced with undesired or into over-the-counter medicines. In some countries, some of uncontrolled disclosure of critical or strategic information, the Group's products may also benefit from a marketing which might adversely affect the company’s financial position, exclusivity period of five to ten years. competitive situation, or share value. On the other hand, if the Group fails to protect its intellectual 1.2.8.3.2.2 Legal and administrative proceedings property rights, it may not be competitive and cannot gain In the normal course of business, the Group is or may be profits. The Group's success depends on its ability to obtain, involved in legal or administrative proceedings. Financial retain, and protect its patents and other intellectual property claims are or may be brought against the Group in connection rights. Patent law, as it relates to the scope of claims in the with some of these proceedings. Provisions have been pharmaceutical sector in which the Group operates, is an raised with respect to such claims in accordance with IFRS area of law that is constantly changing and involves some accounting standards (a description of these provisions is uncertainty. provided in section 2.2, note 21.1 of this registration document). If the Group does not manage to protect its intellectual These provisions amounted to a total of €15.4 million as of property rights, the Group may find itself uncompetitive and 31 December 2016. These provisions are estimated on the unable to generate profits. The Group’s success depends basis of the most likely assumptions on the reporting date. on its ability to obtain, retain, and protect patents and other The Group considers the amount of resources set aside for intellectual property rights. Patent law, in terms of the extent these risks, litigation, and disputes either known or currently in of claims in the pharmaceutical sector in which the Group progress are sufficient to ensure that its consolidated financial operates, is an area of the law that is constantly evolving has position should not suffer a material adverse impact in the a number of uncertainties. event of an unfavorable outcome. However, the Company Consequently, the Group cannot be certain that: cannot guarantee that the Group will not be exposed to legal action, claims, or government investigations that could prevent • it will be able to develop other patentable inventions, or delay its products being marketed or affect its operations, • patents for which it has applied will be granted, profitability, or cash flow and thus have a negative impact on the Group’s business, financial position, or earnings. • any patents granted to it or that are the subject of licenses granted to it will not be challenged and judged to be invalid In October 2016, the Group initiated proceedings against or unenforceable, Radius before the International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce based on potential • the protection afforded by a patent will be sufficiently broad breach of various provisions of the license agreement, so as to exclude competitors, including the Group’s option to co-promote the finished • other persons or entities will not claim rights including product with Radius in France and on the license related to ownership rights over patents and other intellectual property Japan. The Group claims damages valued at €50 million. rights owned by the Group or which are the subject of In response, Radius filed counterclaims in January 2017 for licenses granted to it. alleged contractual breaches by letting certain patents expire and for allegedly granting manufacturing rights to a third party. The information related to the patents held by the Group is The Group filed its answer denying Radius’ counterclaim. detailed in section 1.2.4.1 (“Patents”); The arbitral tribunal will be constituted in the first quarter of 2017. The outcome of the case cannot be predicted at this 1.2.8.3.2.4 Risks associated with patent infringement preliminary stage of the proceedings; however the Group The Group’s competitors could infringe its patents or intends to fully defend and vindicate its rights against Radius’ circumvent them through innovations in design. In order to allegations. prevent infringements, the Group could engage in patent litigation, which is both costly and time-consuming. It is On 13 February 2017 Galderma Brazil filed for ICC arbitration difficult to monitor unauthorized use of the Group’s intellectual in São Paulo against Ipsen Brazil for alleged violation of the property rights, and the Group could find itself unable to distribution agreement following supply interruption caused prevent its intellectual property rights from being unlawfully by Anvisa’s (Brazilian Health Authorities) decision to suspend appropriated. its GMP certificate for the manufacturing of Dysport®. In addition, in view of the development of the pharmaceutical 1.2.8.3.2.3 D  ependence on the Group’s intellectual industry, an increasing number of patents are being issued, property rights including some which apply to all therapeutic areas; and there The expiration of a product’s patent may result in substantial is an increasing risk that the Group’s activities and its use of competition due to the emergence of a generic drug, notably certain technologies could entail the infringement of patents in the United States, and in turn lead to a sharp reduction belonging to third parties. This risk is inherent in the business in sales of the product that received patent protection. In of any pharmaceutical company and is usually resolved by some cases, however, the Group may continue to derive way of license agreements or cross-license agreements commercial benefits from the manufacturing secrets of a where this potential overlap materializes. Given that patent 2016 Ipsen Registration document 33 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE applications are not generally published until 18 months after it is impossible to predict the cost of future insurance. The the date of the priority application (or even, in certain cases, Group may be unable to obtain or retain insurance coverage until the patents in question are issued), the Group cannot on acceptable terms, and the insurance coverage held by the guarantee that third parties have not been the first to invent Group may not provide adequate protection against potential certain products or to file patent applications for inventions risks of the type in question. Should the Group be unable to that are the subject of pending patent applications filed by take out insurance at reasonable prices or make adequate the Group. In addition, patents in the United States can be provision to protect itself against potential product liability issued based on the date of invention (i.e. the first inventor). claims, it could be exposed to substantial risks and find itself This distinction can enable parties to benefit from patents unable to market its products at the appropriate time or at related to inventions for which they were not the first to file competitive prices. applications. The Group could be faced with the risk of claims related to If the Group finds itself unable to patent its technologies, it the safety of its products, and in particular products relating could be forced to obtain licenses from third parties to use to neurology (marketed under the brand names Dysport® and their patents, terminate certain activities, or gain access to Azzalure ®) which may cause, or appear to cause, serious alternative technologies. side effects or potentially dangerous interactions with other drugs if misused or not properly prescribed. The Group is 1.2.8.3.2.5 R isks associated with the counterfeiting of subject to pharmacovigilance obligations that require it to Group products report to the regulatory authorities any events in the course The sale of counterfeit products could damage the Group’s of which its products are associated with serious side effects reputation and affect customers’ confidence in the Group’s including patient death or serious harm. Such events could, products. in particular, result in additional regulatory constraints, such as additional requests from the regulatory authorities when As a manufacturer of medication, the Group is exposed to reviewing marketing applications in various countries, leading the risk that third parties might attempt to counterfeit its to potential delays in launching products in new markets; products and sell counterfeit products as if they were the the need to conduct costly post-approval clinical studies; Group’s products. Counterfeit products are not approved changes to marketing authorization; limits on prescribed uses by the competent regulatory authorities and could prove or patient populations; or even the withdrawal of products dangerous. To the extent that counterfeit products are sold from the market. Such events would harm product sales and as being those of the Group, its reputation could be affected have a negative impact on the Group’s financial position. and patients’ confidence in the Group’s products could Furthermore, any adverse publicity associated with such be undermined. In addition, some of the Group’s products events could cause consumers to seek alternatives to the could be withdrawn from the market if counterfeit products Group’s products, thus causing sales to decline, even if it are sold. If the confidence of patients or prescribers of the were ultimately demonstrated that the Group product in Group’s products are damaged, or if the Group were forced question had not caused the side effects reported to the to withdraw products from the market, the Group could see a regulatory authorities. decline in its sales and profitability. ■■1.2.8.4 Financial Risks 1.2.8.3.2.6 Risks associated with product liability 1.2.8.4.1 Market risks The Group’s businesses expose it to product liability risk, and its insurance coverage could be insufficient to protect The Group mainly manages financial risks through control it against such risks should the need arise. Product liability procedures that Group Finance puts into place by working constitutes a substantial risk for the Group and one that with the relevant subsidiaries and the Group’s specialist could increase if the Group’s business expands into new departments responsible for arranging and managing such markets and continues to grow in the United States (where procedures. The Group mainly makes use of traditional, the costs associated with product liability claims can be controlled-risk instruments to hedge its exposure to exchange particularly onerous). Considerable damages have been rate and interest rate fluctuations. The financial impact of awarded against pharmaceutical companies in certain market risks is described in note 23 to the consolidated countries as a result of physical harm allegedly caused by the financial statements as of 31 December 2016. use of certain products. Certain pharmaceutical companies 1.2.8.4.2 Exchange rate risks have recently had to withdraw products from the market as a result of product liability claims. Although the Group is not A significant share of sales comes from countries where currently involved in any substantial proceedings arising from the Group’s reporting currency, the euro, is the functional product liability and including significant damages claims, it currency. However, due to its international business, the is possible that such proceedings could be initiated in the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates that may future. The Group has insurance policies covering up to a impact its results. certain amount; however, there remains the risk of potential Several types of risks can be distinguished: claims based on product liability. If a claimant wins a case against the Group on the basis of such liability, the case • the transactional exchange rate risk related to business and could have a negative impact on the Group’s business, operational activities; financial situation, or results. Given that product liability • exchange rate risk associated with financing contracted in a insurance in the pharmaceutical industry is a narrow market, currency different from functional currencies; 34 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE • exchange rate risk on net investments in foreign operations Additionally, patients in some geographical areas fund whose impacts are recorded as a change in consolidated their own medication needs in the absence of any social equity. security system. Such patients could find their financial resources adversely affected during a financial crisis. Finally, The Group’s policy is to hedge against the impact of exchange in countries in which public or private health coverage is rate fluctuations on its net income compared to its budget. provided, the impact of financial crisis could cause medical Exposure to currency risk is assessed by the subsidiaries insurance agencies to place added pressure on drug prices, before being forwarded to the Treasury Department. The increase financial contributions by patients, or adopt a more Group hedges, based on the estimates, the major currencies selective approach to reimbursement criteria. All of the above “trade” (USD, RUB, GBP, BRL, CNY/CNH, PLN, CZK, HUF, risks could affect the Group’s future ability to achieve its RON, AUD, CHF) and “operational” (USD, GBP, CNY/CNH, financial targets. CAD, PLN, AUD, CHF). 1.2.8.4.6 The Company’s share price may fluctuate To reduce its exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates, The Company’s share price may fluctuate significantly and Ipsen uses derivative instruments such as forward sales or could be affected by a wide variety of events affecting the purchase contracts and currency swaps, “vanilla” options, Company, its competitors, the pharmaceutical sector or and NDF (Non-Deliverable Forward). financial markets in general. The Company’s share price could fluctuate significantly in response to the following types 1.2.8.4.3 Interest rate risks of events: Given its level of debt as of December 31, 2016 (note 22 to the consolidated financial statements), the Group has now • changes in the Group’s or its competitors’ financial limited exposure to interest rate risk. The financial impact of performance from one period to another; interest rate risks is set out in note 23 “Derivative Financial • the announcement by the Group or one of its partners of Instruments” to the consolidated financial statements as of the success or failure of one of the Group’s Research and 31 December 2016. Development programs conducted either on its own or in 1.2.8.4.4 Liquidity and counterparty risks conjunction with a third party; The Group’s policy consists in diversifying its counterparties • the announcement by the Company or one of its partners so as to avoid excessive concentration and in dealing with first of the success or failure of the commercial launch of a new rate counterparties. product; As of 31 December 2016, the Group’s net cash and cash • announcements by competitors or announcements equivalents amounted to €425.5 million largely invested in concerning the pharmaceutical industry; term accounts and term deposits. • announcements regarding changes in the Group’s executive More detailed analysis of the Group’s liquidity position is team or key personnel. described in section 2.1.3.2 related to the Group’s net cash Despite being inherent to any listed company, the Group position. believes that, with its limited float, the stock price fluctuation 1.2.8.4.5 Risks associated with economic and financial risk is higher for Ipsen than for companies with greater floats. crisis Furthermore, in the last few years, the financial markets have experienced significant volatility which, at times, has The Group operates in cer tain geographical regions no relation to the financial performance of listed companies. whose governmental finances, local currencies, or inflation Market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, rates could be affected by crisis. A crisis could erode the may affect the Company’s share price. local competitiveness of the Group’s products relative to competitors operating in local currency, be detrimental to the ■■1.2.8.5 Industrial and Environmental Risks Group’s margins in those regions where the Group’s drugs are billed in local currencies, or compromise the Group’s 1.2.8.5.1 Use of dangerous substances ability to recover receivables from public or private bodies The Group uses dangerous substances in performing its with which the Group does business. business; and any claim relating to the improper handling, storage, or treatment of such substances could prove costly. In a number of countries, the Group markets its drugs via distributors or agents. Some of these partners’ financial The Group’s Research and Development programs, prestrength could be impacted by a crisis that could potentially clinical and clinical trials, and manufacturing and distribution subject the Group to difficulties recovering its receivables activities involve the controlled storage, handling, use, and in full. Furthermore, in certain countries in which crisis processing of dangerous substances, toxins, chemical, and threatens financial equilibrium and where the Group sells biological agents and radioactive molecules. As a result, its drugs directly to hospitals, the Group could be forced to the Group is exposed not only to environmental risks lengthen its payment terms or could experience difficulties related to environmental contamination but also to health in recovering its receivables in full. Moreover, the Group may risks (occupational diseases) linked to the fact that Ipsen’s also be unable to protect itself against the risk of certain employees handle active or toxic substances in the course of customers defaulting on payments due to the lack of active their research or production activities. These risks also exist offers of credit insurance in these geographical regions. for third parties with which the Group works. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 35 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE The Group is subject to laws and regulations governing the Group’s various sites could lead to the Group incurring the use, production, storage, handling, and processing of significant expenditures or seeking to outsource certain such substances and waste. The Group considers that its activities to specialized par tners. The Group’s EHS safety measures governing the handling and processing of (Environment, Health, and Safety) policy is described in dangerous substances do satisfy the standards laid down by section 3.2.2. applicable laws and regulations. The Group also believes these 1.2.8.5.3 Dependence on production facilities safety measures enable its employees and subcontractors to carry on their activities under favorable environmental, health, The Group is dependent on its production facilities to maintain and security conditions. However, the risk of accidental and develop its sales. Some production equipment at several contamination or occupational disease linked to handling of its sites is critical and unique. Despite the business continuity dangerous substances cannot be completely eliminated. management policy in place, a breakdown at a production site Accordingly, the Group’s Department of Quality, Environment, could result in an interruption of production for 3 to 24 months Health, and Safety is committed to the implementation of while pending the replacement of parts or entire equipment, preventive and precautionary measures. followed by its requalification and validation, or could result in the use of subcontractors. Any such interruption in production In the event of an accident, the Group could be held liable could have a negative impact on the Group’s business, for any resulting damage; and the liability incurred could financial position, or performance. exceed the maximum amount of any insurance coverage subscribed by the Group or even not be covered at all. The Depending on the products concerned, the return of sales to Group could find itself unable to maintain insurance cover their previous levels could prove difficult, which could have a on satisfactory terms or to obtain any insurance. The Group negative impact on the Group’s business, financial position, could incur substantial costs to comply with current or future or performance. environmental or health and safety laws and regulations. Furthermore, at several of its production sites, the Group uses 1.2.8.5.2 Environmental risks dangerous and inflammable substances and powders that could lead to an explosion, a fire, or the potential exposure Environmental responsibilities and the associated compliance of its employees to such substances. The Group regards costs could have a negative impact on the Group’s earnings. its safety measures governing the handling and processing Environmental laws in various countries impose real and of dangerous substances as able to satisfy the standards potential obligations on the Group with regard to repairing required under applicable laws and regulations while enabling environmental damage or refurbishing contaminated sites. its employees and subcontractors to perform their activities under favorable environmental, health, and security condition. These obligations could relate to sites of which the Group is However, the risks associated with handling, storing, and or was the owner, sites where it performs or has performed using these dangerous substances cannot be completely its business activities, or sites where waste from its activities eliminated and could lead to the partial or total destruction has been deposited. These environmental obligations could of one or more of its production sites, which could entail have a considerable adverse impact on the Group’s operating an interruption in production for several years potentially. performance. The Group could be involved in judicial or Depending on the site and products concerned, the return of administrative proceedings arising from environmental sales to their previous levels could prove difficult, which could disputes. Should any such proceedings have an outcome that negatively impact the Group’s ability to achieve its financial was unfavorable to the Group, the proceedings could have a targets in the future. substantial negative impact on its profitability. Stricter laws relating to the environment, health, and safety as well as more ■■1.2.8.6 Insurance and Protection Against Risks rigorous enforcement measures than those in force currently The Group has put in place worldwide insurance coverage could generate considerable liabilities and costs for the Group with top-ranking insurance companies. and make the Group’s handling, production, use, reuse, or processing of substances or pollutants subject to more Product liabilit y insura nce cove rs all the products rigorous inspection measures than those currently observed. manufactured, marketed, and sold by the Group as well Consequently, compliance with such laws could involve as all clinical trials that the Group conducts. The level of considerable capital expenditures as well as other costs and coverage for clinical trials generally exceeds that required responsibilities that would affect the Group’s business and under applicable local regulations. Furthermore, the Group’s profitability. If any of the Group’s production units were closed insurance includes specific coverage for product recalls for reasons connected with the application of environmental costs. laws, the Group could be subject to temporary interruptions in the production of some of its products; and it could be Product liability Insurance in the pharmaceutical industry some time before the Group obtained the required regulatory is difficult with few insurers offering coverage. As such, authorizations to reopen and recommence operations of its it is impossible to predict the cost of such insurance in reserve production lines. If such a situation persists for an the future or if it will always be possible to receive desired extended period, interruptions of this nature could have a coverage. If the Group cannot receive an insurance policy at a negative impact on Group sales. reasonable price or cannot receive adequate terms to protect against potential claims linked to product liabilities, the Group Significant investments to ensure the continued health and could expose itself to risks and may not have the ability to safety of employees handling dangerous substances at commercialize its products in time or at a competitive price. 36 2016 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Regarding product liability claims, for example, if a judgment In order to determine the level of coverage, the Group has with punitive damages is issued, the Group’s insurance attempted to assess the maximum foreseeable loss in terms policies may not cover the corresponding amounts. In such of damage to property and loss of gross profit arising from a circumstances the Group may not have sufficient resources business interruption. On the basis of this assessment, the to finance such legal penalties. Group increased its maximum coverage for property damage and business interruption to €750 million per event. In order to mitigate risk volatility of product liability risk in the insurance market, a part of the Group’s liability insurance The Group’s policies carry certain restrictions, exclusions, program is financed through its reinsurance subsidiary. The limitations, and deductibles that are common practice for reinsurance subsidiary is a regulated company ruled by policies of this type. the Luxembourg Control authorities that provides the first The Group considers the limitations of its insurance coverage €10 million of liability coverage per claim and per year. as reasonable and conservative given the Group’s business The Group also maintains insurance cover relative to its activities and the potential risks. general activities, which include business interruptions as well as environmental liability insurance. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 37 38 2016 Ipsen Registration document 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2.1 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 40 2.1.1 Significant events during the year 40 2.1.2 Analysis of results 41 2.1.3 Net cash flow and financing 47 2.1.4 Appendices 50 2.1.5 Subsequent events 56 2.1.6 Group outlook 56 2.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 2.2.1 Consolidated income statement 57 2.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit 59 2.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow 60 2.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 61 2.2.5 Notes 63 Note 1 Significant events and transactions during the period having an impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 65 Note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation 65 Note 3 Accounting principles and methods, and compliance statement 66 Note 4 Operating segments 75 Note 5 Personnel 77 Note 6 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses 83 Note 7 Other operating income and expenses 83 Note 8 Restructuring costs 83 Note 9 Net financial income 84 Note 10 Income taxes 85 Note 11 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 87 Note 12 Goodwill 87 Note 13 Other intangible assets 89 Note 14 Property, plant & equipment 91 Note 15 Equity investments 92 Note 16 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 93 Note 17 Other non-current assets 93 Note 18 Detail of the change in working capital requirement 94 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 96 Note 20 Consolidated equity 97 Note 21 Provisions 99 Note 22 Bank loans and financial liabilities 101 Note 23 Derivative financial instruments 102 Note 24 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet 103 Note 25 Information on proportionally consolidated entities 105 Note 26 Information on related parties 106 Note 27 Commitments and contingent liabilities 107 Note 28 Post closing events with no impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 110 Note 29 Consolidation scope 110 Note 30 Change in presentation 113 Note 31 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 114 2.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 114 2.3 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 116 2.3.1 Summary document 116 2.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements 118 Note 1 Significant events during the year 118 Note 2 Accounting principles and valuation methods 118 Note 3 Notes to the balance sheet 120 Note 4 Notes to the income statement 124 Note 5 Other information 126 Note 6 Subsidiaries and affiliates 129 Note 7 Cash flow statement 130 Note 8 Subsequent events 130 2.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements 131 2.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity 132 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2.1 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2.1.1 Significant events during the year All press releases are available on the Group’s website 6 June 2016 – Exelixis and Ipsen announced the presentation (www.ipsen.com). of positive data from subgroup analyses of the pivotal METEOR trial comparing Cabometyx™ (cabozantinib) tablets Acquisitions and Agreements with everolimus in 658 patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who have received prior anti-angiogenic 6 January 2016 – Ipsen and Galderma announced that they therapy. have expanded the geographical scope of their neurotoxin partnership, whereby Galderma has acquired the exclusive 7 October 2016 – Ipsen announced that its partner Exelixis rights to develop, promote, and distribute Dysport® in the released Phase 1 trial results for cabozantinib in combination aesthetic indications in the APAC countries (China, India, with nivolumab in advanced genitourinary tumors. South Korea, and Indonesia under certain conditions). 10 October 2016 – Ipsen and its partner Exelixis announced 1 March 2016 – Exelixis and Ipsen jointly announced an detailed results from the CABOSUN randomized Phase 2 exclusive licensing agreement for the commercialization trial comparing cabozantinib versus sunitinib in patients with and further development of cabozantinib, which is Exelixis’ previously untreated advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) lead oncology drug. Under the agreement, Ipsen will have with intermediateor poor-risk disease per the International exclusive commercialization rights for current and potential Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Database Consortium future cabozantinib indications outside the United States, (IMDC). Canada and Japan, including Cometriq®, which is currently approved in the European Union (EU) for the treatment of adult Regulatory patients with progressive, unresectable, locally advanced or 25 April 2016 – Ipsen announced that its partner Exelixis metastatic medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 26 April 2016 – Ipsen and Probi jointly announced the signature (FDA) for Cabometyx™ (cabozantinib) tablets for the treatment of a license and supply agreement for the commercialization of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who of Probi’s probiotic strain Lactobacillus plantarum 299v have received prior anti-angiogenic therapy. (LP299V®). The agreement covers 18 countries, primarily 31 May 2016 – Ipsen’s partner, Lexicon, announced FDA within EU and emerging markets. Priority Review of new drug application for telotristat etiprate 21 December 2016 – Exelixis and Ipsen announced an for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome. amendment to the exclusive collaboration and licensing 18 July 2016 – Ipsen issued a statement about the agreement for the commercialization and continued acceptance by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) of the development of cabozantinib, to include commercialization marketing authorization application for telotristat etiprate to rights in Canada for Ipsen. treat carcinoid syndrome caused by neuroendocrine tumors, in combination with somatostatin analogues. Research and Development 26 January 2016 – Ipsen announced that the scientific 22 July 2016 – Exelixis and Ipsen announced that the journal Pediatrics published the detailed results of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), Phase 3 randomized study (NCT01249417) that showed the scientific committee of the EMA provided a positive both the efficacy and the safety of Dysport® in the treatment opinion for Cabometyx™ (cabozantinib) 20, 40, 60mg for of dynamic equinus foot deformity (also known as pediatric the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in lower limb spasticity), a condition associated with cerebral adults following prior vascular endothelial growth factor palsy in children. (VEGF)-targeted therapy and recommended it for marketing authorization. 23 May 2016 – Ipsen announced that its partner Exelixis 1 August 2016 – Ipsen reported that the U.S. Food and Drug reported positive top-line results from the CABOSUN Administration (FDA) approved Dysport® (abobotulinumtoxinA) randomized Phase 2 trial of cabozantinib in patients with for injection for the treatment of pediatric lower limb (PLL) previously untreated advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). spasticity in children two years of age and older. The trial met its primary endpoint through demonstrating a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement 14 September 2016 – Ipsen disclosed that the European in progression-free survival (PFS) for cabozantinib compared Commission approved Cabometyx™ (cabozantinib) 20, with sunitinib in patients with advanced intermediateor poor40, 60 mg tablets for the treatment of advanced renal cell risk RCC. carcinoma (RCC) in adults following prior vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-targeted therapy. 5 June 2016 – Exelixis and Ipsen reported the overall survival (OS) results from the Phase 3 METEOR trial of Cabometyx™ (cabozantinib) tablets in patients with advanced renal cell Governance carcinoma (RCC) who have received prior anti-angiogenic 16 February 2016 – Ipsen announced at its meeting on therapy. The OS results demonstrate that Cabometyx™ 15 February 2016, that the Board of Directors decided to reduces the risk of death by one third versus everolimus. change the Company’s form of governance by separating 40 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Other Executive Officer. The Board of Directors confirmed that Mr. 6 June 2016 – Ipsen announced the launch of an employee Marc de Garidel shall fulfill the duties of Chairman of the Board shareholding plan. This plan aims to align employees with the of Directors within the framework of the new governance Group’s development and performance. The main terms and structure and recorded the departure of Mrs. Christel Bories conditions of this plan are described hereafter. as Deputy Chief Executive Officer. 9 June 2016 – Ipsen announced the successful issuance of its 11 July 2016 – The Board of Directors of Ipsen met on inaugural, unsecured 7-year Notes for a total of €300 million. 8 July 2016, and appointed David Meek as Chief Executive These Notes mature on 16 June 2023, and pay interest at an Officer, effective 18 July 2016. On this date, Marc de Garidel annual rate of 1.875%. assumed the role of non-executive chairman. Marc de Garidel continues to serve the Board of Directors through his deep industry expertise. 12 December 2016 – Ipsen announced at Claude Bertrand, Executive Vice President, R&D, Chief Scientific Officer, would depart Ipsen on 2 January 2017. 2.1.2 Analysis of results ■■2.1.2.1 Comparison of Consolidated Sales for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2016 and 2015 Sales by therapeutic area and by product(1) Note: Unless stated otherwise, all variations in sales are stated excluding foreign exchange impacts. The following table shows sales by therapeutic area and by product for the fourth quarter and full year 2016 and 2015: 4th Quarter 12 months % % (in millions of euros) % variation % variation 2016 2015 2016 2015 variation at constant variation at constant currency currency Oncology 247.3 197.4 25.3% 27.0% 904.8 752.8 20.2% 22.1% Somatuline ® 146.5 110.0 33.1% 34.1% 538.3 401.6 34.0% 35.5% Décapeptyl® 88.0 83.2 5.8% 8.5% 339.8 334.0 1.7% 4.2% Cabometyx ® 7.2 0.0 N/A N/A 7.2 0.0 N/A N/A Other Oncology 5.7 4.3 33.8% 34.6% 19.5 17.2 13.6% 14.0% Neurosciences 71.9 71.2 1.1% – 1.2% 286.7 280.7 2.1% 4.3% Dysport ® 71.2 70.7 0.7% – 1.6% 284.7 279.5 1.9% 4.0% Endocrinology 20.5 21.1 – 2.9% – 2.2% 81.5 80.7 1.0% 1.7% NutropinAq ® 14.0 14.7 – 4.8% – 3.8% 57.7 60.3 – 4.2% – 3.5% Increlex® 6.5 6.4 1.6% 1.5% 23.7 20.4 16.4% 16.9% Specialty Care 339.8 289.7 17.3% 17.8% 1,273.0 1,114.2 14.2% 16.1% Gastroenterology 63.7 59.8 6.6% 9.6% 219.1 227.2 – 3.6% 0.0% Smecta ® 31.6 25.7 22.9% 25.5% 111.0 114.8 – 3.3% 0.6% Forlax ® 10.2 10.9 – 5.9% – 4.9% 39.3 39.7 – 0.8% 0.5% Etiasa ® 11.5 8.9 29.3% 38.6% 29.3 26.0 12.7% 19.5% Fortrans ® 7.3 7.5 – 2.1% – 0.4% 23.2 23.9 – 2.7% 2.7% Cognitive disorders 15.8 15.1 5.1% 7.1% 43.6 52.0 – 16.3% – 14.3% Tanakan® 15.8 15.1 5.1% 7.1% 43.6 52.0 – 16.3% – 14.3% Other Primary Care 5.4 5.0 8.3% 8.3% 23.5 26.2 – 10.1% – 10.0% Drug-related sales 5.4 6.0 – 9.4% – 11.6% 25.5 24.3 4.9% 4.9% Primary Care 90.4 85.8 5.3% 7.6% 311.6 329.7 – 5.5% – 2.7% Group Sales 430.2 375.5 14.6% 15.5% 1,584.6 1,443.9 9.7% 11.8% (1) New sales reporting according to main therapeutic indication of each product. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 41 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached €430.2 million, up East and in Germany as well as by the strong aesthetics 15.5%, led by the 17.8% growth of Specialty Care sales, while business in North America and in Europe with Ipsen’s partner Primary Care sales grew by 7.6%. In 2016, sales amounted Galderma and despite the negative impact of importation to €1,584.6 million, up 11.8%, driven by the 16.1% growth of issues in Brazil that arose in the second half of 2016. Over Specialty Care sales, while Primary Care sales declined by the period, Neurosciences sales represented 18.1% of total 2.7%. Group sales, compared to 19.4% in 2015. In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales of Specialty Care products In E n d o c r i n o l o g y, s a l e s of N utropinAq ® re ac h e d of €339.8 million, were up 17.8% year-on-year driven by €14.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, down 3.8% yearOncology sales growth of 27.0%. In 2016, sales of Specialty on-year. In 2016, sales amounted to €57.7 million, down Care products of €1,273.0 million, were up 16.1% fueled by 3.5%, impacted by lower volumes, especially in Germany, Oncology sales growth of 22.1%, Neurosciences sales growth Italy and the UK, and partly offset by a good performance of 4.3%, and Endocrinology sales growth of 1.7%. Over the in France. In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales of Increlex® period, the relative weight of Specialty Care continued to reached €6.5 million, up 1.5% year-on-year, mostly driven by increase to reach 80.3% of Group sales, compared to 77.2% the United States. In 2016, sales amounted to €23.7 million, in 2015. up 16.9%. Over the period, Endocrinology sales represented 5.1% of total Group sales, compared to 5.6% in 2015. In Oncology, sales reached €247.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, up 27.0% year-on-year, driven by the continued In the fourth quarter of 2016, Primary Care sales reached growth of Somatuline® in the United States and in Europe. In €90.4 million, up 7.6% year-on-year, driven by the good 2016, Oncology sales amounted to €904.8 million, up 22.1% performance of Smecta ® and Etiasa ®. In 2016, sales and represented 57.0% of total Group sales, compared to amounted to €311.6 million, down 2.7%, impacted by lower 52.1% in 2015. Tanakan® sales in Russia. Over the period, Primary Care Somatuline® – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached sales represented 19.6% of total Group sales, compared to €146.5 million, up 34.1%. In 2016, sales amounted 22.8% in 2015. to €538.3 million, up 35.5%. Somatuline ®’s improved In the fourth quarter of 2016, Gastroenterology sales performance was driven by strong volume and market share reached €63.7 million, up 9.6% year-on-year led by Smecta®. growth in North America and by a strong performance in most In 2016, sales amounted to €219.1 million, in line with 2015, European countries, notably in the United Kingdom, France driven by higher Smecta® sales in Russia and France but and Germany. offset by negative inventory trends in Asia and the delisting of Decapeptyl® – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales totaled Bedelix® in Algeria. €88.0 million, up 8.5% year-on-year. In 2016, sales amounted to €339.8 million, up 4.2%. Decapeptyl®’s good performance Smecta ® – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached across Europe, notably in France, Spain and UK was €31.6 million, up 25.5% year-on-year, driven by a favorable negatively impacted by price pressure in China which offset basis of comparison in China. In 2016, sales amounted local volume growth. to €111.0 million, up 0.6% with a good performance in Russia and France, driven by the implementation of the Cabometyx® – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached OTC commercial model, and slightly offset by the negative €7.2 million, including sales recognized in France under the stocking impact in China. Cabometyx® Managed Access Program (ATU or Temporary Use Authorization). Etiasa ® – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached €11.5 million up 38.6% year-on-year. In 2016, sales amounted Other Oncology – In the fourth quarter of 2016, Hexvix® sales to €29.3 million, up 19.5%. amounted to €4.5 million, up 6.6% year-on-year. In 2016, sales of Hexvix® reached €18.3 million, up 7.1%, mainly driven Forlax ® – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached by the good performance in Germany, which accounts for the €10.2 million, down 4.9% year-on-year. In 2016, sales majority of product sales. The Group also registered first sales amounted to €39.3 million, up 0.5%, supported by a good of Cometriq® of €1.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. performance in France, Russia and China, as well as by Ipsen’s partners who distribute Macrogol ®, the generic In Neurosciences, sales of Dysport® reached €71.2 million version of Forlax®, and offset by the sales decline in Algeria in the fourth quarter of 2016, down 1.6% year-on-year. and in Italy. Despite strong volume growth in the aesthetics business in North America with Galderma, and in Russia and the Middle Fortrans® – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached East, sales were negatively impacted by importation issues €7.3 million, down 0.4% year-on-year. In 2016, sales amounted in Brazil due to a temporary cancellation of the certificate to €23.2 million, up 2.7% due to the good performance in of Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). An exceptional China. import license has been secured for the public market. For the private market, Ipsen is working closely with regulatory In the Cognitive Disorders area, sales of Tanakan® reached authorities on obtaining an exceptional import license. The €15.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, up 7.1% year-oncompany expects a new GMP certificate to be issued in the year, driven by a rebound in Russia. Sales in 2016 amounted coming months. In 2016, sales amounted to €284.7 million, up to €43.6 million, down 14.3%, impacted by continued market 4.0%, driven by the good performance in Russia, the Middle challenges in Russia and the market decrease in France. 42 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Sales of Other Primary Care products reached €5.4 million In the fourth quarter of 2016, Drug-related Sales (active in the fourth quarter of 2016, up 8.3% year-on-year. In 2016, ingredients and raw materials) reached €5.4 million, down sales amounted to €23.5 million, down 10.0%, mainly affected 11.6% year-on-year, mostly affected by import difficulties in by the underperformance of Adrovance®, which was down Algeria. In 2016, sales amounted to €25.5 million, up 4.9% 15.5% over the period. driven by solid sales to the Group partner Schwabe. Sales by geographical area Group sales by geographical area in the fourth quarter and full year 2016 and 2015: 4th quarter 12 months % % (in millions of euros) % Variation at % Variation at 2016 2015 2016 2015 variation constant variation constant currency currency France 61.5 53.9 14.1% 14.1% 225.5 212.4 6.2% 6.2% Germany 31.6 29.8 5.8% 5.4% 123.2 110.3 11.7% 11.7% Italy 18.8 19.5 – 3.4% – 3.4% 81.2 79.4 2.2% 2.2% United Kingdom 18.2 19.5 – 6.6% 12.6% 72.8 76.0 – 4.2% 8.2% Spain 18.5 17.5 6.0% 6.0% 69.2 65.6 5.5% 5.5% Major Western European 148.6 140.2 6.0% 8.6% 571.9 543.8 5.2% 6.9% countries Eastern Europe 50.6 42.8 18.3% 18.6% 176.2 167.2 5.4% 10.7% Others Europe 47.1 38.0 24.0% 23.7% 173.0 154.2 12.2% 12.4% Other European countries 97.7 80.8 21.0% 21.0% 349.2 321.4 8.7% 11.5% North America 83.3 48.7 71.0% 69.4% 273.0 157.9 72.9% 72.5% Asia 62.8 56.9 10.4% 15.5% 218.8 228.4 – 4.2% – 0.4% Other countries in the Rest 37.7 49.0 – 22.9% – 25.6% 171.7 192.4 – 10.8% – 9.1% of the world Rest of the World 100.5 105.8 – 5.0% – 3.9% 390.5 420.8 – 7.2% – 4.4% Group Sales 430.2 375.5 14.6% 15.5% 1,584.6 1,443.9 9.7% 11.8% In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales in the Major Western has continued to decrease to represent 14.2% of total Group European countries reached €148.6 million, up 8.6% sales, compared to 14.7% in the previous year. year-on-year. In 2016, sales in the Major Western European countries amounted to €571.9 million, up 6.9%. Over the Germany – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached period, sales in the Major Western European countries €31.6 million, up 5.4% year-on-year. In 2016, sales amounted represented 36.1% of total Group sales, compared to 37.7% to €123.2 million, up 11.7%, driven by strong growth of in the previous year. Somatuline® and Dysport® as well as the commercial launch of Cabometyx® and Cometriq® in November. Over the period, France – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached sales in Germany represented 7.8% of total Group sales, €61.5 million, up 14.1% year-on-year, driven by the first sales compared to 7.6% in the previous year. of Cabometyx®. In 2016, sales amounted to €225.5 million, up 6.2%, driven by the sustained growth of Somatuline ® Italy – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached €18.8 million, and Decapeptyl®, as well as the first sales of Cabometyx® down 3.4% year-on-year. In 2016, sales amounted to in the fourth quarter. Primary Care sales were stable over €81.2 million, up 2.2%. The solid growth of Somatuline® was the year with good performance of Smecta® offset by the partly offset by the sales decline of Dysport® and NutropinAq®. decrease of Tanakan®, Adrovance®, and Nisis®/Nisisco®. The Over the period, sales in Italy represented 5.1% of total Group relative weight of France in the Group’s consolidated sales sales, compared to 5.5% in the previous year. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 43 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR United Kingdom – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales partly offset by the Tanakan® slowdown in Russia. Over the reached €18.2 million, up 12.6% year-on-year. In 2016, sales period, sales in the region represented 22.0% of total Group amounted to €72.8 million, up 8.2%, driven by Somatuline® sales compared to 22.3% in the previous year. and Decapeptyl ®. Over the period, the United Kingdom In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales generated in North represented 4.6% of total Group sales, compared to 5.3% in America reached €83.3 million, up 69.4% year-on-year. In the previous year. 2016, sales amounted to €273.0 million, up 72.5%, supported Spain – In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales reached by the growth of Somatuline ® and the growth of Dysport® €18.5 million, up 6.0% year-on-year. In 2016, sales amounted mainly driven by the strong growth in aesthetics through to €69.2 million, up 5.5%, driven by strong volume growth of the Galderma partnership. Over the period, sales in North Decapeptyl® and Somatuline®. Over the period, sales in Spain America represented 17.2% of total Group sales, compared represented 4.4% of total Group sales, compared to 4.5% in to 10.9% in the previous year. the previous year. In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales in the Rest of the World In the fourth quarter of 2016, sales in Other European reached €100.5 million, down 3.9% year-on-year mainly countries reached €97.7 million, up 21.0% year-on-year, impacted by Dysport ® in Brazil. In 2016, sales amounted driven by the launch of Cabometyx ® in Austria and the to €390.5 million, down 4.4%. Sales were impacted by good performance of Dysport ® in Russia. In 2016, sales importation issues in Brazil which negatively impacted amounted to €349.2 million, up 11.5%, supported by the Dysport®, as well as the delisting of Bedelix® in Algeria. Over strong performance of Somatuline® across the region as well the period, sales in the Rest of the World represented 24.6% as Dysport® and Decapeptyl®, notably in Russia and Ukraine, of total Group sales, compared to 29.1% in the previous year. ■■2.1.2.2 Comparison of Core consolidated income statement for 2016 and 2015 Core financial measures are performance indicators. Reconciliation between these indicators and IFRS headings is presented in paragraph 2.1.4.4 “Bridges from IFRS consolidated net profit to Core consolidated net profit”. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions % (in millions % Change of euros) of sales of euros) of sales Sales 1,584.6 100.0% 1,443.9 100.0% 9.7% Other revenues 86.5 5.5% 76.3 5.3% 13.4% Revenue 1,671.1 105.5% 1,520.2 105.3% 9.9% Cost of goods sold (353.3) – 22.3% (336.8) – 23.3% 4.9% Selling expenses (608.4) – 38.4% (541.4) – 37.5% 12.4% Research and development expenses (208.9) – 13.2% (192.1) – 13.3% 8.7% General and administrative expenses (129.4) – 8.2% (122.9) – 8.5% 5.3% Other core operating income 0.9 0.1% 4.8 0.3% – 81.9% Other core operating expenses (8.0) – 0.5% (4.1) – 0.3% 92.7% Core Operating Income 363.9 23.0% 327.7 22.7% 11.1% Investment income 0.9 0.1% 0.7 0.1% 16.7% Financing costs (5.8) – 0.4% (3.6) – 0.3% 61.3% Net financing costs (5.0) – 0.3% (2.9) – 0.2% 72.6% Other financial income and expense (9.3) – 0.6% (8.4) – 0.6% 10.2% Core income taxes (88.0) – 5.6% (85.1) – 5.9% 3.4% Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using 1.9 0.1% 2.5 0.2% – 22.2% the equity method Core consolidated net profit 263.6 16.6% 233.8 16.2% 12.8% – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 262.9 16.6% 232.9 16.1% 12.9% – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 0.0% 0.9 0.1% – 27.4% Core EPS fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. 3.18 2.82 13.0% shareholders (in € per share) 44 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Reconciliation from Core consolidated net profit to IFRS consolidated net profit (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Core consolidated net profit 263.6 233.8 Amortization of intangible assets (excl. software) (5.1) (2.9) Other operating income or expenses (4.4) (5.5) Restructuring (1.1) (4.5) Impairment losses (32.1) (41.4) Other 5.7 11.3 IFRS consolidated net profit 226.6 190.7 IFRS EPS fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (in € per share) 2.73 2.30 Sales In 2016, the research tax credit amounted to €29.6 million, up €1.5 million versus 2015. I n 2016, th e G ro u p’s c o n s o l i d ate d s a l e s c a m e to €1,584.6 million, up 9.7% year-on-year, and up 11.8% General and administrative expenses excluding the impact of foreign exchange. In 2016, general and administrative expenses came to Other revenues €129.4 million, compared to €122.9 million in 2015. This increase resulted primarily from some limited additional support Other revenues for the financial year 2016 totaled €86.5 million, functions costs in accordance with sales growth priorities and up 13.4% versus €76.3 million generated in 2015. the impact of the Group’s outperformance on bonus pay. This change was attributable to higher royalties received from Other core operating income and expenses Group partners (mainly Galderma for Dysport® and Menarini In 2016, other core operating expenses totaled €7.1 million, for Adenuric ®), the new distribution model for Etiasa ® in compared with other core operating income of €0.7 million China, partially offset by the recognition in 2015 of an upfront in 2015. This evolution is mainly due to the impact of the payment of €3.4 million received from the sale of Ginkor Fort® currency hedging policy. licensing rights to Tonipharm. Core Operating Income Cost of goods sold Core Operating Income in 2016 came to €363.9 million, In 2016, cost of goods sold amounted to €353.3 million, representing 23.0% of sales, compared with €327.7 million representing 22.3% of sales compared to €336.8 million, or in Core Operating Income in 2015, representing 22.7% of 23.3% of sales in 2015. sales. The continued good performance of Somatuline ® in the United States and Europe, along with the strengthening The improvement in cost of goods sold as a percentage of partnership with Galderma, enabled the Group to intensify sales was primarily due to a favorable product mix arising its commercial investments, notably to support the launch of from the growth of the Specialty Care business associated Cabometyx® in Europe, while maintaining its profitability. The with productivity efforts deployed at manufacturing sites. growth of the Core Operating Income between December 2015 and December 2016 reached 11.1%. Selling expenses In 2016, selling expenses came to €608.4 million, representing Net financing costs and other financial income and 38.4% of sales, up 12.4% versus 2015. The increase reflected expense the investments to support Cabometyx®’s launch in Europe as In 2016, the Group had net financial expense of €14.3 million, well as commercial efforts deployed to support Somatuline®’s versus net financial expense of €11.3 million in 2015. growth and to launch Dysport® in spasticity indications in the • Net financing costs amounted to €5.0 million, versus United States. €2.9 million in 2015, impacted by the interest on the Research and development expenses €300 million bond issued by the Group in June 2016. For the financial year 2016, research and development • In 2016, other financial expense amounted to €9.3 million, expenses totaled €208.9 million, compared with €192.1 million compared to an expense of €8.4 million in 2015 and mainly in the same period in 2015. consisted of the impact of exchange rates differences. The majority of expenditures were committed to continue Core income taxes managing the lifecycle of Dysport® and Somatuline® as well In 2016, core income tax expense of €88.0 million resulted as developing new oncology programs based on peptide from a core effective tax rate of 25.2% on pre-tax profit. That receptor radionuclide therapy. compares with a core effective rate of 26.9% in 2015. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 45 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Core consolidated net profit €8.0 million (after the termination of the Telesta Therapeutics For the year ended 31 December 2016, Core consolidated partnership), and to Canbex Therapeutics for €5.4 million net profit increased by 12.8% to €263.6 million, with (purchase option). €262.9 million attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders. This In 2015, the Group recorded a €57.0 million loss before tax compares to consolidated net profit of €233.8 million, with to impair all intangible assets related to the tasquinimod €232.9 million attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders in 2015. program, and a €7.6 million impairment loss before tax, Core Earning per share resulting from the full write-down of an Ipsen BioInnovation Ltd. intangible asset. In 2016, Core EPS fully diluted (see Appendix 4) came to €3.18, up 13.0% versus €2.82 per share in 2015. Other In 2016, Ipsen received €5.3 million of dividends from Rhythm ■■2.1.2.3 From Core financial measures to IFRS Holding and €2.4 million of dividends from InnoBio fund as reported figures well as Spirogen earn-out payment, while in 2015 the Group Reconciliations between IFRS 2015/2016 results and the received a €4.9 million final earn-out from the sale of PregLem newly defined Core financial measures are presented in shares. paragraph 2.1.4.4. As a consequence, IFRS reported indicators are: In 2016, the main reconciling items between Core consolidated Operating Income net income and IFRS consolidated net income were: In 2016, Operating Income totaled €304.7 million, up 24.8% Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) from €244.0 million in 2015, impacted by a lower impairment Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) for charge, with an Operating margin at 19.2%, up 2.3 points 2016 amounted to €7.7 million before tax, compared with compared to 2015. €4.7 million before tax in 2015. This variance consisted mainly Consolidated net profit of the amortization of the cabozantinib intangible assets starting with the first sales of the product. Consolidated net profit was €226.6 million, up 18.8% over the period, compared to €190.7 million in 2015. Other operating income and expenses Earning per share Other operating expenses for 2016 amounted to €6.8 million before tax and consisted mainly of the costs from the change Fully diluted EPS was €2.73 in 2016, up 18.7% from €2.30 in the Group’s corporate governance and the costs from the in 2015. move to the new UK research and development site in Oxford. ■■2.1.2.4 O  perating segments: Core Operating In 2015, those expenses totaled €7.2 million before tax. Income by therapeutic area They corresponded mainly to the amount booked following Segment information is presented according to the Group’s the discontinuation of the tasquinimod studies for prostate two operating segments: Specialty Care and Primary Care. cancer. All costs allocated to these two segments are presented in Restructuring costs the key performance indicators. Only corporate overhead In 2016, restructuring costs came to €1.9 million before tax, costs and the impact of the currency hedging policy are compared with €6.7 million before tax in 2015. not allocated to the two operating segments. Research and Impairment losses development costs are allocated to operating segments, while formerly included in Unallocated. In 2016, Ipsen recorded a €42.9 million impairment charge (before tax) on intangible assets related to OctreoPharm The Group uses Core Operating Income to measure its for €28.9 million (delayed development), to MCNA for segment performance and to allocate resources. 46 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Sales, revenue and Core Operating Income are presented by therapeutic area for the 2016 and 2015 financial years in the following table. Variation (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Change % Specialty Care Sales 1,273.0 1,114.2 158.8 14.2% Revenue 1,308.0 1,146.1 161.9 14.1% Core Operating Income 415.0 328.9 86.1 26.2% % of sales 32.6% 29.5% Primary Care Sales 311.6 329.7 (18.1) – 5.5% Revenue 363.1 374.1 (11.0) – 2.9% Core Operating Income 99.6 126.7 (27.1) – 21.4% % of sales 32.0% 38.4% Total unallocated Core Operating Income (150.7) (127.9) (22.8) 17.8% Group total Sales 1,584.6 1,443.9 140.7 9.7% Revenue 1,671.1 1,520.2 150.9 9.9% Core Operating Income 363.9 327.7 36.2 11.1% % of sales 23.0% 22.7% In 2016, Specialty Care sales grew to €1,273.0 million, up In 2016, sales of Pr ima r y Ca re products came to 14.2% over 2015, driven by oncology sales that advanced €311.6 million, down 5.5% year on year, mainly related to 20.2% at current rates. The relative weight of Specialty Care continued market challenges in Russia for Tanakan® and lower products continued to increase, reaching 80.3% of total other Primary Care sales. In 2016, Core Operating Income consolidated sales at 31 December 2016, versus 77.2% a for Primary Care amounted to €99.6 million, representing year earlier. In 2016, Core Operating Income for Specialty 32.0% of sales. Care amounted to €415.0 million, including research and In 2016, unallocated Core Operating Income came to development costs, representing 32.6% of sales. That a negative €150.7 million, compared with a negative result compared to €328.9 million in 2015, representing €127.9 million in 2015. These expenses consisted mainly of 29.5% of sales. The improvement reflected Somatuline ®’s unallocated corporate expenses and of the impact from the continued sales growth in the United States and Europe, currency hedging policy. along with increased commercial investments, notably in the United States for Somatuline® and in Europe to support the Cabometyx® launch. 2.1.3 Net cash flow and financing In 2016, the Group had a decrease in net cash of €118.4 million, bringing closing net cash to €68.6 million. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 47 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■2.1.3.1 Analysis of the consolidated net cash flow statement (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Opening net cash / (debt) 186.9 160.8 Core Operating Income 363.9 327.7 Non-cash items 15.6 31.1 Change in operating working capital requirement (2.8) (53.2) (Increases) decreases in other working capital requirement 12.1 (7.4) Net capex (excluding milestones paid) (84.0) (56.7) Dividends received from companies accounted for using the equity method 2.3 1.6 Operating Cash Flow 307.1 243.1 Other operating income and expenses and restructuring costs (cash) (20.8) (28.9) Financial income (cash) (3.1) (4.7) Current income tax (P&L, excluding provisions for tax contingencies) (65.5) (51.4) Other operating cash flow 11.1 18.3 Free Cash Flow 228.8 176.3 Dividends paid (including to non-controlling interests) (70.3) (70.5) Net investments (business development and milestones) (252.9) (52.0) Share buyback (24.0) (28.5) Other (discontinued operations) 0.1 0.7 Shareholders return and external growth operations (347.2) (150.2) CHANGE IN NET CASH / (DEBT) (118.4) 26.1 Closing net cash / (debt) 68.6 186.9 Operating Cash Flow Net capital expenditure grew by €27.4 million year-onIn 2016, Operating Cash Flow totaled €307.1 million, up year to €84.0 million at 31 December 2016. In 2016, these €64.0 million versus 31 December 2015. The increase investments included projects in the Group’s manufacturing was driven by higher Core Operating Income and by the sites in Ireland and in France to increase production capacity, improvement in working capital requirement partially offset by as well as in the new R&D toxin center in the UK. higher net capital expenditures (excluding milestones paid). Free Cash Flow The working capital requirement for operating activities In 2016, Free Cash Flow came to €228.8 million, up increased by €2.8 million at 31 December 2016, compared €52.5 million versus 31 December 2015. This evolution was with an increase of €53.2 million at 31 December 2015. The mainly driven by the Operating Cash Flow improvement. change at 31 December 2016 stemmed mainly from the following: Other operating income and expenses and restructuring costs • A €7.7 million rise in inventories during the year, in line with amounted to €20.8 million including the impact of the change business growth and the need to build inventories for the in the Group’s corporate governance, as well as payments Cabometyx® launch; for earlier restructuring plans. At the end of December 2015, €28.9 million of such payments were primarily comprised of • A €42.7 million increase in trade receivables in line with restructuring costs and expenses arising from discontinuing sales growth, to compare with a €63.8 million increase in clinical trials of tasquinimod. trade receivables in 2015; • A €47.6 million increase in trade payables at 31 December The €3.1 million in financial income paid at the end of 2016 in correlation with phasing of operating expenses December 2016 resulted mainly from hedging costs and mainly to support the growing business over the last quarter realized exchange losses, partially offset by the collection and the Cabometyx® launch. At 31 December 2015, trade of dividends from Rhythm Holding, as well as by an earnout payables increased by €10.8 million. payment related to the sale of Spirogen shares and dividends from Innobio Fund. In comparison, the €4.7 million in financial In 2016, other working capital requirement decreased by expense, at the end of December 2015, was derived from a €12.1 million, compared with a €7.4 million increase in 2015, €4.9 million earnout payment from the PregLem shares mainly due to the reimbursement in 2016 of French R&D tax that was partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange credit amounts. effect. 48 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR The change in current income tax stemmed from the change radiopharmaceutical products in oncology and a €5 million in the effective tax rate. milestone paid in relation to the Lexicon license agreement. Shareholders return and external growth operations These amounts were partially offset by regulatory milestone At 31 December 2016, the dividend payout to Ipsen S.A. payments received from Acadia (€7 million) and Radius shareholders amounted to €70.0 million. (€3 million) and by scheduled payments related to the agreement signed with Galderma in December 2015 for AsiaNet investments at 31 December 2016 mainly comprised Pacific markets (collection of a net €6 million). a €257 million upfront and milestones payment to Exelixis, following the signature of an exclusive licensing agreement At 31 December 2015, net investments primarily included the to commercialize and develop cabozantinib, a €5 million €31.4 million acquisition of OctreoPharm Sciences GmbH upfront payment to 3B Pharmaceuticals GmbH, following and the purchase of a €6.0 million call option to acquire the signature of an exclusive licensing agreement for new Canbex Therapeutics. ■■2.1.3.2 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net cash (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Closing cash and cash equivalents 422.5 214.0 Bonds (297.1) – Other financial liabilities (17.8) (20.6) Non-current financial liabilities (314.8) (20.6) Credit lines and bank loans (4.0) (4.0) Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments)(**) (35.1) (2.5) Current financial liabilities (39.1) (6.5) Debt (353.9) (27.1) Net cash / (debt) (*) 68.6 186.9 (*) Net cash / (debt): cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts, bank loans and other financial liabilities and excluding financial derivative instruments. (**) Financial liabilities mainly exclude €18.2 million in derivative instruments in 2016, compared with €4.5 million in derivative instruments in 2015. Analysis of Group cash On 24 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. amended its multiple-currency On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued a €300 million unsecured Revolving Credit Facility to reduce it to €300 million and seven-year public bond loan with an annual interest rate of to remove its financial covenants. This credit line remained 1.875%. undrawn at 31 December 2016. In addition, €300 million of bilateral long term bank loans were Ipsen S.A. has also a €300 million short term commercial contracted with a maximum maturity of 6.5 years from June paper program of which €30 million were issued at 2016. At 31 December 2016, none of these bank loans had 31 December 2016. been tapped. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 49 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2.1.4 Appendices ■■2.1.4.1 Consolidated income statement 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 restated Sales 1,584.6 1,443.9 Other revenues 86.5 76.3 Revenue 1,671.1 1,520.2 Cost of goods sold (353.3) (336.8) Selling expenses (608.4) (541.4) Research and development expenses (208.9) (192.6) General and administrative expenses (129.4) (122.9) Other operating income 6.9 7.3 Other operating expenses (28.6) (18.6) Restructuring costs (1.9) (6.7) Impairment losses (42.9) (64.6) Operating Income 304.7 244.0 Investment income 0.9 0.7 Financing costs (5.8) (3.6) Net financing costs (5.0) (2.9) Other financial income and expense (1.6) (3.6) Income taxes (73.5) (49.8) Share of net profit (loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method 1.9 2.5 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 226.5 190.2 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 0.1 0.5 Consolidated net profit (loss) 226.6 190.7 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 225.9 189.9 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 0.9 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.74 2.30 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.73 2.29 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.00 0.01 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.00 0.01 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 2.74 2.31 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 2.73 2.30 50 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■2.1.4.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 ASSETS Goodwill 357.2 353.3 Other intangible assets 380.1 151.5 Property, plant & equipment 379.0 348.7 Equity investments 21.2 25.6 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 15.6 15.9 Non-current financial assets 0.2 – Deferred tax assets 213.2 217.7 Other non-current assets 6.7 15.5 Total non-current assets 1,373.1 1,128.1 Inventories 113.3 107.4 Trade receivables 363.5 311.0 Current tax assets 66.3 82.9 Current financial assets 6.6 6.8 Other current assets 75.2 75.6 Cash and cash equivalents 425.5 226.1 Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale – – Total current assets 1,050.4 809.9 TOTAL ASSETS 2,423.5 1,938.0 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 83.6 83.2 Additional paid-in capital and consolidated reserves 998.5 892.3 Net profit (loss) for the period 225.9 189.9 Foreign exchange differences 50.9 57.0 Equity attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 1,358.9 1,222.5 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 3.3 3.1 Total shareholders' equity 1,362.2 1,225.6 Retirement benefit obligation 58.4 51.2 Non-current provisions 21.6 31.4 Other non-current financial liabilities 314.8 20.6 Deferred tax liabilities 14.6 23.1 Other non-current liabilities 90.6 124.5 Total non-current liabilities 500.0 250.8 Current provisions 27.8 29.9 Current financial liabilities 58.6 11.0 Trade payables 241.5 195.1 Current tax liabilities 4.1 12.0 Other current liabilities 226.4 201.5 Bank overdrafts 3.0 12.1 Total current liabilities 561.3 461.5 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 2,423.5 1,938.0 2016 Ipsen Registration document 51 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■2.1.4.3 Cash flow statements 2.1.4.3.1 Consolidated statement of cash flow (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Consolidated net profit (loss) 226.6 190.7 Share of profit (loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method before 0.4 (0.8) impairment losses Net profit (loss) before share from companies accounted for using the equity 227.0 189.9 method Non-cash and non-operating items – Depreciation, amortization, provisions 39.1 43.7 – Impairment losses included in Operating Income and net financial income 42.9 64.6 – Change in fair value of financial derivatives 9.7 1.9 – Net gains or losses on disposals of non-current assets (2.3) 0.5 – Share of government grants released to profit and loss (0.4) (0.0) – Foreign exchange differences (13.7) (1.3) – Change in deferred taxes 8.1 1.4 – Share-based payment expense 5.6 4.0 – Gain or (loss) on sales of treasury shares (0.0) 0.3 – Other non-cash items 2.7 (0.1) Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 318.7 304.8 requirement – (Increase) / decrease in inventories (7.7) (0.2) – (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (42.7) (63.8) – Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 47.6 10.8 – Net change in income tax liability 10.5 (9.0) – Net change in other operating assets and liabilities (8.6) (18.9) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities (0.9) (81.2) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 317.8 223.6 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (81.2) (50.0) Acquisition of intangible assets (291.1) (25.2) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 3.6 0.2 Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (1.0) (0.0) Payments to post-employment benefit plans (1.3) (1.5) Impact of changes in the consolidation scope (0.0) (31.4) Deposits paid 1.8 0.2 Change in working capital related to investment activities 12.2 7.8 Other cash flow related to investment activities (0.1) (6.3) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (357.1) (106.2) Additional long-term borrowings 327.9 1.1 Repayment of long-term borrowings (3.9) (5.6) Capital increase 12.7 5.4 Treasury shares (17.7) (22.4) Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. (70.0) (70.0) Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (0.4) (0.5) Change in working capital related to financing activities 3.4 0.8 NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES 252.0 (91.2) CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 212.7 26.3 Opening cash and cash equivalents 214.0 180.1 Impact of exchange rate fluctuations (4.2) 7.6 Closing cash and cash equivalents 422.5 214.0 52 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2.1.4.3.2 Consolidated statement of net cash flow (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Opening cash and cash equivalents 214.0 180.1 Opening current and non-current financial liabilities (27.1) (19.3) Opening net cash / (debt) 186.9 160.8 CORE OPERATING INCOME 363.9 327.7 Non-cash items 15.6 31.1 (Increase) /decrease in inventories (7.7) (0.2) (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (42.7) (63.8) Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 47.6 10.8 Change in operating working capital requirement (2.8) (53.2) Change in income tax liability 10.5 (9.0) Change in other operating assets and liabilities (excluding milestones received) 1.6 1.6 Other changes in working capital requirement 12.1 (7.4) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (81.2) (50.0) Acquisition of intangible assets (excluding milestones paid) (13.3) (10.2) Disposal of fixed assets 3.6 0.2 Change in working capital related to investment activities 6.9 3.2 Net capex (excluding milestones paid) (84.0) (56.7) Dividends received from companies accounted for using the equity method 2.3 1.6 Operating Cash Flow 307.1 243.1 Other operating income and expenses and restructuring costs (cash) (20.8) (28.9) Financial income (cash) (3.1) (4.7) Current income tax (P&L, excluding provisions for tax contingencies) (65.5) (51.4) Other operating cash flow 11.1 18.3 Free Cash Flow 228.8 176.3 Dividends paid (including payout to non-controlling interests) (70.3) (70.5) Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (1.0) (0.0) Acquisition of other financial assets – (6.1) Milestones paid(a) (272.5) (10.4) Milestones received(b) 20.7 7.9 Net investments (business development and milestones) (252.9) (52.0) Share buybacks (24.0) (28.5) Other (discontinued operations) 0.1 0.7 Shareholders return and external growth operations (347.2) (150.2) CHANGE IN NET CASH / (DEBT) (118.4) 26.1 Closing cash and cash equivalents 422.5 214.0 Closing current and non-current financial liabilities (353.9) (27.1) Closing net cash / (debt) 68.6 186.9 (a) Milestones paid correspond to payments subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Group’s partnership agreements. The €257.3 million in upfront and milestones paid to Exelixis accounted for the majority of the milestones paid at 31 December 2016. The amounts paid were recorded as an increase in intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The transactions were included in the “Acquisition of intangible assets” line item in the consolidated statement of cash flow (see Appendix 2.1.4.3.1). (b) Milestones received are amounts collected by Ipsen from its partners. Of the €20.7 million in milestones received at 31 December 2016, €10.5 million were paid by Galderma in accordance with the partnership agreement signed in December 2015 for the Asia-Pacific region. The amounts were recorded as deferred income in the consolidated balance sheet and then recognized in the income statement as “Other revenues”. Milestones received were included in the “Net change in other operating assets and liabilities” line item in the consolidated statement of cash flow (see Appendix 2.1.4.3.1). 2016 Ipsen Registration document 53 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■2.1.4.4 Bridges from IFRS consolidated net profit to Core consolidated net profit IFRS Amortization of Other operating CORE Impairment (in millions of euros) 31 December intangible assets income or Restructuring Other 31 December losses 2016 (excl. software) expenses 2016 Sales 1,584.6 1,584.6 Other revenues 86.5 86.5 Revenue 1,671.1 – – – – – 1,671.1 Cost of goods sold (353.3) (353.3) Selling expenses (608.4) (608.4) Research and development expenses (208.9) (208.9) General and administrative expenses (129.4) (129.4) Other operating income 6.9 (6.1) 0.9 Other operating expenses (28.6) 7.7 12.9 (8.0) Restructuring costs (1.9) 1.9 – Impairment losses (42.9) 42.9 – Operating Income 304.7 7.7 6.8 1.9 42.9 – 363.9 Investment income 0.9 0.9 Financing costs (5.8) (5.8) Net financing costs (5.0) – – – – – (5.0) Other financial income and expense (1.6) (7.7) (9.3) Income taxes (73.5) (2.6) (2.5) (0.8) (10.7) 2.1 (88.0) Share of net profit (loss) from companies accounted for using 1.9 1.9 the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing 226.5 5.1 4.4 1.1 32.1 (5.6) 263.6 operations Net profit (loss) from discontinued 0.1 (0.1) – operations Consolidated net profit 226.6 5.1 4.4 1.1 32.1 (5.7) 263.6 – Attributable to shareholders 225.9 5.1 4.4 1.1 32.1 (5.7) 262.9 of Ipsen S.A. – Attributable to non-controlling 0.6 0.6 interests Earnings per share fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 2.73 0.06 0.05 0.01 0.39 (0.07) 3.18 (in € per share) The reconciliation of items between Core consolidated net paragraph “From Core financial measures to IFRS reported profit and IFRS consolidated net profit are described in the figures”. 54 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR IFRS Amortization of Other operating CORE Impairment (in millions of euros) 31 December intangible assets income or Restructuring Other 31 December losses 2015 (excl. software) expenses 2015 Sales 1,443.9 1,443.9 Other revenues 76.3 76.3 Revenue 1,520.2 – – – – – 1,520.2 Cost of goods sold (336.8) (336.8) Selling expenses (541.4) (541.4) Research and development expenses (192.6) 0.5 (192.1) General and administrative expenses (122.9) (122.9) Other operating income 7.3 (2.0) (0.5) 4.8 Other operating expenses (18.6) 4.7 9.7 (4.1) Restructuring costs (6.7) 6.7 – Impairment losses (64.6) 64.6 – Operating Income 244.0 4.7 7.7 6.7 64.6 – 327.7 Investment income 0.7 0.7 Financing costs (3.6) (3.6) Net financing costs (2.9) – – – – – (2.9) Other financial income and expense (3.6) (4.9) (8.4) Income taxes (49.8) (1.8) (2.2) (2.2) (23.2) (5.9) (85.1) Share of net profit (loss) from companies accounted for using 2.5 2.5 the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing 190.2 2.9 5.5 4.5 41.4 (10.8) 233.8 operations Net profit (loss) from discontinued 0.5 (0.5) – operations Consolidated net profit 190.7 2.9 5.5 4.5 41.4 (11.3) 233.8 – Attributable to shareholders 189.9 2.9 5.5 4.5 41.4 (11.3) 232.9 of Ipsen S.A. – Attributable to non-controlling 0.9 0.9 interests Earnings per share fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 2.30 0.04 0.07 0.05 0.50 (0.14) 2.82 (in € per share) 2016 Ipsen Registration document 55 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2.1.5 Subsequent events ■■2.1.5.1 Event from activities On 31 January 2017 – Ipsen announced that it has signed an Significant events and transactions occurring between agreement to take an equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma with an 31 December 2016 and the Board of Directors meeting on option to take control of the company in the future. Akkadeas 22 February 2017: Pharma is a privately-held consumer health care company in Italy with a diversified gastrointestinal-focused portfolio On 9 January 2017 – Ipsen announced that it has entered including probiotics, medical devices and food supplements. into a definitive agreement to acquire global oncology assets As part of the transaction, Akkadeas Pharma will become from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, including its key marketed Ipsen’s Italian distributor for Smecta® (Diosmectal®). product ONIVYDE ® (irinotecan liposome injection) for the treatment of patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the On 13 February 2017 – Ipsen announced that it has entered pancreas after disease progression following gemcitabineinto a definitive agreement to acquire from Sanofi (Euronext: based therapy, in combination with fluorouracil and SAN; NYSE: SNY) five consumer healthcare products in leucovorin. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen will certain European territories. The most significant product is gain exclusive commercialization rights for the current and Prontalgine®, an analgesic for the treatment of moderate to potential future ONIVYDE indications in the U.S., as well as the severe pain, which has grown at double digit rates over the current licensing agreements with Shire for commercialization last four years and is available only in France. The portfolio rights ex-U.S. and PharmaEngine for Taiwan. The transaction also includes Buscopan®, an antispasmodic; Suppositoria also includes Merrimack’s commercial and manufacturing Glycerini, a laxative; and Mucothiol ® and Mucodyne ®, infrastructure, and generic doxorubicin HCl liposome injection. expectorants for cough and flu. Combined, these regional brands span a geographic scope of eight European countries. On 20 January 2017 – Ipsen announced the appointment Manufacturing will be provided by third parties. of Harout Semerjian as President, Head of Specialty Care International Region & Global Franchises, effective 2 February 2017. He will report to David Meek, CEO of Ipsen, and will be a member of the Executive Leadership Team. 2.1.6 Group outlook 2017 Objectives 2020 Outook The Group has set the following financial targets for 2017 On 2 July 2015, Ipsen provided financial outlook for 2020 in assuming the successful closing of the Onivyde® transaction terms of sales and operating margin. with Merrimack by the end of the first quarter 2017, and of the In 2016, these forecasts were updated to reflect the Consumer Healthcare transaction with Sanofi in the second contribution of cabozantinib, in-licensed worldwide outside quarter of 2017: the United States, and Japan with: • Specialty Care sales growth year-on-year greater than • Sales in excess of 2.0 billion euros; +18.0%(1); • Core operating margin greater than 26% (including • Primary Care sales growth year-on-year greater than amortization of intangible assets). +4.0%(1); These forecasts will be updated in the second quarter of 2017 • Core operating margin (excluding amor tization of to include notably the recent acquisitions of Onivyde ® and intangible assets) greater than 24% of net sales. the new Consumer Health Care products announced in the beginning of 2017, as well as the updated definition of Core financial measures. (1) Sales objectives are set at constant currency. 56 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2.1 Consolidated income statement 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Notes 31 December 2016 Restated Sales 4.2 & 4.3 1,584.6 1,443.9 Other revenues 4.4 86.5 76.3 Revenue 1,671.1 1,520.2 Cost of goods sold (353.3) (336.8) Selling expenses (608.4) (541.4) Research and development expenses (208.9) (192.6) General and administrative expenses (129.4) (122.9) Other operating income 7 6.9 7.3 Other operating expenses 7 (28.6) (18.6) Restructuring costs 8 (1.9) (6.7) Impairment losses 6 (42.9) (64.6) Operating Income 4.1 304.7 244.0 Investment income 0.9 0.7 Financing costs (5.8) (3.6) Net financing costs 9 (5.0) (2.9) Other financial income and expense 9 (1.6) (3.6) Income taxes 10.1 (73.5) (49.8) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity 16 1.9 2.5 method Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 226.5 190.2 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 11 0.1 0.5 Consolidated net profit 226.6 190.7 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 225.9 189.9 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 0.9 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 20.2 2.74 2.30 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 20.3 2.73 2.29 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 20.2 0.00 0.01 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 20.3 0.00 0.01 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 20.2 2.74 2.31 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 20.3 2.73 2.30 The consolidated income statement was restated to reflect changes in presentation. See notes 3.9 and 30 for details. The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 57 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comprehensive income statement (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Consolidated net profit 226.6 190.7 Actuarial gains and (losses) on defined benefit plans, net of taxes (7.7) 9.0 Other items of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified (7.7) 9.0 to the income statement Revaluation of financial derivatives for hedging, net of taxes (2.8) 0.5 Foreign exchange differences, net of taxes (6.7) 33.7 Financial assets available for sale, net of taxes (3.0) 7.0 Other items of comprehensive income likely to be reclassified to the income (12.5) 41.2 statement Comprehensive income: Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and (losses) 206.3 241.0 recognized directly in equity – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 205.7 240.0 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 1.0 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 58 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit (in millions of euros) Notes 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 ASSETS Goodwill 12 357.2 353.3 Other intangible assets 13 380.1 151.5 Property, plant & equipment 14 379.0 348.7 Equity investments 15 21.2 25.6 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 16 15.6 15.9 Non-current financial assets 0.2 – Deferred tax assets 10.2 213.2 217.7 Other non-current assets 17 6.7 15.5 Total non-current assets 1,373.1 1,128.1 Inventories 18.2.1 113.3 107.4 Trade receivables 18.1 363.5 311.0 Current tax assets 18.1 66.3 82.9 Current financial assets 18.2.2 6.6 6.8 Other current assets 18.2.3 75.2 75.6 Cash and cash equivalents 19.2 425.5 226.1 Total current assets 1,050.4 809.9 TOTAL ASSETS 2,423.5 1,938.0 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 20.1 83.6 83.2 Additional paid-in capital and consolidated reserves 998.5 892.3 Net profit (loss) for the period 225.9 189.9 Foreign exchange differences 50.9 57.0 Equity attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 1,358.9 1,222.5 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 3.3 3.1 Total shareholders' equity 1,362.2 1,225.6 Retirement benefit obligation 5.3.2.2 58.4 51.2 Non-current provisions 21 21.6 31.4 Other non-current financial liabilities 22.1 314.8 20.6 Deferred tax liabilities 10.2 14.6 23.1 Other non-current liabilities 18.2.4 90.6 124.5 Total non-current liabilities 500.0 250.8 Current provisions 21 27.8 29.9 Current financial liabilities 22.1 58.6 11.0 Trade payables 18.1 241.5 195.1 Current tax liabilities 18.1 4.1 12.0 Other current liabilities 18.2.4 226.4 201.5 Bank overdrafts 19.1.2 3.0 12.1 Total current liabilities 561.3 461.5 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 2,423.5 1,938.0 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 59 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow (in millions of euros) Notes 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Consolidated net profit 226.6 190.7 Share of profit (loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method 16 0.4 (0.8) before impairment losses Net profit (loss) before share from companies accounted for using 227.0 189.9 the equity method Non-cash and non-operating items – Depreciation, amortization, provisions 6.2 39.1 43.7 – Impairment losses included in Operating Income and net financial income 6.2 42.9 64.6 – Change in fair value of financial derivatives 9.7 1.9 – Net gains or losses on disposals of non-current assets (2.3) 0.5 – Share of government grants released to profit and loss (0.4) (0.0) – Foreign exchange differences (13.7) (1.3) – Change in deferred taxes 10.2 8.1 1.4 – Share-based payment expense 5.6 4.0 – Gain or (loss) on sales of treasury shares (0.0) 0.3 – Other non-cash items 2.7 (0.2) Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 318.7 304.8 requirement – (Increase)/decrease in inventories 18.1 & 11 (7.7) (0.2) – (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables 18.1 & 11 (42.7) (63.8) – Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 18.1 & 11 47.6 10.8 – Net change in income tax liability 18.1 & 11 10.5 (9.0) – Net change in other operating assets and liabilities 18.1 & 11 (8.6) (18.9) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities (0.9) (81.2) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 317.8 223.6 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment 14.1 (81.2) (50.0) Acquisition of intangible assets 13.1 (291.1) (25.2) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 3.6 0.2 Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (1.0) (0.0) Payments to post-employment benefit plans 5.3.2.6 (1.3) (1.5) Impact of changes in the consolidation scope (0.0) (31.4) Deposits paid 1.8 0.2 Change in working capital related to investment activities 18.1 12.2 7.8 Other cash flow related to investment activities (0.1) (6.3) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (357.1) (106.2) Additional long-term borrowings 22.1 327.9 1.1 Repayment of long-term borrowings 22.1 (3.9) (5.6) Capital increase 12.7 5.4 Treasury shares (17.7) (22.4) Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. 20.5 (70.0) (70.0) Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (0.4) (0.5) Change in working capital related to financing activities 3.4 0.8 NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES 252.0 (91.2) CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 212.7 26.3 Opening cash and cash equivalents 19.1.1 214.0 180.1 Impact of exchange rate fluctuations (4.2) 7.6 Closing cash and cash equivalents 19.1.2 422.5 214.0 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 60 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity Reserves Equity related to Cash flow Net profit attributable (in millions Share Share Consolidated Treasury Total Group Total retirement hedge (loss) for to nonof euros) capital premiums reserves shares equity equity benefit reserves the period controlling obligations interests Balance at 83.2 720.1 299.6 (20.4) 1.3 (51.2) 189.9 1,222.5 3.1 1,225.6 1 January 2016 Consolidated – – – – – – 225.9 225.9 0.6 226.6 net profit (loss) Gains and (losses) recognized – – (9.7) (7.7) (2.8) – – (20.2) (0.0) (20.2) directly in equity(1) Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and losses – – (9.7) (7.7) (2.8) – 225.9 205.7 0.6 206.3 recognized directly in equity Allocation of net profit (loss) from – – 189.9 – – – (189.9) – – – the prior period Capital increases 0.3 12.8 (3.8) – – 7.1 – 16.4 – 16.4 (decreases) Share-based – – 5.6 – – 3.1 – 8.7 – 8.7 payments Own share purchases and – – – – – (24.2) – (24.2) – (24.2) disposals Dividends – – (70.0) – – – – (70.0) (0.4) (70.3) Other changes – – (0.3) – – – – (0.3) – (0.3) Balance at 31 December 83.6 732.9 411.2 (28.1) (1.4) (65.2) 225.9 1,358.9 3.3 1,362.2 2016 (1) Detailed in the note “Comprehensive income statement”. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 61 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reserves Equity related to Cash flow Net profit attributable (in millions Share Share Consolidated Treasury Total Group Total retirement hedge (loss) for to nonof euros) capital premiums reserves shares equity equity benefit reserves the period controlling obligations interests Balance at 82.9 714.9 171.4 (29.4) 0.8 (28.8) 153.5 1,065.2 2.7 1,067.9 1 January 2015 Consolidated – – – – – – 189.9 189.9 0.9 190.7 net profit (loss) Gains and (losses) recognized – – 40.6 9.0 0.5 – – 50.1 0.1 50.2 directly in equity(1) Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and losses – – 40.6 9.0 0.5 – 189.9 240.0 1.0 241.0 recognized directly in equity Allocation of net profit (loss) from – – 153.5 – – – (153.5) – – – the prior period Capital increases 0.4 5.2 (0.2) – – – – 5.4 – 5.4 (decreases) Share-based – – 4.0 – – 6.3 – 10.3 – 10.3 payments Own share purchases and – – 0.3 – – (28.7) – (28.5) – (28.5) disposals Dividends – – (70.0) – – – – (70.0) (0.5) (70.5) Other changes – – 0.0 – – – – 0.0 (0.0) – Balance at 31 December 83.2 720.1 299.6 (20.4) 1.3 (51.2) 189.9 1,222.5 3.1 1,225.6 2015 (1) Detailed in the note “Comprehensive income statement”. The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 62 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2.5 Notes NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND TRANSACTIONS 4.4 Other revenues 76 DURING THE PERIOD HAVING AN IMPACT ON THE 4.5 Other information 77 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 65 NOTE 5 PERSONNEL 77 1.1 Exclusive licensing agreement signed with 3B 5.1 Headcount 77 Pharmaceuticals GmbH 65 5.2 Employee expenses 77 1.2 Exclusive licensing agreement signed with Exelixis Inc. 65 5.3 Employee benefits 78 1.3 Changes to corporate governance 65 5.3.1 Benefit plans 78 1.4 €300 million in seven-year notes issued 65 5.3.1.1 Retirement benefit obligations 78 5.3.1.2 Other long-term benefits 78 NOTE 2 CHANGES IN THE SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 65 5.3.2 Measurement and recognition of liabilities 78 5.3.2.1 Assumptions used 78 2.1 2016 financial year 65 5.3.2.2 Reconciliation of balance sheet assets and liabilities 78 2.2 2015 financial year 65 5.3.2.3 Reconciliation of income statement expenses 79 NOTE 3 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND METHODS, 5.3.2.4 Movements in net liability recognized in the balance sheet 79 AND COMPLIANCE STATEMENT 66 5.3.2.5 Movements in defined benefit plan obligations 79 3.1 General principles and compliance statement 66 5.3.2.6 Movements in plan assets 80 3.2 Standards, amendments and interpretations 5.3.2.7 Allocation of plan assets 80 that became applicable as of 1 January 2016 66 5.3.2.8 Future probable plan benefits 80 3.3 Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted 5.4 Share-based payments 81 by the European Union and not adopted early 5.4.1 Share option plans granted by Ipsen 81 by the Group 66 5.4.1.1 Details of share option plans 81 3.4 Standards, amendments and interpretations published 5.4.1.2 Valuation of plans 81 but not yet approved by the European Union 66 5.4.1.3 Change in number of options outstanding 81 3.4.1 Publications not yet approved by the European Union 66 5.4.2 Bonus share plans 82 3.4.2 IASB publications 67 5.4.2.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans 82 3.5 Measurement bases used in preparing the consolidated 5.4.2.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans 82 financial statements 67 3.6 Use of estimates 67 NOTE 6 DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION, PROVISIONS 3.7 Consolidation methods 67 AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 83 3.8 Business combinations 67 6.1 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment 3.9 Changes in accounting methods and presentation 68 losses included in the cash flow statement 83 3.10 Operating segments 68 6.2 Impairment losses 83 3.11 Translation of financial statements in foreign currencies 68 6.2.1 2016 financial year 83 3.12 Translation of foreign currency transactions, liabilities, 6.2.2 2015 financial year 83 transactions and flows 69 3.13 Exchange differences with respect to intra-group NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES 83 transactions and cash flows 69 3.14 Other intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 69 3.15 Property, plant & equipment 69 NOTE 8 RESTRUCTURING COSTS 83 3.16 Leases 69 3.16.1 Finance leases 69 NOTE 9 NET FINANCIAL INCOME 84 3.16.2 Operating leases 70 3.17 Impairment of assets 70 NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES 85 3.17.1 Type of asset tested 70 10.1 Tax expense 85 3.17.1.1 Goodwill 70 10.1.1 Effective tax rate 85 3.17.1.2 Other non-current assets 70 10.1.2 Reconciliation between the effective and nominal tax 3.17.2 Impairment tests – methods used by the Group 70 expense 85 3.18 Government grants 70 10.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 86 3.19 Financial assets 70 10.3 Type of deferred taxes recognized on the balance sheet 3.19.1 Financial assets held for trading 71 and the income statement 87 3.19.2 Loans and receivables 71 3.19.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 71 NOTE 11 NET PROFIT (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED 3.19.4 Determination of fair value 71 OPERATIONS 87 3.20 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 71 NOTE 12 GOODWILL 87 3.21 Inventories 71 3.22 Securities held for sale 72 12.1 Net goodwill carried in the balance sheet 87 3.23 Cash and cash equivalents 72 12.2 Impairment of goodwill 88 3.24 Stock options plans 72 NOTE 13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 89 3.25 Retirement benefit obligations 72 3.25.1 Post-employment benefits 72 13.1 Movements 89 3.25.2 Other employee benefits 72 13.2 Impairment tests of intangible assets with an indefinite 3.26 Provisions 72 useful life 90 3.27 Financial liabilities 72 13.2.1 2016 financial year 90 3.28 Derivative financial instruments 72 13.2.2 2015 financial year 90 3.29 Sales 73 13.3 Impairment tests of intangible assets with a definite 3.30 Other revenues 73 useful life 90 3.31 Cost of sales 73 13.3.1 2016 financial year 90 3.32 Research and development 73 13.3.2 2015 financial year 90 3.32.1 Internal research and development work 73 13.4 Breakdown of intangible assets by asset type 90 3.32.2 Research and development acquired separately 74 3.32.3 Research and development acquired in a business NOTE 14 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT 91 combination 74 14.1 Breakdown by asset type 91 3.32.4 Research tax credits 74 14.2 Breakdown by currency of property, plant 3.33 Other operating income and expenses 74 and equipment, net of depreciation 92 3.34 Taxes 74 3.35 Earnings per share 74 NOTE 15 EQUITY INVESTMENTS 92 NOTE 4 OPERATING SEGMENTS 75 NOTE 16 INVESTMENTS IN COMPANIES ACCOUNTED 4.1 Core Operating Income by operating segment 75 FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD 93 4.2 Sales by geographical region 76 4.3 Sales by therapeutic area and product 76 NOTE 17 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 93 2016 Ipsen Registration document 63 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 18 DETAIL OF THE CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL 25.2.1 Income statement at 31 December 2016 105 REQUIREMENT 94 25.2.2 Income statement at 31 December 2015 106 18.1 Movements 94 NOTE 26 INFORMATION ON RELATED PARTIES 106 18.2 Breakdown 95 18.2.1 Inventories 95 26.1 Director and Executive compensation 106 18.2.2 Current financial assets 95 26.2 Transactions with related parties 106 18.2.3 Other current assets 96 26.2.1 In the income statement at 31 December 2016 106 18.2.4 Other current and non-current liabilities 96 26.2.2 In the income statement at 31 December 2015 107 26.2.3 On the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 107 NOTE 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 96 26.2.4 On the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 107 19.1 Net cash and cash equivalents 96 26.2.5 Off-balance sheet commitments 107 19.1.1 Opening Net cash and cash equivalents 96 NOTE 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 107 19.1.2 Closing Net cash and cash equivalents 96 19.2 Cash and cash equivalents 97 27.1 Operating commitments 107 27.1.1 Operating commitments given 107 NOTE 20 CONSOLIDATED EQUITY 97 27.1.2 Operating commitments received 108 20.1 Share capital 97 27.2 Financial commitments 108 20.2 Basic earnings per share 97 27.3 General risks 108 20.3 Diluted earnings per share 97 27.4 Liquidity risk and counterparty risk 108 20.4 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 98 27.5 Other commitments 109 20.4.1 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 27.5.1 Capital expenditure commitments 109 to calculate basic earnings per share 98 27.5.2 Commitments related to rental agreements 109 20.4.1.1 Weighted average number of shares 27.5.3 Risk of acceleration of borrowings 109 at 31 December 2016 98 27.5.4 Endorsements, pledges and guarantees given 109 20.4.1.2 Weighted average number of shares at 31 December 2015 98 NOTE 28 POST CLOSING EVENTS WITH NO IMPACT ON 20.4.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to calculate diluted earnings per share 99 AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 110 20.5 Dividends paid 99 NOTE 29 CONSOLIDATION SCOPE 110 NOTE 21 PROVISIONS 99 29.1 Fully consolidated companies 111 21.1 Movements 99 29.2 Proportionally consolidated companies 112 21.2 Impact on consolidated income in 2016 100 29.3 Companies consolidated using the equity method 112 21.3 Impact on consolidated income in 2015 100 NOTE 30 CHANGE IN PRESENTATION 113 NOTE 22 BANK LOANS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 101 22.1 Movements 101 NOTE 31 FEES PAID TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS 114 22.2 Breakdown by maturity and currency 102 4.1 Operating income 124 22.3 Collateralized debt 102 4.2 Operating expenses 124 NOTE 23 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 102 4.3 Financial income 124 2.3.4.1 Significant events of the year 132 23.1 Interest rate risk 102 2.3.4.2 Business activity 132 23.2 Exchange rate risk 102 2.3.4.3 Net profit (loss) 132 23.2.1 Exposure to exchange rate risk 102 2.3.4.4 Income tax 132 23.2.2 Transactional foreign exchange risk 103 2.3.4.5 Funding 132 23.2.3 Financing foreign exchange risk 103 2.3.4.6 Net cash flow from operating activities 132 23.3 Derivative financial instruments reported 2.3.4.7 Net cash provided (used) by investment activities 132 in the balance sheet 103 2.3.4.8 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 132 NOTE 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS REPORTED 2.3.4.9 Subsequent events 133 2.3.4.10 Business trends and outlook 133 IN THE BALANCE SHEET 103 2.3.4.11 Subsidiaries and affiliates 133 2.3.4.12 Accounting principles and methods 133 NOTE 25 INFORMATION ON PROPORTIONALLY 2.3.4.13 Payment due dates 133 CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES 105 2.3.4.14 Sumptuary spending 134 25.1 Balance sheet items 105 2.3.4.15 Net profit (loss) for the period 134 25.1.1 Balance sheet at 31 December 2016 105 2.3.4.16 Dividend payout 134 25.1.2 Balance sheet at 31 December 2015 105 2.3.4.17 Company earnings and other financial highlights 25.2 Income statement items 105 over the past five years 134 64 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 Significant events and transactions during the period having an impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 ■■1.1 E  xclusive licensing agreement signed On 21 December 2016, Ipsen and Exelixis amended their with 3B Pharmaceuticals GmbH exclusive licensing agreement to include the commercialization and development of cabozantinib in the Canadian market. On 17 February 2016, Ipsen and 3B Pharmaceuticals Under the terms of the amendment, Exelixis received a GmbH (3B Pharmaceuticals), a German private life sciences USD10 million upfront payment (see note 13), and may receive company focusing on targeted radiopharmaceutical drugs USD14 million and CAD26.5 million in potential payments and diagnostics for oncology indications, announced arising from the completion of regulatory and commercial the signature of an exclusive license agreement for novel milestones. radiopharmaceuticals in oncology. Under the financial terms of the agreement, 3B Pharmaceuticals ■■1.3 Changes to corporate governance received a €5 million upfront licensing payment and will be On 16 February 2016, Ipsen announced that its Board eligible to receive development and regulatory milestone of Directors, which met on 15 February 2016, decided to payments for several indications of up to €77 million, as well change the company’s method of governance by separating as tiered royalties on worldwide annual net sales of products the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). developed and commercialized by Ipsen. The Board of Directors confirmed that Marc de Garidel would become the non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors ■■1.2 E  xclusive licensing agreement signed under the new corporate governance structure and approved with Exelixis Inc. the departure of Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy CEO. On 1 March 2016, Ipsen announced that it had entered into an On 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors named David Meek exclusive licensing agreement to commercialize and develop as the company’s Chief Executive Officer. This appointment cabozantinib, Exelixis’ primary oncology product. As part of took effect on 18 July 2016, when Marc de Garidel became the agreement, Ipsen acquired exclusive commercialization the company’s non-executive Chairman. rights for current and potential future cabozantinib indications outside the United States, Canada and Japan, including ■■1.4 €300 million in seven-year notes issued Cometriq ®, which is currently approved in the European On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in Union (EU) for the treatment of adult patients with progressive, unsecured, seven-year notes. The notes mature on 16 June unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic medullary 2023 and pay an annual interest rate of 1.875%. The purpose thyroid cancer (MTC). The companies agreed to collaborate of the issue was to diversify and extend the maturity of on the development of cabozantinib’s current and future Ipsen’s sources of funds and to support its investment and indications. development strategy. At 31 December 2016, in addition to the USD200 million At 31 December 2016, after factoring in issuing expenses upfront payment, Ipsen paid Exelixis milestone payments and the issue premium, the debt related to the issue came totaling USD70 million (see note 13), USD10 million of which to €297.1 million and was recognized in non-current financial was related to the completion of commercial milestones. liabilities (see note 22). Note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation ■■2.1 2016 financial year consolidation, Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Canada, Inc. and At 31 December 2016, Ipsen Pharma Singapore Pte. Ltd., a Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Trade Co. Ltd. newly established company, was 100%-owned and controlled Further, 100%-owned and controlled OctreoPharm GmbH by the Group and included in the scope of consolidation. was fully consolidated as of 1 July 2015 (see note 12). ■■2.2 2015 financial year In March 2015, Syntaxin Ltd. was renamed Ipsen BioInnovation Ltd. At 31 December 2015, two newly created and fully owned and controlled companies were included in the scope of 2016 Ipsen Registration document 65 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 3 Accounting principles and methods, and compliance statement Preliminary remarks: • Amendments to IAS 19 – Defined Benefit Plans: Employee • All amounts are expressed in millions of euros, unless Contributions otherwise stated. • Amendments to IAS 27 – Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements • The closing date of the consolidated financial statements is 31 December of each year. Individual statements • Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 – Investment incorporated into consolidated statements are prepared Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception at the closing date of the consolidated statements, i.e. • Amendments to IFRS 11 – Accounting for Acquisitions of 31 December, and cover the same period. Interests in Joint Operations • The Group’s consolidated financial statements were • Annual Improvements to IFRS – 2010-2012 Cycle approved by the Board of Directors on 22 February 2017 • Annual Improvements to IFRS – 2012-2014 Cycle and will be submitted for approval at the Shareholders’ Meeting scheduled for 7 June 2017. A review of these standards, amendments and interpretations showed that their application had a non-material impact on ■■3.1 G  eneral principles and compliance the Group’s financial statements, which consequently were statement not restated. The main accounting methods used to prepare the ■■3.3  tandards, amendments and S consolidated financial statements are described below. Unless interpretations adopted by the European otherwise stated, these methods were used systematically for all financial years presented. Union and not adopted early by the Group The Group did not opt for early adoption of the standards, In compliance with European regulation n° 1606 / 2002 amendments and interpretations adopted by the European adopted on 19 July 2002 by the European Parliament and Union for which the application was not mandatory on the European Council, the Group’s consolidated financial 1 January 2016, namely: statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting • IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union on the • Amendments to IAS 7 – Disclosure Initiative date of preparation. The IFRS as adopted by the European • Amendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of Deferred Tax Union differ in certain aspects with the IFRS published by Assets for Unrealized Losses the IASB. Nevertheless, the Group ensured that the financial information for the periods presented would not have been • IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers. substantially different if it had applied IFRS as published by A review of IFRS 9 and the amendments to IAS 7 and the IASB. IAS 12 was under way by the Group at the close of the 2016 International accounting standards include International consolidated financial statements. Financial Repor ting Standards (IFRS), International Following a review of the main impacts of IFRS 15 – Revenue Accounting Standards (IAS), as well as the interpretations from Contracts with Customers, the standard is not expected issued by the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC), to have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations financial statements, including the balance sheet, the income Committee (IFRIC). statement or the comprehensive income statement. All the texts adopted by the European Union are available on the European Commission’s website: http://ec.europa.eu/ ■■3.4 Standards, amendments and internal_market/accounting/ias/index_fr.htm. interpretations published but not yet approved by the European Union ■■3.2 Standards, amendments and 3.4.1 Publications not yet approved by the European interpretations that became applicable as Union of 1 January 2016 Standards, amendments and interpretations published but The mandatory standards, amendments and interpretations not yet approved by the European Union are listed below. published by the ASB and applicable as of the 2016 financial • IFRS 14 – Regulatory Deferral Accounts year are listed below. • IFRS 16 – Leases • Amendments to IAS 1 – Disclosure Initiative • Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution • Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Clarification of of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortization Venture • Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 – Agriculture: Bearer • Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement Plants of Share-Based Payment Transactions 66 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Amendments to IFRS 4 – Applying IFRS 9, Financial the Group, all necessary changes are made to ensure that the Instruments with IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts financial statements of those companies are compliant with the Group’s accounting principles, as described in note 3. • Clarifications to IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers Investments in companies that are not consolidated, despite meeting the above conditions, are recognized as equity A review of these standards was under way by the Group at investments. the close of the 2016 consolidated financial statements. The following principles are applied in deciding whether a 3.4.2 IASB publications subsidiary should be excluded from the consolidation scope: Standards and interpretations published by the IASB since the closing date and till the approval of the consolidated • for companies that might have been accounted for using the financial statements are listed below. equity method, the thresholds are determined by reference to the company’s relative contribution to consolidated • Annual Improvements to IFRS – 2015-2017 Cycle. equity, results and goodwill; A review of these standards was under way by the Group at • for companies that might have been wholly or proportionately the close of the 2016 consolidated financial statements. consolidated, the thresholds are determined by reference to the company’s relative contribution to consolidated revenue, ■■3.5 Measurement bases used in preparing Operating Income, consolidated equity and total assets. the consolidated financial statements Given the particularly exhaustive nature of the Group’s The consolidated financial statements were prepared using consolidation scope, it has not yet been deemed necessary the historical cost principle, with the exception of certain asset to define materiality thresholds. and liability classes in accordance with IFRS. The related assets and liabilities are described in the notes below. If all these companies were consolidated, it would have no material impact on the consolidated financial statements, as the exclusion of a company from the consolidation scope ■■3.6 Use of estimates has, to date, never exceeded 1.5% of any of the consolidated To prepare its financial statements, the Group is required to aggregates referred to above. make certain estimates and assumptions with respect to the carrying value of assets and liabilities, income and expense ■■3.8 Business combinations items, and information given in the notes to the financial statements. Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of an acquisition is based on the fair value Management has regularly made these estimates and of the assets acquired, instruments of equity issued, and assumptions on the basis of its past experience and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of the combination. other factors deemed reasonable. Amounts appearing The costs directly attributable to the combination are in subsequent financial statements may differ materially accounted for as other operating expenses in the period from these estimates, should the assumptions change, or if during which they are incurred. actual conditions are different, particularly given the current On first-time consolidation of an exclusively controlled economic and financial environment, which could weaken company, identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent some of the Group’s partners and make it difficult to predict liabilities are valued at their fair value except exceptions future outlook. specifically provided for by IFRS 3 revised. The estimates were made based on information available at Goodwill recorded in the consolidated balance sheet is the the closing date, after taking into account post closing events, difference between: in accordance with IAS 10. • the total amount of the following elements: The main material estimates made by management concern –– the cost of acquisition at the acquisition date; employee benefits, goodwill, other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, derivatives and provisions. –– the total of non-controlling interests in the acquired company determined either at fair value at the acquisition ■■3.7 Consolidation methods date (full goodwill method), or on the basis of its share in the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and Subsidiaries over which the Group exercises control are fully liabilities assumed (partial goodwill method). This option consolidated. is open on a transaction-by-transaction basis; Companies controlled jointly with a limited number of outside –– and for business combinations achieved in stages, of the partners are proportionately consolidated. fair value at the acquisition date of the share held by the Group before the acquisition date; Companies over which the Group exercises significant –– and the estimated impact of any adjustments in the influence and joint ventures are accounted for using the acquisition costs, such as earnout payments. These equity method. contingent considerations are measured by applying If the accounting methods used by subsidiaries, joint the criteria set out in the purchase agreement, such operations, joint ventures, and companies accounted for as sales and earnings targets, to forecasts deemed using the equity method do not comply with those used by to be highly probable. The contingent considerations 2016 Ipsen Registration document 67 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS are then re-measured at each closing date, with any ■■3.10 Operating segments changes recognized on the income statement after the In accordance with IFRS 8 – Operating segments, reported acquisition date, including the one-year period following segment information is built on the basis of management data the acquisition date. They are discounted if the impact used for business performance analysis and for allocation of is material. Any discounting adjustments to the carrying resources by the “chief operating decision maker”, i.e. the amount of the liability are recognized in “Cost of net Executive Leadership team. financial debt”; The Group’s two operating segments are Primary Care and • and the net amount of identifiable assets acquired and Specialty Care. Only corporate overhead costs and the identifiable liabilities assumed, measured at their fair value impact of currency hedging policy are not allocated to the two at the acquisition date. operating segments. Research and development costs are After initial recognition, goodwill is tested for impairment at allocated to the operating segments, while formerly included least once a year and whenever there is an indication that it in Unallocated. may be impaired (see note 3.17). The Group uses Core Operating Income to measure its In the case of companies accounted for using the equity segment per formance. Core Operating Income is the method, goodwill is included in the amount invested in the internally used indicator to measure operating performance companies accounted for using the equity method. The costs and to allocate resources. directly attributable to the combination are accounted for in Core Operating Income excludes amortization of intangible the cost of acquisition price. assets (excluding software), restructuring costs, impairment When the cost of the acquisition is below the fair value of the losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, Group’s share in the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as well as other items arising from significant events that could of the acquired subsidiary, the difference is recognized directly distort the reading of the Group’s performance from one year on the income statement. to another. The reconciliation of Core Operating Income and Operating Income is presented in note 4.1. If the initial accounting for a business combination can only be determined provisionally, provisional values of the assets These performance indicators are not replacements for IFRS and liabilities should be adjusted within one year from the indicators and should not be viewed as such. They are used acquisition date, in accordance with the revised version of in addition to IFRS indicators. Although used by the Executive IFRS 3. Leadership Team as important factors for setting targets and measuring the Group’s performance, these indicators are not The impact of capital gains or losses and depreciation charges required or defined by IFRS. and reversals recognized after 12 months of the acquisition date in relation to the values assigned to assets acquired As internal per formance measures, these operational and liabilities assumed at the time of the first consolidation indicators have limitations, and management of the Group’s is recognized prospectively as the income for the period of performance is not limited solely to these indicators. change and future periods, if any, without adjusting goodwill. ■■3.11 Translation of financial statements If changes to the initial recognition of the combination are in foreign currencies due to the correction of an error, the values attributed to the acquired assets and liabilities assumed and to investments The balance sheets of subsidiaries whose functional currency that do not give control or elements of the cost of acquisition, is not the euro, none of which operate in hyper-inflationary are modified retrospectively, as if their corrected fair value had economies, are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on been accounted for from the acquisition date. Goodwill must the closing date. Their income statements, changes in working also be modified as a result, and the impact of correcting capital requirement and cash flow items are translated at the the error is recognized in the opening equity for the period average rate for the year – which approximates, in absence of of the error correction, in accordance with IAS 8 “Accounting any significant fluctuations, the prevailing exchange rate at the Policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors”. date of the different transactions. Exchange differences are transferred to the cumulative ■■3.9 Changes in accounting methods translation reser ve, which forms an integral par t of and presentation shareholders’ equity, and to non-controlling interests for the As of the 2016 financial year, Ipsen no longer includes non-Group share. These differences arise from: alternative performance indicators in its consolidated income • the impact on shareholders’ equity of any difference statement. between the rates used for the opening and closing balance Accordingly, other core income and other non-core operating sheets; income are now grouped together in the “Other operating • the impact on net profit for the year of any difference income” line item, while other core expenses and other nonbetween the year’s average rate and closing rate. core expenses are encompassed in the “Other operating expenses” line item. This change in presentation had no Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising upon acquisition impact on Operating Income or Consolidated net profit. See of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the note 30. foreign entity. Accordingly, they are expressed in the entity’s 68 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS functional currency and translated at the rate prevailing on the The development costs of software developed internally are closing date. identified as intangible assets as soon as they comply with the criteria defined in IAS 38. Such expenses include mainly During consolidation, exchange differences due to the the salaries of personnel involved in the project and the fees conversion of net investments in businesses abroad and of external consultants. They are amortized on a straight-line of loans and other exchange instruments designated as basis over the duration of their useful lives. hedging instruments for these investments are recognized in equity. When a foreign entity is disposed of, these conversion Software licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over differences, initially treated as equity, are recognized in profits the duration of their useful lives (from 1 to 10 years). or losses on disposals. Identified rights regarding intellectual property are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated duration of their ■■3.12 T  ranslation of foreign currency useful lives, which for practical purposes is often between transactions, liabilities, transactions 8 and 20 years. and flows Impairment losses on intangible assets are reported together Receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies with losses on property, plant and equipment, and losses on are initially translated at the exchange rates prevailing on goodwill in a specific line item on the income statement. the transaction date and then revalued at the closing rates prevailing on the reporting date. Any resulting gains or losses The gains and losses on disposals of assets are determined are recognized on the income statement. Concerning foreign by comparing disposal value with the carrying value of the currency transactions, they are converted at prevailing rates disposed asset. at the date of the transaction. The same method is applied to cash flow items. ■■3.15 Property, plant & equipment Property, plant and equipment items are accounted for ■■3.13 E  xchange differences with respect to at acquisition cost or production cost as applicable, less intra-group transactions and cash flows cumulative depreciation and any impairment loss. Exchange differences arising from the elimination of foreign Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying value, currency transactions between fully consolidated companies or, if applicable, they are recognized as a separate asset if the are transferred to the “Foreign exchange differences” future economic benefits associated with the asset are likely cumulative translation reserve under shareholders’ equity to go to the Group, and the cost of the asset can be measured and to non-controlling interests for the non-Group share, reliably. to eliminate their impact on consolidated results. Exchange differences arising from foreign currency cash flow movements Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the between fully consolidated companies are accounted for assets’ estimated useful lives. under a separate line item in the consolidated statement of Estimated useful lives are as follows: cash flow. • Buildings, fixtures and fittings 5 to 30 years ■■3.14 Other intangible assets (excluding • Industrial plant & equipment 5 to 10 years goodwill) • Other property, plant and equipment 3 to 10 years. “Other intangible assets” are accounted for at cost, less Land is not depreciated. cumulative amortization and any impairment loss. Residual values and the duration of the assets’ useful lives are Intangible assets with a defined useful life are amortized revised and, if applicable, adjusted at each closing. over a period corresponding to useful lives estimated by the Group. Amortization periods are determined on a case-byThe carrying value of an asset is depreciated immediately case basis depending on the type of asset concerned. Rights to bring it back to its recoverable amount when the asset’s on products commercialized by the Group are amortized on carrying value is greater than its estimated recoverable a straight-line basis for the duration of their useful lives. Useful amount (see note 3.17). life is determined based on cash flow forecasts that take Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment are into account the underlying patent-protection period, among reported together with losses on intangible assets and losses other factors. on goodwill in a specific line item on the income statement. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized, The gains and losses on disposals of assets, included in but are systematically tested annually for impairment (see other operating income and expenses, are determined by note 3.17). comparing disposal value with the carrying value of the Patents are recognized as intangible assets at acquisition disposed asset. cost and amortized over their period of economic use, which does not exceed the period of protection. ■■3.16 Leases The accounting treatment of internal research and 3.16.1 Finance leases development expenses and research and development work Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalized when acquired separately is described in note 3.32. the lease contract transfers to the Group substantially all risks 2016 Ipsen Registration document 69 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and rewards incidental to ownership. Criteria used to assess 3.17.2 Impairment tests – methods used by the Group whether a contract should be classified as a finance lease Impairment tests consist of comparing an asset’s carrying include: value (asset groups or cash-generating units) with its • the term of the lease compared with the useful life of the recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair asset, value less costs to sell and value in use. • total future lease payments compared with the fair value of Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows the asset financed, expected to be derived from continuing use of the asset, group of assets or cash-generating unit and its ultimate • whether or not ownership of the asset is transferred at the disposal. end of the lease term, Fair value less selling costs is the amount obtainable from the • existence of a purchase option favorable to the lessee, sale of the asset, group of assets or cash-generating unit in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing • the specific nature of the asset leased. parties, less the costs of disposal. Leased assets capitalized as finance leases are depreciated Regarding goodwill, the Group calculates recoverable over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of amounts of cash-generating units from their value in use. This the lease contract. is determined by discounting their estimated future cash flows 3.16.2 Operating leases to present value. These cash flow estimates are based on short-term and medium-term estimates as well as longer-term Operating leases are lease contracts that are not classified as forecasts made for each operating segment (i.e. Specialty finance leases. Rental payments are recorded as expenses Care and Primary Care) by the Group’s operating entities. when incurred. For other intangible assets, the period taken into account for ■■3.17 Impairment of assets estimating cash flows is based on the economic life intrinsic to each intangible asset. When the economic life exceeds Group 3.17.1 Type of asset tested forecasts, the terminal value is used. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life (such as intangible rights acquired from a third party for Cash flows are discounted to present value using the weighted drugs not yet commercialized) are tested for impairment in average cost of capital of the Primary Care and Specialty Care accordance with IAS 36 – Impairment of assets, at least once operating segments, except in specific cases when additional a year and whenever there is an indication that the asset may risk premiums are taken into account based on the asset be impaired. tested. Indicators of impairment loss can be related namely When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of to the success of successive phases of clinical trials, to a particular fixed asset, the Group determines the recoverable pharmacovigilance, to patent protection, to the arrival of amount of the cash-generating unit that holds it. competing products and/or generics and the comparison of When the recoverable amount of an asset (or group of assets) actual and forecast sales. or a cash-generating unit (or group of units) is lower than its 3.17.1.1 Goodwill carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded on a separate line in the income statement. When an impairment loss is For impairment testing purposes, starting from the acquisition identified for a cash-generating unit (or group of units), it is date, goodwill acquired under a business combination is deducted in priority from goodwill. Impairment losses on allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units. goodwill are not reversible. Goodwill relating to a company accounted for using the Methods and key assumptions for impairment tests for equity method is included in the carrying amount of the the period ending on 31 December 2016 are presented investment and is not separately recognized, in accordance for intangible assets of unlimited useful life and goodwill in with IAS 28 – Investments in associates and joint ventures. As notes 13 and 12 respectively. a consequence, it is not tested for impairment separately, as described in IAS 36 – Impairment of assets. The full carrying ■■3.18 Government grants amount of the investment, including goodwill, is tested for Government grants received by the Group are treated as impairment. In line with paragraph 23 of IAS 28 – Investments “Deferred income” and recognized in the income statement in associates and joint ventures, appropriate adjustments to over the estimated useful lives of the assets financed by the the Group’s share of the profits or losses after acquisition grants. of companies accounted for using the equity method are made for impairment losses related to goodwill and intangible ■■3.19 Financial assets assets. Financial assets, excluding cash and derivative financial 3.17.1.2 Other non-current assets assets, are classified in one of the four following categories: Other non-current assets, including tangible and financial • financial assets held for trading, assets, are also tested for impairment when events or changed circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. • loans and receivables, 70 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • held-to-maturity investments, Exchange differences on monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement. • financial assets available for sale. Exchange differences on non-monetary assets denominated Financial assets are classified upon initial recognition in foreign currencies are recognized directly in equity. according to the Group’s intention at the time of acquisition. This category mainly includes investments in non-consolidated companies and short-term investments that do not meet the 3.19.1 Financial assets held for trading definition of other categories of financial assets. They are These include assets held for the purpose of selling or classified under other non-current assets, other current repurchasing in the near term with the intention of making assets and cash and cash equivalents. a profit, and assets voluntarily classified in this category. Derivative instruments are also treated as held for trading, 3.19.4 Determination of fair value unless they are qualified as hedges. For investments in listed equity instruments, fair value is the quoted market price. For investments in unlisted equity Such assets are measured at fair value, and any changes are instruments, fair value is determined by reference to recent recorded as a change in fair value on the income statement. market transactions or using a valuation technique that Assets in this category are designated as current assets. provides reliable and objective price estimates used by others active in the market. 3.19.2 Loans and receivables For investments in non-consolidated and unlisted companies, Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets fair value is based on the Group’s share in each company’s with a payment that is fixed or can be determined and are equity on the reporting date. not listed on an active market. They are included in current assets, except those that mature more than 12 months after If it is not possible to reasonably estimate the fair value of the balance sheet closing date. an asset, it is measured at cost. These assets are tested for impairment to determine their recoverable amount. Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. ■■3.20 N  on-current assets held for sale The balance sheet value includes principal outstanding and discontinued operations plus accrued interest. The recoverable amount of loans and A non-current asset, or group of assets and liabilities, is advances is estimated whenever there is an indication that the classified as held for sale if its carrying value will be recovered asset may be impaired and at least on each reporting date. principally through a sale transaction rather than through If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value, an continuing use. The asset must be available for immediate impairment loss is recognized on the income statement. sale and its sale must be highly probable. The Group’s credit risk is fairly limited in Western European For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of countries. The Group sells to clearly identified wholesalers Management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset (or or directly to chemists and hospitals. These parties do not disposal group), and an active program to locate a buyer and generally present a counterparty risk, but their payment terms complete the plan must be initiated. An operation is classified may exceed 12 months. These are typical payment terms in as discontinued if it is a business, which the Group has sold the Group’s sector. or is classified as held for sale, and: In international markets, the Group often operates via agents • which represents a principal and distinct business line or or distributors, and may also be subject to geopolitical risks. geographic region, The Group endeavors to limit the length of customer risks • is part of a specific and coordinated plan for disposal of a and payment terms, or takes out credit insurance or invoice principal and distinct business line or geographic region, or discounting where available on the market. • is a subsidiary acquired exclusively for resale. Based on reliable default indices and the results of its monitoring and dunning procedures, the Group recognizes ■■3.21. Inventories an impairment of trade receivables that takes into account the Group’s hedging instruments (Coface-type credit insurance). Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average cost 3.19.3 Available-for-sale financial assets method. Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial Net realizable value is the estimated selling price less the assets that are not classified in the aforementioned categories. estimated costs necessary to make the sale. They are included in non-current assets, unless management The cost of finished goods includes all purchasing costs, expects to sell them within 12 months after the balance sheet transformation costs and other costs incurred in bringing closing date. inventories to their present location and current condition. Unrealized capital gains and losses are recognized in equity Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the normal until the assets are sold, except for impairment losses, which course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to are recognized in the income statement when determined. make the sale. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 71 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.22 Securities held for sale Under this method, each period of service gives rise to an This category includes short-term investments that do not additional unit of benefit entitlement and each unit is valued meet the definition of cash equivalents (as per IAS 7) but which separately to obtain the final obligation. nonetheless show limited volatility. These financial assets are The final amount of the liability is then discounted. The main measured at fair value (market value) at the closing date, and assumptions used to calculate the liability are: any changes are recognized in the income statement. • discount rate, ■■3.23 Cash and cash equivalents • inflation rate, Cash includes cash on hand and demand deposits with • future salary increases, banks. • employee turnover. Cash equivalents include short-term, highly liquid investments 3.25.2 Other employee benefits (with a maturity of less than three months) and which are In some countries, employees are entitled to awards for long subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value in the event service. The Group records a provision in the balance sheet of interest rate variations. Mutual funds, UCITS and term to cover its liability in this respect. deposits therefore meet the definition of cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are classified as financial assets at fair value ■■3.26 Provisions held for transactions. They are measured at fair value and any changes are recognized in the income statement. Given the Provisions are recognized in accordance with IAS 37 to cover nature of these assets, their fair value is generally close to their all liabilities to third parties likely or certain to give rise to an net carrying value. outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, provided the amount of the provision can be reliably estimated. These ■■3.24 Stock options plans provisions are estimated on the basis of the most likely Stock options and bonus share plans are awarded to executive assumptions at the closing date. officers and some employees of the Group. As required by In the case of restructurings, a liability is recorded as soon IFRS 2 – Share-based payments, these options and shares as the restructuring has been announced and the Group has are measured at their fair value on the date of grant. The fair drawn up or started to implement a detailed restructuring value is calculated with the most relevant formula regarding plan. the settlement and the conditions of each stock options plan or share award (“Black and Scholes” or “Monte Carlo”). The Provisions are discounted if the time value is material. The fair value is recorded in personnel expenses (allocated by discount rate reflects current market assessments of the function in the income statement) on a straight-line basis over time value of money and the risks inherent to the liability. The the vesting period (period from the date of grant to maturity of provision increase resulting from the restatement at historical the plan) with a corresponding increase in equity. value is recorded as a financial expense. At each closing date, the Group re-examines the number ■■3.27 Financial liabilities of options likely to become exercisable and the number of shares likely to be awarded. If applicable, the impact of the Loans are recorded initially at their fair value. Subsequently review of the estimates is recognized in the income statement they are measured at amortized cost using the effective with a corresponding adjustment in equity. interest method. ■■3.25 Retirement benefit obligations ■■3.28 Derivative financial instruments 3.25.1 Post-employment benefits As part of its overall strategy for managing foreign exchange risks, the Group completed a number of transactions involving Depending on the laws and practices of the countries the use of derivative financial instruments. The Group uses where the Group operates, employees may be entitled to derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedging compensation when they retire or to a pension following their instruments. retirement. The Group buys and sells derivative financial instruments The liability corresponding to the employees’ vested rights is with a view to managing and reducing its exposure to the covered by: risk of exchange rate fluctuations. The Group deals only • contributions to independent organizations (insurance with first-class financial institutions. Under IAS 39, financial companies) responsible for paying the pensions or other instruments may only be classified as hedges when the benefits; or Group can demonstrate and document the effectiveness of • balance sheet provisions. the hedging relationship at inception and throughout the life of the hedge. For State-managed plans and other defined contribution plans, the Group records them as expenses when they Derivative instruments recognized as hedging instruments become payable, the Group’s commitment being limited to are measured in accordance with IAS 39 hedge accounting its contributions. criteria. For defined benefit plans, the Group’s liability is estimated A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to cash flow by external actuaries using the projected unit credit method. fluctuations, which stem from a particular risk associated with 72 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS a recognized asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast Revenues generated by various services provided are transaction, and which could affect profit or loss. Changes in recognized based on the goods or services delivered to the the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognized directly other contracting party. in equity in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the effective portion of the hedging relationship. ■■3.31 Cost of sales For the ineffective portion, changes in the fair value of hedging Cost of sales primarily includes the industrial cost of goods instruments are recognized in “Other financial income and sold and royalties paid under licenses. The industrial cost expense” on the income statement. of goods sold encompasses the cost of the raw materials Aggregate changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument consumed, including freight-in costs, direct and indirect that were previously recognized in equity are recycled into costs for production services personnel, manufacturingthe income statement in the same period(s) in which the related depreciation, all types of external costs related to hedged transaction affects profit or loss. The recycled manufacturing activities, such as utility, maintenance and gains and losses are recognized in “other operating income equipment costs, and indirect costs, such as the share of and expenses” for hedges related to operating activities purchasing, human resources and IT costs. Production costs and in “financial income” or “financial expense” for hedges also include quality control, production quality assurance, related to investing or financing activities. When the hedging engineering, and logistics services expenses. instrument expires, the aggregate gains or losses previously recognized in equity remain in equity and are recycled into ■■3.32 Research and development the income statement only after the forecast transaction has Internal research costs are expensed. Internal pharmaceutical been effectively completed. However, when the Group no development costs are expensed in the period during which longer expects the forecast transaction to be completed, they are incurred as long as capitalization criteria are not aggregate gains and losses previously recognized in equity deemed to be met. are immediately recognized in the income statement. 3.32.1 Internal research and development work Derivative instruments that do not qualify as hedge accounting In accordance with IAS 38, internal development costs are are initially and ultimately measured at fair value, and any recognized as intangible assets only if the following six criteria changes in fair value are recognized as financial income or have been met: financial expense. • the technical feasibility of completing the development ■■3.29 Sales project, The Group’s revenues are generated mainly by the sale of • the Group’s intention to complete the project, pharmaceutical products. • its ability to use the intangible asset, Sales are recognized when all the following conditions are met: • the probable future economic benefit of the asset can be demonstrated, • there is evidence of an agreement between the parties; • the goods have been delivered or the service provided; • the availability of technical, financial and other resources to complete the project, and • the price is fixed or can be determined. • the reliable measurement of development costs. Sales of goods are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer. Sales of goods are Due to the risks and uncertainties associated with regulatory valued at the fair value of the counterparty amount received approvals and the research and development process, the or to be received. Future payments are discounted when six criteria for intangible assets are not deemed to be fulfilled deferred payments have a significant impact on the calculation until marketing authorization for the drugs has been granted, of fair value. i.e. approval of the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA). Rebates and discounts granted to customers are recorded at As a result, internal development expenses, primarily the same time as the sale of the goods and are classified as a consisting of clinical study costs arising before approval deduction from consolidated sales. of the MAA, are generally recognized in “Research and development expenses” as soon as they are incurred. ■■3.30 Other revenues Some industrial development costs are generated after Other revenues include royalties received and milestone the MAA has been approved to improve the process for payments received under partnership agreements and manufacturing an active ingredient. If the six IAS 38 criteria various service agreements. are deemed to have been met, these costs are recorded as “Other intangible assets” on the asset side of the balance Royalties received are recognized as “Other revenues” based sheet, as soon as they are incurred. Likewise, some clinical on sales achieved by the partners and contractual royalty study costs, such as those arising from efforts to extend the rates during the period. geographical access of a molecule that has already obtained Upfront payments are spread over the service period of the MAA approval in a major market, may in certain cases meet binding agreement. Milestone revenues are generally spread the six intangible asset recognition criteria under IAS 38. In over the term of the contracts. such cases, those costs are recorded as “Other intangible 2016 Ipsen Registration document 73 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS assets” on the asset side of the balance sheet, as soon as ■■3.34 Taxes they are incurred. Deferred taxes are recorded on all temporary differences 3.32.2 Research and development acquired separately between the carrying value and tax base of assets and liabilities, and on tax loss carryforwards. Payments made to separately acquire research and development work are recognized as other intangible assets The main temporary differences in the Group’s consolidated when they meet the definition of an intangible asset, i.e. a financial statements stem from tax loss carryforwards, controlled resource with probable future economic benefits restatements to eliminate internal margins on inventory and to the Group that is identifiable, either being separable or provisions for retirement benefits. arising from contractual or other legal rights. In application of paragraph 25 of IAS 38, the first recognition criterion related Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary to the probability of the intangible asset generating future differences only when it is probable that taxable profits will be economic benefits is presumed to be met when research available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilized. and development work is acquired separately. The second Deferred tax assets and liabilities are valued using the recognition criterion related to the reliable measurement of expected tax rate for the period in which the asset will be the asset is satisfied as well when payment amounts are realized and the liability will be settled, on the basis of the tax determined. rates enacted or virtually enacted at the balance sheet date. Accordingly, amounts paid to third parties in the form of an Deferred tax assets are subject to a recoverability analysis upfront payment or milestone payments for proprietary drugs based on Group forecasts. are recognized on the asset side of the balance sheet. These Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted, in rights are amortized on a straight-line basis for the duration accordance with IAS 12 – Income taxes. of their useful lives beginning on the date the products are commercialized. Amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements are calculated at the level of each tax entity included in the 3.32.3 Research and development acquired consolidation scope. in a business combination The Group elected to recognize the CVAE business tax Other intangible assets related to research and development (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises) as income work in progress and acquired within the scope of a business tax expense in the income statement. Accordingly, and in combination, and which can be reliably measured, are line with provisions of IAS 12, the total amount of current and identified separately from goodwill and recognized as “Other deferred expenses related to the C.V.A.E. is presented on the intangible assets”, in accordance with IFRS 3R – Business “Income taxes” line. combinations and IAS 38 – Intangible assets. A related deferred tax liability is also recognized. ■■3.35 Earnings per share 3.32.4 Research tax credits A basic earnings per share is calculated on the weighted Research tax credits are classified as operating grants, in average number of shares outstanding during the period. accordance with common practice within the pharmaceutical The weighted average number of shares outstanding is industry. In accordance with IAS 20 – Accounting for calculated according to movements in share capital, less any Government Grants and Disclosure of Government treasury shares held by the Group. Assistance, operating grants are recognized in operating income, after the R&D expenses to which they are directly Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing linked have been deducted. consolidated net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of Ipsen S.A. by the weighted average number of ■■3.33 Other operating income and expenses ordinary shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive Other operating income and expenses include primarily ordinary shares not yet issued. amortization of intangible assets (excluding software), the impact of cash flow hedges related to commercial operations, capital gains and losses on asset disposals, and any item not directly linked to operations. 74 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 4 Operating segments Segment information is presented according to the Group’s and development costs are now allocated to the operating two operating segments, i.e. Specialty Care and Primary segments. Previously, they were unallocated. Care. The Group uses Core Operating Income to measure its All costs allocated to these two segments are presented segment performance and to allocate resources. in the key per formance indicators. Only general and The main accounting principles used for presenting segment administrative expenses and the impact of cash flow hedges information are described in note 3.10. are not allocated to the two operating segments. Research ■■4.1 Core Operating Income by operating segment Other (in millions of euros) Primary Care Specialty Care 31 December 2016 (unallocated) Sales 311.6 1,273.0 – 1,584.6 Other revenues 51.5 35.0 – 86.5 Revenue 363.1 1,308.0 – 1,671.1 Core Operating Income 99.6 415.0 (150.7) 363.9 Other 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Primary Care Specialty Care (unallocated) Restated Sales 329.7 1,114.2 1,443.9 Other revenues 44.5 31.9 – 76.3 Revenue 374.1 1,146.1 – 1,520.2 Core operating income 126.7 328.9 (127.9) 327.7 In the 2016 financial year, unallocated Core Operating unallocated general and administrative expenses and the Income (expenses) came to (€150.7) million, compared with impact of cash flow hedges. (€127.9) million in 2015. The expenses stemmed mainly from The reconciliation of Core Operating Income and Operating Income is presented in the following table: 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 Restated Core Operating Income 363.9 327.7 Amortization of intangible assets, excluding software (7.7) (4.7) Restructuring costs (1.9) (6.7) Impairment losses (42.9) (64.6) Other operating income and expenses (6.8) (7.7) Operating Income 304.7 244.0 For informational purposes, the operating segment information published in 2015 is presented below: Other 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Primary Care Specialty Care (unallocated) Published Sales 329.7 1,114.2 – 1,443.9 Other revenues 44.5 31.9 – 76.3 Revenue 374.1 1,146.1 – 1,520.2 Core Operating Income 126.0 476.9 (280.4) 322.5 Other operating income 2.0 2.0 Other operating expenses (9.2) (9.2) Restructuring costs (6.7) (6.7) Impairment losses (64.6) (64.6) Operating Income 126.0 476.9 (358.9) 244.0 2016 Ipsen Registration document 75 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the 2015 financial year, published, unallocated Core and development costs, which totaled €189.4 million, and Operating Income (expenses) came to (€280.4) million. unallocated general and administrative expenses. These expenses consisted mainly of the Group’s research ■■4.2 Sales by geographical region 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Amounts % share Amounts % share Major Western European countries 571.9 36% 543.8 38% Rest of Europe 349.2 22% 321.4 22% North America 273.0 17% 157.9 11% Rest of the World 390.5 25% 420.8 29% Consolidated sales 1,584.6 100% 1,443.9 100% ■■4.3 Sales by therapeutic area and product (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Oncology 904.9 752.8 of which Somatuline® 538.3 401.6 of which Decapeptyl ® 339.8 334.0 of which Hexvix® 18.3 17.2 Neurosciences 286.7 280.7 of which Dysport ® 284.7 279.5 Endocrinology 81.5 80.7 of which NutropinAq ® 57.7 60.3 of which Increlex® 23.7 20.4 Specialty Care 1,273.0 1,114.2 Gastroenterology 219.1 227.2 of which Smecta ® 111.0 114.8 of which Forlax ® 39.3 39.7 Cognitive disorders 43.6 52.0 of which Tanakan® 43.6 52.0 Other pharmaceutical products 23.5 26.2 Drug-related sales 25.5 24.3 Primary Care 311.6 329.7 Consolidated sales 1,584.6 1,443.9 ■■4.4 Other revenues (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Royalties received 44.0 41.5 Milestone payments – Licenses 28.4 28.5 Other (co-promotion revenues, re-billings) 14.2 6.3 Other revenues 86.5 76.3 O ther revenue s for the f inancial ye ar 2016 totaled and Menarini for Adenuric®), the new distribution model for €86.5 million, up 13.4% versus €76.3 million generated Etiasa® in China, partially offset by the recognition in 2015 of in 2015. This change was attributable to higher royalties an upfront payment of €3.4 million received from the sale of received from Group partners (mainly Galderma for Dysport® Ginkor Fort® licensing rights to Tonipharm. 76 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■4.5 Other information 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Other Total Primary Care Specialty Care (unallocated) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (18.6) (59.5) (3.1) (81.2) Acquisition of intangible assets (1.2) (280.2) (9.7) (291.1) Total investments (19.9) (339.7) (12.8) (372.3) Net depreciation, amortization and provisions (7.9) (23.2) (7.1) (38.2) (excluding financial assets) Share-based payment expenses with no impact – – (5.6) (5.6) on cash flow NB: Share-based payment expenses are not broken down by operating segment. 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Other Total Primary Care Specialty Care (unallocated) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (10.7) (37.2) (2.1) (50.0) Acquisition of intangible assets (0.8) (15.7) (8.7) (25.2) Total investments (11.4) (52.9) (10.8) (75.1) Net depreciation, amortization and provisions (8.7) (31.7) (4.7) (45.1) (excluding financial assets) Share-based payment expenses with no impact – – (4.0) (4.0) on cash flow NB: Share-based payment expenses are not broken down by operating segment. Note 5 Personnel ■■5.1 Headcount At the end of 2016, the Group’s headcount totaled 4,907 employees, compared with 4,635 at the end of 2015. The average headcount for the 2016 financial year was 4,816, compared with 4,592 in 2015. ■■5.2 Employee expenses Employee expenses, which are included in the cost of goods sold, selling, general and administrative expenses, R&D expenses, and restructuring costs, encompass the following items: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Wages and salaries (367.7) (343.1) Employer’s social security contributions and payroll taxes (119.0) (123.6) Sub-total (486.7) (466.7) Interest on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) (0.4) (5.4) Annual accounting expenses associated with share-based payments (note 5.4) (5.5) (3.9) Social security contributions on share-based payments (0.1) (0.1) Share-based payment expenses sub-total (5.6) (4.0) Employee profit-sharing (10.3) (7.9) Total (503.1) (483.9) In 2016, the average rate of employer’s social security The Group’s French companies have a derogatory employee contributions and payroll taxes amounted to 32.3% of gross profit-sharing agreement. Employees may invest their payroll, versus 36.0% in 2015. entitlement in either an interest-bearing savings account within the company or in a company savings plan invested in collective investment funds managed by a financial institution. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 77 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2016, a three-year incentive agreement was set up in 5.3.1.2 Other long-term benefits France to supplement the above-mentioned agreement. The Group also pays out bonuses intended to reward Based on an assessment of the expected fulfillment of the employees based on length of service. These long service objectives of this incentive agreement, the impact recorded in awards relate mainly to the Group’s employees in France. the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 came to 5.5% of gross payroll. That percentage compares to 5.3.2 Measurement and recognition of liabilities the 3.8% recorded at 31 December 2015. The Group’s liabilities related to employee benefits are calculated by an external actuary using the assumptions that ■■5.3 Employee benefits are applicable in the relevant countries. 5.3.1 Benefit plans Discount rates are determined by reference to a market 5.3.1.1 Retirement benefit obligations rate based on bonds issued by first class issuers. The main In some countries, the Group’s employees are eligible for benchmark index used is the iBoxx Corporate AA for the supplementary pension payments paid annually to retirees, Eurozone and the United Kingdom. or to lump sum retirement allowances paid on retirement. The Assumptions with regard to staff turnover and mortality rates main countries concerned are France, the United Kingdom are specific to each country. and Ireland. In France, a limited number of employees also benefit from a supplementary pension plan. Some liabilities are covered by financial assets held in funds invested with insurance companies (plan assets). The Group provides these benefits via either defined contribution or defined benefit plans. The impact on the income statement of the return on plan assets for retirement schemes is measured by applying the Under defined contribution plans, the Group has no discount rate used for the liabilities. obligation other than to pay the agreed contributions, with the corresponding expense charged to income for the year. Unfunded liabilities and plan deficits are recognized in the balance sheet under “Retirement benefit obligation”. 5.3.2.1 Assumptions used The main actuarial assumptions applied as at 31 December 2016 are as follows: Europe United Kingdom Asia-Oceania (excluding UK) Discount rate 1.3% 2.6% 2.3% Inflation rate 1.8% 2.4% N/A Rate of increase in salaries, net of inflation Varies by SSC 0.6% 5.6% Rate of increase in pensions 1.7% 2.4% N/A A 1.0% increase in the discount rate would lead to decreases in employee benefit obligations of 10.9% in France, 22.3% in Ireland, 21.4% in the UK, and 13.4% in Asia-Oceania. 5.3.2.2 Reconciliation of balance sheet assets and liabilities 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Breakdown of net balance sheet amount Present value of liabilities 105.4 4.9 110.3 102.6 Fair value of plan assets 51.9 – 51.9 51.4 Net liabilities (a) 53.5 4.9 58.4 51.2 Effect of asset ceiling (b) – – – – Net liability (a – b) 53.5 4.9 58.4 51.2 78 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2.3 Reconciliation of income statement expenses 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Current service costs 5.6 0.4 6.0 7.8 Contributions by plan participants (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2) Interest expense on obligations 2.2 0.1 2.3 2.5 Interest income on plan assets (1.2) – (1.2) (1.1) Past service costs (plan amendments and (5.6) – (5.6) (1.9) curtailments) Actuarial (gains) and loses recognized as expense – 0.2 0.2 (0.3) Total 0.9 0.6 1.5 6.7 – of which – Operating expenses (0.1) 0.6 0.4 5.4 – of which – Interest expense 1.0 0.1 1.1 1.3 In 2016, past service costs included: • a €3.2 million gain from management retirement benefits • a €2.4 million gain generated from closing the defined resulting from the change in corporate governance. benefit plan in the U.K. to new entrants and by freezing future rights for beneficiaries; 5.3.2.4 Movements in net liability recognized in the balance sheet 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Opening net liability 46.8 4.4 51.2 59.6 Changes in consolidation scope – – – (0.0) Charge for the year (note 5.3.2.3) 0.9 0.6 1.5 6.7 Actuarial gains and (losses) recognized 7.8 – 7.8 (13.2) in other comprehensive income Employer's contributions to plan assets (1.3) – (1.3) (1.5) Benefits paid from internal reserve (0.5) (0.2) (0.7) (0.9) Exchange differences (0.3) – (0.3) 0.5 Closing net liability 53.5 4.9 58.4 51.2 5.3.2.5 Movements in defined benefit plan obligations 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Opening balance 98.2 4.4 102.6 107.0 Changes in consolidation scope – – – (0.0) Current service costs 5.6 0.4 6.0 7.8 Interest expense on obligations 2.2 0.1 2.3 2.5 Past service costs (plan amendments and (5.6) – (5.6) (1.9) curtailments) Benefits paid from plan assets (1.2) – (1.2) (1.2) Benefits paid from internal reserve (0.5) (0.2) (0.7) (0.9) Actuarial (Gains) and losses – experience (6.6) 0.1 (6.5) (6.2) adjustments Actuarial (Gains) and losses – changes 11.7 0.1 11.8 (0.8) to discount rate Actuarial (Gains) and losses – changes 3.9 (0.1) 3.8 (4.9) to other assumptions Exchange differences (2.3) – (2.3) 1.4 Closing balance 105.4 4.9 110.3 102.6 At 31 December 2016, defined benefit plan obligations broke down primarily among France 57.4%, the UK 17.7%, and Ireland 19.5%. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 79 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2.6 Movements in plan assets 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Opening balance 51.4 – 51.4 47.3 Interest income on plan assets 1.2 – 1.2 1.1 Benefits paid from plan assets (1.2) – (1.2) (1.2) Employee contributions to plan assets 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 Employer's contributions to plan assets 1.3 – 1.3 1.5 Actuarial gains and (losses) 1.1 – 1.1 1.6 Exchange differences (2.0) – (2.0) 0.9 Closing balance 51.9 – 51.9 51.4 At 31 December 2016, plan assets broke down primarily among France 45.1%, the UK 28.0%, and Ireland 26.4%. 5.3.2.7 Allocation of plan assets 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Equities Bonds Other(1) Total Europe (excluding UK) 9.7 21.7 5.7 37.1 United Kingdom 8.4 5.3 0.8 14.5 Asia-Oceania 0.2 0.1 – 0.3 Total (in thousands of euros) 18.3 27.1 6.5 51.9 Total (as a percentage) 35% 52% 13% 100% (1) Property, cash and other. 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Equities Bonds Other(1) Total Europe (excluding UK) 9.3 22.1 5.7 37.0 United Kingdom 9.3 4.6 0.3 14.2 Asia-Oceania 0.2 0.0 – 0.2 Total (in thousands of euros) 18.7 26.7 6.0 51.4 Total (as a percentage) 36% 52% 12% 100% (1) Property, cash and other. 5.3.2.8 Future probable plan benefits Post-employment Other long-term (in millions of euros) Total benefits benefits 2017 1.7 0.5 2.1 2018 0.6 0.5 1.0 2019 1.0 0.6 1.6 2020 8.8 0.7 9.4 2021 5.0 0.6 5.7 2022-2026 46.6 2.7 49.3 80 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■5.4 Share-based payments Since 2005, Ipsen has granted various bonus share option, scope of IFRS 2, with the most recent plans still vesting at bonus share and stock appreciation rights plans within the 31 December 2016. The annual charge for all share-based payments can be broken down as follows: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Share option plans granted by Ipsen (note 5.4.1.2) – 0,2 Bonus shares (note 5.4.2.2) 5.5 3.7 Total 5.5 3.9 5.4.1 Share option plans granted by Ipsen 5.4.1.1 Details of share option plans Plan dated 31 March 2010 Plan dated 30 June 2011 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 Date granted by Board of Directors 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 Vesting date 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 30/06/2015 30/06/2013 Plan expiration date 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 30/06/2019 30/06/2019 Number of options granted 121,180 123,280 54,330 22,570 40,710 189,703 16,005 Share entitlement per option 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Exercise price €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €25.01 €25.01 Grant method Monte Carlo “Black and Scholes” revised “Black and Scholes” revised Value of shares at grant date €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €24.46 €24.46 Expected volatility (*) 32% 32% 32% 32% 32% 31% 31% Average life of option 6 6 6 6 5 6 5 Discount rate (**) 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.35% 2.90% 2.72% Dividends (***) 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% Performance condition yes yes no no no yes no Fair value per option €10.69 €10.69 €10.71 €10.71 €9.74 €7.12 €6.48 (*) Expected volatility was determined in light of historic volatility calculated using Ipsen share prices from the date at which the shares were first quoted, i.e. 6 December 2005. (**) The discount rate corresponds to the interest rate on a risk-free zero-coupon bond (i.e. a government bond) with a maturity equal to the life of the option and the exercise price in-the-money. (***) The payout rate was determined on the basis of dividend distributions from the date at which Ipsen shares were first quoted, i.e. 6 December 2005. 5.4.1.2 Valuation of plans Other plans prior Plan dated Plan dated (in millions of euros) Total to 2010 31 March 2010 30 June 2011 Opening valuation of active plans 21.6 3.8 1.5 26.9 at 31 December 2016 2016 expense – – – – 2015 expense – – 0.2 0.2 5.4.1.3 Change in number of options outstanding Changes in the number of outstanding options under all plans are as follows: (in number of options) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Opening balance 1,142,157 1,516,826 Options exercised (393,886) (367,419) Options cancelled – (7,250) Options expired (3,500) – Closing balance 744,771 1,142,157 2016 Ipsen Registration document 81 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.4.2 Bonus share plans • 41,336 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group Since 2005, various Boards of Directors have been awarded subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as bonus shares contingent upon the Group’s achievement of well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or certain performance conditions for certain plans. specific to a Group entity. On 31 May 2016 and 29 July 2016, the Board of Directors On 1 April 2015, the Board of Directors granted: granted: • 12,588 bonus shares to the Chairman and Chief Executive • 5,070 bonus shares to the non-executive Chairman, subject Officer, subject to length of service conditions as well as to length of service conditions as well as performance performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group to a Group entity, entity, • 10,070 bonus shares to the Deputy Chief Executive • 10,021 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject Officer, subject to length of service conditions as well as to length of service conditions as well as performance performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group to a Group entity, entity, • 30,363 bonus shares to members of the Executive • 48,928 bonus shares to members of the Executive Committee, subject to length of service conditions as Committee, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 39,970 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American • 72,208 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its French subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 69,056 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group • 64,727 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American subsidiaries. subject to length of service conditions as subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity. specific to a Group entity, 5.4.2.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated 30 March 2012 Plan dated 28 March 2013 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Number of bonus shares 84,685 73,649 19,416 11,200 (*) 35,645 79,859 78,485 21,791 9,540 34,329 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, €20.50 €20.50 €20.50 €20.50 €20.50 €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 before reduction Fair value of bonus shares €17.75 €17.75 €17.75 €19.31 €17.75 €23.47 €23.47 €26.28 €26.28 €23.47 Plan dated 27 March 2014 Plan dated 1 April 2015 Plan dated 1 June 2016 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 65,018 56,062 19,405 21,685 53,021 47,572 21,484 39,970 64,019 72,208 41,336 64,727 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, €29.75 €29.75 €29.75 €29.75 €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 before reduction Fair value of bonus shares €20.01 €20.01 €21.74 €20.01 €31.10 €31.10 €31.24 €31.24 €47.73 €47.73 €49.04 €47.73 (*) Bonus shares free of any performance conditions specific to the Group or the stock market. 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, the Deputy CEO, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the Group’s French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the Group’s French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the Group’s American subsidiaries. 5.4.2.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated (in millions of euros) 30 March 28 March 27 March Total 30 June 2011 1 April 2015 1 June 2016 2012 2013 2014 Opening valuation 3.6 4.0 5.3 3.1 4.4 10.5 31.0 2016 expense – 0.0 0.2 0.4 1.8 3.1 5.5 2015 expense 0.1 0.0 0.7 1.4 1.5 – 3.7 82 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 6 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses ■■6.1 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses included in the cash flow statement The following table shows the amount of depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses added back to determine gross cash flow from operations: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Operating – excluding current assets (38.2) (45.1) Financial (1.1) (1.4) Tax 0.1 2.8 Depreciation and amortization before impairment and excluding (39.1) (43.7) current assets Impairment losses included in operating income (note 6.2) (42.9) (64.6) Impairment losses (42.9) (64.6) ■■6.2 Impairment losses • The option to acquire 100% of the shares in Canbex 6.2.1 2016 financial year Therapeutics was written down in the amount of €5.4 million (see note 17). During the 2016 financial year, Ipsen recognized the following impairment losses: 6.2.2 2015 financial year • All the intangible assets related to a radiopharmaceutical In 2015, the Group recorded a €57.0 million impairment product for diagnosing neuroendocrine tumors developed by loss after writing down all intangible assets related to the OctreoPharm GmbH were written down. The €28.9 million tasquinimod program, as well as a €7.6 million impairment loss impairment loss included a write-down of €31.8 million on resulting from the write-down in full of an Ipsen BioInnovation the Ga-Satoreotide intangible asset (see note 13) that was Ltd. intangible asset already partially written down in 2014. partially offset by a €2.9 million revaluation of the financial liabilities related to the asset’s probability measured and discounted future payments; • The MCNA intangible asset, an exclusive license for MCNA acquired from Telesta Therapeutics, was written down in the amount of €8 million (see note 13); Note 7 Other operating income and expenses In 2016, other operating expenses totaled €21.6 million, and amortization expense for cabozantinib-related intangible compared with other operating expenses of €11.3 million in assets initiated with beginning sales. 2015. In 2015, other operating expenses included €6.6 million The increase stemmed primarily from the impact of cash recognized following the discontinuation of the tasquinimod flow hedges, the change in corporate governance, costs studies for prostate cancer. related to moving R&D in the UK to the new site in Oxford, Note 8 Restructuring costs In 2016, restructuring costs came to €1.9 million before tax, compared with €6.7 million before tax in 2015. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 83 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 9 Net financial income (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Proceeds from sales of short-term investments 0.0 0.3 Total income from loans and receivables 0.9 0.4 Investment income 0.9 0.7 Interest on debt (4.6) (1.2) Interest on employee profit-sharing fund (0.1) (0.2) Total expenses on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (4.7) (1.3) Financial expense on derivative instruments (1.1) (2.3) Total expenses on financial assets held for trading (1.1) (2.3) Financing costs (5.8) (3.6) NET FINANCING COSTS (5.0) (2.9) Other exchange differences (0.7) (2.6) Income and expenses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value (0.7) (2.6) Impairment of investments in non-consolidated companies (0.0) (0.1) Income and expenses on available-for-sale financial assets (0.0) (0.1) Financial income on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) 1.2 1.1 Interest on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) (2.3) (2.5) Other financial elements (0.1) (0.5) OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE (1.6) (3.6) FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) (6.6) (6.4) Of which total financial income 64.2 56.8 Of which total financial expense (70.8) (63.3) In 2016, the Group had net financial expense of €6.6 million, 2016, Ipsen received €5.3 million in dividends from Rhythm versus net financial expense of €6.4 million in 2015. Holding following the disposal of its Motus Therapeutics • Net financing costs totaled €5.0 million in 2016, compared subsidiary to Allergan, and €2.4 million from an earnout with €2.9 million in 2015, impacted by the interest on the payment on the sale of Spirogen shares and dividends €300 million bond issued by the Group in June 2016; from the InnoBio fund. In 2015, the Group received a final €4.9 million earnout payment stemming from the sale of • In 2016, other financial expense amounted to €1.6 million, PregLem shares. versus other financial expense of €3.6 million in 2015. In addition to the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations in 84 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 10 Income taxes ■■10.1 Tax expense 10.1.1 Effective tax rate (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 226.5 190.2 Share of net profit (loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method 1.9 2.5 Net profit from continuing operations before share of results from companies 224.5 187.8 accounted for using the equity method Current tax (65.4) (48.6) Deferred tax (8.1) (1.2) Income taxes (73.5) (49.8) Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before share of results 298.1 237.6 from companies accounted for using the equity method Effective tax rate 24.7% 21.0% In 2016, income tax expense of €73.5 million resulted in an court ruling, which effectively exempts all taxes on dividends effective tax rate of 24.7% on pre-tax profit from continuing paid to a French parent company by its subsidiaries within the operations, excluding the share of profit (loss) from companies European Union. accounted for using the equity method. That compares with 10.1.2 Reconciliation between the effective and nominal an effective rate of 21.0% in 2015. tax expense The higher effective tax rate arose notably from non-recurring The following table shows the reconciliation between the events in the previous year that were favorable to the effective effective and nominal tax expense based on pre-tax profit tax rate in 2015, such as the tax-deductibility of writing off from continuing operations taxed at the standard French rate tasquinimod intangible assets and applying the Steria case of 34.43% for the two years presented: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before share of results from companies 298.1 237.6 accounted for using the equity method Group tax rate 34.43% 34.43% Nominal tax expense (102.6) (81.8) (Increase)/decrease in tax expense arising from: – Tax credits 10.5 9.3 – Non-recognition of tax impact on certain losses during the year (1.8) (8.6) – Utilization of tax losses not recognized as deferred tax assets 0.1 0.2 – Recognition of deferred tax assets 0.2 1.6 – Other permanent differences(1) 20.2 29.6 Effective tax expense (73.5) (49.8) (1) Other permanent differences in 2016 included: • €18.9 million stemming from differences in tax rates applied to foreign subsidiaries, • €8.2 million arising from the reduced tax rate on royalties in France, • A €7.0 million loss stemming from other permanent differences, notably the recognition of France’s CVAE business tax (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises) as income tax for €4.6 million, and the €2.4 million tax charge on dividend payouts in France. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 85 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■10.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year Deferred 31 31 Income taxes Changes in Foreign December (in millions of euros) December statement Other recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2016 2015 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Deferred tax assets 217.7 (17.9) – (0.5) – 8.4 5.6 213.2 Deferred tax liabilities (23.1) 9.8 4.4 0.0 – 0.9 (6.5) (14.6) Net assets / 194.6 (8.1) 4.4 (0.5) – 9.3 (1.0) 198.6 (liabilities) A breakdown of deferred tax assets / (liabilities) by type is loss carryforwards not carried forward at 31 December presented in note 10.3. 2016. They were not recognized because the companies concerned were unable to determine whether the tax assets The €8.1 million decrease recognized in “Income statement could be used based on their earnings forecasts. income / expense” stems primarily from: At 31 December 2016, the Group recognized €141.5 million • the use of €13.4 million in tax loss carryforwards in France in deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards, versus and €14.7 million in tax-loss carryforwards in the United €163.9 million a year earlier (see note 10.3). These were States; mainly tax loss carryforwards in the United States, where • €8.9 million in deferred tax assets arising from the impairment the time frame for using them is near expiration. Deferred tax loss on the Ga-Satoreotide asset, an OctreoPharm GmbH assets are recognized based on results forecasts for each product; tax consolidation group. These forecasts are in line with Ipsen’s medium and long-term plans and take into account • €9.4 million in deferred tax assets generated by the the time frames notably in relation to the duration of the tax elimination of margins on inventory. loss carryforwards and the specific situation of each tax consolidation group. At 31 December 2016, unrecognized deferred tax assets amounted to €74.7 million. That amount corresponds Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2015 can be primarily to the Group’s unused R&D tax credits and tax broken down as follows: Movements during the year Deferred 31 31 Income taxes Changes in Foreign December (in millions of euros) December statement Other recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2015 2014 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Deferred tax assets 204.6 3.1 – (4.0) – 16.5 (2.5) 217.7 Deferred tax liabilities (5.6) (4.5) (3.9) – (11.5) (0.2) 2.5 (23.1) Net assets / 199.0 (1.4) (3.9) (4.0) (11.5) 16.4 (0.0) 194.6 (liabilities) The €1.4 million decrease recognized in “Income statement primarily to the Group’s unused R&D tax credits and tax income / expense” includes the use of €2.1 million in French loss carryforwards not carried forward at 31 December tax losses. 2015. They were not recognized because the companies concerned were unable to determine whether the tax assets At 31 December 2015, unrecognized deferred tax assets could be used based on their earnings forecasts. amounted to €73.9 million. That amount corresponds 86 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■10.3 Type of deferred taxes recognized on the balance sheet and the income statement Movements during the year Deferred 31 31 Income taxes Changes in Foreign December (in millions of euros) December statement recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2016 2015 income / directly to scope differences expense reserves Inventories 37.7 9.4 – – – 0.6 47.8 Tax loss carryforwards 163.9 (27.8) – – – 6.4 141.5 Provision for retirement 13.6 (0.6) – (0.5) – (0.1) 12.9 and other benefits Other (20.7) 10.8 4.4 – – 2.3 (3.6) Net assets / (liabilities) 194.6 (8.1) 4.4 (0.5) – 9.3 198.6 Movements during the year Deferred 31 31 Income taxes Changes in Foreign December (in millions of euros) December statement recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2015 2014 income / directly to scope differences expense reserves Inventories 31.0 6.5 – – – 0.2 37.7 Tax loss carryforwards 151.5 (3.9) – – – 16.2 163.9 Provision for retirement 16.1 1.6 – (4.0) – (0.0) 13.6 and other benefits Other 0.3 (5.6) (3.9) – (11.5) (0.1) (20.7) Net assets / (liabilities) 199.0 (1.4) (3.9) (4.0) (11.5) 16.4 194.6 The €11.5 million in net liabilities from changes in the scope of consolidation corresponds to OctreoPharm’s GmbH entry into the scope of consolidation during the 2015 financial year. Note 11 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations In 2016, net profit from discontinued operations totaled Inspiration assets in 2013, and corresponds to the rebilling €0.1 million, compared to €0.5 million in net profit from of production costs for OBI-1 clinical samples as well as discontinued operations in 2015. The net profit from royalties from the sales of that product received from Baxalta, discontinued operations arose from agreements to sell a company spun off from Baxter International. Note 12 Goodwill ■■12.1 Net goodwill carried in the balance sheet Changes in goodwill in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 December Changes in Foreign 31 December (in millions of euros) 2015 Increase consolidation Decrease exchange 2016 scope differences Gross goodwill 363.2 – – – 2.5 365.7 Impairment losses (10.0) – – – 1.4 (8.6) Net goodwill 353.3 – – – 3.9 357.2 Gross goodwill shown on the balance sheet at 31 December • €8.6 million arising on the 2004 acquisition of Sterix Ltd, 2016 resulted from: which was fully amortized at the time of the business • €135.3 million arising on the Group’s structuring operations combination; from 1998 to 2004, as a result of acquiring Scras and • €3.5 million arising on the acquisition of Vernalis Inc. on its subsidiaries, followed by €53.5 million arising on the 1 July 2008, and €159.2 million arising on the acquisition acquisition of BB et Cie; of Tercica Inc. (now Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc.) on 2016 Ipsen Registration document 87 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 October 2008. These transactions generated residual • the acquisition of OctreoPharm GmbH in 2015. This net goodwill in the amount of €138.3 million; transaction generated goodwill of €13.8 million. • €31.3 million arising on the acquisition of Ipsen BioInnovation Ltd on 12 July 2013. This transaction generated residual net goodwill of €16.1 million; Changes in goodwill in 2015 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 December Changes in Foreign 31 December (in millions of euros) 2014 Increase consolidation Decrease exchange 2015 scope differences Gross goodwill 333.7 – 13.8 – 15.8 363.2 Impairment losses (9.3) – – – (0.7) (10.0) Net goodwill 324.4 – 13.8 – 15.1 353.3 ■■12.2 Impairment of goodwill as well as the goodwill related to the acquisition of Ipsen BioInnovation Ltd in 2013, and goodwill arising from the For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to acquisition of OctreoPharm GmbH in 2015, were allocated the cash-generating units defined by the Group. The cashto the Specialty Care operating segment. generating units identified for the allocation and performance of goodwill-related impairment tests correspond to the The recoverable value of the respective cash-generating units operating segments. The Group’s two operating segments corresponds to the value in use based on discounting the are Specialty Care and Primary Care. Accordingly, goodwill is related estimated future cash flows. These cash flows are based allocated in line with the Group’s organization: on short-term, medium-term and long-term estimates (such • goodwill totaling €135.3 million related to the Group’s 1998 as forecasts, annual budgets, five-year strategic plans, and structuring operations was allocated to the Specialty Care long-term plans specific to product life cycles) for the identified and Primary Care segments, in proportion to the sales operating segments, i.e. Specialty Care and Primary Care. generated; At 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, no impairment • the €53.5 million in goodwill arising from the end of the losses related to goodwill were recorded. The previously Group’s 2004 structuring operation, with the acquisition of recorded impairment loss concerned solely the goodwill BB et Cie, was allocated in full to the Primary Care business; arising from the acquisition of Sterix Ltd. • the goodwill related to the acquisition of Vernalis Inc. and The carrying value of the respective cash-generating units Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. in the second half of 2008, and the key assumptions are shown below: (in millions of euros) Specialty Care Primary Care Total Net carrying value at 31 December 2016 Goodwill 277.0 80.1 357.2 Net underlying assets 827.3 120.8 948.1 Total 1,104.3 200.9 1,305.2 Perpetuity growth rate 0% 0% – Discount rate 9% 8% – Tests were performed to assess the sensitivity of the recoverable more than 18% of its present value would result in a carrying amount to changes in certain actuarial assumptions, primarily value equal to the value in use. to the discount rate (range +/1%) and to the change in sales A change in the discount rate for the “Primary Care” cash(range -1%% to -2%). The implementation of those sensitivity generating unit, representing a key assumption in these tests would not lead to the recognition of impairment charges. estimates, to more than four times its present value would A change in the discount rate for the “Specialty Care” cashresult in a carrying value equal to the value in use. generating unit, representing a key assumption in these A decrease in sales for the “Primary Care” cash-generating estimates, to more than three times its present value would unit, representing a key assumption in these estimates, of result in a carrying value equal to the value in use. more than 10% of its present value would result in a carrying A decrease in sales for the “Specialty Care” cash-generating value equal to the value in use. unit, representing a key assumption in these estimates, of 88 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 13 Other intangible assets ■■13.1 Movements Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2015 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2016 movements scope differences Intellectual property 539.4 282.8 (22.3) – (2.0) 6.4 804.3 Intangible assets 7.9 8.3 – – (0.2) (6.1) 10.0 in progress Gross assets 547.3 291.1 (22.3) – (2.2) 0.3 814.3 Depreciation (185.8) (18.0) 1.1 – (3.5) (7.6) (213.7) Impairment losses (210.1) (40.4) 21.1 – 1.3 7.6 (220.5) Net assets 151.5 232.7 (0.0) – (4.4) 0.3 380.1 The increase in net assets arose mainly from the following: • an €8.0 million impairment loss on the MCNA asset acquired from Telesta Therapeutics. • the €266.4 million acquisition of exclusive commercialization rights for cabozantinib from Exelixis, including an upfront The decrease in the “Intellectual property” item resulted payment and additional milestone payments; from derecognizing the MCNA asset and the corresponding • a €5.1 million regulatory milestone payment made to impairment loss (see notes 1.5 and 6), following the termination Lexicon; of the partnership contract with Telesta Therapeutics on 31 July 2016, as well as the derecognition of €13.2 million • the €5.0 million acquisition from 3B Pharmaceuticals in fully amortized Santhera intangible assets, following the GmbH of an exclusive license for new radiopharmaceutical termination of an agreement between the two partners to products in oncology; and develop fipamezole. • information technology investments. At 31 December 2016, amortization expense for intangible It also included: assets came to €7.7 million, excluding €10.3 million in amortization expense related to software. • a €31.8 million impairment loss on the Ga-Satoreotide asset, an OctreoPharm GmbH product; and Movements in 2015 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2014 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2015 movements scope differences Intellectual property 503.2 19.2 (57.4) 41.3 27.5 5.7 539.4 Intangible assets 6.8 6.0 – – 0.1 (5.0) 7.9 in progress Gross assets 510.0 25.2 (57.4) 41.3 27.6 0.7 547.3 Depreciation (155.5) (13.7) 0.4 0.0 (8.5) (8.4) (185.8) Impairment losses (193.6) (64.6) 57.0 – (17.1) 8.2 (210.1) Net assets 160.9 (53.1) (0.1) 41.3 2.0 0.4 151.5 The increase in the “Intellectual property” item was due mainly of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer for all main world to: territories, except the United States; • the recognition of €9.0 million payment related to the • Ipsen’s acquisition of intellectual property control over partnership with Telesta Therapeutics as part of an Galderma’s liquid toxin in certain key regions of the Asiaexclusive licensing agreement for MCNA in the treatment Pacific (APAC) region, in exchange for a payment of €4.6 million; 2016 Ipsen Registration document 89 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • an additional payment as part of the partnership with commercialized. As a result, the assets have not yet been Lexicon; and amortized, in accordance with the Group’s accounting principles (see note 3.32). For these intangible assets, the • information technology investments. recoverable amount corresponds to the value in use based on Movements in the scope of consolidation relate to the estimated expected future cash flows. allocation of the purchase price of OctreoPharm GmbH. 13.2.2 2015 financial year At 31 December 2015, amortization expense for intangible At 31 December 2015, the Group had one intangible asset assets came to €4.7 million, excluding €9.0 million in with a net carrying value of €92.0 million. amortization expense related to software. This item primarily includes the amortization of the license for the six-month At 31 December 2015, the Group recorded a €57.0 million formulation of Decapeptyl®, commercialized since February impairment loss after writing down all tasquinimod-related 2010, and the license for Hexvix®, marketed since October intangible assets, following a joint decision by Active Biotech 2011. and Ipsen to discontinue clinical studies in prostate cancer. As a result, the tasquinimod-related gross assets as well as the At 31 December 2015, the Group recorded a €57.0 million corresponding impairment losses were derecognized. impairment loss after writing down all intangible assets related to the tasquinimod program, following a decision Further, at 31 December 2015, the Group recognized a to discontinue clinical studies in prostate cancer. As €7.6 million impairment loss resulting from the write-down in a result, the tasquinimod-related gross assets as well as full of an Ipsen Bioinnovation Ltd. intangible asset. the corresponding impairment losses were derecognized. Further, at 31 December 2015, the Group recognized an ■■13.3 Impairment tests of intangible assets with €7.6 million impairment loss resulting from the write-down in a definite useful life full of an Ipsen BioInnovation Ltd. intangible asset, on top of the €8.0 million write-down recorded at 31 December 2014. 13.3.1 2016 financial year None of the impairment loss on the Increlex® active ingredient Movements in “Impairment losses” are detailed in notes 13.2 was reversed in the consolidated financial statements at and 13.3. 31 December 2016, while awaiting the FDA’s approval of compliance at the manufacturer’s production plant. ■■13.2 Impairment tests of intangible assets with an indefinite useful life 13.3.2 2015 financial year 13.2.1 2016 financial year Despite the release of a new batch of Increlex® announced by Ipsen in October 2015, and given the uncertainty surrounding At 31 December 2016, the Group had intangible assets with a the release of additional batches by the FDA and the longertotal net carrying value of €59.8 million. term supply of the product in the American market, none The assets concerned rights acquired for proprietar y of the impairment loss on the Increlex ® active ingredient oncology, endocrinology and neuroscience drugs that were was reversed in the consolidated financial statements at in an advanced phase of development but had not yet been 31 December 2015. ■■13.4 B  reakdown of intangible assets by asset type 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Amortization Amortization Gross value Net value Gross value Net value & Impairment & Impairment Brands and trademarks 21.2 (20.9) 0.4 21.2 (20.9) 0.4 Licenses 659.9 (318.0) 341.8 404.0 (288.7) 115.3 Patents 9.2 (9.2) 0.0 9.9 (9.9) 0.0 Know-how 10.1 (10.1) 0.0 10.1 (9.2) 1.0 Software 103.7 (75.9) 27.8 93.7 (66.9) 26.8 Other intangible assets 0.3 (0.2) 0.1 0.5 (0.3) 0.2 Intangible assets in progress 10.0 – 10.0 7.9 – 7.9 Total 814.3 (434.2) 380.1 547.3 (395.9) 151.5 Of which impairment losses (220.5) (210.1) In 2016, the net amount of intangible assets with an indefinite useful life came to €59.8 million, versus €92.0 million in 2015. These assets concerned acquired proprietary drug rights and were classified under “Licenses”. 90 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 14 Property, plant & equipment ■■14.1 Breakdown by asset type Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2015 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2016 movements scope differences Land 20.8 0.1 (0.7) – (0.4) 0.5 20.2 Buildings 228.6 3.5 (1.4) – (2.0) 35.9 264.5 Plant & equipment 266.2 8.4 (6.2) – (8.5) 41.9 301.8 Other assets 132.1 3.7 (6.9) – (2.0) (58.5) 68.4 Assets in progress 143.6 65.5 – – (14.7) (20.1) 174.3 Gross assets 791.2 81.2 (15.2) – (27.6) (0.3) 829.3 Depreciation (430.0) (31.1) 13.9 – 9.9 (6.9) (444.2) Impairment losses (12.5) (0.5) 0.0 – – 6.9 (6.1) Depreciation & (442.5) (31.6) 13.9 – 9.9 (0.0) (450.3) impairment losses Net assets 348.7 49.6 (1.3) – (17.7) (0.3) 379.0 In 2016, acquisitions of property, plant and equipment totaled boost production capacity at the Group’s manufacturing sites €81.2 million, compared with €50.0 million in 2015. The in Ireland and France, and to build a new dedicated toxinincrease resulted primarily from capital spending needed to research and development center in the United Kingdom. Movements in 2015 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2014 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2015 movements scope differences Land 19.4 0.2 (0.0) – 0.4 0.8 20.8 Buildings 204.2 2.5 (2.4) – 3.1 21.2 228.6 Plant & equipment 246.4 4.6 (3.4) – 6.7 12.0 266.2 Other assets 112.6 5.1 (1.9) 0.1 1.7 14.7 132.1 Assets in progress 121.5 37.6 – – 6.4 (21.9) 143.6 Gross assets 704.0 50.0 (7.8) 0.1 18.2 26.8 791.2 Depreciation (381.9) (33.3) 7.1 (0.0) (7.8) (14.0) (430.0) Impairment losses (12.5) – – – – – (12.5) Depreciation & (394.4) (33.3) 7.1 (0.0) (7.8) (14.0) (442.5) impairment losses Net assets 309.6 16.6 (0.7) 0.0 10.4 12.8 348.7 Other movements included €11.0 million in gross value also included €16.8 million in gross value (€2.6 million net) on buildings corresponding to the reclassification of related to reclassifying the Sant-Feliu site assets in Spain as indemnification paid to a US subsidiary by its lessor in 2014. continuing operations. The assets were previously classified The purpose of the indemnification was to finance the outfitting as “assets held for sale” for over 12 months. of the premises occupied by the subsidiary. Other movements 2016 Ipsen Registration document 91 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■14.2 Breakdown by currency of property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation The breakdown by currency of property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, is as follows: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Euro 212.8 184.4 U.S. dollar 23.7 25.0 Pound sterling 133.0 129.1 Chinese Yuan renminbi 8.0 8.9 Other currencies 1.5 1.3 Total 379.0 348.7 Note 15 Equity investments Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Disposals Foreign December Acquisitions Other 2015 and exchange 2016 and increases movements decreases differences Investments in non-consolidated 42.0 1.0 – (1.8) (7.1) 34.1 companies Write-downs & impairment losses (16.4) (0.0) 0.0 1.8 1.7 (12.9) Net book value (available-for-sale 25.6 1.0 0.0 (0.0) (5.5) 21.2 financial assets) Net equity investments classified as financial assets available • a €7.3 million investment in the Innobio venture capital fund. for sale notably included the following equity investments at In 2016, the decrease in the value of the Innobio investment 31 December 2016: amounted to €2.1 million; • a €9.5 million interest in Radius Health Inc. based on the • a €3.4 million interest in Pharnext, on which a €1.3 million company’s unit share price of $38.03 at that date. In 2016, provision was reversed in 2016. the decrease in the value of the Radius Health interest came to €5.0 million; Movements in 2015 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Disposals Foreign December Acquisitions Other 2014 and exchange 2015 and increases movements decreases differences Investments in non-consolidated 30.4 0.0 – 0.9 10.7 42.0 companies Write-downs & impairment losses (15.4) (0.3) 0.3 (0.9) – (16.4) Net book value (available-for-sale 15.0 (0.3) 0.3 0.0 10.7 25.6 financial assets) Net equity investments classified as financial assets available 2015, the change in the value of the Radius Health interest for sale notably included the following equity investments at amounted to €6.3 million; 31 December 2015: • a €9.4 million investment in the Innobio venture capital fund. • a €14.6 million interest in Radius Health Inc. based on In 2015, the change in the value of the Innobio investment the company’s unit share price of $61.70 at that date. In amounted to €4.4 million. 92 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 16 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method At 31 December 2016, the Group owned a 50% interest in At 31 December 2015, the value of Linnea shares on the Linnea S.A., consolidated using the equity method. Group’s balance sheet totaled €15.9 million, with Linnea contributing €2.5 million to the Group’s net profit. The At 31 December 2016, the value of Linnea shares on the company paid out €1.6 million in dividends in 2015. Group’s balance sheet totaled €15.6 million, with Linnea contributing €1.9 million to the Group’s net profit. The The information presented below corresponds to the financial company paid out €2.3 million in dividends in 2016. statements of Linnea S.A., prepared in accordance with Group accounting principles (for amounts taken at 100%). At 31 December 2016 Liabilities, (in millions of euros) excluding Net profit (loss) Assets Sales shareholder's for the year equity Linnea S.A. 45.6 14.4 40.6 3.8 Total 45.6 14.4 40.6 3.8 At 31 December 2015 Liabilities, (in millions of euros) excluding Net profit (loss) Assets Sales shareholder's for the year equity Linnea S.A. 42.0 10.3 42.0 4.9 Total 42.0 10.3 42.0 4.9 Note 17 Other non-current assets (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Liquidity agreement (1) 3.8 4.0 Deposits paid 2.9 4.7 Other financial assets (2) 0.0 6.8 Total other non-current assets (loans, receivables and other) 6.7 15.5 (1) Changes are due to the liquidity agreement with Natixis Bleichroeder, a subsidiary of Natixis, signed in February 2007 and automatically renewed thereafter. The liquidity agreement consists of cash, not treasury shares. (2) The change stemmed primarily from the €5.4 million write-down of an option to acquire 100% of the shares in Canbex Therapeutics (see note 6). 2016 Ipsen Registration document 93 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 18 Detail of the change in working capital requirement ■■18.1 Movements Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 Change Change Change 31 (in millions of euros) December in w/cap in w/cap in w/cap Changes in Foreign December Other 2015 related to related to related to consolidation exchange 2016 movements operating investing financing scope differences activities activities activities Inventories 107.4 7.7 – – – (1.7) – 113.3 (see note 18.2.1) Trade receivables 311.0 42.7 – – – 7.0 2.8 363.5 Current tax assets 82.9 (13.0) – – – 0.1 (3.7) 66.3 Other current assets 75.6 5.3 (0.6) – – (1.8) (3.4) 75.2 (see note 18.2.3) WCR assets(1) 576.9 42.6 (0.6) – – 3.5 (4.2) 618.3 Trade payables (195.1) (47.6) – – – 1.5 (0.4) (241.5) Current tax liabilities (12.0) 2.5 – – – 0.8 4.7 (4.1) Other current liabilities (201.5) (14.0) (11.6) – – 2.1 (1.4) (226.4) (see note 18.2.4) Other non-current (124.5) 17.4 – – – 10.8 5.7 (90.6) liabilities (see note 18.2.4) WCR liabilities(2) (533.1) (41.7) (11.6) – – 15.2 8.5 (562.6) Total 43.9 0.9 (12.2) – – 18.7 4.3 55.7 (1) Impairment losses on “WCR assets” were not reported due to their immaterial nature. The fair value of “WCR assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). (2) The carrying amount of items comprising “WCR liabilities” was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. At 31 December 2016, gross trade receivables past due totaled €52.2 million. Trade Trade Trade Trade receivables receivables (in millions of euros) Total receivables receivables from 3 to from 6 to < 3 months > 12 months 6 months 12 months Trade receivables – gross value 52.2 34.5 6.3 6.2 5.2 Trade receivables – net value 50.2 34.3 6.3 6.0 3.6 Changes in other non-current liabilities were due mainly to over the life of the contracts. The portion unrecognized as the recognition of “deferred income” on payments received income was recorded as “other non-current liabilities”, if due from Group partnerships. Within the framework of partnership after 12 months, and as “other current liabilities” if due within agreements, the milestone payments received by the Group one year. for these contracts were recognized on a straight-line basis 94 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2015 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 Change Change Change 31 (in millions of euros) December in w/cap in w/cap in w/cap Changes in Foreign December Other 2014 related to related to related to consolidation exchange 2015 movements operating investing financing scope differences activities activities activities Inventories 105.5 0.2 – – – 1.1 0.6 107.4 (see note 18.2.1) Trade receivables 243.5 63.8 – – – (2.6) 6.4 311.0 Current tax assets 65.9 19.4 – – – 0.1 (2.6) 82.9 Other current assets 67.8 8.4 0.6 (0.5) 0.1 0.9 (1.6) 75.6 (see note 18.2.3) WCR assets(1) 482.7 91.8 0.6 (0.5) 0.1 (0.5) 2.8 576.9 Trade payables (179.8) (10.8) – – (0.3) (4.0) (0.2) (195.1) Current tax liabilities (4.1) (10.4) – – – 0.0 2.6 (12.0) Other current liabilities (186.1) 20.8 (8.4) (0.2) (0.0) (5.3) (22.4) (201.5) (see note 18.2.4) Other non-current (115.8) (10.3) – – – (6.7) 8.3 (124.5) liabilities (see note 18.2.4) WCR liabilities(2) (485.9) (10.7) (8.4) (0.2) (0.3) (16.0) (11.7) (533.1) Total (3.2) 81.2 (7.8) (0.7) (0.2) (16.5) (8.9) 43.9 (1) Impairment losses on “WCR assets” were not reported due to their immaterial nature. The fair value of “WCR assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). (2) The carrying amount of items comprising “WCR liabilities” was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. At 31 December 2015, gross trade receivables past due totaled €49.5 million. Trade Trade Trade Trade receivables receivables (in millions of euros) Total receivables receivables from 3 to from 6 to < 3 months > 12 months 6 months 12 months Trade receivables – gross value 49.5 29.3 10.1 3.0 7.2 Trade receivables – net value 42.9 28.5 9.4 2.7 2.2 Changes in other non-current liabilities were due mainly to the recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contracts. recognition of “deferred income” on the payments received. The portion unrecognized as income was recorded as “other Within the framework of partnership agreements, the milestone non-current liabilities”, if due after 12 months, and as “other payments received by the Group for these contracts were current liabilities” if due within one year. ■■18.2 Breakdown 18.2.1 Inventories 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Gross value Depreciations Net value Net value Raw materials and supplies 40.9 (1.2) 39.7 38.4 Work in progress 28.4 (2.0) 26.4 21.9 Finished goods 52.7 (5.5) 47.2 47.1 Total 122.0 (8.7) 113.3 107.4 18.2.2 Current financial assets At 31 December 2016, current financial assets included derivative instruments totaling €6.6 million, versus €6.8 million at 31 December 2015. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 95 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.2.3 Other current assets (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Advance payments to suppliers 15.9 9.6 Receivables related to the sale of non-current assets 0.0 0.6 Recoverable VAT 32.4 28.9 Other assets 10.5 23.9 Prepayments 16.4 12.7 Total current assets (loans and receivables)(1) 75.2 75.6 (1) The fair value of “loans and receivables” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). 18.2.4 Other current and non-current liabilities (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Non-current deferred income 90.6 124.5 Total other non-current liabilities (1) 90.6 124.5 VAT payable 13.5 12.4 Other current tax liabilities 6.5 6.3 Employment-related liabilities 117.8 108.4 Amounts due to non-current asset suppliers 35.9 24.8 Other liabilities 14.9 18.6 Deferred income 37.9 31.0 Total other current liabilities (1) 226.4 201.5 (1) The carrying amount of other current and non-current liabilities was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. Changes in “Other current liabilities” and “Other non-current liabilities” are presented in note 18.1. Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents ■■19.1 Net cash and cash equivalents 19.1.1 Opening Net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated balance Consolidated balance (in millions of euros) sheet at 1 January 2016 sheet at 1 January 2015 Cash and cash equivalents – assets 226.1 186.3 Bank overdrafts – liabilities (12.1) (6.1) Opening Net cash and cash equivalents 214.0 180.1 19.1.2 Closing Net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated balance Consolidated balance (in millions of euros) sheet at 31 December 2016 sheet at 31 December 2015 Cash and cash equivalents – assets 425.5 226.1 Bank overdrafts – liabilities (3.0) (12.1) Closing Net cash and cash equivalents 422.5 214.0 96 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■19.2 Cash and cash equivalents (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing deposits 357.9 144.2 Cash and cash equivalents 67.6 81.9 Cash and cash equivalents – assets 425.5 226.1 Cash equivalents are presented at fair value (market value) and meet IAS 7 criteria. They are available immediately and without penalty, subject to a maximum 24-hour notice. Note 20 Consolidated equity ■■20.1 Share capital capital increase reserved for employees and 80,000 company At 31 December 2016, Ipsen’s share capital was comprised shares, repurchased in 2015 and slated for cancellation, were of 83,557,864 ordinary shares each with a nominal value of cancelled. €1, including 47,829,011 shares with double voting rights, compared with 83,245,602 ordinary shares each with a ■■20.2 Basic earnings per share nominal value of €1, including 47,778,755 shares with double Basic earnings per share were calculated on the weighted voting rights at 31 December 2015. average number of shares outstanding during the year (see note 3.34). The changes arose from the following: in 2016, 312,262 new shares were issued following the exercise of warrants, Movements in the weighted average number of shares 80,000 new shares were issued as part of the 21 July 2016 outstanding for the two periods reported are shown in note 20.4. 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 82,308,644 82,269,896 Consolidated net profit – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 225.9 189.9 (in millions of euros) Basic earnings per share (in euros) 2.74 2.31 Net profit from discontinued operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 0.1 0.5 (in millions of euros) Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.00 0.01 Net profit from continuing operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 225.8 189.3 (in millions of euros) Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.74 2.30 ■■20.3 Diluted earnings per share Bonus shares Stock option plans At 31 December 2016, bonus shares for the plans of 28 March At 31 December 2016, all stock option plans were dilutive, as 2016 (foreign tax-resident beneficiaries) and 27 March 2014 at 31 December 2015. (foreign tax-resident beneficiaries) – which were free of performance conditions – were not included in the calculation Share transactions occurring after 31 December 2016 of the average weighted number of shares for basic earnings would not significantly modify the number of shares used in per share, but were included in diluted earnings. calculating earnings per share or diluted earnings per share. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 97 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 82,621,792 82,703,617 Consolidated net profit – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 225.9 189.9 (in millions of euros) Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 2.73 2.30 Net profit from discontinued operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 0.1 0.5 (in millions of euros) Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.00 0.01 Net profit from continuing operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 225.8 189.3 (in millions of euros) Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.73 2.29 ■■20.4 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 20.4.1 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate basic earnings per share 20.4.1.1 Weighted average number of shares at 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 Number of ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 83,245,602 Treasury shares (weighted average number) (1,020,492) Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December 2006 25,820 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 May 2007 6,320 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December 2007 16,410 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 10 November 2009 3,311 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 31 March 2010 10,085 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 June 2011 20,276 Capital increase reserved for employees – 21 July 2016 35,628 Capital decrease – 27 July 2016 (34,317) Weighted average number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2016 82,308,644 20.4.1.2 Weighted average number of shares at 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 Number of ordinary shares at 31 December 2014 82,869,083 Treasury shares (weighted average number) (827,194) Impact of options exercised in the 2015 financial year – Stock option plan of 6 December 2005 43,080 Impact of options exercised in the 2015 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December 2006 22,130 Impact of options exercised in the 2015 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 May 2007 3,214 Impact of options exercised in the 2015 financial year – Stock option plan of 31 March 2010 13,871 Impact of options exercised in the 2015 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 June 2011 17,540 Impact of options exercised in the 2014 financial year – Stock option plan of 31 March 2010 350 Impact of bonus shares – 30 June 2011 plan – Foreign tax-resident beneficiaries 19,604 Impact of bonus shares – 28 March 2013 plan – French tax-resident beneficiaries 108,217 Weighted average number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2015 82,269,896 98 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.4.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate diluted earnings per share 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate basic earnings 82,308,644 82,269,896 per share Dilutive effect of stock options 278,216 389,918 Dilutive effect of bonus shares 34,932 43,803 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate diluted 82,621,792 82,703,617 earnings per share ■■20.5 Dividends paid Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. were as follows: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Dividend payout (in euros) (a) 69,956,704 70,005,861 Number of shares on the payment date (b) 82,302,005 82,359,836 Dividend per share (in euros) (a) / (b) 0.85 0.85 Note 21 Provisions ■■21.1 Movements Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Reversals Foreign December Other 2015 Charges exchange 2016 Applied Released movements differences Business and operating risks 2.6 0.9 (1.3) (1.3) 0.1 1.1 2.2 Legal risks 17.3 6.1 (2.6) (3.4) 0.1 (2.0) 15.4 Restructuring costs 10.3 0.7 (5.2) (2.6) – – 3.2 Other 31.1 20.3 (22.3) (0.8) 0.2 – 28.5 Total provisions 61.3 28.1 (31.5) (8.0) 0.3 (0.8) 49.4 – of which current 29.9 15.6 (26.8) (2.5) 0.2 11.5 27.8 – of which non-current 31.4 12.5 (4.6) (5.5) 0.1 (12.3) 21.6 At 31 December 2016, provisions break down as follows: • €4.7 million for costs related to labor-related litigation that the Group may incur; Business and operating risks These provisions include certain risks of an economic nature • €0.5 million for various other legal risks. reflecting costs that the Group could be brought to bear to Restructuring costs resolve various disagreements of commercial origin whose These provisions correspond mainly to costs incurred by the individual impact is limited. Group to adapt is structure. Legal risks Other These provisions include: At 31 December 2016, a provision was recorded for Group • €10.2 million for the risk of tax reassessment by local performance-related medium-term bonus plans, which were authorities at certain Group’s subsidiaries and certain approved by the Board of Directors. additional taxes that the Group may be required to pay; 2016 Ipsen Registration document 99 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2015 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Reversals Foreign December Other 2014 Charges exchange 2015 Applied Released movements differences Business and operating risks 1.7 1.5 (0.5) (0.8) 0.1 0.6 2.6 Legal risks 27.9 4.1 (6.4) (8.7) (0.0) 0.4 17.3 Restructuring costs 20.6 2.6 (11.6) (1.4) (0.0) 0.1 10.3 Other 17.8 23.6 (9.7) (2.0) 0.2 1.2 31.1 Total provisions 68.0 31.9 (28.1) (12.9) 0.2 2.2 61.3 – of which current 26.0 18.2 (24.1) (2.7) 0.1 12.3 29.9 – of which non-current 42.1 13.6 (4.0) (10.2) 0.1 (10.1) 31.4 At 31 December 2015, provisions break down as follows: Other Business and operating risks At 31 December 2015, a provision was recorded for Group performance-related medium-term bonus plans, which were These provisions include certain risks of an economic nature approved by the Board of Directors. reflecting costs that the Group could be brought to bear to resolve various disagreements of commercial origin whose ■■21.2 Impact on consolidated income in 2016 individual impact is limited. Charges totaling €28.1 million were recognized in Operating Legal risks Income in 2016. These provisions include: Released reversals totaling €8.0 million were recognized in • €12.6 million for the risk of tax reassessment by local Operating Income in 2016. authorities at certain Group’s subsidiaries and certain additional taxes that the Group may be required to pay; ■■21.3 Impact on consolidated income in 2015 • €2.4 million for costs related to labor-related litigation that Charges totaling €31.9 million were recognized in Operating the Group may incur; Income in 2015. • €2.3 million for various other legal risks. In 2015, released reversals totaling €10.1 million were recognized in Operating Income, while €2.8 million in released Restructuring costs reversals were recognized in taxes. These provisions correspond mainly to costs incurred by the Group to adapt is structure as well as costs to group certain UK subsidiary activities at the Oxford site. 100 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 22 Bank loans and financial liabilities ■■22.1 Movements Movements in financial liabilities between 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016 were as follows: 31 Changes in Foreign 31 Net change Other (in millions of euros) December Additions Repayments consolidation exchange December in interest movements 2015 scope differences 2016 Bonds and bank loans – 296.8 – – 0.2 – – 297.1 Other financial liabilities(1) 20.6 1.1 (3.1) 0.0 (0.4) – (0.4) 17.8 Non-current financial liabilities (measured 20.6 297.9 (3.1) 0.0 (0.1) – (0.4) 314.8 at amortized cost) Credit lines and bank 4.0 – – – – – – 4.0 loans Other financial liabilities 2.5 30.0 (0.8) 3.1 1.5 – (0.0) 36.3 Current financial liabilities (measured 6.5 30.0 (0.8) 3.1 1.5 – (0.0) 40.3 at amortized cost) Derivative financial 4.5 – – – 13.7 – – 18.2 instruments Current financial liabilities (financial 4.5 – – – 13.7 – – 18.2 liabilities measured at fair value)(2) Current financial 11.0 30.0 (0.8) 3.1 15.3 – (0.0) 58.6 liabilities Total financial liabilities 31.6 327.9 (3.9) 3.1 15.1 – (0.4) 373.4 (1) Additions and repayments of other financial liabilities were related to employee profit sharing. (2) The €13.7 million in other movements corresponds to the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange risk. On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in unsecured, i.e. the leverage and gearing ratios. At 31 December 2016, this seven-year notes paying an annual interest rate of 1.875%. credit line remained untapped. In addition, €300 million in depreciable bank loans were Ipsen S.A. also has access to a €300 million program to issue contracted with a maximum maturity of 6.5 years beginning commercial paper, of which €30 million had been issued at June 2016. At 31 December 2016, none of these bank loans 31 December 2016. had been tapped by the Group. On 24 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. amended its syndicated loan to reduce the amount to €300 million and remove the covenants, 2016 Ipsen Registration document 101 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in financial liabilities between 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 were as follows: 31 Changes in Foreign 31 Net change Other (in millions of euros) December Additions Repayments consolidation exchange December in interest movements 2014 scope differences 2015 Other financial liabilities(1) 12.1 1.1 (4.5) 0.0 0.6 11.1 0.2 20.6 Non-current financial liabilities (measured 12.1 1.1 (4.5) 0.0 0.6 11.1 0.2 20.6 at amortized cost) Credit lines and bank 4.0 – – – – – – 4.0 loans Other financial liabilities 3.2 0.0 (1.1) 0.1 (0.7) 1.0 (0.0) 2.5 Current financial liabilities (measured 7.2 0.0 (1.1) 0.1 (0.7) 1.0 (0.0) 6.5 at amortized cost) Derivative financial 0.8 – – – 3.7 – – 4.5 instruments Current financial liabilities (financial 0.8 – – – 3.7 – – 4.5 liabilities measured at fair value) Current financial 8.0 0.0 (1.1) 0.1 3.0 1.0 (0.0) 11.0 liabilities Total financial liabilities 20.1 1.1 (5.6) 0.1 3.6 12.1 0.2 31.6 (1) The €1.9 million change in other movements resulted primarily from the reclassification of the Ipsen BioInnovation Ltd. earnout clause recognized in provisions for contingencies and losses at 31 December 2013, into financial liabilities. ■■22.2 Breakdown by maturity and currency ■■22.3 Collateralized debt At 31 December 2016, the Group had issued €300 million in At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the Group had not provided notes maturing on 16 June 2023. any collateral. The Group’s financial debt was denominated in euros for the 2016 and 2015 financial years. Note 23 Derivative financial instruments ■■23.1 Interest rate risk Operating Income by plus or minus 3%. At 31 December 2016, there were no derivative financial Several types of risks can be identified: instruments for hedging interest rate risk. • transactional foreign exchange risk related to business ■■23.2 Exchange rate risk activities; the Group has hedged its main foreign currencies, including the USD, RUB, GBP, BRL, CNY/CNH, based on 23.2.1 Exposure to exchange rate risk its budget forecasts, A significant share of the Group’s business is conducted in countries where the euro, Ipsen’s reporting currency, is the • financing foreign exchange risk related to financing functional currency. Nevertheless, owing to its international contracted in a currency other than the functional currencies business scope, the Group is exposed to exchange rate of Group entities. fluctuations that can affect its results. A 10% increase or Ipsen implemented a foreign exchange rate hedging policy decrease in the pound sterling, the Russian ruble or the US to reduce the exposure of its net profit to foreign currency dollar against the euro (the main currencies in which the fluctuations. Group operates) would impact sales by plus or minus 3%, and 102 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, derivative financial instruments held by the Group broke down as follows: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Put forward contracts (15.3) (2.8) Seller at maturity foreign exchange swaps (0.7) (0.0) Call forward contracts 5.1 3.9 Buyer at maturity foreign exchange swaps 0.2 1.2 Sales transactions (10.7) 2.3 Financial transactions (0.9) (0.0) Total net position (11.6) 2.3 23.2.2 Transactional foreign exchange risk The Group’s policy and practices preclude carrying out The Group’s hedging policy is aimed a protecting Operating derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative Income from foreign exchange rate fluctuations vis-à-vis gain. company forecasts. Accordingly, the effective portion of the 23.2.3 Financing foreign exchange risk hedge is recorded in Operating Income. Pooling of the financing surpluses and needs of foreign The Group has hedged its main foreign currencies, including subsidiaries outside the euro zone exposes certain entities the USD, RUB, GBP, BRL, and CNY/CNH, based on its to financing foreign exchange risk arising from fluctuations in budget forecasts. the value of financial liabilities and receivables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the lending or To reduce its exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, borrowing entity. To pool the risk, the intra-group financing is Ipsen uses derivative instruments, primarily put or call forward generally denominated in the subsidiary’s functional currency. contracts as well as currency swaps, vanilla options and non deliverable forward (NDF) contracts. The Group hedges financial current accounts denominated in the functional currencies of its subsidiaries through financial These derivatives hedge primarily significant future cash instruments that match current account balances. These flows denominated in foreign currencies after the close of the include currency swaps and loans and borrowings contracted reporting period, i.e. the balance sheet date. from counterparty banks. ■■23.3 Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 and 2015: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities Market value of currency instruments 6.6 18.2 6.8 4.5 Total 6.6 18.2 6.8 4.5 Note 24 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet In accordance with the amendments to IFRS 7, financial based on observable market data such as prices of similar instruments are presented in three categories based on a assets and liabilities or parameters quoted in an active hierarchical method used to determine their fair value: market; • level 1: fair value calculated using quoted prices in an active • level 3: fair value calculated using valuation techniques market for identical assets and liabilities; based wholly or partly on unobservable inputs such as prices in an inactive market or a valuation based on • level 2: fair value calculated using valuation techniques multiples for unlisted securities. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 103 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 break down as follows: Breakdown by financial instrument class – balance 31 December 2016 Level of fair value sheet value (in millions of euros) AvailableLoans, Liabilities Fair value Carrying Fair for-sale receivables at through Derivatives Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value financial and other amortized P&L assets liabilities cost Equity investments 21.2 21.2 – 21.2 – – – 11.9 7.3 2.0 Non-current financial assets 0.2 0.2 – – 0.2 – – – – 0.2 Other non-current assets 6.7 6.7 – – 6.7 – – 6.7 – Trade and accounts receivable 363.5 363.5 – – 363.5 Current financial assets 6.6 6.6 – – – – 6.6 – 6.6 – Other current assets 75.2 75.2 – – 75.2 – – Cash and cash equivalents 425.5 425.5 425.5 – – – – 425.5 – – ASSETS 898.9 898.9 425.5 21.2 445.5 – 6.6 444.0 13.9 2.2 Other non-current financial 314.8 323.0 – – – 314.8 – 305.2 5.1 12.7 liabilities Other non-current liabilities 90.6 90.6 – – 90.6 – – Current financial liabilities 58.6 58.6 – – – 40.3 18.2 4.0 54.6 – Trade payables 241.5 241.5 – – 241.5 – – Other current liabilities 226.4 226.4 – – 226.4 – – Bank overdrafts 3.0 3.0 – – – 3.0 – 3.0 – – LIABILITIES 935.0 943.1 – – 558.6 358.1 18.2 312.2 59.7 12.7 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 break down as follows: Breakdown by financial instrument class – balance 31 December 2015 Level of fair value sheet value (in millions of euros) AvailableLoans, Liabilities Fair value Carrying Fair for-sale receivables at through Derivatives Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value financial and other amortized P&L assets liabilities cost Equity investments 25.6 25.6 – 25.6 – – – 14.6 9.4 1.7 Non-current financial assets – – – – – – – – – – Other non-current assets 15.5 15.5 – – 15.5 – – 9.5 6.0 Trade and accounts receivable 311.0 311.0 – – 311.0 Current financial assets 6.8 6.8 – – – – 6.8 – 6.8 – Other current assets 75.6 75.6 – – 75.6 – – Cash and cash equivalents 226.1 226.1 226.1 – – – – 226.1 – – ASSETS 660.7 660.7 226.1 25.6 402.2 – 6.8 250.1 16.2 7.7 Other non-current financial 20.6 20.6 – – – 20.6 – – 7.1 13.5 liabilities Other non-current liabilities 124.5 124.5 – – 124.5 – – Current financial liabilities 11.0 11.0 – – – 6.5 4.5 4.0 7.0 – Trade payables 195.1 195.1 – – 195.1 – – Other current liabilities 201.5 201.5 – – 201.5 – – Bank overdrafts 12.1 12.1 – – – 12.1 – 12.1 – – LIABILITIES 564.8 564.8 – – 521.1 39.2 4.5 16.1 14.1 13.5 104 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 25 Information on proportionally consolidated entities ■■25.1 Balance sheet items 25.1.1 Balance sheet at 31 December 2016 Non-current Non-current Current (in millions of euros) Current assets assets liabilities liabilities Companies Cara Partners 8.2 10.8 6.9 5.5 Garnay Inc. 2.1 0.1 – 0.0 Perechin Unlimited Company – (0.0) 0.0 0.0 Portpirie Unlimited Company – 0.0 – 0.0 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 1.9 1.1 0.1 0.2 Wallingstown Company 1.5 6.5 – 0.1 Wallingstown Company Ltd – 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 13.7 18.5 6.9 5.8 25.1.2 Balance sheet at 31 December 2015 Non-current Non-current Current (in millions of euros) Current assets assets liabilities liabilities Companies Cara Partners 8.0 8.9 4.8 5.5 Garnay Inc. 1.8 0.5 0.1 0.0 Perechin Unlimited Company 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Portpirie Unlimited Company 0.0 0.0 – – Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 2.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Wallingstown Company 1.2 6.6 – 0.2 Wallingstown Company Ltd 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 13.1 16.1 4.9 5.8 ■■25.2 Income statement items 25.2.1 Income statement at 31 December 2016 Operating Share of net (in millions of euros) Sales expenses profit (loss) Companies Cara Partners 4.5 (1.6) 2.7 Garnay Inc. 0.1 (0.4) 0.0 Perechin Unlimited Company – (0.0) (0.0) Portpirie Unlimited Company – – (0.0) Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 0.2 1.0 0.9 Wallingstown Company 11.9 (8.9) 3.0 Wallingstown Company Ltd – (0.0) (0.0) Total 16.7 (9.9) 6.7 2016 Ipsen Registration document 105 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.2.2 Income statement at 31 December 2015 Operating Share of net (in millions of euros) Sales expenses profit (loss) Companies Cara Partners 3.6 (2.1) 1.3 Garnay Inc. 0.3 (0.7) (0.4) Perechin Unlimited Company – (0.0) (0.0) Portpirie Unlimited Company – – – Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 0.3 (0.1) 0.2 Wallingstown Company 9.5 (7.0) 2.5 Wallingstown Company Ltd – 0.0 0.0 Total 13.7 (9.9) 3.6 Note 26 Information on related parties ■■26.1 Director and Executive compensation On 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors set the compensation In 2016, the total compensation attributed to Board terms and conditions for the corporate mandates of the and Executive Leadership Team members amounted to Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, with a targeted €24.3 million, of which €4.8 million were allocated to members bonus subject to performance conditions. of the Board of Directors and €19.5 million were allocated to The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer benefit from the members of the Executive Leadership Team. Company’s current complementary retirement benefits. Pension and similar benefits for Board members and members In addition, the Board is obligated – under certain conditions of the Executive Leadership Team came to €18.1 million at – to pay a departure package equal to 24 four months 31 December 2016, with a total of €1.1 million attributed of the Chairman’s and the Chief Executive Officer’s fixed to members of the Board of Directors and €17.1 million compensation under their corporate mandates. attributed to Executive Leadership Team members. ■■26.2 Transactions with related parties 26.2.1 In the income statement at 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Revenues Operating expenses Proportionately consolidated companies(1) 6.1 (9.7) Associated companies (1) 0.0 0.0 Companies over which the Group's executive officers exercise significant influence (2) – (0.1) Total 6.1 (9.8) (1) The Group’s relationship with Schwabe was formalized in a cooperation agreement signed on 27 July 2005 concerning: • the sourcing and supply of Ginkgo biloba leaves; • the production of Ginkgo biloba extract; • know-how and the EGb 761® brand name; • research and development activities concerning the EGb 761® extract and drugs containing the EGb 761® extract. This contract recognizes that the Group and Schwabe have joint shareholdings in the following companies, which form the production chain for EGb 761® or other plant extracts: • 50% of the share capital in Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A., Garnay Inc. and Linnea S.A.; • 50% of the partnership shares in Wallingstown Company Ltd; • 50% of the joint rights in Cara Partners. (2) Rent owed by a number of the Group’s companies to real estate holdings owned by certain Group Directors. 106 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.2.2 In the income statement at 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Revenues Operating expenses Proportionately consolidated companies(1) 4.6 (9.6) Associated companies (1) – 0.0 Companies over which the Group's executive officers exercise significant influence (1) – (0.1) Total 4.6 (9.7) (1) See note 26.2.1. 26.2.3 On the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 Loans (in millions of euros) Trade receivables Bank loans / Debts Trade payables and receivables Proportionately consolidated 8.7 3.0 – 4.3 companies(1) Total gross 8.7 3.0 – 4.3 Provisions for doubtful accounts – – – – receivables Total (net of write-offs) 8.7 3.0 – 4.3 (1) See note 26.2.1. 26.2.4 On the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 Loans (in millions of euros) Trade receivables Bank loans / Debts Trade payables and receivables Proportionately consolidated 8.3 1.7 0.1 3.2 companies(1) Total gross 8.3 1.7 0.1 3.2 Provisions for doubtful accounts – – – – receivables Total (net of write-offs) 8.3 1.7 0.1 3.2 (1) See note 26.2.1. 26.2.5 Off-balance sheet commitments influence. The total amount of future rent payments due in This item includes rent commitments to companies over respect of these rented premises amounted to €0.2 million at which executive officers of the Group exercise significant 31 December 2016. Note 27 Commitments and contingent liabilities ■■27.1 Operating commitments (commitments given) or received (commitments received), if all the conditions have been met. Within the scope of its business activity, in particular with strategic development operations that lead to the formation of 27.1.1 Operating commitments given partnerships, the Group regularly enters into agreements that may result in potential financial commitments, subject to the As part of its key agreements listed in the following table, the completion of certain events. The amounts presented below Group could make milestone payments related to the success correspond to the maximum amounts that may be owed of development and marketing phases: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 Key agreements in oncology 806.4 Key agreements in endocrinology 173.4 Key agreements in neurosciences 95.3 Key agreements in Primary Care 19.8 Total 1,095.0 2016 Ipsen Registration document 107 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2016, commitments given by the Group and 27.1.2 Operating commitments received related to key agreements in oncology totaled €806.4 million, As part of its key agreements listed in the following table, versus commitments of €136.9 million at 31 December 2015. the Group could receive milestone payments related to the Milestone payments that could be made to Exelixis accounted success of development and marketing phases: for €767.7 million of that amount. (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 Key agreements in oncology 19.9 Key agreements in endocrinology 112.8 Key agreements in neurosciences 36.2 Key agreements in Primary Care 67.7 Key agreements in haematology 177.9 Total 414.5 ■■27.2 Financial commitments reasonably possible to provide a reliable estimate of the The Ipsen Group has subscribed to a worldwide liability financial impact that could arise from the settlement of the insurance policy from a third-party insurer. The insurance cases, or where the probability is low that the cases will result company itself is underwritten by the captive reinsurance in payment by the Group. company Ipsen Ré, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, In general, risks are measured according to a series of complex up to the first €10.0 million for any potential claim made. assumptions about future events. These measurements are To cover that financial commitment and address any potential based on estimates and assumptions deemed reasonable default by Ipsen Ré, the Ipsen S.A. parent company on by management. The Group believes that the total amount of 9 March 2016 issued a letter of guarantee payable upon first provisions recognized for the aforementioned general risks is demand in favor of the third-party insurer for a total amount adequate based on currently available information. However, of €10.0 million. The first-demand guarantee is renewable given the uncertainties inherent to such litigation and to annually. contingent liability estimates, the Group cannot rule out the possibility of future decisions that could have an unfavorable Further, the Group owns a 50% interest in a Swiss company, material impact on its results. consolidated using the equity method, that subscribed to two credit lines totaling CHF10.0 million, half of which is backed The Group set up a tax pool in France for all of Group by a general assignment of receivables. The credit lines were companies operating in France that meet legal requirements. drawn on during the year on an ad-hoc and limited basis. The system provides for various penalty provisions when entities leave the tax group, mentioned here for informational ■■27.3 General risks purposes. The Group may be involved in litigation, arbitration and other ■■27.4 Liquidity risk and counterparty risk legal proceedings. Such proceedings are generally related to civil litigation concerning product liability, intellectual property The Group’s policy is to diversify its business counterparties rights, competition law, trading practices, trade rules, labor so as to avoid the risks associated with excessive rights, tax issues, waste treatment and environmental issues, concentration and to make qualitative decisions in choosing and requests for guaranteeing the liabilities of assets sold. these counterparties. Further, the Group monitors the credit Provisions related to litigation and arbitration are recognized in risks associated with the financial instruments in which it compliance with the principles presented in note 3.26. invests and limits its investments according to the credit rating of its business counterparties. These funds are managed by Most of the questions raised by these claims are complex and the Group and are mainly invested in money market UCITS, are subject to significant uncertainties. As a consequence, it term deposits and term accounts. The Group invests its is often difficult to measure the probability that the Group will surpluses in short-term money-market financial instruments have to recognize an expense and to measure the amount. negotiated with counterparties whose credit ratings are at Contingent liabilities relate to those cases where it is not least A-1 (Standard & Poor’s) or P-1 (Moody’s). 108 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■27.5 Other commitments 27.5.1 Capital expenditure commitments Future Group expenditures resulting from investment commitments amounted to €13.3 million at 31 December 2016, and were broken down as follows: Maturity (in millions of euros) From one Total Less than one year Over five years to five years Industrial assets 5.9 3.5 – 9.4 Research and development assets 2.7 1.2 – 3.9 Total 8.6 4.7 – 13.3 27.5.2 Commitments related to rental agreements The total amount of future rent payments due in respect of agreements for rented premises amounted to €153.2 million at 31 December 2016, compared with €149.3 million at 31 December 2015. Due dates are as follows: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Less than one year 26.2 27.9 From one to five years 57.3 55.1 Over five years 69.7 66.3 Total 153.2 149.3 At 31 December 2016, rental lease-related commitments At 31 December 2016, no commitment or contingent liability stemmed primarily from the Group’s Boulogne headquarters, had been contracted that could significantly affect the the buildings rented by the UK subsidiary Ipsen Biopharm assessment of the consolidated financial statements. Ltd and the building rented by the U.S. subsidiary Ipsen 27.5.4 Endorsements, pledges and guarantees given Bioscience, Inc. Total guarantees given came to €15.0 million at 31 December The total amount of future rent payments due in respect 2016. These commitments correspond primarily to guarantees of these rented premises (Group’s Boulogne headquarters given to government authorities to participate in calls for essentially) amounted to €2.5 million at 31 December 2016, tender. compared with €3.6 million at 31 December 2015. 27.5.3 Risk of acceleration of borrowings The Group’s exposure to this risk is described in note 22.1. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 109 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 28 Post closing events with no impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 On 9 January 2017, Ipsen announced that it had entered As part of the transaction, Akkadeas Pharma will become into a definitive agreement to acquire global oncology assets Ipsen’s Italian distributor for Smecta® (Diosmectal®). from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, including its key marketed On 13 February 2017, Ipsen announced that it had entered product Onivyde ® (irinotecan liposome injection) for the into a definitive agreement to acquire five consumer healthcare treatment of patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the products in certain European territories from Sanofi. The pancreas after disease progression following gemcitabinemost significant product is Prontalgine ®, an analgesic for based therapy, in combination with fluorouracil and the treatment of moderate to severe pain, which has grown leucovorin. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen will at double-digit rates over the last four years and is available gain exclusive commercialization rights for the current and only in France. The portfolio also includes Buscopan ®, potential future Onivyde® indications in the U.S., as well as the an antispasmodic; Suppositoria Glycerini, a laxative; and current licensing agreements with Shire for commercialization Mucothiol® and Mucodyne®, expectorants for cough and flu. rights ex-U.S. and PharmaEngine for Taiwan. The transaction Combined, these regional brands span a geographic area of also includes Merrimack’s commercial and manufacturing eight European countries. Manufacturing will be provided by infrastructure, and generic doxorubicin HCl liposome third-parties. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen will pay injection. The upfront payment made at the closing of the deal €83 million for the products upon closing. came to USD575 million. In addition, future payments of up to USD450 million may be made upon the approval of potential No other event occurring between the closing date of the additional indications. consolidated financial statements and the date of their approval by the Board of Directors, and not taken into On 31 January 2017, Ipsen announced that it had signed an consideration, was likely to call into question Ipsen S.A.’s agreement to take an equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma with an consolidated financial statements themselves or make it option to take control of the company in the future. Akkadeas necessary to mention such an event in the notes to the Pharma is a privately-held consumer healthcare company consolidated financial statements. in Italy with a diversified gastrointestinal-focused portfolio including probiotics, medical devices and food supplements. Note 29 Consolidation scope The table below shows the following information for all companies included in the consolidation scope: • Country of incorporation; • Place of registered office (State of incorporation for U.S. companies); • The percentage interest held in each company. 110 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS List of companies included in the consolidation scope at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. ■■29.1 Fully consolidated companies Registered 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Ipsen S.A. (Parent company) France Boulogne 100 100 BB et Cie S.A.S. France Boulogne 100 100 Beaufour-Ipsen Industrie S.A.S. France Dreux 100 100 Ipsen Innovation S.A.S. France Les Ulis 100 100 Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. France Boulogne 100 100 Suraypharm S.A.S France Boulogne 100 100 Sutrepa S.A.S France Boulogne 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Biotech S.A.S. France Signes 100 100 Ipsen Pharma GmbH Germany Ettlingen 100 100 OctreoPharm Sciences GmbH Germany Berlin 100 100 Ipsen Pty Ltd Australia Glen Waverley 100 100 Ipsen N.V. Belgium Gand 100 100 Beaufour Ipsen Farmaceutica LTDA Brazil São Paulo 100 100 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Canada Inc. Canada Mississauga 100 100 Beaufour-Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd China Tianjin 96 96 Ipsen (Beijing) pharmaceutical science and technology China Beijing 100 100 development Co. Ltd Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Trade Co., Ltd China Tianjin 96 96 Ipsen Korea Ltd Korea Seoul 100 100 Ipsen Pharma S.A. Spain Barcelona 100 100 Ipsen E.P.E. Greece Athens 80 80 Elsegundo Ltd Ireland Cork 100 100 Ipsen Manufacturing Ireland Ltd Ireland Dublin 100 100 Ipsen Pharmaceuticals Ltd Ireland Dublin 100 100 Ipsen S.p.A. Italy Milan 100 100 Ipsen Ré S.A. Luxembourg Luxembourg 100 100 Ipsen Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico Mexico City 100 100 Ipsen Farmaceutica B.V. The Netherlands Hoofddorp 100 100 Ipsen Poland LLC Poland Warsaw 100 100 Ipsen Produtos Farmaceuticos S.A. Portugal Lisbon 100 100 Ipsen OOO Russia Moscow 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Singapore PTE. LTD. Singapore Singapore 100 – Institut de produits de synthèse et d’extraction naturelle Sweden Kista 100 100 (Ipsen) AB Ipsen Pharma Tunisie S.A.R.L. Tunisia Tunis 100 100 Ipsen Ltd UK London 100 100 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. US New Jersey 100 100 Ipsen Bioscience Inc. US Massachusetts 100 100 Ipsen BioInnovation Ltd UK Oxford 100 100 Ipsen Biopharm Ltd UK Wrexham 100 100 New Ipsen Developments Ltd UK Berkshire 100 100 Sterix Ltd UK London 100 100 Ipsen Ukraine services LLC Ukraine Kiev 100 100 2016 Ipsen Registration document 111 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■29.2 Proportionally consolidated companies Registered 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. France Boulogne 50 50 Cara Partners Ireland Cork 50 50 Perechin Unlimited Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Portpirie Unlimited Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Wallingstown Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Wallingstown Company Ltd Ireland Cork 50 50 Garnay Inc. US South Carolina 50 50 ■■29.3 Companies consolidated using the equity method Registered 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Linnea S.A. Switzerland Riazzino 50 50 112 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 30 Change in presentation As of the 2016 financial year, Ipsen no longer includes an alternative performance indicator in the consolidated income statement. This change in presentation had no impact on Operating Income or Consolidated net profit. The following table shows the changes between restated and published 2015 comparative data. 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Impacts Restated Published Sales 1,443.9 – 1,443.9 Other revenues 76.3 – 76.3 Revenue 1,520.2 – 1,520.2 Cost of goods sold (336.8) – (336.8) Selling expenses (541.4) – (541.4) Research and development expenses (192.6) – (192.6) General and administrative expenses (122.9) – (122.9) Other core operating income (5.3) 5.3 Other core operating expenses 9.4 (9.4) Core Operating Income 322.5 Other operating income 7.3 5.3 2.0 Other operating expenses (18.6) (9.4) (9.2) Restructuring costs (6.7) – (6.7) Impairment losses (64.6) – (64.6) Operating Income 244.0 – 244.0 Investment income 0.7 – 0.7 Financing costs (3.6) – (3.6) Net financing costs (2.9) – (2.9) Other financial income and expense (3.6) – (3.6) Income taxes (49.8) – (49.8) Share of net profit (loss) from companies accounted for using 2.5 – 2.5 the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 190.2 – 190.2 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 0.5 – 0.5 Consolidated net profit 190.7 – 190.7 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 189.9 – 189.9 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.9 – 0.9 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.30 – 2.30 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.29 – 2.29 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.01 – 0.01 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.01 – 0.01 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 2.31 – 2.31 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 2.30 – 2.30 2016 Ipsen Registration document 113 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 31 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors The fees paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors and members of their networks are presented in the following table: Deloitte & Associés KPMG Audit Amounts, Amounts, (in thousands of euros) % % net of VAT net of VAT 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Certification and limited review of separate and consolidated financial statements Issuer 181 177 26% 20% 152 209 20% 23% Fully consolidated subsidiaries 413 646 60% 75% 467 566 62% 61% Sub-total 594 823 86% 95% 619 775 83% 84% Services other than the certification of the financial statements Issuer 98 – 14% – 75 – 10% – Fully consolidated subsidiaries – 43 – 5% 56 152 7% 16% Sub-total 98 43 14% 5% 131 152 17% 16% Total 692 866 100% 100% 750 927 100% 100% 2.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the specific verification of information given in the Group’s management report. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered office: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December 2016 To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended 31 December 2016, on: • the audit of the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Ipsen S.A.; • the justification of our assessments; • the specific verification required by law. These consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. 1. Opinion on the consolidated financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 114 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2016 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Without qualifying the opinion expressed above, we draw your attention to notes 3.9 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements which describe the impact from a change in the presentation of certain income statement items and operating segments on the consolidated financial statements as well as on the comparative financial information. 2. Justification of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: • Asset impairment Goodwill and assets with indefinite useful life are tested for impairment on each reporting date and non-current assets are also tested for impairment when there is an indication that the asset may be impaired, using the methods described in note 3.17 to the consolidated financial statements. We reviewed the method of testing for impairment, together with the cash flow forecasts and assumptions used and verified that the disclosure provided in notes 6.2, 12.2, 13.2, 13.3 and 14.1 to the consolidated financial statements is appropriate. • Provisions Notes 3.26 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements describe the provisions recorded by your Company. Our procedures consisted in assessing the data and assumptions on which these estimates are based, reviewing by sampling techniques calculations made by the Company, understanding the approval procedures by the Management Board of these estimates. In the context of our assessments, we obtained sufficient audit evidences to conclude that these estimates are reasonable. • Retirement benefit obligation The methods of measuring post-employment advantages and other long term benefits are set out in note 3.25 to the consolidated financial statements. These liabilities have been measured by independent actuaries. We reviewed the data used, assessed the assumptions made and verified that the information disclosed in note 5.3 to the consolidated financial statements is appropriate. • Deferred tax Note 3.34 to the consolidated financial statements describes the method of measuring and accounting deferred tax assets. We reviewed the data used, assessed the assumptions made and verified that the information disclosed in note 10.2 to the consolidated financial statements is appropriate. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. 3. Specific verification As required by law we have also verified, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the information relative to the group in the parent company’s management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. Paris La Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, on the 22 February 2017 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés A division of KPMG S.A. Philippe Grandclerc Jean-Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner 2016 Ipsen Registration document 115 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3.1 Summary document Balance sheet at 31 December 2016 Assets 31 December 2016 Depreciation, 31 December 2015 Gross amortization & Net (in millions of euros) write-downs Intangible assets – Concessions, patents and similar rights 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – Other intangible assets – – – – Financial assets – Equity investments 1,167.5 – 1,167.5 1,167.5 – Other financial assets 9.5 – 9.5 13.2 Non–current assets 1,177.2 0.0 1,177.2 1,180.9 Receivables – Advances and down–payments to suppliers 0.5 – 0.5 – – Trade and accounts receivables 14.1 – 14.1 11.0 – Other receivables 216.8 – 216.8 95.1 Other – Short–term investments 54.3 – 54.3 46.9 – Cash and cash equivalents 110.1 – 110.1 5.0 – Prepayments 0.0 – 0.0 0.0 Current assets 395.8 0.0 395.8 158.0 Loan issuance costs to be amortized 3.0 – 3.0 1.6 Bond redemption premium 1.8 – 1.8 – Unrealized losses on foreign exchange 0.0 – 0.0 0.0 Total assets 1,577.7 0.0 1,577.7 1,340.5 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (in millions of euros) Share capital 83.6 83.2 Paid-in capital 732.9 720.1 Legal reserve 44.7 44.7 Other reserves 94.4 98.3 Retained earnings 253.4 131.9 Net profit (loss) for the period (24.3) 191.4 Regulated provisions – 0.0 Equity 1,184.7 1,269.7 Provisions for contingencies 13.7 14.6 Provisions for losses 7.4 11.1 Provisions for contingencies and losses 21.1 25.7 Other bonds 303.1 – Bank borrowings 0.0 – Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 30.3 0.3 Trade and accounts payable 1.3 1.1 Taxes payable and payroll and payroll on-cost amounts payable 10.6 9.7 Amounts payable to fixed asset suppliers 1.6 1.8 Other liabilities 25.1 32.2 Deferred income 0.0 – Debts 371.9 45.1 Unrealized gains on foreign exchange 0.0 – Total equity & liabilities 1,577.7 1,340.5 116 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement at 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Sales of merchandise – – Production sold services 18.2 21.1 Net sales 18.2 21.1 Reversal of depreciation, amortization & provisions, expense transfers 22.5 16.8 Other revenues 0.0 – Operating income 40.8 37.9 Other purchases and external charges (5.2) (2.6) Taxes and duties (2.6) (2.0) Wages and salaries (22.9) (25.1) Payroll on-costs (8.4) (8.2) Depreciation expense on fixed assets (0.4) (0.4) Provision expense on fixed assets – – Provision expense for contingencies and losses (13.1) (23.1) Miscellaneous operating expenses (0.9) (1.0) Operating expenses (53.7) (62.4) Operating profit (loss) (12.9) (24.5) Financial income from participating interests 1.6 172.5 Other interest and similar income 0.1 0.0 Reversal of provisions and transfer of extraordinary expense 47.2 38.3 Foreign exchange gains 0.0 0.0 Financial income 48.8 210.8 Depreciation, amortization and provision charges (0.1) 0.0 Interest and other financial expenses (3.9) (0.8) Foreign exchange losses (0.0) (0.0) Financial expense (4.1) (0.8) Net financial income (expense) 44.7 210.0 Pre-tax profit (loss) on ordinary activities 31.8 185.6 Extraordinary income from operations – – Extraordinary income from capital transactions 85.4 0.8 Reversal of provisions and expense transfers 0.0 0.0 Extraordinary income 85.4 0.8 Extraordinary expense from operations – – Extraordinary expense from capital transactions (142.5) (0.4) Depreciation, amortization and provision charges – – Extraordinary expenses (142.5) (0.4) Net extraordinary income (expense) (57.1) 0.4 Employee profit-sharing – – Income tax income (expense) 1.0 5.5 Net profit (loss) for the year (24.3) 191.4 2016 Ipsen Registration document 117 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements Notes The reporting period covers the 12-month period from These are the notes to the balance sheet and the income 1 January to 31 December 2016. statement for the year ended 31 December 2016. The total The notes and tables presented below form an integral part of balance sheet amount comes to €1,577.7 million, while the the annual financial statements. income statement shows a net loss of €24.3 million for the period. Had the Company been taxed separately, its net loss for tax purposes would have totaled €25.4 million. Note 1 Significant events during the year ■■1.1 Changes to corporate governance date. The purchase was to take place from 4 July 2016, over On 16 February 2016, Ipsen announced that its Board of a period of two months minimum and not extend beyond Directors, meeting 15 February 2016, decided to change 30 December 2016. The purchased shares were allocated the company’s governance by separating the functions of primarily to cover share awards as part of the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The Board of bonus share plans. The buyback program was in line with Directors confirmed that Mr. Marc de Garidel would become the authorizations granted by the Combined Shareholder’s the non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors under Meeting. the new corporate governance structure and approved the The program ended on 30 December 2016. departure of Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy CEO. Under the program, the Company repurchased 400,000 On 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors named David Meek as shares for a total €24 million in the year ended 31 December the Group’s Chief Executive Officer. This appointment took 2016. effect on 18 July 2016, when Marc de Garidel became the Group’s non-executive Chairman. ■■1.4 Asset contributions On 18 November 2016, Ipsen S.A. contributed its entire ■■1.2 €300 million in seven-year notes issued 68% interest in Suraypharm S.A.S., consisting of 41,800,000 On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in unsecured, shares, to Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. The contribution was seven-year notes. The notes mature on 16 June 2023 and pay assessed at €27.9 million. In compensation, Ipsen S.A. was annual interest of 1.875%. The purpose of the issue was to granted 1,575 new Ipsen Pharma S.A.S shares fully assessed diversify and extend the maturity of Ipsen’s sources of funds at €27.9 million. and to support its investment and development strategy. On 18 November 2016, Ipsen S.A. contributed its entire At 31 December 2016, the notes including accrued interest 22% interest in Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc., consisting of were recognized as debt in the Company’s financial statements 832 shares, to Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. In compensation for the in the amount of €303.1 million on the “Other bonds” line item contribution, which was assessed at €56.8 million, Ipsen S.A. of the balance sheet. In addition, a €1.8 million redemption was granted 3,206 new Ipsen Pharma S.A.S shares assessed premium and €1.2 million in issuing costs were recorded on at €56.8 million. the asset side of the balance sheet. The 4,781 new Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. shares issued to ■■1.3 Share repurchasing program compensate for the asset contributions did not trigger a change in Ipsen S.A.’s interest in Ipsen Pharma S.A.S., which On 28 June 2016, Ipsen announced that it had granted remained at 100%. Natixis a mandate to purchase 400,000 Ipsen S.A. shares, representing 0.48% of the Company’s share capital at that Note 2 Accounting principles and valuation methods ■■2.1 S  tandards, principles and valuation Regulation n°2014-03 approved by the Order of 8 September methods 2014), in observance of the prudence principle and the independence of financial years and the presumption of a 2.1.1 Accounting principles going concern. The annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions applicable The Company did not carry out a revaluation of its balance in France, as set out in the French Chart of Accounts (ANC sheet. 118 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.1.2 Valuation methods Company shares allotted to bonus share plans and stock 2.1.2.1 Intangible assets option plans and purchased outside the framework of a liquidity agreement are recorded at acquisition cost, i.e. Intangible assets are accounted for at acquisition cost or the purchase price plus transaction fees, in “Short-term contribution value, less cumulative amortization and any investments”. Other Company shares held as part of a liquidity impairment losses. agreement are fixed assets classified as other investment The cost of intangible assets with a defined useful life, less securities. any residual value, is amortized over a period corresponding At the closing date, provisions were recorded as follows: to the useful life estimated by the Company. Amortization periods are determined on a case-by-case basis depending • For Company shares purchased with a view to allocating on the type of asset concerned. them to bonus share plans, a provision was recorded on the liability side of the balance sheet to account for employee Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized, share allocation obligations based on services rendered. but are systematically tested annually for impairment. Because the allotment of Ipsen’s bonus share plans are As a general rule, brands and trademarks are not amortized. subject to length of service conditions at the Company, the provision is spread over the vesting period, as required 2.1.2.2 Financial investments under the CNC opinion; • Equity investments • Otherwise, for Company shares, when the value at the Equity investments whose long-term ownership is deemed closing date, i.e. the average monthly share price during the useful to Ipsen’s activity, notably because it allows for the last month of the financial year, is below carrying value, an exercise of influence or control over the issuing company, are impairment provision is recorded for the difference. recognized at acquisition cost. When the value at the closing date is below the carrying value, a provision for impairment is The income and expenses generated from buying and selling recorded for the difference. The value at the closing date is the Company’s own shares are recognized as extraordinary measured according to such criteria as the value of the share income or expenses. To determine the net income or expense held in the net assets or the earnings prospects of the relevant when selling repurchased shares, the oldest shares are company. These criteria are weighted by the effects of owning considered to have been sold first in accordance with the these shares in terms of strategy or synergies, in respect of FIFO, first-in, first-out method. other investments held. 2.1.2.5 Provisions for contingencies and losses Acquisition-related expenses are included in the acquisition Provisions for contingencies and losses are recognized at the cost of the shares. These expenses are spread over five years period close to cover all Company liabilities to third parties for tax purposes via a regulated provision in the accounts. likely or certain to give rise to an outflow of resources to said • Other financial assets third-parties without any counterpart. These provisions are estimated on the basis of the most likely assumptions at the –– Liquidity agreement. Under the program to buy back the closing date. Company’s own shares, Ipsen funds a liquidity account as part of a liquidity agreement. The contributions made 2.1.2.6 Debts are not available and, as a result, are posted to “Other Debts are measured at nominal value. financial assets”. 2.1.2.7 Foreign exchange differences The capital gains and losses from each transaction are recognized on the income statement, without offset. Foreign-currency denominated income and expense items were recorded in euros based on the exchange rate At the closing date, short-term investment amounts are in effect at the transaction date. Debts, receivables, and measured at their net asset liquidation value. Capital cash denominated in foreign currencies were translated into gains realized between the closing date value and the euros at the closing exchange rate at year-end. The resulting starting value are not recognized. Unrealized capital translation differences for debts and receivables denominated losses are written down. in foreign currencies were posted to “Foreign exchange –– Share repurchase program aimed at cancelling the differences” on the balance sheet. Unrealized losses were shares. Shares repurchased for purposes of cancellation provisioned in full as contingencies. are recorded at acquisition cost in “Other financial assets”. 2.1.2.8 Retirement benefit obligations These shares are not subject to an assessment of their net asset liquidation value at the close of the period. Company employees may be entitled to compensation when they retire or to a pension following their retirement. The 2.1.2.3 Receivables Company’s liabilities arising from such post-employment Receivables are measured at nominal value. benefits are calculated by using an actuary model and assumptions applicable in France. Receivables are assessed on a case-by-case basis and may be written down depending on the risks identified. The corresponding liabilities, based on the rights vested to the beneficiaries, are covered by contributions to independent 2.1.2.4 Short-term investments organizations (insurance companies), which are responsible In accordance with opinion 2008-17 of France’s National for paying the pensions and other benefits. In accordance Accounting Board (Conseil National de Comptabilité – CNC), with provision of the French Commercial Code, net assets and 2016 Ipsen Registration document 119 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS liabilities arising from these obligations are not recognized, as Each subsidiary within the consolidation scope recognizes its the Company does not apply the preferential method. income tax as if it were taxed separately, i.e. particularly after carrying forward tax loses incurred earlier by the subsidiary Further, amounts intended to reward employees for their and transferred to the Parent Company. length of service are paid out as bonuses by the Company. Ipsen calculates the income tax due by the consolidated 2.1.2.9 Tax consolidation regime group and expenses the charge. Further, the Company To reflect the tax consolidation that unites the Company with recognizes the tax savings arising from the tax consolidation its subsidiaries, Ipsen, in accordance with the other member as income. companies of its tax consolidation group, has adopted the following rules, in keeping with the advice of French tax Ipsen does not return the tax savings contributed by lossauthorities. generating subsidiaries after they return to profitability. Note 3 Notes to the balance sheet ■■3.1 Non-current assets 3.1.1 Intangible assets • Change in gross amounts (in millions of euros) 31 December 2015 Increases Decreases 31 December 2016 Brands and trademarks 0.2 – – 0.2 Total 0.2 – – 0.2 No amortization or provisions were recognized for these intangible assets, which had a net carrying value of €0.2 million at 31 December 2016. 3.1.2 Financial investments • Change in gross amounts (in millions of euros) 31 December 2015 Increases Decreases 31 December 2016 Equity investments – shares Note 3.1.3 1,214.6 84.8 (131.9) 1,167.5 FPCI – Private equity professional fund 5.0 – – 5.0 Company shares / liquidity agreement 0.3 28.7 (28.5) 0.5 Liquidity agreement 4.0 28.7 (28.7) 4.0 Company shares to be cancelled 3.9 – (3.9) (0.0) Total other financial assets Note 3.1.4 13.2 57.4 (61.1) 9.5 Total financial assets 1,227.9 142.2 (193.0) 1,177.0 • Change in write-downs (in millions of euros) 31 December 2015 Increases Decreases 31 December 2016 Equity investments – shares (47.2) – 47.2 – Company shares – – – – Liquidity agreement – – – – Other financial assets – – – – Total (47.2) – 47.2 – 3.1.3 Equity investments As part of the asset transfer operations disclosed in note 1.4, Information about subsidiaries and affiliates is disclosed in the the Company on 31 December 2016 reversed €47.2 million subsidiaries and affiliates table (note 6). in equity investment write-downs, which broke down as 120 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS €13.9 million in write-down reversals of Suraypharm S.A.S. deferred tranches totaling €1.5 million that will be gradually shares and €33.3 million in write-down reversals of Ipsen called by the fund management company. At 31 December Biopharmaceuticals shares. 2016, the Company held 2.89% of the fund. 3.1.4 Other financial assets • Company shares held as part of a liquidity agreement At 31 December 2016, this item broke down as follows: entrusted – by a decision taken 22 March 2005 – to Natexis Bleichroder for a period of one year and renewable by • Shares in the InnoBio FPCI private equity professional tacit agreement. The liquidity agreement complies with the fund: In 2009, the Company signed a subscription form for AMAFI Ethics Charter, approved by the French financial five thousand shares at an initial investment value of €1,000 markets authority. each, with the InnoBio FPCI for a total of €5 million. At 31 December 2016, the Company held 7,562 shares with The commitment includes 10 tranches amounting to 69% a gross value of €0.5 million and provided €4 million in cash of the shares, or €3.5 million paid from 2009 to 2016, and under the liquidity agreement. ■■3.2 Receivables by maturity Gross Gross of which (in millions of euros) Amount Amount Less than More than 2015 2016 one year one year Other financial assets 8.2 4.5 4.5 – Other trade receivables 11.0 14.1 14.1 – Personnel and related accounts – – – – Social security and other welfare agency – – – – State and other public authorities – Income tax 80.1 53.1(*) 53.1 – – Value added tax 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – Other 0.1 0.1 0.1 – Group and associates 14.5 162.8 162.8 – Miscellaneous receivables 0.2 1.2 1.2 – Prepayments 0.0 0.0 0.0 – TOTAL RECEIVABLES 114.3 236.0 236.0 – (*) The decline in the amount of income tax receivables versus 31 December 2015 stemmed mainly from the repayment of research tax credits received in 2016. ■■3.3 Short-term investments The Company holds short-term investments comprised of 1,120,808 of its own shares valued at €54.3 million. • Change in short-term investments (in millions of euros) 31 December 2015 Increases Decreases 31 December 2016 Gross value 46.9 24.0 (*) (16.6)(**) 54.3 Write-downs – – – – Net value 46.9 24.0 (16.6) 54.3 (*) See note 1.3. (**) Decrease in short-term investments following the allotment of 312,655 bonus shares to beneficiaries of the 12 December 2006, 12 December 2007, 29 September 2008 and 30 March 2009 stock option plans, the Group’s July 2016 employee savings program and the 30 March 2012 and 27 March 2014 bonus share plans. ■■3.4 Cash and cash equivalents notes, i.e. seven years. An amount totaling €0.1 million was At 31 December 2016, the “Cash and cash equivalents” item expensed for the 2016 financial year, with the redemption consisted primarily of term deposits. premium’s €1.8 million balance remaining on the asset side of the balance sheet at 31 December 2016. ■■3.5 Bond redemption premium ■■3.6 Debt issuance costs to be amortized In line with the notes issued by the Company on 16 June 2016 (note 1.2), the Company recognized a €1.9 million Debt issuance costs are spread over the duration of the redemption premium amortized over the duration of the respective bonds and loans from which they arose. At 2016 Ipsen Registration document 121 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2016, debt issuance costs came to €2.9 million ■■3.7 Equity and broke down as follows: • Share capital • €1.2 million arising from the notes (see note 1.2). The –– At 31 December 2016, Ipsen’s share capital was comprised €1.3 million in related issuance costs were spread over the of 83,557,864 ordinary shares each with a nominal value duration of the notes, i.e. seven years. An amount totaling of €1, including 47,829,011 shares with double voting 0.1 million was expensed for the 2016 financial year; rights, compared with 83,254,602 ordinary shares each with a nominal value of €1, including 47,778,755 shares • €0.4 million arising from the bilateral loan (see note 3.9.2). with double voting rights at 31 December 2015. The €0.5 million in related issuance costs were spread over the duration of the loan, i.e. 6.5 years. An amount totaling –– The changes during the 2016 financial year were as 0.1 million was expensed for the 2016 financial year. follows: • 312,262 new shares were issued as share warrants were exercised; • 80,000 new shares were allocated under the Group’s July 2016 employee savings program; • 80,000 shares repurchased for purposes of cancellation were cancelled. • Change in share capital Net profit (in millions Share Share Issue Legal Other Retained Regulated Total (loss) for of euros) capital premium premium reserve reserves earnings provisions equity the period Balance at 31 December 2015, before 83.2 29.8 690.3 44.7 98.3 131.9 191.4 0.0 1,269.7 allocation of net profit Dividends – – – – – 0.8(*) (70.8) – (70.0) Net profit (loss) – – – – – – (24.3) – (24.3) for the period Capital increase 0.1 – 3.4 – – – – – 3.5 Capital decrease (0.1) – – – (3.8) – – – (3.9) by Ipsen Capital increase from exercised 0.3 – 9.5 – – – – – 9.8 warrants Other movements – – – – – 120.7 (120.7) (0.0) (0.0) Balance at 31 December 2016, before 83.6 29.8 703.1 44.7 94.4 253.4 (24.3) 0.0 1,184.7 allocation of net profit (*) Dividends on treasury shares are posted to retained earnings. ■■3.8 Provisions for contingencies and losses The change in provisions for contingencies and losses from the opening to the closing of the financial year breaks down as follows: Movements during the period 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Reversals Other December 2015 Charges 2016 Applied Released movements Provisions for litigation – – – – – – Other provisions for contingencies 14.6 7.8 (8.0) (0.7) – 13.7 Provisions for contingencies 14.6 7.8 (8.0) (0.7) – 13.7 Provisions for losses 11.1 5.2 (8.7) (0.3) – 7.4 Total 25.7 13.1 (16.6) (1.0) – 21.1 122 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2016, provisions for contingencies and • Provisions recorded to account for employee bonus-share losses included the following items: and stock option allocation obligations based on services rendered (see notes 1.3 and 2.1.2.4); • Provisions for Group performance-related medium-term bonus plans approved by the Board of Directors; • Provisions to cover expenses related to long service awards. ■■3.9 Borrowings and debt 3.9.1 Liabilities by maturity Gross Gross of which (in millions of euros) amount amount 2015 2016 Within 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Other bond borrowings 0.0 303.1 3.1 0.0 300.0 Bank borrowings – Initially up to one year 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – – Initially over one year – – – – – Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 0.3 30.3 30.1 0.2 – Trade payables 1.1 1.3 1.3 – – Taxes payable and payroll and payroll on-cost amounts payable Personnel and related accounts payable 5.2 6.4 6.4 – – Social security and other welfare agency 3.1 3.1 3.1 – – payables State and other public authority payables – Income tax – – – – – – Value added tax 1.2 0.9 0.9 – – – Other taxes and duties 0.3 0.2 0.2 – – Total taxes payable and payroll and payroll 9.7 10.6 10.6 – – on-cost amounts payable Other liabilities Amounts payable to fixed asset suppliers and 1.8 1.6 1.6 – – related accounts Group and associates 31.8 24.8 24.8 – – Other payables 0.4 0.3 0.3 – – Total other liabilities 34.0 26.7 26.7 – – TOTAL LIABILITIES 45.1 371.9 71.7 0.2 300.0 3.9.2 Sundry borrowings, financial liabilities and bonds On 24 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. amended its syndicated loan to On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in unsecured, reduce the amount to €300 million and remove the covenants, seven-year notes paying annual interest of 1.875% (see i.e. the leverage and gearing ratios. At 31 December 2016, this note 1.2). At 31 December 2016, the notes including accrued credit line remained untapped. interest were recognized as debt in the Company financial Ipsen S.A. also has access to a €300 million program to issue statements in the amount of €303.1 million on the “Other commercial paper, €30 million of which had been drawn at bond borrowings” line item. 31 December 2016 and recorded in the “Sundry borrowings In addition, €300 million in depreciable bank loans were and financial liabilities” line item on the balance sheet. contracted with a maturity of 6.5 years. At 31 December 2016, none of these bank loans had been tapped by the Group. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 123 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.10 Accrued liabilities (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 3.2 0.1 Suppliers – invoices not yet received 0.8 0.8 Fixed asset suppliers – invoices not yet received 1.6 1.8 Personnel – Accrued liabilities for paid vacation 0.9 0.8 – Accrued liabilities for bonuses 3.4 4.2 – Accrued liabilities for employee profit–sharing – 0.0 – Accrued liabilities for profit–sharing 0.1 0.1 – Accrued liabilities for retirement indemnities 1.9 – – Accrued social welfare expenses 1.9 2.2 State – Accrued expenses 0.4 0.4 Other accrued expenses and interest on current accounts – 0.0 TOTAL 14.2 10.5 Note 4 Notes to the income statement ■■4.1 Operating income ■■4.2 Operating expenses Operating income totaled €40.8 million in the 2016 financial The change in operating expense versus the previous financial year and broke down as follows: year stemmed mainly from: • €18.3 million in personnel expense re-invoiced to • The €1.4 million increase in borrowing issuance fees and subsidiaries, expenses (see note 3.6); • €17.7 million in reversals of provisions for contingencies • The €2 million decrease in the “wages and salaries” and and losses, “payroll on-costs” items arising from the 2015 reclassification of €4.8 million in provision charges for contingencies and • €4.8 million in expense transfers, including €3 million losses as personnel expense, the €4.9 million increase in from reclassifying provision charges for contingencies and indemnities and bonuses, and the €1.9 million decrease in losses as personnel expense and €1.8 million from debt expenses related to bonus share and stock option plans. issuance costs to be amortized (see note 3.6). • The €9.9 million decrease in amortization expense related primarily the change in provisions for medium-term bonus plans and bonus share allocation plans. ■■4.3 Financial income (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 Income from equity investments 1.6 (*) 172.5(**) Reversal of provisions and expenses transferred 47.2(***) 38.3(****) Other financial income 0.1 0.0 Foreign exchange gains 0.0 0.0 Total financial income 48.8 210.8 (*) At 31 December 2016, income from equity investments consisted primarily of payouts from the InnoBio FPCI private equity fund (see note 3.1.4). (**) At 31 December 2015, income from equity investments consisted mainly of intragroup dividends (see note 5.2.2). (***) As part of the asset contribution operations disclosed in note 1.4, the Company on 31 December 2016 reversed €33.3 million in equity investment write-downs on Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals and reversed €13.9 million in equity investment write-downs on Suraypharm S.A.S. (****) At 31 December 2015, the Company reversed €24.6 million in equity investment write-downs on its Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals subsidiary and reversed €13.7 million in equity investment write-downs on its Suraypharm S.A.S. subsidiary. 124 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■4.4 Financial expense (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 Foreign exchange differences (0.0) (0.0) Interest and other financial expenses (3.9)(*) (0.8) Depreciation, amortization and provision charges (0.1) – Total financial expense (4.1) (0.8) (*) Of which €3 million in interest expense arising from the notes issued in June 2016 (see note 1.2). ■■4.5 Net extraordinary income (expense) (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 Gains from share buybacks 0.7 0.8 Reversal of provision for investment 0.0 0.0 Extraordinary income from capital transactions 84.8 – Extraordinary income 85.4 0.8 (Losses) from share buybacks (10.6) (0.4) Extraordinary expense from capital transactions (131.9) – Miscellaneous extraordinary expenses – – Extraordinary (expenses) (142.5) (0.4) Net extraordinary income (expense) (57.1) 0.4 Net extraordinary expense for the 2016 financial year resulted primarily from: • Asset contributions totaling €47.2 million and disclosed in note 1.4; • The €10 million capital loss realized during the transfer of treasury shares to certain beneficiaries in respect of bonus share plans, stock option plans and the Group’s employee savings program (see note 3.3). ■■4.6 Income tax breakdown The income tax line for the 2016 financial year shows a net gain of €1 million. (in millions of euros) Pre-tax Net tax amount After tax Profit on ordinary activities 31.8 – 31.8 Net extraordinary income (expense) and employee (57.1) – (57.1) profit-sharing Income tax income from tax consolidation – (1.0) 1.0 Book profit (loss) (25.3) (1.0) (24.3) ■■4.7 Tax consolidation If a subsidiary exits the scope of consolidation after a period of Ipsen S.A. leads a tax consolidation group. To reflect the tax five years, it recovers no income tax or tax-loss carryforwards. consolidation that unites the Company with its subsidiaries, At 31 December 2016, the Company reported tax consolidation the following methods were applied in the annual financial income of €3.1 million, compared with €9.4 million a year statements: earlier. Each subsidiary within the tax group recognizes its income tax There were no tax-loss carryforwards for the tax consolidation as if it were taxed separately, i.e. particularly after recognizing group at 31 December 2016. its tax-loss carryforwards. Payments were made by bank transfer to the Company’s ■■4.8 Increases or decreases in future tax account at dates scheduled for payment transfer to the liability Treasury. Ipsen calculated the income tax owed by the tax Excluding tax consolidation impact, the amount of increases consolidated group and expensed the amount. In addition, or decreases in future tax liability was not material for the 2016 the Company recorded the income tax recognized by its financial year. integrated subsidiaries as income. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 125 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 5 Other information ■■5.1 Directors, executives and officers Retirement pensions and similar benefit obligations for 5.1.1 Remuneration paid to corporate officers executives and officers came to €1.3 million at 31 December 2016. Remuneration paid by the Company to directors, executives and officers during the 2016 financial year totaled €10.8 million, 5.1.2 Loans and advances to top management breaking down as follows: No advances or loans were made to the Company’s top • €1.7 million in remuneration paid to members of executive management. bodies; • €9.1 million in remuneration paid to members of management bodies. ■■5.2 Transactions with affiliated companies and related parties 5.2.1 Balance sheet (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 Assets Equity investments 1,167.5 1,167.5 Trade receivables 14.1 11.0 Group and associated companies 162.8 14.5 Other receivables – – Total 1,344.4 1,193.0 (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 Liabilities Trade payables 0.4 0,2 Group and associated companies – – Other liabilities 24.9 31.8 Total 25.4 32.0 5.2.2 Financial income and expense (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 Financial expense with affiliated companies (0.0) (0.1) Financial income with affiliated companies – 0.0 Dividends received 0.0 172.5 TOTAL (0.0) 172.5 5.2.3 Transactions with related parties There were no material transactions with related parties not concluded in arm’s length transactions. ■■5.3 Average headcount at period closing 2016 2015 Top and upper management 15 17 TOTAL 15 17 ■■5.4 Financial commitments Company has no other obligations arising from employee 5.4.1 Commitments to personnel pensions, complementary retirement benefits, retirement bonuses or contributions or similar post-employment benefits. Apart from retirement bonuses mandated under a collective bargaining agreement with the French pharmaceutical industry At 31 December 2016, obligations arising from retirement and obligations related to a supplementary pension plan, the bonuses and the supplementary pension plan amounted to 126 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS €3 million and €20.2 million respectively. The amounts were In accordance with provision of the French Commercial Code, determined via actuarial valuation using the “projected unit net assets and liabilities arising from these obligations are not credit” method. recognized, as the Company does not apply the preferential method. The main assumptions used in the calculations were as follows: The obligation arising from long-ser vice awards was determined via actuarial valuation using the “projected unit • Discount rate of 1.3%, credit” method and fully provisioned at 31 December 2016. • inflation rate of 1.8%, A discount rate of 1.30% was assumed to calculate the €0.3 million long-service award obligation. • Voluntary retirement for managers at age 67 for those born after 1963 and 64 for those born before 1963; voluntary 5.4.2 Commitments given retirement for non-managers at age 65 for those born after The Group has subscribed to a worldwide liability insurance 1963 and age 63 for those born before 1963, policy from a third-party insurer. The insurance company • TH 11-13 mortality table for men and TF 11-13 mortality itself is underwritten by the captive reinsurance company table for women. Ipsen Ré, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, up to the first €10.0 million for any potential claim made. To cover that These obligations were outsourced to an insurance company. financial commitment and address any potential default by At 31 December 2016, the fair value of these financial assets Ipsen Ré, the Ipsen S.A. parent company on 9 March 2016 came to €1.8 million for the retirement bonuses and the issued a letter of guarantee payable upon first demand in favor €10.9 million for the supplementary pension plan, assuming a of the third-party insurer for a total amount of €10.0 million. long-term rate of return of 1.3%. The first-demand guarantee is renewable annually. ■■5.5 Share option plans granted by the Company 5.5.1 Details of share option plans Plan dated 31 March 2010 Plan dated 30 June 2011 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 Date granted by Board of Directors 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 Vesting date 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 30/06/2015 30/06/2013 Plan expiration date 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 30/06/2019 30/06/2019 Number of options granted 121,180 123,280 54,330 22,570 40,710 189,703 16,005 Share entitlement per option 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Exercise price €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €25.01 €25.01 Grant method Monte Carlo “Black and Scholes” revised “Black and Scholes” revised Value of shares at grant date €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €24.46 €24.46 Expected volatility (*) 32% 32% 32% 32% 32% 31% 31% Average life of option 6 6 6 6 5 6 5 Discount rate (**) 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.35% 2.90% 2.72% Dividends (***) 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% Performance condition yes yes no no no yes no Fair value per option €10.69 €10.69 €10.71 €10.71 €9.74 €7.12 €6.48 (*) Expected volatility was determined in light of historic volatility calculated using Ipsen share prices from the date at which the shares were first quoted, i.e. 6 December 2005. (**) The discount rate corresponds to the interest rate on a risk-free zero-coupon bond (i.e. a government bond) with a maturity equal to the life of the option and the exercise price in-the-money. (***) The payout rate was determined on the basis of dividend distributions from the date at which Ipsen shares were first quoted, i.e. 6 December 2005. 5.5.2 Valuation of plans Plan dated Plan dated (in millions of euros) Plans prior to 2010 TOTAL 31 March 2010 30 June 2011 Opening valuation of active plans 21.6 3.8 1.5 26.9 at 31 December 2016 2016 Ipsen Registration document 127 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.5.3 Change in number of options outstanding Changes in the number of outstanding options under all plans are as follows: (in number of options) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Opening balance 1,142,157 1,516,826 Options exercised (393,886) (367,419) Options cancelled – (7,250) Options expired (3,500) – Closing balance 744,771 1,142,157 ■■5.6 Bonus share plans • 41,336 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group Since 2005, various Boards of Directors have been awarded subsidiaries. subject to length of service conditions as bonus shares contingent upon the Group’s achievement of well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or certain performance conditions for certain plans. specific to a Group entity. On 31 May 2016 and 29 July 2016, the Board of Directors On 1 April 2015, the Board of Directors granted: granted: • 12,588 bonus shares to the Chairman and Chief Executive • 5,070 bonus shares to the non-executive Chairman, subject Officer, subject to length of service conditions as well as to length of service conditions as well as performance performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group to a Group entity, entity, • 10,070 bonus shares to the Deputy Chief Executive • 10,021 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject Officer, subject to length of service conditions as well as to length of service conditions as well as performance performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group to a Group entity, entity, • 30,363 bonus shares to members of the Executive • 48,928 bonus shares to members of the Executive Committee, subject to length of service conditions as Committee, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 39,970 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American • 72,208 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its French subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 69,056 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group • 64,727 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity. specific to a Group entity, 5.6.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated 30 March 2012 Plan dated 28 March 2013 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Number of bonus shares 84,685 73,649 19,416 11,200 (*) 35,645 79,859 78,485 21,791 9,540 34,329 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, €20.50 €20.50 €20.50 €20.50 €20.50 €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 before reduction Fair value of bonus shares €17.75 €17.75 €17.75 €19.31 €17.75 €23.47 €23.47 €26.28 €26.28 €23.47 (*) Bonus shares free of any performance conditions specific to the Group or the stock market. 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, the Deputy CEO, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the Group’s French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the Group’s French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the Group’s American subsidiaries. 128 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Plan dated 27 March 2014 Plan dated 1 April 2015 Plan dated 1 June 2016 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 65,018 56,062 19,405 21,685 53,021 47,572 21,484 39,970 64,019 72,208 41,336 64,727 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, €29.75 €29.75 €29.75 €29.75 €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 before reduction Fair value of bonus shares €20.01 €20.01 €21.74 €20.01 €31.10 €31.10 €31.24 €31.24 €47.73 €47.73 €49.04 €47.73 (*) Bonus shares free of any performance conditions specific to the Group or the stock market. 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, the Deputy CEO, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the Group’s French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the Group’s French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the Group’s American subsidiaries. 5.6.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated (in millions of euros) 30 March 28 March 27 March TOTAL 1 April 2015 1 June 2016 2012 2013 2014 Opening valuation of active plans 4.0 5.3 3.1 4.4 10.5 27.3 at 31 December 2016 Note 6 Subsidiaries and affiliates (Amounts in thousands of currency units) Number Carrying amount of shares held Amount of Equity other Percentage Outstanding Dividends Detailed information for each endorsments, Sales, net of than share of share loans and Net profit (loss) collected by interest, in which gross value Share guarantees, and VAT, for the last capital and capital Gross advances for the last year the Company exceeds 1% of the company’s capital Interest Shares Provisions letters of intent year (avg. exch. excl. net held amounts granted by the (avg. exch. rate) in the last year, share capital provided by the rate) profit % Company net of ESOP Company 1. SUBSIDIARIES Sutrepa €130 K €209,894 K 64 166,580 €88,816 K – – – – €3,355 K – Ipsen Pharma €5,856 K €412,439 K 100 188,905 €1,078,615 K – – – €1,084,568 K €178,519 K – Socapharma €30 K €(23) K 100 30,000 €30 K – – – – €(3) K – General information for other interests, in which gross value exceeds 1% of the company’s share capital 1. Equity interests in foreign companies Ipsen Poland LLC PLN1,210 K PLN7,156 K 0 1 15 K€ – – – – (1 136) KPLN – 2016 Ipsen Registration document 129 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 7 Cash flow statement (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Opening cash and cash equivalents 5.0 0.0 Net profit (loss) (24.3) 191.4 Elimination of income and expense with no impact on cash flow – – or not used in operating activities – Net depreciation, amortization and provision charges (4.0) (21.9) Cash flow (28.3) 169.5 Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities 15.1 (29.0) Net cash flow from operating activities (13.2) 140.5 Acquisition of equity investments – – Disposal of equity investments – – Other cash flow related to financing activities 3.7 (0.4) Change in working capital related to investment activities (0.3) – Net cash provided (used) by investment activities 3.4 (0.4) Repayment of borrowings (0.2) (0.3) Debt issues 331.3 0.1 Change in share capital 9.3 5.4 Share repurchasing agreement (7.4) (22.1) Dividends paid (70.0) (70.0) Change in working capital related to financing activities (148.3) (48.3) Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 114.8 (135.1) Changes in cash and cash equivalents 105.0 5.0 Closing cash and cash equivalents 110.1 5.0 Note 8 Subsequent events On 9 January 2017, Ipsen announced that it had entered including probiotics, medical devices and food supplements. into a definitive agreement to acquire global oncology assets As part of the transaction, Akkadeas Pharma will become from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, including its key marketed Ipsen’s Italian distributor for Smecta® (Diosmectal®). product Onivyde ® (irinotecan liposome injection) for the On 13 February 2017, Ipsen announced that it had entered treatment of patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the into a definitive agreement to acquire five consumer healthcare pancreas after disease progression following gemcitabineproducts in certain European territories from Sanofi. The based therapy, in combination with fluorouracil and most significant product is Prontalgine ®, an analgesic for leucovorin. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen will the treatment of moderate to severe pain, which has grown gain exclusive commercialization rights for the current and at double-digit rates over the last four years and is available potential future Onivyde® indications in the U.S., as well as the only in France. The portfolio also includes Buscopan ®, current licensing agreements with Shire for commercialization an antispasmodic; Suppositoria Glycerini, a laxative; and rights ex-U.S. and PharmaEngine for Taiwan. The transaction Mucothiol® and Mucodyne®, expectorants for cough and flu. also includes Merrimack’s commercial and manufacturing Combined, these regional brands span a geographic area of infrastructure, and generic doxorubicin HCl liposome eight European countries. Manufacturing will be provided by injection. The upfront payment made at the closing of the deal third-parties. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen will pay came to USD575 million. In addition, future payments of up to €83million in cash for the products upon closing. USD450 million may be made upon the approval of potential additional indications. No other event occurring between the closing date of the Company’s annual financial statements and the date of their On 31 January 2017, Ipsen announced that it had signed an approval by the Chairman, and not taken into consideration, agreement to take an equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma with an was likely to call into question the annual financial statements option to take control of the company in the future. Akkadeas themselves or make it necessary to mention such an event in Pharma is a privately-held consumer healthcare company the notes to the annual financial statements. in Italy with a diversified gastrointestinal-focused portfolio 130 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the specific verification of information given in the management report and in the documents addressed to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered office: 65, Quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Statutory Auditors’ Report on the annual financial statements Year ended 31 December 2016 To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended 31 December 2016, on: • the audit of the accompanying financial statements of Ipsen S.A.; • the justification of our assessments; • the specific verification and information required by law. These financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. 1. Opinion on the annual financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2016 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. 2. Justification of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matter: Note 2.1.2.2 to the financial statements describes the method used by the Company to measure the carrying value of its financial assets and investments in subsidiaries and affiliates. Our procedures consisted in assessing the data and assumptions on which these estimates are based, in particular the cash flow forecasts set out by the Company’s operational management, reviewing calculations made by the Company, understanding the approval procedures by the management of these estimates. We verified that the disclosure provided in notes 2.1.2.2, 3.1 and 6 to the financial statements is appropriate. We assessed that the estimates made by the Company were reasonable. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. 3. Specific verification We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law. We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors, and in the documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to remuneration and benefits received by the Directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from companies controlling your company or controlled by it. Based on this work, we attest to the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the identity of the shareholders or holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. Paris La Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, on the 22 February 2017 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés A division of KPMG S.A. Philippe Grandclerc Jean-Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner 2016 Ipsen Registration document 131 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity ■■2.3.4.1 Significant events of the year Significant events of the year are disclosed in the first part of the notes to the annual financial statements. ■■2.3.4.2 Business activity (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 Services 18.2 21.1 Net sales 18.2 21.1 Services correspond primarily to personnel-related expenses billed back to the subsidiaries. ■■2.3.4.3 Net profit (loss) The following table provides a summary of the main aggregate items on the income statement: (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 Net sales 18.2 21.1 Operating losses (12.9) (24.5) Net financial income 44.7 210.0 Profit on ordinary activities 31.8 185.6 Net extraordinary income (expense) (57.1) 0.4 Employee profit-sharing – – Pre-tax profit (25.3) 186.0 Income tax income 1.0 5.5 Net profit (loss) (24.3) 191.4 Operating losses declined by €11.6 million over the €9.4 million a year earlier. That result corresponds to the tax performance in the 2015 financial year. The main observations consolidation income. are as follows: ■■2.3.4.5 Funding • Re-invoicing to subsidiaries was down by €2.9 million, The cash flow statement disclosed in the notes shows an • The €14.4 million decline in operating expenses, net of increase in cash and cash equivalents at the close of 2016, provision reversals and expense transfers, resulted primarily arising mainly from interest-bearing deposits. from: –– The €2 million decrease in the “wages and salaries” and ■■2.3.4.6 Net cash flow from operating activities “payroll on-costs” line items arising from reclassifying The decrease observed in net cash flow from operating €4.8 million in provision charges for contingencies and activities in 2016 stemmed notably from the net loss reported losses into personnel expense in 2015, the €4.9 million for the year, versus net profit in 2015. increase in indemnities and bonuses, and the €1.9 million decrease in expenses related to bonus share and stock ■■2.3.4.7 Net cash provided (used) by investment option plans. activities –– The €10 million decrease in amortization expense related Net cash flow used by investment activities resulted mainly primarily the variation in provisions for medium-term from the Company’s own-share purchases and sales made bonus plans and bonus share allocation plans. under the liquidity agreement in 2016, resulting in a net use of Net financial income fell by €165.3 million, primarily as a funds totaling €0.2 million. In addition, in line with the 3 June result of the Company collecting no dividends in 2016, versus 2015 share repurchasing program, 80,000 of the Company’s dividends of €172.5 million received in 2015, and the higher own shares were cancelled in July 2016, resulting in a net use reversals of equity investment write-downs on the Ipsen of funds totaling €3.9 million. Biopharmaceuticals and Suraypharm subsidiaries (see notes 1.4 and 4.3). ■■2.3.4.8 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities ■■2.3.4.4 Income tax After a net use of funds totaling €135.1 million at the close of At 31 December 2016, the Company reported income the 2015 financial year, financing activities generated a net tax income of €3.1 million, versus income tax income of source of funds totaling €114.8 million at 31 December 2016. 132 2016 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The €331.1 million net increase in debt issues stemmed from 2007, 29 September 2008 and 30 March 2009 stock option the following items: plans, the Group’s July 2016 employee savings program • €301.3 million from the notes issued in June 2016 (see and the 30 March 2012 and 27 March 2014 bonus share note 1.2); That amount includes accrued interest but is net plans. of the redemption premium (see note 3.5); and In 2016, the Company paid out €69.7 million in dividends, • €30 million from the commercial paper drawn at compared with €70 million in 2015. 31 December 2016 (see note 3.9.2). At 31 December 2016, the Company’s current account balance The €9.3 million net increase in shareholders’ equity resulted with Group companies showed a debit of €162.8 million, from the following items: up €148.3 million over a debit current account balance of • The €0.3 million increase in share capital as described in €14.5 million at 31 December 2015. note 3.3.7 of the notes to Company financial statements; ■■2.3.4.9 Subsequent events • The €12.8 million increase in issue premiums arising from the creation of new shares following the exercise of stock Subsequent events are disclosed in note 8 of the notes to the options; and Company’s annual financial statements. • In line with the 3 June 2015 share repurchasing program, ■■2.3.4.10 Business trends and outlook the July 2016 cancellation of 80,000 of the Company’s own shares totaling €3.9 million, of which €3.8 million were In 2016, Ipsen S.A.’s net profit will be derived essentially from deducted from reserves. the dividends it receives from its subsidiaries, its financial expense and the tax consolidation gain. The €7.4 million change in uses of funds from share buyback agreements arose from the following transactions: ■■2.3.4.11 Subsidiaries and affiliates • The repurchase by the Company in the 2016 financial year The lion’s share of sales from Ipsen S.A. subsidiaries are of 400,000 of its own shares totaling €24 million, as part of generated by the marketing and sale of proprietary drugs the share buyback program announced by the Company prescribed by the medical profession. Purchases of most of on 28 June 2016 (See note 1.3); the drugs are reimbursed by national health programs. • The allotment of 312,655 bonus shares totaling €16.6 million to beneficiaries of the 12 December 2006, 12 December 2016 2015 (in millions of euros) Sales Net profit (loss) Sales Net profit (loss) Ipsen Pharma 1,084.6 178.5 1,038.8 185.8 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc.(*) – – 138.1 (19.7) Sutrepa – 3.4 – 87.5 Suraypharm(*) – – – 20.6 Socapharma – (0.0) – (0.0) (*) On 18 November 2016, Ipsen S.A. transferred its entire interests in Suraypharm S.A.S. and Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. to Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. (see note 1.4). The list of subsidiaries and affiliates is provided in the notes to • 64.08% invoices not yet received in 2016; the Company’s annual financial statements. • 4.47% balance consisting of overdue invoices. ■■2.3.4.12 Accounting principles and methods At 31 December 2015, the “Trade and accounts payable” line No changes were made in the accounting principles and item totaled €1,051,000 and broke down as follows: methods versus the prior year. • 18.77% Group payables to suppliers; ■■2.3.4.13 Payment due dates • 77.24% invoices not yet received in 2015; The following information on due dates for payables • 3.99% balance consisting of overdue invoices. and receivables is provided in accordance with Article L.441-6-1 and Decree 441-4 of France’s Trade and accounts receivable Commercial Code. At 31 December 2016, the “Trade and accounts receivable” Trade and accounts payable line item came to €14.1 million and consisted of Group trade receivables. At 31 December 2016, the “Trade and accounts payable” line item totaled €1,286,000 and broke down as follows: At 31 December 2015, the “Trade and accounts receivable” line item amounted to €11 million and consisted of Group • 31.45% Group payables to suppliers; trade receivables. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 133 2 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2016 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■2.3.4.14 Sumptuary spending No non-tax-deductible expenses targeted under Article 39-4 of the French Tax Code were added back during the financial year just ended. ■■2.3.4.15 Net profit (loss) for the period The net loss for the 2016 financial year came to €24.3 million. ■■2.3.4.16 Dividend payout In accordance with Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, the dividends paid out for the last three financial years were as follows: Annual dividend payout (in euros) Dividend per share Total (*) 2014 65,520,394 0.80 2015 70,005,861 0.85 2016 70,759,527 0.85 (*) After cancelling dividends on treasury shares in retained earnings. ■■2.3.4.17 Company earnings and other financial highlights over the past five years 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Share capital at year–end – Share capital (in millions of euros) 84.3 84.2 82.9 83.2 83.6 – Number of shares 84,255.4 84,242.7 82,869.1 83,245.6 83,557.9 –N  umber of outstanding preferred shares without – – – – – voting rights – Maximum number of shares to be created – – – – – Transactions and results for the year (in millions of euros) – Net sales 19.7 10.2 16.1 21.1 18.2 –E  arnings before income tax, employee profit– 70.9 57.1 113.3 164.0 (76.5) sharing, amortization, depreciation and provisions – Income tax income (expense) 22.5 5.0 8.6 5.5 1.0 – Employee profit–sharing for the year (0.1) (0.0) (0.0) 0.0 0.0 –E  arnings after income tax, employee profit–sharing, 91.7 62.1 114.2 191.4 (24.3) amortization, depreciation and provisions – Dividends paid out(**) 66.5 66.6 65.5 70.0 70.0 Earnings per share (in euros) –E  arnings after income tax and employee profit– sharing, but before amortization, depreciation and 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 (1.0) provisions –E  arnings after income tax, employee profit–sharing, 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 0.0 amortization, depreciation and provisions – Dividend per share 0.80 0.80 0.80 0.85 0.85 Personnel (in millions of euros) – Average number of employees during the year(*) 18 17 16 17 15 – Total payroll for the year 10.1 10.1 16.6 25.1 22.9 –T  otal payroll on–costs for the year (social security, 5.6 4.2 6.2 8.2 8.4 welfare, etc.) (*) Including Management bodies. (**) Dividends on treasury shares are posted to retained earnings. 134 2016 Ipsen Registration document 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3.1 HUMAN RESOURCES 136 3.1.1 Group workforce 136 3.1.2 The Group’s Human Resources policy 138 3.2 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 140 3.2.1 Regulatory Issues 140 3.2.2 EHS Policy 141 3.2.3 EHS 2016 Performance 142 3.2.4 Internal resources 151 3.2.5 2016 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 151 3.3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 154 3.3.1 Social relations 154 3.3.2 Societal information 155 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES HUMAN RESOURCES 3.1 HUMAN RESOURCES 3.1.1 Group workforce At 31 December 2016, 45% of the Group’s 4,907 employees were employed outside the major Western European countries. The following table shows a geographical analysis of Group’s employees by function. Split Sales and Manufacturing Research and Administration Total marketing and supply Development and other At 31 December 2016 Major Western European countries (1) 878 899 459 447 2,683 Other European countries 292 120 22 49 483 North America 236 5 55 52 348 Rest of the world (2) 1,203 70 11 109 1,393 Total 2,609 1,094 547 657 4,907 At 31 December 2015 Major Western European countries (1) 844 820 461 462 2,587 Other European countries 247 108 39 46 440 North America 192 7 54 43 296 Rest of the world (2) 1,084 83 29 116 1,312 Total 2,367 1,018 583 667 4,635 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Structure and trends The following tables provide an insight into the structure and recent trends in the Group’s workforce. Overall workforce trends 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Major Western European countries (1) 2,683 2,587 Other European countries 483 440 North America 348 296 Rest of the world (2) 1,393 1,312 Total 4,907 4,635 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Analysis of the workforce by type of employment contract (joint ventures non included) As illustrated by these tables, the Group maintains a high level of permanent jobs. (As a percentage) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Permanent 85% 86% Non-permanent 15% 14% Part-time (As a percentage) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Full-time 95% 95% Part-time 5% 5% 136 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 HUMAN RESOURCES Analysis of the workforce by employment category (joint ventures non included) Non Sales force Sales force(1) Exempt staff Non-exempt staff Exempt staff Non-exempt staff At 31 December 2016 1,607 1,652 1,218 380 At 31 December 2015 1,408 1,630 1,138 409 (1) “Field” sales force. Recruitments (joint ventures non included) 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Of which Of which Total Total Perm Fixed term Perm Fixed term Major Western European countries (1) 531 377 154 402 283 119 Other European countries 118 72 46 86 50 36 North America 109 107 2 106 106 – Rest of the world (2) 386 127 259 291 108 183 Total 1,144 683 461 885 547 338 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. The high number of recruitments in 2016 is related among others to the launch of Cabometyx. Termination of employees (joint ventures non included) Redundancies, Mutual Resignations, end Retirements, Total dismissals agreement of fixed-term contracts, deaths seasonal contracts 2016 financial year Major Western European countries (1) 155 27 228 28 438 Other European countries 16 2 57 1 76 North America 15 – 43 58 Rest of the world (2) 45 65 188 2 300 Total 231 94 516 31 872 2015 financial year Major Western European countries (1) 170 11 220 28 429 Other European countries 23 1 57 – 81 North America 20 1 35 2 58 Rest of the world (2) 40 35 156 1 232 Total 253 48 468 31 800 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Absenteeism Absenteeism reasons taken into account: illness, work/journey accident, unjustified absence unpaid. The following table shows the absenteeism rates by function during the 2016 and 2015 financial years: 2016 financial year 2015 financial year Manufacturing and supply chain 4.3% 4.1% Sales and marketing 1.6% 1.3% Administration and other 2.9% 3.6% Research and Development 1.9% 2.9% Total 2.5% 2.5% Ipsen Registration document 2016 137 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES HUMAN RESOURCES 3.1.2 The Group’s Human Resources policy Ipsen’s Human Resources policy is dedicated to supporting Internal mobility and enabling the Group’s strategy. The Human Resources Ipsen actively promotes internal mobility. Indeed, whether it team aims at creating the right framework: be geographical or functional, mobility is key to employees’ • to foster the professional development and growth of all professional development and to the company’s dynamism. employees through continuous dialogue about their needs It enables to offer new career opportunities (including and motivations, whilst offering a wide variety of training international) and contributes to the company’s performance and development opportunities, improvement overall. • to promote a culture of agility, results orientation, team spirit Since 2010, an internal mobility page is available to all and accountability, employees and job vacancies are systematically advertised • to enhance the employee’s engagement through an on the Group’s intranet portal. This portal has enhanced its inclusive environment, a culture of continuous improvement look & feel in 2016 to make it more user friendly and appealing and a competitive compensation policy which rewards their to our employees and to reinforce our Employer Brand and contribution. Action Principles. Also, Mobility Committees are held every month for the Business HR Directors and the Corporate Individual performance assessment HR team to review all internal job opportunities and identify The Individual Performance Appraisal Process (IPAP) is potential candidates anywhere in the organization. an essential process in the management of people. It is Development and training an ongoing process with formal appraisal meetings. The dialogue between the manager and each team member is The Group consistently aims at providing its employees an opportunity to set clear expectations on the employee’s with efficient development methods adapted to the needs contribution to the Group’s strategic objectives. of the Group and to the specificities of each business. In order to promote the development of managerial skills, the The IPAP provides managers with the means to motivate Group relies on Ipsen Management Academy, which not only and encourage their team members to achieve challenging offers high-performance training courses, but also promotes but realistic objectives. The outcome of the goal-setting innovative development opportunities through peer-to-peer interview should allow alignment and agreement on the exchanges. expected performance – job expectations, annual targets and behaviors – and the definition of the means to enable the In addition, the Group is modernizing and expanding its employee to reach them. At year end, it is an opportunity for training offering thanks to Ipsen Learning Platform, which the employee and the manager to summarize their dialogue combines all the training resources in a single system. throughout the year on the employee’s performance and the difficulties they may have encountered. Talent Management and Development In 2016, we conducted our Annual Talent Review. We improved Recruitment and mobility the efficiency of this process by clarifying the criteria to define In 2016, the Group pursued the recruitment strategy to our key positions and or “talents” (top performing employees support the execution of our business objectives with a clear with high potential to grow). This bottom-up process ensures focus on the needs for the launch of Cabometyx. Emphasis proper planning and coverage/succession of our key jobs and was also placed on improving the recruitment process business continuity. regarding the time-to-hire and the best qualified candidates. Additional investment was made to simplify and making the Launched in 2015, the Personal Development Meeting (PDM) process more efficient. is a key element of our Employees’ Development Process and allows each employee to make an update with his/her Recruitment manager on the employee’s professional experience, skills, Ipsen’s commitment to ensure diversity within its workforce motivations, and to identify employee’s development areas starts with a call to recruit a broad range of profiles and and professional expectations and interests. It leads to the competencies (cf. “Equal opportunities and diversity within formalization of an action plan whose implementation is the Group”). In 2016, the Group recruited a total of 1,144 new accompanied and advised by our Human Resources experts. employees, which split as follows: 17% in Manufacturing and Based on the belief that beyond technical skills and expertise, supply chain, 10% in Research and Development, 60 % in it is the way people act that will make the difference, ten Sales and Marketing and 13% in support functions. behavioral competencies are identified as critical for the The split by gender of our recruitments (57% women and efficiency of the company and to boost its transformation. 43% of men) shows our strong commitment as an equal They ensure a consistent approach to management and opportunity employer. support the Group’s execution of its strategy. Once recruited, new employees are welcomed and integrated Additionally, mentoring, and coaching programs are in place to Ipsen via either local programs at site level, Divisional or to support our selected managers and executives improve Functional events and programs and/or Global Induction their leadership skills and business impact. seminars for experienced Managers coupled with the access to numerous resources through our e-learning and Training and development investment communication portal and tools. The investment of the Group in training and development 138 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 HUMAN RESOURCES in 2016 was in support of both the strategic needs of the Split per age (joint ventures non included) company and of the individual performance. The employee’s needs are identified through the performance management 2016 2015 process (short-term needs) and through the Personal Under 30 years old 10% 10% Development Meeting (long-term needs). 30-50 years old 71% 72% In 2016 the number of hours of training per employee is higher Over 50 years old 19% 18% than 25. Over the past three years, the total number of training hours Equal opportunities for men and women provided by the Group has been as follows: Among the measures implemented within the Group, the most significant one relates to equal opportunities for men and Number of hours women. Gender equality at Ipsen is founded, for instance, on 2016 2015 2014 of training work-life balance – flexible working hours, part-time working – TOTAL 127,069 112,071 110,687 with no adverse effect on career prospects. Equal opportunities and diversity within the Group By signing of a new triennal agreement on 1 February 2015 The Group endeavors to ensure that all employees benefit in France, Ipsen has renewed and enriched its agreement from non-discrimination rules which apply in the country on equal opportunities for men and women. Among the new they are employed in. At Group level, employment and measures: compensation policies are based on objective criteria and • a partnership with “Les Petits Chaperons Rouges” nurseries, individual merit. Employees are thus given equal opportunities • commitment through the signing of the “Char ter of without any discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, parenting”. gender, disability, family situation, sexuality, age, nationality or ethnic background. It is within this context and in view to pursue commitments related to equal gender opportunities that in France a telework Certain Group companies have defined equal opportunities agreement was signed in 2016 to enable better work-life policy (United Kingdom), while others have incorporated balance. measures ensuring equal opportunities into their recruitment policy (Poland, Korea) or into more general codes of conduct Beyond the legal rules about discriminations due to sex, Ipsen (Italy). reaffirms that the principles of equal opportunity between all employees constitutes a value applicable from hiring The average age of employees in the Group is 41. throughout the career. The following table provides an analysis of the number of male and female employees within the Group, per employment category: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 (as a percentage) Male Female Male Female Non-field sales force Exempt staff 14.6% 18.5% 13.6% 17.1% Non-exempt staff 12.9% 21.1% 13.2% 22.3% Field sales force Exempt staff 11.5% 13.5% 11.2% 13.6% Non-exempt staff 2.3% 5.5% 2.9% 6.0% Total 41% 59% 41% 59% Integration of disabled workers • Develop a formal purchasing policy to outsource contracts Since 2009, Ipsen has been committed to helping disabled with centers employing disabled workers; workers find their place within the company. • Communicate, raise awareness and train: various initiatives In France, Ipsen has signed in January 2014 a partnership with are rolled-out on sites to engage employees on this topic an association created by the LEEM (French Pharmaceutical and more broadly on Diversity. Companies Association) to implement an industry-wide Ipsen is also a founding member of the first French Club agreement regarding disability. This association enables House, a non-profit organization specialized in helping people companies to pool and coordinate their efforts and costs in with psychical problems. line with four priorities: • Recruitment; Employing young and senior workers and transferring knowledge • Maintain disabled workers in their position: site Human Resources managers and labor doctors anticipate critical Ipsen pursues its’ commitment in France to employing young situations to enable employees to pursue their professional and senior workers as well as transferring knowledge through activity; the signature of a new agreement in 2016. Ipsen Registration document 2016 139 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY For young workers, it aims at: giving them access to longin compensation and benefits paid by Group companies term employment; improving their integration in the company; depend on local circumstances. Hence, as a part of French developing their competencies thanks to the experience of mandatory annual negociations an agreement on wages was more senior colleagues. signed in 2016. For senior workers, it aims at: maintaining their employment; Based on their level of responsibility, employees are eligible enabling them to transfer their knowledge; helping them to a variable compensation. The proportion of variable prepare and make plans for retirement. compensation has been increased with efforts by the Group to foster a performance-based culture, and this policy will be Group’s compensation and benefits policy reinforced over the coming years. Compensation and benefits Furthermore, a profit sharing agreement was signed in France Ipsen’s compensation and benefits policy is based on three in 2016 for a three-year duration in order to extend an existing main principles which are: employee savings plan and strengthen the employees’ • External competitiveness; commitment to the Group results ensuring at the same time a solidarity between French entities and the reinforcement of • Internal equity ; local performance recognition. • Performance rewarding. Based on the 2016 salary review, the Group’s salary mass These principles are applied in the countries where the Group increased by 2.0% on 1 March 2016 due to merit increases is established and fit to the local social-economic and legal (not including Brazil since their salary review occurs in July). context. Annual pay increases are implemented using identical frameworks, tools and schedules for the entire Group. Trends 3.2 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY The Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) data presented production of active substances, and the activities up to in this document and originating from the implementation and including the final finished products (Perimeter 1). For of Ipsen’s EHS policy stem from the consolidation of EHS the most representative indicators of EHS, the perimeter has data from all ten sites. They include the activities of the been extended to integrate the data from commercial offices research and development (R&D) centers, those of the (Perimeter 2) which are detailed in the methodology notes. 3.2.1 Regulatory Issues Ipsen’s activities are regulated by the applicable health, safety 2010 as of 7 January 2014 => Official Bulletin of European and environmental legislation. Union L 334 of 17 December 2010) and n° 2010/75/UE of 24 November 2010 related to integrated pollution prevention In Western Europe, Ipsen’s manufacturing sites and and control, and industrial emissions. research and development centers are located in countries belonging to the European Union. Within the European These directives define a system introducing specific Union, environmental and labour legislation have significantly operating procedures (declaration or filing for authorization developed since the early 1980s. to operate) and cover all environmental issues potentially facing an industrial site (for example, waste management, Concerning workplace health and safety, Ipsen companies environmental discharges, use, handling and storage of are subject to regulatory requirements to protect the health toxic and/or hazardous substances). These directives and safety of employees, particularly through the assessment have been and will be enacted progressively in national of occupational risk. Legislation and regulation in this area are legislation in every EU member state and their provisions regularly strengthened. must be observed at each of Ipsen’s facilities located in these countries. Furthermore, the European Parliament adopted These last years have seen the emergence of new directive 2004/35 on 24 April 2004 on environmental liability requirements around environment, health and safety in related to the prevention and remediation of environmental Europe related to the management of chemical hazards, to damage. The Directive, now enacted in EU member states psychological risks as well as to the environment through the and in France since August 2008, established “the polluter energy consumption and carbon emission impacts as well as pays principle” in the case of environmental damages caused through waste management impacts. by the user’s activities. Regarding environmental legislation, the sites are covered In France, the requirements in terms of sustainable in 2016 by EU Directive No. 2008/1/CE of 15 January 2008 development have par tly been enforced through the (Text abrogated by Article 81 of Directive No. 2010/75/EU of publication of decrees related to the laws of the Grenelle the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November on the thematic of energy efficiency, reduction of energy 140 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY consumption, risk management or preservation of health. 1910,1200 “Hazard Communication Standard” of 26 March As part of its commitment to compliance, Ipsen ensures 2012 and in China with the decree n° 7 Chinese Ministry the inclusion of these new requirements in its new project of Environment protection. These texts are intended to development. harmonize devices and chemicals management based on similar principles to those of REACH and GHS. The REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) was formally adopted on In the light of these important European regulatory issues, 1 June 2007. Its aim is to improve the protection of human Ipsen proactively monitors new information concerning health and the environment and has been the subject of a EU directives. Ipsen is currently analyzing the impact of detailed analysis by Ipsen. This analysis has enabled Ipsen regulations with special attention to those regarding energy to control the impact on Ipsen activities. In order to fully efficiency, greenhouse gases, substances that deplete the understand and define the risks to our business and put in ozone layer, and more generally, on changes in EHS legislation place appropriate mitigation plans, Ipsen has implemented applicable to its business activities. a governance on REACH in the form of a multi-disciplinary Given its increasing integration with worldwide trade steering committee and a task force with members covering channels, China has for several years been developing a all of our manufacturing activities (both in-house and at specific framework of EHS regulations. The manufacturing contract manufacturers). In addition to mitigating the potential facility operated by Ipsen in China is thus subject to a set risks, the REACH steering committee and task force will of regulations in this area. The highest Chinese authority increase general awareness of the regulation and its potential for environmental issues is the Ministry of Environmental impacts across multiple fields of activity in Ipsen.Finally, Protection (EPM) which is leading its local branch organized Ipsen continues to watch over successive amendments to in Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) in each province. the regulations, in particular concerning the evolution of the Each EPB reports directly to the Ministry as well as to local substance classification that may impact its business or authorities. The EPB supervises each company according products in the medium or long term. to its relative size, as such; the site in Tianjin is controlled In 20 0 8, the re gulation imple me nting inte r nationa l by the Tianjin Huayuan industrial zone EPB. In parallel, the recommendations from the Global Harmonisation System highest authority for safety is the State Administration of (GHS) on the labelling of chemical substances was disclosed. Work Safety of the People’s Republic of China who has the This regulation (CE) n° 1272/2008 of 16 December 2008, same organizational system of various branches. Thus, the called Characterization, Labelling and Packaging (CLP) Huanyuan Industrial Zone branch supervises the Tianjin site. defines the new rules for classification, packaging and For health, it is the State Administration of Work Safety of the labelling of chemical products in Europe. This new system People’s Republic of China which takes into account these will progressively replace the pre-existing European system. questions. It is applicable to substances since 1 December 2010. The The Cambridge research and development center in the measures of this regulation concern both chemicals having United States is subject to health, environmental and an effect on the environment and those having an impact work safety regulations specific to the United States. That on the health and safety of workers. The procedures for framework is, for the most part, similar to the framework implementing this new regulation and its impact on Ipsen’s in Western European countries. U.S. legislation is based activities have been analysed. Since 2010, Ipsen ensures that on a regulatory system at both the state and federal levels. the required notifications of chemical products from Ipsen are Federal authorities are represented by the EPA (Environmental realized. Protection Agency) which develops environmental regulations A newly developing area that is being monitored and applicable to industry and by OSHA (Occupational Safety evaluated internally is the issue concerning Pharmaceuticals and Health Administration) in charge of developing health and in the Environment (PIE). Specific legislation has not yet safety regulations to ensure a safe working environment. The been developed but Ipsen understands that this is an area State of Massachusetts, in turn, is responsible for enforcing that must be managed properly to prevent the impact of our federal laws, which are interpreted to be the minimum active ingredients on the environment. Actions underway level of requirements, and can make them more stringent. are to evaluate actual emissions from our manufacturing EPA, OSHA and the states conduct inspections to ensure sites for specific peptides to determine if these materials are regulatory compliance. being released in our waste water discharges. Preliminary Finally, at the international level, Ipsen watches carefully for monitoring has not detected these materials to date. Further events that could have a direct or indirect impact on the sampling and analyses are planned to ensure that this remains various business activities of Ipsen regarding EHS, and the case. monitors with particular attention the guidance given at postThe regulatory upgrades concerning chemicals management Kyoto international meetings. also appeared in the United States as the OSHA standard 3.2.2 EHS Policy ■■3.2.2.1 Ipsen’s EHS policy and Chief Executive Officer (now Chairman of the Board of In 2016, Ipsen updated and released its Environment, Health Directors for Ipsen). Ipsen has hired a new Chief Executive and Safety (EHS) policy (as shown below). The new policy was Officer, David Meek, so the EHS Policy will be reissued with signed by the Executive Committee including the Chairman his signature in 2017. Ipsen Registration document 2016 141 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY This new policy focuses on the commitment and accountability preventable, and that each and every one of us has an of employees in regards to EHS. It places the individual at the important role to play in preventing them. We want to inspire core of its actions. everyone in Ipsen community to make a personal commitment to being proactive and react to all unsafe situations before an ■■3.2.2.2 Ipsen EHS Manual and 2020 Goals accident occurs. We encourage open dialog and individual Ipsen Environment, Health and Safety Management Manual empowerment with a challenge to all to consider how we can describes the management and operational standards all perform our work more safely. This cultural change which necessary to protect the environment, and to respect began in 2014/2015 is now well embedded in Ipsen and will our health and safety. The goal of this Manual is to drive continue to drive better EHS performance in future years. continuous improvement in EHS performance. By making a daily commitment to the health and safety of From an operational perspective, Ipsen’s EHS policy is employees and to the environment, and by focusing on the implemented through a 3-year rolling strategic plan. This plan dissemination of best practices and the implementation drives the development of annual targets which are applicable of preventive actions, EHS is an integral component of to all of Ipsen’s sites. The EHS strategic plan was approved by sustainable development and demonstrating Corporate Ipsen Executive Committee in August 2014 and includes the Social Responsibility at Ipsen. establishment of a new EHS governance system within the organization, the individual involvement and commitment of each employee, the gradual deployment of EHS objectives to office activities and support functions, risk reduction through targeted programs and better visibility through internal and external communication. An Ipsen EHS Council was created consisting of the Executive Committee. This Council meets twice per year to discuss EHS performance and set EHS strategic direction for the next period. In 2016, two Council meetings were held and delivered the revised EHS Policy signed by the Council members and three 2020 targets designed to demonstrate Ipsen’s desire to be best in class with our pharma peers in the EHS area. These targets are as follows: • Reduce the medicalized accident frequency rate to less than 2.00 by 2020 using 2016 as the baseline; • Reduce energy consumption and carbon greenhouse gas emissions by 5% by 2020 using 2016 as the baseline; • Reduce water consumption by 30% by 2020 using 2016 as the baseline. The focus since 2008 has been to put in place an EHS management system for Ipsen to ensure site compliance and the operational control of activities. The strategic plan sets 2017 ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification for all manufacturing sites with the eclusion of our joint venture in Cork and our primary care facility located in Tianjin, China (Perimeter 1). Ipsen’s R&D sites will join the group certification in 2020. In addition, integrating these various EHS elements into the business allows Ipsen to ensure a better product management as well as better control of its production equipment. Our “People Based Safety” (PBS) program, our flagship project, is designed to focus on individual responsibilities to raise awareness that all accidents are 3.2.3 EHS 2016 Performance 3.2.3.1 Compliance and External Recognition Ipsen has a set of requirements and good practices which are In this highly regulated environment, one of Ipsen’s primary captured in its global EHS standards. These EHS Standards concerns is regulatory compliance. As such, Corporate were revised in 2016 and several new EHS Standards were EHS is particularly focused on the establishment of global added in order to make these EHS Standards comprehensive standards in Environment, Health and Safety (EHS). Thus, and complete. It is important to note that the standards each site ensures the compliance of its activities and facilities defining the management systems for Ipsen are aligned with in relation to applicable legal requirements in order to better the occupational health-safety standard OHSAS 18001 and control health and safety risks and environmental impacts. the environmental standard ISO 14001. 142 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY In 2015 and 2016, these EHS Standards were reviewed, the exception of our joint venture in Cork, Ireland, and our revised and new Standards developed to fill gaps in the original primay care facility in Tianjin, China, within the Perimeter 1 EHS Standards. These revised and new EHS Standards were by 2017. Ipsen certification for the manufacturing operations released in 2016 with an expected implementation schedule will conclude in 2017 with an Ipsen group certification. The that goes out through 2018. These EHS Standards apply to R&D sites will join Ipsen certification in 2020 and are working all R&D and Manfcaturing operations within Ipsen. A separate toward having their sites prepare and evaluate against the two commercial office EHS manual was also developed and standards over the next three year period. released in 2016 wich details the EHS requirements to be Currently, five manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 certified: followed by commercial office locations. This new Manual is Dreux, Signes, L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, Cork and Tianjin. Dreux being rolled out to our eight largest affiliate offices currently and Signes were certified in 2011. L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, Cork (France, UK, Russia, China, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the and Tianjin received their certificates in 2004, 2008 and 2010, USA). The other affiliate offices will implement this Manual in respectively. It is noted that these certifications are subject 2018/2019. A third set of EHS Standards is in development to annual surveillance audits and are renewed every 3 years. for our joint venture plantations which deal with EHS issues Once Ipsen Group certification is achieved, these individual related to industrial agricultural operations (Ginkgo biloba certifications will be discontinued with the exception of Cork plantations located in France and the USA). This Manual is (joint venture) and Tianjin (unique Chinese requirements), drafted and going through final approval and implementation which will stay outside Ipsen Group certification for the time in 2017. being. The sites of Ipsen have moved forward with the implementation Several sites are certified regarding OHSAS 18001: the site of these global standards through action plans and have of Dreux in 2011 and the site of Cork in 2010.. Tianjin is going reached a high level of compliance with regard to internal through the certification process currently and is expected to requirements. This process continues to improve and is have this by June 2017. tested through an internal audit process administered by our Global Internal Audit function which is independent of the EHS Other sites such as Les Ulis, Oxford-Milton Park (formerly function. Abingdon), Cambridge, Dublin and Wrexham are in the process of conforming to the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. It is important to note that in 2016 Ipsen received two notices The site of Wrexham obtained the certification to BS 8555 of violation regarding compliance with air emissions and (Phase 3), an environmental certification standard, from the waste water discharges at its facility located in Dublin. These UK authorities. Furthermore, this site received recognition violations were corrected to the satisfaction of the Irish EPA. from local authorities regarding occupational health and the There were no fines or penalties associated with these Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPa) gold violations and the site is now in full compliance. award for the prevention of accidents. Oxford‑Milton Park has Legal and regulatory intelligence also received the RoSPa award for safety. Legal and regulatory intelligence in the areas of environment and health and safety has been put into place at each Ipsen ■■3.2.3.2 Assuring the health and safety site (Perimeter 1). This allows them to keep track and update of employees evolution of applicable regulatory developments. This is also Reduce accidents being established for the commercial office affiliates as part The work-related accidents requiring medical intervention of the implementation of their EHS Office Manual programs. indicators for Perimeter 1 are as follows: Regulatory compliance assessment and other requirements 20 All sites operated by Ipsen have all the environmental, health and safety permits and licenses required for their operations and comply with applicable EHS regulations. 15 As part of Ipsen’s EHS policy, each site performs a compliance evaluation with regard to regulatory requirements and other requirements such as applicable global standards. 10 To assess compliance with applicable requirements and global standardss, internal audits are performed on all Ipsen sites (Perimeter 1 and partly including Perimeter 2). EHS is 5 involved and conducts audits related to business acquisitions, divestitures, partnerships, joint ventures, supply chain evaluations, and contracted services including third-party 0 research and manufacturing operations. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Certifications Perimeter 1 FR1(1) Perimeter 1 FR2(2) Ipsen is completing a certification project regarding the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards for all sites with Ipsen Registration document 2016 143 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY The work-related accidents requiring medical intervention global perimeter with an emphasis in France. A communication indicators for Perimeter 2 are as follows: is regularly done to the employee representatives. The year 2016 brought a number of actions and communications 5 relating to road safety at Ipsen level. 4 Industrial Hygiene The risks related to the use of hazardous materials have led 3 Ipsen to put in place a policy and associated standards driving the prevention and protection of employee health and safety. 2 Ipsen continued its industrial hygiene program which focuses on hazardous chemical exposure risk control improvement. 1 The Industrial hygiene strategy of Ipsen results in the provision 0 of updated safety data sheets for proprietary products in 2014 2015 2016 accordance with the requirements of the CLP regulation, incorporating any new information that has an impact on the Perimeter 2 FR1 (1) Perimeter 2 FR2(2) classification. In addition, Ipsen has continued its work on the risk profiling of Ipsen’s products regarding health, safety and (1) The frequency rate 1 is the number of disabling injuries du to the the environment, in order to implement recommendations work needing an external medicalized assistance, with work lost time exceeding one day which have occurred over a period of for product handling and for the selection of associated 12 months per million hours worked (frequency rate 1 = number of equipment. The industrial hygiene issues concerning Ipsen disabling injuries due to the work with lost time x 1,000,000 / number compounds and commercial products are integrated in of hours worked). the site master plans of the facilities. This has led to the (2) The frequency rate 2 is the number of disabling injuries due to the development of significant investments to comply with work needing an external medicalized assistance, with work lost time exceeding one day and without work lost time which have occurred general precautionary principles through the elimination of over a period of 12 months per million hours worked (frequency rate personal protective respiratory equipment at the sites which 2 = number of disabling injuries due to the work with and without lost use substances identified as hazardous to health and safety, time x 1,000,000 / number of hours worked). by addressing the risks at their source and ensuring the most effective and reliable collective protection. The frequency rate 2 has decreased by 55% on the Perimeter 1 and by 7.5% on the Perimeter 2 between 2015 and 2016. This The multi-year investment program in regards to the is explained by a significant decrease in the number of injuries implementation of the industrial hygiene program will be and the implementation of a ’’People Based Safety’’ approach continued at affected sites in 2017 and beyond. resulting in managerial safety visits on all sites belonging to Well Being and Work Life Balance Perimeter 1. The senior management has put a particular emphasis on the improvement of these indicators and on Prevention of the psychosocial risks (RPS) is integrated in the implementation of actions such as on site safety visits, a global approach to preserving occupational health and and the reporting and sharing of good practices, incidents quality of life. The RPS covers occupational hazards that and near misses. Accidents related to slips, trips and falls in occur naturally or through anthropogenic means, and that 2016 represents the most frequent accident category within can impact employees’ health. the Group as in previous years. A campaign to reduce this The French framework agreement regarding the prevention type of accident was launched in late 2014/2015 and was of the RPS in December 2010 constituted a first step for the deployed by the organization in 2015/2016. This has resulted worldwide implementation of a health plan. This agreement in a significant decrease in the frequency of this category of defines a general framework, and relies on three significant accident. themes: identification of the psychosocial risks, prevention Beyond the risk assessments performed regarding all work of the risk factors in the workplace, and accompaniment of stations at the sites, accident and identified hazardous employees. With this agreement, Ipsen wishes to continue situations are subject to corrective and preventive actions, the actions already engaged by the French sites and set and included in the annual safety program at each site. up a common approach to prevention. For example, in China, a major initiative was implemented in 2016 to reduce In addition, in 2016 Ipsen continued its project of profitabsenteeism through well being actions such as encouraging sharing launched in 2010 for its French employees based proper diet, exercise and work life balance. The impact was on various criteria, one of which was EHS data related to a significant improvement. This approach will be modeled for medicalized accident frequency. roll out to other Ipsen locations. Two occupational diseases were reported and declared to the In 2014, Ipsen initiated an evaluation process of the Quality Authorities in 2016. of Life at Work on the entire French perimeter and more Road Safety than 62% of subjects responded to the survey. This study allowed development and implementation of preventive and A policy on road safety was implemented by Ipsen in 2011, in corrective action plans. These were defined for each division order to improve driving safety, to make drivers responsible and site in order to be most suited to the results and the local for safe driving to reduce the risk of accidents. context. Thus, results and action plans in 2015 were reported In 2016, the deployment of an action plan aimed at reducing for each entity and their implementation was monitored and the frequency and the severity of accidents continued on the confirmed. 144 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Strenuous labour conditions been satisfied with the remedial investigations and activities In France, under Law No. 2010-1330 of 9 November 2010 aimed at removing the contamination from this site. A third on the pension reform and its implementing regulations, round of soil and ground water oxidation treatment is planned a prevention approach on strain at work was initiated in in 2017 and should resolve this issue to both Ipsen and the 2011 and led to the realization of a preliminary diagnosis of Authority’s expectation. Monitoring post treatment to ensure strenuous labour conditions. the effectiveness of the treatment over the long term will continue for the next few years. Six new decrees, published 9 October, 2014 completed the regulatory framework for strenuous labor conditions, listed ten In terms of land use, Ipsen has no particular direct influence. risk factors such as night work, the activities in a hyperbaric However through joint ventures, Ipsen is involved in agricultural environment, working in alternating successive teams and activities (plantations of Gingko Biloba). repetitive work that were addressed in 2015. Six additional Noise pollution risk factors (manual load handling, improper posture resulting in pain, mechanical vibration, dangerous chemicals, extreme No particular noise issues were reported on manufacturing temperatures and noise) were addressed in 2016. Ipsen will facilities that caused nuisance to neighbours (nuisance was stay vigilant and continue its preventive action approach to restricted to uninhabited environments) except at L’Isle-sur-la preserve the health of employees by implementing associated Sorgue where some areas were identified as non-compliant strenuous labor conditions action plans. from the fact that the surrounding neighborhood is very quiet. An awareness campaign in the neighborhood, including an invitation to meet with the site’s management, has been ■■3.2.3.3 Reduce the environmental footprint conducted annually since 2014. Future plans are shared Soil, Subsoil & Pollution Prevention with the neighbors and their issues are also captured and addressed. As stated in Ipsen’s EHS policy, Ipsen is committed to limit the EHS impact on people and on the environment, and hence Impact of Ipsen activities on climate change to prevent any accidental pollution ensuring the sustainable Ipsen’s approach to carbon reduction includes identifying development of Ipsen and its surrounding environment. sources of carbon emissions throughout the organization, Therefore, specific procedures are in place to treat incidents next is to quantify or at least estimate the amount of these of accidental pollution on Ipsen’s industrial sites. emissions, and finally to target opportunities to reduce these emissions. Ipsen has conducted this approach for several Products and materials that could cause accidental pollution years and continues to implement methods to identify and are stored in appropriately controlled areas. Their handling and quantify carbon emissions. disposal follow specific procedures and guidelines. The sites also follow the rules set by the different regulations concerning A focus for Ipsen has been the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions the transportation of hazardous materials (ADR, IATA, RID...). as these are directly controlled by Ipsen. Ipsen’s activities are guided by the 10 voluntary commitments of LEEM (agreement All environmental incidents are recorded in the EHS management with the MEDDEM Ministry of the Environment, Sustainable system framework in place at manufacturing and R&D sites. Development, Energy and the Sea). Ipsen has implemented The most significant incidents are systematically reported to energy conservation programs at its manufacturing and the appropriate administrative authorities, if applicable, and to R&D facilities to reduce these emissions even with a growing Corporate EHS. In 2016, 7 breaches of waste water discharge company. The work done so far has been effective and Ipsen licenses or permits were reported by the sites located at Dublin, will continue to pursue these opportunities. Signes and Cork. These breaches were dealt with quickly by determining the root causes and implementing corrective The table which follows identifies Ipsen scope 1 and 2 carbon actions in a thorough and rapid manner. emissions. Besides, in accordance with the “Real Estate Compliance” Tonnes eqCO2 2016 2015 2014 global standard, environment, hygiene and safety audits Manufacturing and R&D of compliance were performed in 2010 on 2 French sites: Scope 1: direct energy 13,013 12,675 13,072 the site of Dreux and the site of L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue. These audits aimed at identifying potential high-risk areas in terms Scope 2: indirect energy 13,138 13,570 14,176 of soil and underground water pollution associated with the Total Scope 1+2 26,151 26,245 27,247 current and past activities handled at those sites. According to the conclusions, no obvious high-risk area of soil and Offices 2016 2015 2014 underground water pollution associated with the current conditions of operation was identified during these audits. Total Scope 1+2 1,676 2,178 2,230 In 2014, 2 new audits took place at Wrexham and at Dublin before the purchase of a neighbouring piece of land. In Manufacturing, R&D and Offices 2016 2015 2014 addition, as part of the transfer of the Milford site in 2013, Scope 1: direct energy 13,239 13,024 13,421 an audit (Phase 1 and 2) was conducted and did not reveal any non-compliance. Besides, further investigation realized Scope 2: indirect energy 14,589 15,399 16,056 early 2012 in Barcelona after the closure of the site in 2011 Total Scope 1+2 27,828 28,424 29,477 have shown soil and subsoil pollution. Hence, in accordance with its obligations, and the local authorities, a remediation Overall, Ipsen’s emissions are estimated at 26,152 tonnes of plan is currently being implemented. The authorities have CO2 eq in 2016, a decrease of nearly 2% compared to 2015. Ipsen Registration document 2016 145 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Some of our sites see increase due to production increase Other air emissions and the country mix drive GHG emission decrease (less The Group monitors other substances which could be consumption in China for instance) discharged into the atmosphere through its various activities. It particularly monitors volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and Ipsen is also broadening its collection of internal data such as controlled substances identified as causes of the depletion of including more affiliate commercial offices in various countries the ozone layer under the Montreal Protocol. Emissions of as well as determining scope 3 emissions. The table below VOC to the atmosphere for 2016 were approximately 9.55 tons includes data on scope 3 emissions determined to date. More and 0.5 ton less than in 2015 (-5.0%), mainly related to the sources are being evaluated. Ipsen is studying ways to reduce sites of Signes and Cork (approximately 80% of Ipsen global emissions associated with sources of carbon such as vehicle emissions). Emissions from the research and development fleets, supply chain opportunities, distribution opportunities, centers do not contribute significantly to these emissions. and employee travel opportunities. Energy consumption Scope 3 emissions account for almost three-quarters of Ipsen’s energy consumption on Perimeter 1 totalled total annual emissions. The main challenges lie mainly in the 129,806,050 kWh in 2016 compared to 126,222,078 kWh, carbon weight of components, including packaging, business which corresponds to an increase of 2.76%. On Perimeter 2, travel (notably by plane) and freight transport. To date, Ipsen the global consumption in energy was 136,448,451 in 2016 has identified these scope 3 emission sources as the most compared to 134,801,683 kWh in 2015, which corresponds critical to measure and manage. We will look at other scope 3 to an increase of 1.25% between 2015 and 2016. The emission sources and confirm that we have targeted the most commercial offices represent approximately 6.2% of the appropriate sources to measure and manage. To a lesser global consumption.This energy increase is the result of extent, Ipsen also plans to work on lower-carbon work such significant expansion at the majority of Ipsen’s manufacturing as working from home or waste management. The complexity sites in 2016. We also have more office sites reporting energy of the estimates requires rigorous methodological analysis consumption in 2016 than in previous years. which began in 2016 and will continue into 2017. This is necessary to be able to implement control actions based on The sites of Cork, Dreux, Signes and Wrexham represent reliable data. more than two thirds (65%) of the energy consumption of the manufacturing and R&D activities.The production site of Dreux, In 2016, Ipsen has identified the climate change risks such representing about 20% of Ipsen energy consumption, has seen as changes in regulatory requirements affecting Ipsen its global consumption decrease by 7.3%, notably through the operations and those of our supply chain, uncertainty of establishment of an energy consumption reduction program. physical risks such as flooding and other natural disasters which impact our operations and our supply chain, carbon The energy consumption by perimeter is as follows: taxation, mandatory trading programs, mandatory energy 145,000,000 ef ficiency standards, mandator y emission limits, and product and process standards. Other risks include energy 140,000,000 shortages, resource scarcity, price changes prompted by scarcity, consumer changes in attitude and demand, and 135,000,000 reputation risks. All of these risks can impact operations, costs and ability to compete in the biotech business sector. 130,000,000 Scope 3 (tonnes of CO2 eq) 125,000,000 Goods shipments to distributors 120,000,000 12% Air and Waste car travel 28% 115,000,000 3% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Perimeter 1 total Perimeter 2 total Employee Energy (kWh) Energy (kWh) commuting Buildings 4% 1% The split between energy sources (electricity, gas and fuel) has been maintained at the same level since 2012. In 2016, End of life fuel oil consumption remained relatively small with a share of Goods/services 1% 1.2% in the global energy consumption and which is stable purchased Upstream emissions compared to 2015 and 2014. In 2016, an additional purchased 48% due to energy steam source was used by the Cambridge site, as it was in 3% 2014 and 2015. Renewable energy and green energy consists of contracted In 2016, Ipsen has set an ambitious target of reducing carbone energy from electrical energy providers as well as solar emission by 5% in 2020. panels installed in Signes. In addition, the Cambridge site is 146 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY sourcing steam supply from a district heating loop available footprints with new buildings, additional production shifts and to the site thus eliminating onsite steam producing systems. additional production capacity. Ipsen is looking at more opportunities to improve the use of renewable/green power sourced energy. Ipsen waste profile in terms of hazardous-non-hazardous ratios has increased in the amount of hazardous waste Waste Management generated each year. The increasing trend is driven by product demand, increase production capacity, and increases in Ipsen produced 13,161 tonnes of waste in 2016 compared to building projects. Ipsen waste treatment mix has remained 9,756 tonnes in 2015. The 2016 increase is related to growth relatively constant over the period. The split of waste into the in production with more than 20% growth in the production hazardous and non-hazardous waste categories is as follows of major products as well as expansion of manufacturing site for the manufacturing sites and R&D: Total waste by category 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total hazardous waste 25.0% 27.1% 23.1% 21.2% 24.9% of which 0.35% is of which 0.4% is of which 0.4% is of which of which 0.6% is biological waste biological waste biological waste 0.6% is biological biological waste waste Total non-hazardous 75.0% 72 .9% 76 .9% 78.8% 75.1% waste Ipsen waste treatment mix was as follows: Types of treatment 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Recycling 73.47% 67.3% 14.85% 73.7% 70.1% Incineration 18.3% 31.6% 5.82% 24.4% 27.4% of which 12.05% is of which 26.6% is of which 3.26% is of which 13.4% is of which 14.3% is with heat recovery with heat recovery with heat recovery with heat recovery with heat recovery Landfills 1.03% 0.9% 79.26% 1.8% 2.1% Other 7.23% 0.24% 0.07% 0.1% 0.4% The proportion of recycled waste remains dominant with be a leak and this was repaired. We expect that 2017 water a percentage of 73.47% compared to incineration and consumption at the Dublin site will reduce to pre-2016 levels. landfilling. It should be noted that the largest producers of In 2016, 54.6% of the water consumed at Ipsen was sourced waste, the sites of Cork, Signes, Wrexham and L’Isle-sur-lafrom well water. Some Ipsen sites are subject to specific local Sorgue, recycle their waste 79.53%, 72.50%, 72.86% and conditions regarding water use (surface water consumption, 98.97%, respectively. volume limitations, etc.). To date, no additional regulatory Finally, sites are in the process of implementing waste restrictions have been imposed. optimization programs by searching for new technologies and The L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue site consumed 54.27% of Ipsen total methods to decrease the amount of waste generated and 2016 water consumption. 99.6% of this water was sourced to increase the amount of waste that is recycled. The waste well water. This is down from 2015 consumption levels which landfilled in Cork increased in 2016 due to a reclassification of were at 57.4%. This site’s water consumption has decreased the waste by the waste management company. In 2015, the by more than 3% in 2016 compared to 2015 consumption. waste stream was classified into two categories, waste code Water conservation and recycling projects are identified for #200307 (mixed bulky waste) which was recycled and waste implementation at the L’Isle-sur la Sorgue site in 2017 and code #200301 (mixed municipal waste) which was landfilled. 2018. The well water consumption is expected to reduce by In 2016, the waste company combined these two waste 30% in 2019 once these projects are implemented. streams to one waste code #200301 and this waste stream was landfilled. Water treatment Food Waste Ipsen has six sites with on-site sewage treatment plants that treat all or part of liquid wastes. Those are the sites of Ipsen does not create a large amount of food waste at Cambridge, Cork, L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, Signes, Dublin, and its facilities. Food waste is managed through local waste Tianjin. management ser vices. This area is not considered a significant waste stream for Ipsen. The volume of water treated on sites was 359,493 m3 in 2016 compared to 363,362 m 3 in 2015. This represents a 1.1% Water Consumption decrease in waste water being treated in 2016 versus 2015. Ipsen’s water consumption totalled 568,033 m 3 in 2016 compared to 485,554 m3 in 2015, which shows an increase Green Chemistry or solvent usage optimization of 14.5%. The Dublin site increased their water consumption Ipsen has launched an initiative since 2009 to develop ideas significantly in 2016 versus 2015. The cause was found to that could lead to the use of more environmentally friendly Ipsen Registration document 2016 147 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY products. Some projects around the solvent usage have been site participated in communication activities and support retained as for example: for resident associations and other companies in their area. In L’Isle-Sur-La-Sorgue, a meeting on site with members of • At the Cork site, manufacturing processed 95% of the the neighborhood has allowed the presentation of activities, solvent used through regeneration; identification of prevention measures associated with the • At the Signes site, near 75% of solvents used are recycled. potential EHS impacts of the site. In 2016, the total solvent consumption increased by 12% Biodiversity: biological equilibrium, natural habitats and versus 2015 driven by production. In 2016, the total solvent protected species recycled increased by 12.2% versus 2015 driven by the ability Ipsen’s policy is to provide a safe workplace that protects the to regenerate and recycle these solvents. environment and does not harm the health of its employees In parallel, Ipsen has commit ted to developing and or that of neighbouring communities. The preservation of implementing EHS consideration requirements that are ecological equilibrium, conservation of natural habitats and incorporated into the overall new product development protection of protected species are followed closely. process. These requirements include considering alternative The measures taken to curb impacts on biological materials for formulations, process aids including solvents, equilibrium, natural habitats and protected plant and animal and packaging. These EHS considerations are being piloted species are integrated into Ipsen’s general environmental in 2017 and will be finalized in 2018 becoming part of the protection program. Some initiatives were implemented at ongoing product development process. Signes, the site has followed its collaboration with the GEPS We launched an innovative syringe technology Somatuline® (Ipsenement des Entreprises du Plateau de Signes) on the Depot Injection for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors draft “APIVIGILANCE”. It is a system of environmental bio to reduce medical waste and protect against needle stick monitoring using bees as markers of environmental quality: injuries. Ipsen won the California Product Stewardship the bees will carry out an ecotoxicological assessment of the Council’s 2015 Green Arrow Award for System & Design immediate environment, thanks to several parameters such Innovation for this industry-changing product. The impact of as the observation of their activity, behaviour and analysis this new delivery system could be estimated to 67 tons of CO2 of samples. These analyzes provide a quality trend of the emissions avoided, a toxics reduction of 53 tons of solvents air near the site and in connection with the solvents used and a savings of 6,083 pounds of packaging in 2016. predominantly by companies in the business park. At the Cork facility, awareness campaigns to promote land conservation Stakeholders Relations were conducted. Additionally, a maintenance program of Ipsen is concerned about the potential impact of its activities green areas has been implemented for the preservation of on the areas surroundings its sites. Also, as part of its overall the flower beds of the site and the regular planting of trees. At EHS policy and in the context of its implementation at the Dreux, the site has collaborated on a fish counting operation sites, Ipsen integrated stakeholder requests and opinions. in the River named ‘Les Châtelets’. The Les Ulis site also uses As such, meetings and partnership activities were organized. bees as an inidcator to monitor environmental impact of the For 2016, Ipsen can highlight the communication campaigns local environment. by the sites of Cork and L’Isle-Sur-La-Sorgue. In Cork, the 148 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Ipsen Sustainability Performance Table Sustainability Area 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Safety and Health Management Ipsen Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Ipsen Total Medicalized Accidents with and 15.26 8.81 4.50 3.48 2.32 without Lost Days (FR2) Severity Rate 0.04 0.10 0.06 0.02 0.03 Ipsen Perimeter 1 6.29 3.39 2.84 2.12 2.03 Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days (FR1) Ipsen Perimeter 1 15.26 8.81 5.67 4.59 2.03 Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost Days (FR2) Ipsen Perimeter 2 Medicalized Accidents with 4.15 4.01 2.53 1.71 2.56 Lost Days (FR1) Ipsen Perimeter 2 Medicalized Accidents with and Not Collected Not Collected 4.50 2.90 2.69 without Lost Days (FR2) Ipsen First Aids Not Collected Not Collected 96 83 68 Ipsen Near Misses Not Collected Not Collected 247 240 189 Ipsen Occupational Health 0 0 3 1 2 Contractor Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Contractor Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days Not Collected Not Collected 5 5 4 Contractor Medicalized Accidents with and Not Collected Not Collected 2 0 1 without Lost Days Contractor First Aids Not Collected Not Collected 6 6 10 Waste Management Hazardous Waste (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected 2,313 2,643 3,324 Non-Hazardous Waste (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected 44,608 7,113 9,837 Recycled Materials (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected 6,967 6,566 9,668 Recycling Rate (%) 70.1 73.7 14.85 67.3 73.47 Energy Management Electrical Energy (kWh) 64,473,954 62,567,253 61,513,378 62,681,362 62,850,159 Renewable including Green Power (%) 4.70 5.60 4.66 3.47 2.78 Other Energy (kWh) Not Collected Not Collected 410,090 2,025,267 2,047,287 Fuel Derived Energy (kWh) 75,686,816 76,183,088 75,183,017 70,095,054 71,551,005 Total Energy (kWh) 140,160,770 139,038,341 136,696,395 134,801,683 136,448,451 Manufacturing and R&D Energy (kWh) 132,806,588 130,673,788 128,737,691 126,222,078 129,806,050 Affiliate Commercial Office Energy (kWh) 7,354,182 8,364,553 7,958,704 8,579,605 5,290,950 Vehicle Fleet Efficiency (km/l) Not Collected Not Collected not Collected Not Collected 12 Vehicle Fleet Energy (kWh) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected 15,154,999 Water Management Total Water Consumption (m3) 532,470 529,882 558,301 485,554 568,033 Total Water Recycled (m3) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Hazardous Materials Management Solvent Consumption (tonnes) 16,292 15,199 14,988 19,182 21,494 Reclaimed Solvents (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected 13,912 17,852 20,042 Refrigerant Gas Losses (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected 0.23 1.07 0.49 Compliance Management Notices of Violation Received 0 0 0 0 2 Fines and Penalties Paid (e) 0 0 0 0 0 Ipsen Registration document 2016 149 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainability Area 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Air Emissions Management VOC Emissions (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected 9.08 10.2 9.55 NOx Emissions (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected SOx Emissions (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Waste Water Management Waste Water Treated (m3) Not Collected 411,543 442,456 363,362 359,493 COD Loading (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected BOD Loading (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Total Suspended Solids (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Unit Production (tonnes) Not Collected Not Collected 36,304,359 33,104,456 30,073,580 Sales (eM) Not Collected Not Collected 1,275 1,444 TBD Total Facility Area (m2) Not Collected Not Collected 101,478 101,649 102,966 Headcount (number) Not Collected Not Collected 4,531 4,635 4,907 EHS Investments (e000) Not Collected Not Collected 10,585 4,926 7,521 ■■3.2.3.4 EHS Culture Finally, as explained in the Green Chemistry section above, Integrating EHS into Business we launched an innovative syringe technology Somatuline® Depot Injection for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors The integration of EHS into business activities gives rise to to reduce medical waste and protect against needle stick a detailed assessment of EHS impact and particularly in the injuries. Ipsen won the California Product Stewardship definition of site master plans. Council’s 2015 Green Arrow Award for System & Design Eco-design Innovation for this industry-changing product. The impact of The development of approaches to eco-design is part of this new delivery system could be estimated to 67 tons of CO2 Ipsen’s EHS strategic plan. Also some sites of Ipsen carried emissions avoided, a toxics reduction of 53 tons of solvents out major eco-design projects. and a savings of 6,083 pounds of packaging in 2016. At Dreux, an eco-design project around packaging was Training implemented in 2010 through a training of all the concerned As the cornerstones of the prevention program, awareness parties of the site and a 2-day diagnosis performed by an campaigns and training on environment, health and safety external consultant. The training and the diagnosis report continued in 2016. Each site has defined its training program had raised awareness on different sectors. The action plan as a function of its own risks and impacts. As such, all resulting from this audit has been implemented in 2011 with employees are trained for the inherent risks and associated the purchase of software for the modelling of packaging. In environmental impact of their workstation. Employees, 2012, a complementary diagnostic for packaging optimization therefore, develop a professional and responsible attitude in of raw materials has been achieved. At Dreux and Tianjin, going about their daily work. actions are conducted to reduce the impact of the product on the environment like decreasing from 9µm to 7µm the General training on EHS awareness for newcomers, as well thickness of sachet used in Smecta® both in Dreux and in as training on fire prevention, evacuation tests, protective Tianjin, as well as Forlax® in Dreux. Today, 85% of Smecta® equipment, and first aid training was performed on all and Forlax ® production at Dreux is 7 µm. Another project manufacturing and R&D sites. for the reduction in the size of the sachets of Smecta® and Forlax® is on going at Dreux and Tianjin. Forlax®, made at More specific training related to Ipsen required approaches Dreux and dedicated to the French market, now has smaller and applicable workplace practices such as training courses sachets. confined space management, explosive atmospheres management, and manager safety visit training were deployed. In parallel, actions for reducing or recycling solvents (detailed in the green chemistry paragraph) are developed on the Cork, Finally, the concept of well-being at work was raised especially Signes and Dublin sites. in regards to psychological risks and work life balance. 150 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 3.2.4 Internal resources ■■3.2.4.1 Internal management resources the amount of investment in secondary EHS totalled just over for EHS issues €7.5 million. Ipsen EHS policy and strategy are applied at each site/ Of the investments, in particular we can highlight: division by the site manager. Senior management as well as • a new Research and Development site in the United site employees are heavily involved in the daily management Kingdom in Oxford-Milton Park with the establishment of of EHS and the application of Corporate EHS standards and collective protective equipment to prevent exposure to guidelines. As such, everyone in his actions and behaviour hazardous chemicals or biological agents; contributes to the success of EHS policy. • p ro j e c ts fo r i m p rov i n g th e s e g re g ati o n b et we e n In addition, to reinforce its policy of prevention, Ipsen EHS manufacturing / laboratory areas and offices areas; Committee which comprises one or more representatives • projects for improving equipment in order to reduce the risk from each manufacturing site, R&D centre and Corporate, of falling at height / on the floor; meets regularly to share experiences and reflect on best practices for managing EHS. Ipsen of EHS professionals • improvements in ergonomics and manual handling specific to Research and Development activities, was also set workstations; up in 2014. • removal of asbestos; EHS management at each site is coordinated by an EHS • and the improvement of fire protection systems. manager under the authority of the site director. A total of There have also been major expansions and addition of new 33 people make up Ipsen’s EHS organization. They report buildings at most of Ipsen R&D and Manufacturing sites in to the Corporate Environment, Health and Safety function (2 2016 all of which involve EHS investment in various EHS people). The Corporate EHS reports to Technical Operations. systems. The Committees of Health, Safety and Work Conditions in ■■3.2.4.3 Provisions and guarantees for EHS, France, or their equivalent in other countries, meet regularly and are involved in monitoring activities and projects compensation and remediation concerning the health and safety of employees. Regular sur veys on environmental risks, work-related health and safety risks and the implementation of proactive ■■3.2.4.2 S  pending on the prevention policies for mitigation of these risks, enable Ipsen to limit its of EHS impacts and on regulatory exposure and liability or, more generally, to remediate to the compliance environmental damage caused by its operations. However, Ipsen does not have environmental provisions. Since health and safety prevention and protection and environmental protection are constant priorities for Ipsen, the In addition, since 2004, no ruling or compensation payments latter regularly makes investments in these areas. In 2016, related to environmental damages caused by one of Ipsen’s with the implementation of master plans on the sites, which manufacturing facilities were brought to Ipsen’s attention. includes the setting of new improvements for EHS prevention, 3.2.5 2016 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Since 2012, Ipsen adheres to the Global Compact program of In partnership with the medical community, we bring scientific the United Nations. excellence and rigor to deliver leading products that improve patient outcomes. And, we go above and beyond this to Ipsen is a global specialty-care pharmaceutical which has provide education and information, with the highest level the ambition of becoming a leader in specialty healthcare of integrity, which helps patients to fully understand the solutions for targeted debilitating diseases in oncology, choices available to them and make well-informed treatment neurosciences and adult and pediatric endocrinology. Ipsen decisions with their doctors. We know we are successful also has a significant presence in primary care. Ipsen’s R&D when doctors and patients place their trust in our products is focused on its innovative and differentiated technological and our company, when our employees excel and when platforms, peptides and toxins, located in the heart of the our efforts make a meaningful difference in the lives of the leading biotechnological and life sciences hubs (Les Ulis, patients and communities we serve. France; Slough/Oxford, UK; Cambridge, US). Our focus fosters deep engagement with medical specialists For almost 90 years, Ipsen has been committed to the health, and we make it our business to listen closely to their needs so safety, and well-being of the people who put their trust in that together we can advance patient care. We combine this our products. Every day, we strive to better people’s lives in strategic focus with a diversified approach that enables us to a wide range of ways – from developing new treatments for follow our research and development into new specialty areas complex and disabling medical conditions to offering sciencewhere unmet needs are significant. based medical over the counter solutions. Our determination Ipsen Registration document 2016 151 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY to make a positive contribution extends to not only the people responsibility. More information about these and other areas who benefit from our products, but also to our employees of our commitment is provided throughout our website. You and to the global community in which we live and work. It can also read more about our business environment, strategy, remains our goal to ensure that our contribution to science goals and performance in our Annual Report. Moreover, the reflects our commitment to a safe, healthy workplace, strong philanthropic mission of the Fondation Ipsen is to contribute communities and responsible, ethical business practices to the development and dissemination of scientific knowledge in everything we do, from research and development to and to foster interactions between researchers and clinical sales and marketing. Ipsen remains focused on sustainable practitioners. Its ambition is to initiate a reflection about the business practices including: major scientific issues of the forthcoming years. • Offering needed products that have environmental, health Sustainability is the balance between the competing priorities and safety design considerations, of economic, social and environmental responsibilities. Ipsen • Managing climate change through energy efficiency and has and will continue to commit resources and measure carbon footprint reduction, performance to ensuring that the highest ethical standards are applied within the whole organization. Thus Ipsen confirms • Continuing to improve operational efficiency, reducing its will to include UN Global Compact fundamental principles waste and increasing recycling, in its sphere of influence. • Providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, In conclusion, Ipsen has had a long commitment to sustainable • Working with our supply chains to improve corporate business values. We work to keep these core values in mind responsibility performance, and in all aspects of our business so that we can maintain the • Enhancing positive community interaction. excellent reputation and respect that we enjoy with our As an example, Ipsen has received the Green Arrow award stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. for system design and innovation regarding the product David Meek Somatuline ® Depot by the California Product Stewardship Chief Executive Officer Council. Ipsen In this introduction, I am highlighting some of our key achievements and challenges relating to our corporate social UN Global Compact Commitments and Performance The following narrative and links will demonstrate how Ipsen manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of is addressing each of these Principles and plans for improving goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning performance in each of these areas. to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as human rights. Principle 1: Protection of Human Rights Principle 2: Complicity in Human Rights Abuses Ipsen approaches the Protection of Human Rights as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this Ipsen will not be complicit in Human Rights abuses as stated support through its Code of Ethical Conduct. The Code of in its Code of Ethical Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to Ethical Conduct applies to all Ipsen employees and in all the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in of Ipsen’s business dealings. The Code of Ethical Conduct alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to requires, among other things, that employees respect human be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of rights and do not discriminate against anyone based on Human Rights. characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its in any form. Violence or threats of violence in the workplace Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and are not tolerated. The Code of Ethical Conduct applies to representatives of the company continue to follow the Code persons or entities representing or working on behalf of Ipsen by providing extensive training regarding the expectations as well. based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its Principles in the procurement process. In addition in 2017, resolve in the area of Human Rights. Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include representatives of the company continue to follow the Code aspects such as human rights. by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that Principle 3: Freedom of Association and Collective all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and Bargaining 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Ipsen approaches the right to freedom of association and Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, collective bargaining as it does any other personal freedom Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to and has articulated this support through its Code of Ethical 152 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal of Ethical Conduct. The Code of Ethics applies to all Ipsen Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this employees and in all of Ipsen’s business dealings. The Code Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method of Ethics requires that employees respect human rights and to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. do not discriminate against anyone based on characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated in any form. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Violence or threats of violence in the workplace are not Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and tolerated. The Code of Ethical Conduct applies to persons or representatives of the company continue to follow the Code entities representing or working on behalf of Ipsen, as well. by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans resolve in the area of Human Rights. to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such representatives of the company continue to follow the Code as freedom of association and collective bargaining. by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that Principle 4: Forced and Compulsory Labor all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and Ipsen will not be complicit in forced or compulsory labor per 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Ipsen’s Code of Ethical Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning Human Rights. to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as discrimination. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and Principle 7: Precautionary Approach representatives of the company continue to follow the Code Ipsen has adopted the Precautionary Approach in all its by providing extensive training regarding the expectations business dealings and articulates this in its Annual Registration based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that Document. Ipsen has always practiced the precautionary all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and principle with regard to its products and operations. The 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global inherent nature of researching and developing drug products Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, for human use demonstrates the precautionary principle in Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to action. Ipsen considers the impacts of actions undertaken manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of through a rigorous risk assessment process with multiple goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning gates through which the company proceeds when the to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include multitude of risks are determined to be acceptable to Ipsen aspects such as forced and compulsory labor. and the various stakeholders in the process including patients, physicians, employees, government officials, investors, and Principle 5: Child Labor others. Ipsen will not be complicit in the use of child labor per Ipsen’s Code of Ethical Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Principle 8: Environmental Responsibility Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment Ipsen has a very strong stand on environmental responsibility with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural as indicated by its EHS policy, programs and various method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Human Rights. performance reports (see pages 19-20 and 69-93). Ultimately, Ipsen has been reducing energy and water consumption In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its at its facilities and has goals to continue improving this Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and performance. In 2016, Ipsen is considering participating in the representatives of the company continue to follow the Code CEO Water Mandate and the Caring for Climate C4C Ipsen. by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that In 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical all employees complete this training process In 2015 and Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global of the company continue to follow the Code by providing Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, Ipsen plans aspects such as child labor. to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and Principle 6: Discrimination services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to conduct Ipsen approaches discrimination as it does any other personal supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such freedom and has articulated this support through its Code as human rights. Ipsen Registration document 2016 153 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Principle 9: Environmentally Friendly Technologies alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to Ipsen has made its approaches and technologies used to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of achieve the results captured in Principle 8 available to the Human Rights. public through Ipsen website, and various trade associations In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its and partnerships. Code of Ethical Conduct and ensuring that employees and In 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Ethical representatives of the company continue to follow the Code Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives by providing extensive training regarding the expectations of the company continue to follow the Code by providing based on the Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that extensive training regarding the expectations based on the all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and Code of Ethical Conduct and requiring that all employees 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global complete this training process. In addition in 2015, Ipsen Principles in the proecurement process. In addition in 2017, began to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to manage Ipsen plans to work with Eco Vadis which allows Ipsen to the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning to goods and services. Eco Vadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is planning conduct supply chain partner assessments that include to conduct supply chain partner assessments that include aspects such as environment, health and safety management aspects such as corruption prevention. systems and resource conservation. Conclusion Principle 10 Corruption Ipsen will continue to enhance support of the UN Global Ipsen has established positions against corruption including Compact Principles. Ipsen will collaborate with the UN Global bribery in its Code of Ethical Conduct In 2012, Ipsen committed Compact on methods and means to improve its performance to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in and the performance of all entities regarding these Principles. 3.3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 3.3.1 Social relations ■■3.3.1.1 Employee representation Works Council. Negotiations’ meetings allowed to conclude an agreement to set up a European Work Council signed Employees are represented in each Group company in on 28 August 2013. As from this date, Ipsen’s European accordance with the applicable local legislation, i.e. by the Work Council took the place of the Special Negotiating Body Joint Consultation Group in the United Kingdom, by the achieving his goal. Indeed, the parties to this agreement Rappresentanza Sindicale Unitaria in Italy, by the Comité have stated their desire to work together, taking a concerted de Empresa in Spain. In France, employee representation approach, and in compliance with the legal and regulatory is ensured at the local level (6 companies) and also at the practices as well as the cultural and social characteristics central level within the framework of an Economic and of the various countries. Ipsen’s European Works Council is Social entity (Unité Économique et Sociale), with a single composed of 10 members representing European employees; Central Works Council (Comité Central d’Entreprise) for it met for the first time on 17 June 2014. Ordinary meetings are all employees in France and a Central Negotiation Body held anually in order to present the progress in Ipsen Group’s (Instance Centrale de Négociation) which brings together business and its strategic directions. trade unions representatives of the Economic and Social entity. It’s an European employee representation body for information The frequency of meetings between management and and consultation on so-called “transnational” issues which is employee representatives depends on the applicable local responsible for sharing information and exchange of views, legislation. fostering experience-sharing and building coordination between European countries. The Group ensures that the rights and freedoms of employee representatives are strictly observed and that they enjoy the same promotion and training opportunities as other ■■3.3.1.2 Collective agreements employees. See paragraph 3.1.2 “The Group’s Human Resources policy” Lastly, a Special Negotiation Body was set up in 2010. It (paragraphs: “Equal opportunities and diversity within the brought together employees and employee representatives Group”, “Integration of disabled workers”, “Employing young from European countries; its objective was to negotiate an and senior workers and transferring knowledge”, “Group’s agreement with Ipsen’s management to create a European compensation and benefits policy”). 154 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION ■■3.3.1.3 Social initiatives • initiatives for active employees, According to country specific environments, the Group’s • and, lastly, all other initiatives, such as relationships with policy on social initiatives is based on four main priorities: not-for-profit organizations, sponsorship, etc. • initiatives benefiting its employees’ children, Aside from the normal benefits related to family events, the • initiatives for retired employees, calendar and various subsidised leisure activities, the Group aims to provide genuine support to its employees. 3.3.2 Societal information ■■3.3.2.1 Social, economical and territory impact ■■3.3.2.2 Impact of its activity on nearby or local Ipsen’s ambition is to become a leader for targeted debilitating populations diseases by: Ipsen is convinced of the paramount importance of health, safety and respect of the environment. Approaches to eco• Rapidly translating understanding of disease biology into design and wastage reduction are integrated from the very therapies for unmet patient needs; start when designing a new manufacturing project in Dreux • Creating differentiated solutions capitalizing on our own (France) industrial site. A study is carried out to design expertise in peptides and toxins; and optimize the packagings of the drugs as well as the palletization of the products while taking into account the • Swiftly growing and evolving in our targeted areas (oncology, recycling solutions. It has enabled the reduction of aluminium neuroscience and endocrinology) to allow global access to grammage and need for blisters. therapeutic solutions; ■■3.3.2.3 Relationships with stakeholders • Foster a culture of excellence, responsibility, agility and teamwork. Dialogue with stakeholders A company’s ability to respond to stakeholders’ expectations Ipsen’s large and diversified geographic footprint is a is a measure of its credibility and sustainability. Ipsen, as a paramount strength. Thanks to its presence in more than global specialty-driven pharmaceutical group, with drugs 100 countries, and besides its European footprint, Ipsen marketed in more than 100 countries, acts to provide concrete benefits from a solid presence in North America and markets responses to the needs and expectations of a wide variety of such as China and Russia. stakeholders, particularly those in the healthcare field. Ipsen pursues an active policy of partnerships, either Ipsen has a transparent and regular dialogue with its main for research or commercial purposes, in countries where stakeholders (staff, investors and financial community, the Group operates. Par tnerships have the following healthcare professionals and patients, suppliers / partners, objectives: regulatory authorities and agencies, local communities, media, etc.) to provide reliable and factual information, pursue • Access new technologies or competencies for research & a constructive dialogue, develop partnerships, support patient development programs; associations, in order to find innovative solutions for patients. • Investigate new or complementary research areas; Trade associations • Enhance Ipsen’s distribution network through the acquisition Ipsen is a member of federations or interprofessional trade of commercial rights for products from third parties, in groups in which it can have a proactive role in favor of its countries where Ipsen operates; sector and take part in sector-wide analyses, notably: • Optimize the value of products issued from Ipsen’s research • Bodies acting for regions such as EFPIA (European that do not fit into its targeted therapeutic areas, by outFederation of Pharmaceutical Industry association); licensing them to partners that will develop and market • Bodies with a national footprint such as for instance them in specific territories. FarmaIndustria in Spain, Les Entreprises du Médicament Several strategic partnerships are ongoing for: (Leem) in France, APIPHARMA in Portugal, Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI) in United • Early stage development & technology: Rhythm, bioMérieux, Kingdom, Research and Development Pharmaceutical Oncodesign, CEA, CNRS, Inserm, Johns Hopkins, Salk Association of China (RDPAC), PhRMA (Pharmaceutical Institute, Institut Gustave Roussy, Harvard Medical School, Research and Manufacturers of America) in the United Peptimimesis, Institute of Molecular and Cell Bilogy, 3B States. Pharmaceuticals, etc; The Group has also interactions and relationships with • L ate stage developme nt & mar keting: Galde r ma, scientific groups or clusters in order to set up public / private Debiopharm, Photocure, Teijin, GW Pharmaceuticals, partnerships (universities, research centers) such as ARIIS in Lexicon, Exelixis, etc. France or industry/trade groups (e.g. Polepharma in France). Ipsen Registration document 2016 155 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION In France, the Group is member of “G5 Health”, a think-tank States (US Sunshine Act), France (Bertrand law) or European that gathers CEOs of the main French healthcare companies countries that fall under the EFPIA Transparency Code. acting in life sciences (bioMérieux, Guerbet, Ipsen, LFB, Pierre Fabre, Sanofi, Servier and Théa) which maintain decision The Fondation Ipsen centers are in France. Established in 1983 under the aegis of the Fondation de France, the ambition of the Fondation Ipsen is to initiate a Investors, Financial community and Media reflection about the major scientific issues of the forthcoming The Group maintains a regular and transparent dialogue years. Thus, the mission of the Fondation Ipsen is to contribute with its investors and the financial community through the to the development and spreading of scientific knowledge. publication of its financial statements and during meetings Over 30 years, the Fondation Ipsen has organized over specifically organized for them. Meetings with media are also 250 meetings and produced several hundred publications; organized in the same context. more than 250 scientists and biomedical researchers have been awarded prizes and research grants. In 2016, the Supervisory authorities invited speakers, generally internationally recognized, have The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated by government endeavored to present aspects of biological and medical bodies. Regulations cover nearly all aspects of the Group’s research illustrating a broad range of promising biomedical activities, from Research and Development and marketing to innovations (the genome recombining technique CRISPRits manufacturing facilities and processes. Cas9, the therapeutic role of gut microbiota in a wide range of diseases, new generation vaccines, etc.). In each country where it markets its products or conducts research, the Group has to comply with the standards In 2016, the Fondation Ipsen continues to hold its scientific laid down by the local regulatory authorities and by any meetings in series known as Colloques Médecine et other competent supranational regulatory authority. These Recherche (CMR): authorities namely include the European Medicines Agency • Cancer Science. The 12th annual CMR of this event was (EMA), the French Agency for the Safety of Medicines held in San Pedro de Atacama (Chile) from 5 to 8 March on and Health Products (ANSM) in France, the Medicines & the topic of “Tumor metabolism” and was co-organized with Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Inder Verma (Salk Institute for Biological Studies, USA). This Kingdom and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the event, which acquired an international recognition, gathered United States, as well as various other regulatory bodies, the most prominent scientists in Cancer research, including depending on the relevant market. Nobel prize laureates like David Baltimore (California Institute of Technology, USA) or Harold Varmus (Weil Patients / civil society Cornell Medical College, USA). All along these four days, Communication to patients, patient associations, caregivers the talks and the interactions were very fruitful and helped and civil society must comply with the standards laid down by us understand the importance to characterize the tumor the local regulatory authorities where the Group operates. Its metabolic profiles. Indeed, the identification of metabolic aim is to deliver information through prevention campaigns, markers could facilitate tumor classification and provide the educational or public health programs about cer tain most appropriate treatment. pathologies, the proper use of products or clinical trials. • Neuroscience. The 24th CMR in Neuroscience was held Projects carried out by patient associations and charitable in Paris on 22 April and was co-organized with Rudolf organizations supported by Ipsen around the world are made Jaenisch (MIT, USA), Fred Gage (Salk Institute for public on Ipsen’s internet website (section Commitment). Biological Studies, USA) and Feng Zhang (MIT, USA). The scientific program was focused on the “Genome editing In France, Ipsen has been donating drugs for many years in Neuroscience”, and the applications that are emerging to Tulipe, an organization that federates donations made by from the CRISPR-Cas9 technology. This new technique health companies to provide an emergency response to the has been notably developed by Emmanuelle Charpentier needs of populations in distress. (Max Planck Institute, Germany), also invited as a speaker. Healthcare professionals and scientists Some interviews, made during this event, are available on our website (www.fondation-ipsen.org). Relationships with Healthcare Professionals and Organizations are subject to compliance with the laws, regulations, and • Endocrinology. This year’s meeting focused on “Hormones, codes in force in the countries in which Ipsen operates. They Metabolism and the Benefits of Exercise” was held in Paris are based on scientific data and exchanges in accordance on 5 December. This meeting was prepared with Bruce with Ipsen’s commitment to improve the health and quality of Spiegelman (Dana Faber Cancer Institute, USA) and gave life of patients. In particular, they include scientific publications, an overview of the physiological and cognitive benefits of information on the efficacy and safety of medicines, research exercise. For instance, physical activity improves muscle and development programmes, and education. insulin sensitivity, leading to better glucose uptake and reduced risk of Type 2 diabetes. In accordance with applicable rules, Ipsen is committed to full transparency in its interactions with Healthcare Professionals Besides its core activities, the Fondation Ipsen pursued its and Organizations. Many countries have adopted laws prestigious partnerships with research institutes like the or codes to implement transparency, such as the United Salk Institute for Biological Studies (La Jolla, USA) or the 156 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Karolinska Institutet (Stockholm, Sweden which awards the University School of Medicine, USA). The prize has Nobel Prizes), and/or scientific journals like Science or Cell. been awarded on 5 July at the Federation of European Neurosciences Societies in Copenhagen (Denmark) by • Biological Complexity, jointly developed with the Salk an international jury headed by Nikos Logothetis (Max Institute for Biological Studies (La Jolla, USA) and AAAS/ Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, Germany). Our Science, the 10th meeting (20-22 January) was dedicated to laureates have greatly contributed to understand the most “Synthetic Biology”. This new branch of biology combines energy demanding cerebral components. Our brain only molecular biology, biotechnology and bioinformatics and represents 2% of our weight, yet it alone consumes 20% of aims at the generation of biomolecules or complexes for the oxygen and 25% of the glucose in our body. Moreover, fundamental research, therapeutic purposes. Among the they also highlighted the important implication of astrocytes invited speakers, Craig Venter (J. Craig Venter Institute, USA) in neuron energetic metabolism. Their relation is absolutely has accepted to give a special lecture on the generation of essential to stimulate the 50 trillion connections that neuron new bacterial species from newly designed and synthetized form in our brain. chromosomes. Many applications can be derived from this technology, like the generation of biofuels, but raises some • The 15th Endocrine Regulation Prize was awarded at the ethical issues. ICE (International Congress of Endocrinology) in Beijing (China) on 1 September to John Funder (Prince Henry’s • Bridging Biomolecular Worlds. This conference series was Institute, Victoria, Australia). The international jury chaired set up in partnership with the journals AAAS/Science and by Iain Robinson (National Institute for Medical Research, AAAS/Science Translational Medicine. This third edition United Kingdom) unanimously recognized the contribution was held in Hong Kong Medicine Faculty and was focused of the laureate on the endocrine aspects of hypertension, on the beneficial interactions from our gut microbiota. These and especially the role played by cortisol. questions are extremely promising since many studies revealed that hosting beneficial bacteria can prevent some • The 21st Longevity Prize has been awarded to Kaare diseases like obesity, cancer or gut-related inflammatory Christensen (University of Odense, Denmark), in recognition disorders. of his outstanding work on the importance of genes and environment on ageing and longevity. The awarding lecture • Epigenetic Control & Cellular Plasticity. The Fondation took place on 19 November at the Gerontology Society of Ipsen is pleased to announce a new series of symposium, America (GSA) in New Orleans (USA). in partnership with INSERM and the Center for Epigenetics and Metabolism of University of California Irvine (USA) Support, sponsorship or partnering activities headed by Paolo Sassone-Corsi. This year’s meeting Ipsen has a corporate policy fostering ‘mecenat’, grants and (6-7 October), held at the Beckman Center of the National donations related to its mission, in accordance with its values Academy of Sciences (Irvine, USA), gathered leaders in and in compliance with all laws, regulations and Codes local the field of epigenetics, which is highly involved in the regulations, such as: regulation of the expression of a wide range of genes at both physiological and pathological levels. • Grants for scientific research or medical education; • Exciting Biologies. As part of its collaboration with Cell • Awards and grants for researchers; Press, the Fondation Ipsen organized the 10 th annual meeting in the “Exciting Biologies” series: “Biology of • Charitable donations. Commitment”, which was held in Phoenix (USA) on 16 to 18 October. The invited speakers helped us understand ■■3.3.2.4 Subcontracts and suppliers why and how cells acquire a specific phenotype or trigger We subcontract a significant part of our Research and their proliferation or their death. These mechanisms are Development to CROs (Contract Research Organizations), fundamental for life and are involved in many diseases that including toxicology studies, Phases I to IV clinical study could support the development of novel therapeutics. monitoring and management, as well as part of drug development and manufacturing to CDMOs (Contract • Days of Molecular Medicine, on the theme of “Bugs to Development and Manufacturing Organizations). Bedside to Biotech”, was held at the Karolinska Institutet on 27 and 28 October. This new meeting presented an More generally, purchasing value representing a high overview of the most effective new technologies against percentage of Ipsen sales, involving suppliers in Corporate harmful infectious agents (HIV, Ebola, Influenza and Zika Social Responsibility progress is essential to deliver a virus, Malaria, etc.). sustainable business. In 2016, the Fondation Ipsen also awarded annual prizes This is translated into the nine governing principles introducing to reward outstanding research, within the framework of the global purchasing policy, which are: international conferences. • quality, efficiency and effectiveness; • The 27th Neuronal Plasticity Prize was jointly awarded to three scientists for their pioneering work in the domain • probity and equity; of neuroenergetics: David Attwell (University College of • transparency; London, United Kingdom), Pierre Magistretti (Brain Mind Institute, Switzerland) and Marcus Raichle (Washington • effective competition, including fair dealing; Ipsen Registration document 2016 157 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION • objective practices related to pricing and contracting; Purchasing is a major actor in the “Phare” program managed by Human Resources, aiming at promoting Insertion and • respect and protection of intellectual proper ty and Consideration of Disability in employment. In continuity of the information; audit performed in 2011 to assess the level of outsourcing • strong focus on building mutually beneficial relationships; with protected and adapted companies in France, some actions have been implemented on our sites since 2012 and • environment and sustainability considerations; are subject to annual monitoring: • and other risk management considerations. • Gardening in our three French manufacturing sites Dreux, L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue and Signes as well as at Les Ulis our Moreover, a specific paragraph of this policy focuses on R&D site, purchasing of pallets at L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, ethical standards, for which purchasing team members ought painting work at Dreux. to be a model. • In our sites of Dreux and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, we buy from In France, Ipsen signed in 2013 the “Charte des Relations protected and adapted companies in France some of our Inter-Entreprises”. The objective of this Charter is to build cleaning products and office supplies; we also outsource to a balanced and sustainable relationship between large them the enveloping and the mail postage. In 2015, Dreux is companies and their suppliers in knowledge and respect of also buying visit cards from French protected and adapted the rights and duties of each party. companies. How does the purchasing community translate these • Some breakfasts and catering services at Signes, part of principles into action? our meal trays servicing, the provision and maintenance of green plants in Boulogne and Les Ulis, design of Ipsen Firstly, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) criteria are greeting cards and mailing to all Ipsen French employees. considered as part of the supplier selection and evaluation In 2015, L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue (ISS) bought for the first time process. compositions for the gift packages of their staff. EHS or more widely CSR are part of our specifications in more • At Signes, we purchased work equipment that have been and more categories: analyzed by ergonomists in 2014 in order to optimize and • Namely, for equipment purchases and capital expenses, maintain the position of disabled workers and improve the EHS reviews the specifications in Les Ulis, Dreux, Dublin working conditions of the working unit. This analysis was and Wrexham. extended over 2015 and also on a perimeter including L’Islesur-la-Sorgue (ISS). • For contract manufacturing, a certain standard is required for subcontractors manipulating our drugs, for whom we Actions are conducted to reduce the impact of the product not only collect detailed EHS information before selection, on the environment like decreasing from 9 µm to 7 µm the but we may also perform EHS site audit to assess the thickness of sachet used in Smecta ® both in Dreux and Health and Safety protection level of their staff before in Tianjin, as well as Forlax® in Dreux. Since 2014, 85% of selection and once they have become our supplier. Smecta® and Forlax® production at Dreux is 7 µm. Another well advanced project on our production sites is to • In Dreux, our biggest volume manufacturing site, we have reduce the weight of cartons used in the manufacture of our added in 2013 CSR section in our evaluation tool applied cases. At Dreux, this project has already been completed. to the most strategic material suppliers. In 2014, we have systematized this evaluation to all our suppliers of material Still on the packaging side, another project on the reduction and packaging; furthermore, we have also enlarged this of the sachets size for Forlax® in Dreux was finalized in 2014. assessment to our main providers of facility management Forlax® produced at Dreux for the French market has today (maintenance, security...). smaller sachets. And in 2015, our Tianjin plant finalized the reduction of the sachets for Smecta®. • We have included a clause covering sustainability and labor in most of our Facility management contracts for Dreux, Finally, we launched an innovative syringe technology Signes and Les Ulis (maintenance, security…). S o m a tu l i n e ® D e p ot I n j e c ti o n fo r th e tr e a tm e n t of neuroendocrine tumors to reduce medical waste and protect • We have included EHS in our Supplier Relationship against needle stick injuries. Ipsen won the California Product Management (SRM) program and specifically in the Stewardship Council’s 2015 Green Arrow Award for System SRM tool being developed for managing Ipsen-Supplier & Design Innovation for this industry-changing product. relationships. The impact of this new delivery system could be estimated • In 2016, we started to discuss working with EcoVadis to help to 67 tons of CO 2 emissions avoided, a toxics reduction manage supplier compliance with CSR and Sustainable of 53 tons of solvents and a savings of 6,083 pounds of practices. This is progressing to a pilot system to implement packaging in 2016. the supplier CSR and sustainability management. This will allow Ipsen to work with suppliers to improve their CSR and ■■3.3.2.5 Loyalty of practices sustainability standings as well as improve our relationships Ipsen’s continued commitment to the highest ethical with these suppliers. standards has been communicated through the Company’s 158 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Code for Ethical Conduct. Ipsen’s Company Code applies so that benefit-risk is optimised for patients, both in clinical to all Ipsen employees and new hires and through an Ethics development and after market launches; and and Compliance program that meets international standards, • to maintain a sustainable cross-functional Ipsen PV driven by ethical guidelines, applied to all countries and all System, fully compliant with pharmacovigilance legislation departments in the company. worldwide, and sourced cost-effectively with reliable Actions taken to prevent all forms of corruption access to the right capacity of skills and capabilities to Ipsen has adopted a continuous improvement approach secure efficient delivery of fluctuating workload demands. for its anti-corruption program as defined in the applicable The achievement of these objectives requires the collection procedures and training. Ipsen also joined the United Nations and evaluation of adverse event data from all sources “Global Compact” program in 2012, confirming the Group’s worldwide, and ensuring that these data are accurately commitment to fighting corruption in all its forms. entered onto our Global Patient Safety database and expedited Against this backdrop, Ipsen has adopted appropriate and as required to health authorities according to the relevant adequate measures that apply to each employees and pharmacovigilance legislation. This database provides partners company-wide. information for the ongoing assessment of the benefit-risk profiles of all Ipsen products authorized for marketing, and In 2016, the global anti-corruption policy was communicated those molecules which are in clinical development. The data to all Ipsen countries and entities to remind the Company’s are examined using state of the art software and statistical employees and partners how to identify, prevent, and mitigate analyses to look for safety signals, which are then evaluated corruption risks. At the end of 2016, all Ipsen employees, to ascertain whether these constitute new risks or changes including new hires, received training in this. to existing risks. Regular aggregate reports of safety data are In addition, a “Third Party Compliance Due Diligences” prepared for submission to health authorities according to program has been rolled out for Ipsen’s partners and their timelines and requirements. subparties along with a dedicated training program. Ipsen’s safety culture is based on strong collaboration As a pharmaceutical company, we also work with Healthcare between Non-Clinical Drug Safety, and Global Patient Safety, Professionals and Organizations as part of Ipsen’s commitment providing an integrated scientific approach to safety decisionto improve the health and quality of life of Patients. The making. The sources of safety data include spontaneous case Healthcare Industry and Healthcare Professionals and reports from healthcare professionals and consumers, clinical Organizations work with us on a variety of activities ranging trials, pre-clinical and toxicology information, solicited case from clinical research to sharing best clinical practices and reports from organized patient data collection systems (e.g. information on how new medicines can be adapted to patient patient support programs, registries, etc.), published articles pathways. Ipsen is subject to all legislations, regulations in the scientific and medical literature and communications and codes applicable and has adopted relevant procedures from health authorities. supporting the implementation of high ethical standards, Thus GPS staff work closely with their colleagues within other enabling these relationships to be conducted with integrity functions to develop clinical trial programs, clinical study and trust. reports, Marketing Authorization Applications, responses to Lastly, Ipsen encourages all employees to report any incidents questions from Health Authorities, and to ensure effective or breaches related to, among other risks, potential corruption communication of up-to-date benefit-risk information via the facts, and has implemented an alert procedure described in product information (Summary of Product Characteristics, the Company’s Code for Ethical Conduct. Prescribing Information, Patient Leaflets) to assist the physicians and patients in making the best patient-centric Measures taken in favor of the safety and health of decisions on treatment. Such collaborative working may also customers involve Ipsen partners when the product is the subject of a Ipsen’s vision as a leading pharmaceutical company is to licensing venture. strive to deliver significant improvements in patients’ health A collaborative teamwork and quality of life by providing effective therapeutic solutions to fulfill unmet medical needs. GPS benefits from effective teamwork at all levels to achieve its objectives, namely: As a pharmaceutical Company, pharmacovigilance is a key activity within Ipsen with both ethical and legal aspects. As • Within GPS; part of the Research and Development Division, the Global • Across the wider pharmacovigilance community, including Patient Safety (GPS) department, includes pharmacovigilance all Ipsen-staff with pharmacovigilance responsibilities in among its various accountabilities to ensure the safety of local affiliates and subsidiaries who interface with local patients receiving Ipsen products. The Senior Vice President, customers and local health authorities to ensure patient Head of Global Patient Safety also fulfils the role of European safety and compliance with the regulatory legislation; Union Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance (EU QPPV), and reports to the Senior Vice President, Chief Medical • Other functions within Ipsen, and Ipsen’s partner-companies Officer. The objective of Global Patient Safety are: and third party vendors. • to ensure the proactive evaluation and communication of The medical safety governance at Ipsen has recently been evolving safety knowledge about all Ipsen drug products, strengthened with the creation of Ipsen Benefit-Risk Decision Ipsen Registration document 2016 159 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Board, chaired by the Chief Medical Officer, which includes promote and respect the fundamental principles of the ILO senior experts from the relevant functions required for (International Labor Organization), in particular: effective benefit-risk decision making, including changes to • to support and respect the protection of internationally the Company Core Data Sheets and subsequent Summaries proclaimed human rights; of Product Characteristics, Prescribing Information and Investigator’s Brochures for all Ipsen development and post• to make sure that we are not complicit in human rights marketing authorisation products. abuses; In June 2014 the MHRA (UK) conducted a routine Good • to encourage the freedom of association and the effective Pharmacovigilance Practice (GVP) inspection at Ipsen. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; There were no critical findings identified in the Company’s pharmacovigilance system (a critical finding is defined as • to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; a deficiency in pharmacovigilance systems, practices or • to abolish child labor; processes that adversely affect the rights, safety or well-being of patients or that poses a potential risk to public health or • to ban discrimination in respect of employment and that represents a serious violation of applicable legislation and occupation. guidelines). All Corrective and Preventative Actions in relation Moreover, since 2012, Ipsen adheres to the Global Compact to this inspection have now been completed. program of the United Nations and confirms the will of the Respect of Human rights and Promotion and Respect Group to include its fundamental principles in particular in the of the fundamental principles of the International Labor domain of human rights and standards of work in its sphere Organization (ILO) of influence. Through our Code of Ethical Conduct and our human resources policy, we commit to respect human rights and to Methodological note on the social and environmental reporting Human Resources External resources: temporary workers, trainees, etc. are excluded from headcounts. • Headcounts The headcount indicators reported in the registration • Absenteeism document come from two main sources of information: A specific standard Excel table covers the absenteeism rate. This template is sent, at the end of the year, to every 1. HRConnect – HRIS of Ipsen – which covers all countries country or site with a Human Resources manager: Algeria, except China. Data retrieved from HRConnect enable to Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Ireland, provide all indicators except the absenteeism rate (see Italy, Korea, Russia, Spain, United Kingdom, and Vietnam. below). At the end of 2016, this perimeter represents about 91% 2. A standard Excel table: of Ipsen’s population (excluding joint ventures). However, the absenteeism rate for the French sites is based on data China submits every month a file which includes the list of retrieved from the French payroll system and provided by employees with the necessary data (headcount up-to-date, Payroll Department. start date/leave date, birth date, etc.) enabling the HRIS Department (Human Resources Information System) to • Training produce indicators. Training data of the training deployed at local level are collected Regarding joint ventures, the Group HR policy does not apply by local HR Managers. The data concerning training recorded to these entities; no reporting is being done to Ipsen’s Human on the global training platforms are directly managed at the Resources. Therefore the only information taken into account central level. All the collected data is consolidated into a for joint ventures is the headcount related to the total Group common Excel file. Workforce. The other indicators do not take into account Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) information related to joint ventures. Perimeter 1 of the reporting includes 7 manufacturing or Headcount computation rule: “Is considered as present any production sites: Dreux (France), Dublin (Ireland), L’Isle sur-laemployee with a current work contract with Ipsen who has Sorgue (France), Signes (France), Tianjin (China) and Wrexham a status Active or Inactive in HRConnect”. “Active” means (United Kingdom) and the joint venture in Cork (Ireland), as “any employee paid the last day of the month which is under well as 3 research and development (R&D) sites: Les Ulis consideration”; “inactive” means “any employee unpaid the (France), Cambridge (United States) and Oxford-Milton Park last day of the month which is under consideration”. formerly Abingdon (United Kingdom). The joint venture of 160 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Cork is included in the perimeter of this reporting as this site the IEA emission factors related to international electricity follows Ipsen EHS policy. consumption. In addition the Perimeter 2 encompasses tertiary sites of • Energy indicators and associated CO2 emissions, published the Group with a Human Resource representative that is to in 2014 for sites of Cambridge (additional supply of say: Algeria, Germany, Australia, US (Basking Ridge), France steam), Abingdon (calculation error without considering (Boulogne-Billancourt), Brazil, China, Korea, Spain, Italy, 2014 kWh) and Algeria (data for gas were provided in m3 Russia, UK (Slough) and Vietnam. This perimeter covers 90% and not in kWh in 2014) have been modified. Obviously, of headcount at end 2015. Note that for offices, health and these informations are also taken in account for the 2015 safety indicators (number of medicalized accident, number of reporting. Furthermore, without any additional and detailed occupational disease, number of days lost), information are information, the steam netwok of Cambridge has been now regularly collected during the year (except for Algeria and estimated with an emission factor of 0.203 kg CO2/kWh, Korea). The energy data are collected for the annual exercise. which corresponds to the average of French networks. The Perimeter 1 represents Ipsen’s main environmental Health and safety indicators in particular for determining the impacts related to the activities of production and research accident frequency and severity rates include the following and development. The choice of extending to Perimeter 2 has calculations: been made to include the energy consumption of international • The frequency rate 1 is the number of disabling injuries due offices as well as accident data, which have a non-negligible to the work needing an external medicalized assistance, impact at Group level. The Perimeter 1 will be taken as with work lost time exceeding one day which have occurred a reference except where the Perimeter 2 is specifically over a period of 12 months per million hours worked mentioned. (frequency rate 1 = number of disabling injuries due to the Data consolidation is performed using an internal reporting work with lost time x 1,000,000 / number of hours worked). file, which also defines EHS monitoring indicators. The data • The frequency rate 2 is the number of disabling injuries due are controlled and compiled using this central file, which to the work needing an external medicalized assistance, possesses means of control and alert (absurd data, problems with work lost time exceeding one day and without work of units, etc.). This central reporting file has been introduced lost time which have occurred over a period of 12 months to persons in charge of EHS on site in order to minimise the per million hours worked (frequency rate 2 = number of sources of errors. disabling injuries due to the work with and without lost time It is nevertheless advisable to note that the extra-financial x 1,000,000 / number of hours worked). reporting does not benefit from the same maturity as the • The severity rate is the number of worker-days lost as financial reporting. The practical modalities of data collection a result of disability injuries per thousand hours worked are still to be perfected, considering the diversity of Ipsen. (severity rate = number of worker-days lost x 1,000 / number In addition, some precisions are to be taken into account for of hours worked). the following indicators: • Emission factors used to calculate CO 2 emissions are those of the Base Carbone ADEME and those provided by Ipsen Registration document 2016 161 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION The following table represents the approaches used to derive carbon emissions for scope 1, 2 and 3 included in the fight to prevent climate change section of the document. Emissions Factor Scope Categories Description Data sources sources 1 Direct emissions from Natural gas and fuel R&D manufacturing IAE Highlights CO2 stationary combustion combustion (Kwh) and affiliates reporting fossil fuels sources 1 Direct fugitive emissions Refrigerant gas losses (tons) R&D manufacturing Base Carbone reporting 2 Indirect emission from Electricity consumption (Kwh) R&D manufacturing IAE Highlights CO2 electricity consumption and affiliates reporting fossil fuels 2 Indirect emission from Steam and cooling R&D manufacturing Base Carbone steam, heat and cooling consumption (Kwh). Only one and affiliates reporting consumption site is concerned 3 Emissions due to fuels and Upstream emissions R&D manufacturing Base Carbone energy (not covered by (extraction and transportation) and affiliates reporting scope 1 and 2) (Kwh) 3 Purchased goods or Extraction and Manufacturing R&D manufacturing: Base Carbone and services of raw materials Weight of every composant CarbonEM methodology primary, secondary and tertiary packaging (tons) 3 Capital goods GHG Emissions due to the R&D manufacturing Base Carbone® construction of buildings and affiliates reporting (industrial and offices) Buildings (sqm) depreciation based on 50 years. 3 Upstream and downstream Road, Air, sea transportation Upstram: Tonnes km Base Carbone® transportation and of raw materials and final from each site reporting distribution products from production site Downstream: to first delivery local sites tonnes km from deliveries extraction 3 Waste generated GHG Emissions due to the R&D manufacturing Base Carbone® treatment of production waste Reporting (tons) (incineration, landfill, recycling) 3 Business travels GHG Emissions due to the car Travel agency (km) Base Carbone® fleet consumption and plane and reporting on gasoline travels consumption (liters) 3 Employee commuting GHG Emissions due to travels Distances (km) Base Carbone® between working sites and estimated from average employee’s home (French national survey (ENTD INSEE)) 3 End-of-life treatment of sold GHG Emissions due to the Deliveries database Base Carbone® products treatment of packaging waste (tons) and average waste after use of sold products treatment (incineration, landfill, recycling) 162 Ipsen Registration document 2016 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. Ipsen Société anonyme: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report For the year ended 31 December 2016 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Ipsen S.A (the “Company”), appointed as independent third party and certified by COFRAC under number 3-1048(1), we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended 31 December 2016 included in the management report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), summarised in the management report and available on request at the EHS department of the company. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Statutory Auditor’s responsibility On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: • attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); • express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). Our work involved six people and was conducted between October 2016 and February 2017 during a three week period. We were assisted in our work by our sustainability experts. Our work described below was performed in accordance with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement, with professional standards issued by the national auditing body, and with ISAE 3000 concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programs arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code. Conclusion Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. (1) The scope of which is available at www.cofrac.fr. Ipsen Registration document 2016 163 3 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted ten interviews with the people responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: • assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; • verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important(1): • at parent entity and sites level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; • at the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us(2) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents between 16% and 29% of quantitative social data disclosed, and between 31% and 100% of quantitative environmental data disclosed. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Neuilly-sur-Seine, 22 February 2017 One of the Statutory Auditors, Deloitte & Associés Jean-Marie Le Guiner Julien Rivals Partner Partner, Sustainability Services (1) Social indicators: Group workforce at 31 December; Redundancies, dismissals, mutual agreement, resignation, end of fixed-term, retirements, deaths, other motive (joint-ventures not included); Absenteeism; Number of hours of training.  EHS indicators: Frequency rate 1, frequency rate 2, severity rate; GHG emissions in tons eqCO2; Emissions of VOC to the atmosphere; Group energy consumption on perimeters 1&2 (kWh); Split of group energy consumption (%) by energy source; Total amount of waste produced by the group (tons), Total waste by category (%), Split of the different types of treatment (%); Water consumption; Volume of treated water on site; Supply of water of well water origin; Solvent usage.  Qualitative information: Training and development investment; Fight against climate change/ reduction of CO2 emissions; Green chemistry and optimization of the use of solvents; Subcontractors and suppliers; Measures taken to prevent all kinds of corruption; Measures taken in favor of the safety and health of customers. (2) Beaufour Ipsen Industrie S.A.S. in Dreux (Accident indicators), Beaufour Ipsen Industrie in L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue (Total waste; Water consumption), Carapartners in Cork (Solvent usage, Accident indicators), Ipsen Pharma Biotech in Signes (HR and EHS indicators), Ipsen Pharma GmbH (Training, Absenteeism, Accident indicators). 164 Ipsen Registration document 2016 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4.1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 166 4.1.1 Presentation of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee 166 4.1.2 Reports of the Chairman of the Board and the Statutory Auditors 186 4.1.3 Compensation of directors and officers 203 4.1.4 Agreements entered into by the Group with its senior executives or principal shareholders and Statutory Auditors’ Report 221 4.2 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 225 4.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association 225 4.2.2 Share Capital 227 4.2.3 Shareholding 234 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.1.1 Presentation of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee A Board of Directors governs the Company. The Board of The number of Directors who have reached the age of Directors determines the Company’s business strategy and 70 years old shall not be more than one-third of the total oversees its implementation. Subject to the powers expressly number of directors in office. When this age limit is exceeded, conferred to Shareholders’ Meetings and within the limits of the oldest Director shall be deemed to have resigned at the the Company’s corporate purpose, the Board of Directors is end of the first upcoming Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. competent to consider any issues concerning the Company’s effective performance and guides the Company’s affairs A d i re c to r’s a p p o i ntm e nt e n d s af te r th e O rd i n a r y through its deliberations. Shareholders’ Meeting ruling on the financial statements for the previous financial year and held in the year in which On 16 Februar y 2016, the Company announced the the term of that director expires. Outgoing Directors remain implementation of a new governance structure based on the eligible for re-election. separation of the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors which held on 8 July 2016 appointed David Meek as Chief Executive The Board of Directors shall elect from among its members Officer. From 18 July 2016, effective date of appointment of a Chairman who must be a natural person in order for the David Meek as CEO, Marc de Garidel became Chairman of the appointment to be valid, for a term of appointment that cannot Board of Directors, non-executive. For additional information, exceed the term as director. The Chairman may be re-elected please see 4.1.2.1.1 – Governance structure. and may be dismissed by the Board of Directors at any time. In the event of the Chairman’s temporary incapacity or death, ■■4.1.1.1 Rules Governing the Board of Directors the Board of Directors may delegate the duties of Chairman to another director for a limited, but renewable, period in the Members of the Board of Directors event of temporary incapacity or until the election of a new Subject to the derogations provided for by law, the Board of Chairman in the event of death. Directors is comprised of a minimum of three and a maximum The Chairman chairs the Board’s meetings and organizes of eighteen members who are appointed by Ordinary Meetings and manages its work for which he or she reports to the of Shareholders. Shareholders’ Meeting and implements its decisions. The Chairman also oversees the operations of the Company’s Statutorily, each Director must own at least one share in the internal bodies to ensure that they function properly and that Company. If, on the day of his or her appointment, a director the Directors are able to fulfill their duties. does not own the minimum number of shares required, or if during his or her term in office, he or she ceases to During it’s meeting dated 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors own the required number, the director shall be deemed to determined the scope of the Chairman’s duties within the have resigned from his or her position unless the situation is framework of the new governance structure announced on remedied within the legal limit of six months. 16 February 2016. The Internal rules of the Board of Directors have also been amended during this meeting to specify the In the event of a vacancy due to death or resignation of one specfic mission entrusted to the Chairman of the Board of or several directors, the Board of Directors may decide, Directors within the framework of the separation of functions. subject to legal provisions, provisional appointments The Board especially precised that the Chairman represents between two General Meetings. However, if the number the Board of Directors and, except under exceptional of directors in office falls below the legal minimum, the circumstances, has the sole authority to act and speak remaining directors in office, or the Statutory Auditors if the on behalf of the Board. He organizes and directs the work remaining directors are absent, shall immediately convene of the Board and ensures the effective functioning of the an Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting to appoint a sufficient corporate bodies in compliance with the good governance number of Board members. Temporar y appointments principles. He coordinates the work of the Board with that of decided by the Board of Directors are subject to ratification the Committees. He also ensures that the directors are able to by the upcoming Shareholders’ Meeting. If the temporary fulfill their mission and shall particularly ensure that they have appointments are not ratified by the Shareholders’ Meeting, all of the information they require to fulfill their mission. the decisions adopted and acts performed by the directors appointed temporarily, or to which they have contributed, In addition, the Chairman also fulfills the following specific shall nonetheless remain valid. A director appointed to missions: replace another director shall hold his or her position for the • he assists the Chief Executive Officer, at the request of remaining term of his or predecessor. the latter, within the framework of the representation of the Company in national and international professional Directors are appointed for a four-year term. In exceptional organizations; cases or in order to enable the staggered renewal of the Directors’ terms, Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings shall be • he may represent the Company, in cooperation with the able to elect one or several directors for terms in office of Chief Executive Officer and at the request of the latter, in one year, two years, or three years. its high-level relations, on a national and international level; 166 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • he may participate, at the invitation of the Chief Executive Powers of the Board of Directors Officer, in internal meetings with the executives and teams of The Board is responsible for defining and implementing the the Company, in order to provide insight on strategic issues; Company’s business guidelines. • he may, without prejudice to the prerogatives of the Board Subject to the powers expressly conferred to Shareholders’ of Directors and its committees, be regularly consulted Meetings and within the limits of the Company’s corporate by the Chief Executive Officer regarding any significant purpose, the Board of Directors is competent to consider any events related to the Company’s strategy and major growth issues concerning the proper running and operation of the projects. Company and may take any deliberations. In all of these specific missions, the Chairman acts in close In relation to third parties, the Company is bound even by an coordination with the Chief Executive Officer who will solely action of the Board of Directors that is not consistent with the be in charge of the leadership and operational management corporate purpose, unless it proves that the third party was of the Group. aware that the action exceeded such purpose, or could not be unaware thereof in the circumstances. It being specified (For further information, see section 2.1.5.2.1 – Implementation that the mere publication of the articles is not sufficient to of a new governance structure). constitute such proof. The Board of Directors may also, from among its individuals, The Board of Directors shall carry out such controls and appoint a Vice-Chairman, who chairs Board meetings in the verifications. absence of the Chairman’s exceptional absence. Failing them, in the absence of a Chairman, Board meetings are chaired by All Directors shall receive proper information to fulfill their the oldest of the directors present. duties, and may obtain any documents they consider necessary from the Company’s Executive Management. Meetings of the Board of Directors Internal Rules The Board of Directors meets as often as required in the interests of the Company, at the request of his Chairman, at The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors are subjected to a its head office or in any other place indicated in the notice of regular review by the Board of Directors. meeting. Directors may take part in meetings by any means By the decision dated 8 July 2016, and within the frame of the allowed by law, the Articles of association, and the internal implementation of a new governance structure, the Board of regulations of the Board of Directors. Directors has decided to amend its Internal Rules adopted In addition, if the Board has not met for two months, a group on 30 August 2005, the purpose of which is to define the role of directors representing at least one-third of the Board’s and rules of functioning of the Board in accordance with legal members, and the Chief Executive Officer, if such position is provisions, the Articles of association, and rules of corporate separated from the Chairman, may, by setting the agenda of governance applicable to listed companies. The main provisions such meeting, request the Chairman to convene a meeting. of these Internal Rules are described below. The Chairman is bound by such requests. Role of the Board of Directors If the Chairman fails to convene such a meeting, and only Responsible for governing the Company in accordance with in this event, the Chief Executive Officer, or a Deputy Chief the legal provisions and Articles of association, the Board of Executive Officer, or at least two directors, may convene a Directors: meeting of the Board of Directors and set the agenda. • regularly reviews the strategic guidelines of the Company and Group, which is made up of the Company and the Notices of meetings may be issued by any written means business units it consolidates in its financial statements (letter, fax, telex, or electronic mail) and must be issued (hereafter “the Group”), its investments, disinvestment, or at least fifteen days in advance, except in the event of an internal restructuring projects; and the Group’s overall policy emergency, in which case the notice may be issued by with regard to human resources, in particular its policy in any means and must be sent at least by the day before the field of the Company’s compensation, profit-sharing, the meeting. However, notices may be issued verbally and and performance based incentives. It conducts an annual without notice if all Directors agree. performance appraisal of the Company’s senior executives An attendance register is kept to be signed by all directors and is consulted on new senior executive recruitments; participating in the meetings. • approves, on a proposal of the Strategic Committee and Quorum and majority before any decision is made, acquisitions or divestments of equity interests or assets, partnerships, alliances, or The Board of Directors shall only validly deliberate if at least cooperation agreements relating to research, development, half of its members are present. Decisions are adopted by a industry, and business as well as, generally speaking, any majority vote of the Directors present or represented. In the transaction or any commitment that might significantly event of a split, the Chairman has a casting vote. affect the Group’s financial or operating situation or its Directors attending meetings via videoconferencing or other strategic guidelines; telecommunications means are deemed to be present for • is regularly informed via the Audit Committee about the the purposes of calculating the quorum and majority, within financial situation, the Company’s cash position, and all the the limits and under the conditions provided for by law. significant events affecting the Company; it is kept informed This option cannot be used in the case of the decisions by its Chairman and by its committees of all significant provided for by Articles L.232-1 and L.233-16 of the French events related to the conduct of business for the Company Commercial Code. and the Group; Ipsen Registration document 2016 167 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • strives to ensure that shareholders and the public are well not, directly or indirectly, own more than five percent of the informed, in particular via the control it exercises on the Company’s share capital or voting rights; information given by the Company; and in this respect, it • do not have close family ties with a corporate officer; defines the Company’s communication policy, in particular • has not been Statutory Auditor of the Company in the regarding the frequency with which financial information previous five years. relating to the Group is released; • checks that the Company has reliable procedures in place The meaning of “executive officer” and “close relationship with to identify, assess, and monitor its commitments and risks, an executive officer” is defined by Article L.621-18-2 of the including off-balance sheet ones, as well as internal control. French Monetary and Financial Code. Members of the Board of Directors Independent directors should account for at least a third of Board members. Directors representing the employee Every Director shall dedicate the time and attention required shareholders and directors representing employees are not to discharge the duties of his/her mandate and attend the taken into account when determining the percentage of meetings of the Board and of the Committee(s) on which they independent directors within the Board and the Committees. are a member. The Annual Report will list the mandates held by members of the Board of Directors and record how assiduously The Board shall examine at least once a year which Directors they attend meetings of the Board and of Committees. meet these independence criteria and shall report the conclusions of this review to shareholders (i) every year during Executive officers shall not hold more than two other the Shareholder’s Meeting convened to approve the financial directorships in non-Group listed companies, including statements for the previous financial year and (ii) during foreigners ones. Furthermore, they must seek the prior opinion Shareholder’s Meetings convened to elect new Directors or of the Board before accepting any additional corporate office. ratify Directors co-opted by the Board. A Director shall not hold more than four other mandates Board members may attend training sessions on specific in non-Group listed companies, including foreigners ones. areas of the Company or its business line(s) and industrial Directors must keep the Board informed about the mandates sector that are to be arranged on the Company’s own initiative and positions held in other companies. The non-executive or at the request of the Board of Directors. Chairman must in addition obtain the Board’s opinion before accepting a new corporate office. Before accepting office Directors should familiarize themselves with any general or specific obligations or duties related to The Board must be made up of Directors chosen because their position. In particular, they ought to acquaint themselves of their competence and their experience with respect to the thoroughly with legal provisions governing the Company, its Company’s and the Group’s operations. Articles of Association, and provisions of the Board’s by-laws A Director is deemed to be independent if he or she meets which apply to them. the following criteria as of the date on which his/her status is Directors are elected by all the Company’s shareholders and assessed: must act in all circumstances in the Company’s interest. • he or she is neither an employee, nor an executive officer, Directors must inform the Board about any situation of a nor a member of the Board and is not closely related to an conflict of interest, even if it is potential, between themselves executive officer or to a member of the Board, of a Group and the Company or the Group and shall abstain from taking entity or of an entity controlling the Company within the part in any discussions and vote by the Board on the relevant meaning of Article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code, deliberations. and was not during the past five years; • is not an executive Director and is not closely related to Directors are required to contribute to the determination of the an executive Director of a company in which a Group Company’s and Group’s strategic objectives and to supervise entity holds an executive office, either directly or indirectly, their implementation. They should exercise careful and effective through an employee appointed as such, or in which a oversight of the Company’s and Group’s management. corporate officer of the Company (currently in office or Directors have a general duty of discretion and confidentiality having held such office within the past five years at least) in regard to the deliberations of the Board and its committees. holds, directly or indirectly, a corporate office; The same applies to all non-public information and documents • is not a customer, or a supplier or an investment banker provided to them at meetings or otherwise in connection with or a commercial banker, or a significant service provider their functions as Board or committees members or their of the Company or of the Group, or a member of a participation in their deliberations. This duty of discretion and customer company, or a supplier, or an investment bank confidentiality shall survive to the end of terms in office. or a commercial bank, or a material service provider of Directors undertake to comply with all stock market regulations the Company or of the Group for which either Ipsen or the designed to prevent any market abuse that is prejudicial to the Group accounts for a material share of business; interests or image of the Company or the Group. The assessment as to whether the relationship with the Company or of the Group is material or not is debated once Directors shall not engage in transactions on any shares of a year at a meeting of the Nomination and Governance companies in respect of which they hold insider information, Committee and the criteria having led to this assessment, owing to their position, which is likely to have a significant are explained in the registration document; effect on the price of the securities concerned. • does not (i) represent a shareholder that owns, (ii) is not a Without prejudice to the applicable statutory provisions, member of an entity holding directly or indirectly or (iii) does every Director must be a Company shareholder in a personal 168 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE capacity and directly or indirectly own a relatively significant whether executive officers or not. The Board may request all number of shares. the reports, documents, and studies drafted by the Group. The Board may also ask forany external technical studies at Since an amendment to the Internal Rules dated 2 March the Company’s expense provided this does not breach any 2015, any Director, whether a physical person or a permanent confidentiality rules. For this purpose, and without prejudice representative of a legal entity to whom director’s fees have to the individual director’s information right provided under been paid, must own 500 Company shares. legal provisions and the Articles of Association, the Deputy Within two years after the entry into force of this rule, or Chairman of the Board, acting on behalf of all the Directors, with regard to future appointments within the two years may ask the Chairman of the Board, when the latter is also following their initial appointment, it is recommended that the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, for any information Directors should hold, directly or indirectly, a number of document which would need to be made available in order to shares amounting at least to the equivalent of the latest net enable Directors to fulfill their mission in compliance with the annual amount of the director’s fees received. law and Articles of Association. These shares must be registered shares. Directors may collectively or individually consult the Group’s senior executives for advice on any matters after advising The Company regularly communicates to the Directors their the Chairman of the Board and may meet senior executives new obligations. without the presence of the Chairman. Functioning of the Board of Directors Directors may likewise, collectively or individually, during The Board meets at least once per quarter at the Company’s or outside of meetings, ask the Chairman for information head office or in any other place indicated in the notice of they deem useful should disclosing said information not be meeting. prohibited by prudential rules with respect to confidentiality. Directors may take part in meetings by any means allowed by Directors are provided with relevant information such as law or by the Articles of Association. monthly reports, press reviews, and financial analysts’ reports. The Deputy Chairman of the Board, when one has been Directors also regularly receive information covering any appointed, assists the Chairman in his mission to organize change in corporate governance regulations. and supervise the Board’s work. The Deputy Chairman of Executive Management the Board takes part in the preparation of Board meetings in coordination with the Chairman and serves in that capacity In accordance with the legal provisions, the Executive to set a meeting’s agenda when consulted by the Chairman. Management of the Company is the responsibility either of Before the notice of a meeting is sent out, along with the the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who then serves as Chairman, the Deputy Chairmam reviews the documents and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or of another person information given for the Directors’ disposal. appointed by the Board of Directors, who then serves as Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors is responsible for Once a year, the Board discusses its modus operandi, electing one of these two options for a period which may not composition, and organization in an executive session be less than one year. outside the presence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, and management team members. At its meeting held on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors decided to change the Company’s form of governance by This “executive session” is prepared by the Nomination and separating the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors Governance Committee in cooperation with the Deputy and Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors which Chairman of the Board or a Director who is specially appointed held on 8 July 2016 appointed David Meek as Chief Executive for such purpose. Officer. From 18 July 2016, effective date of appointment The Board also proceeds to a formalized evaluation at least of David Meek as Chief Executive Officer, Marc de Garidel every three years. became Chairman of the Board of Directors (for further information, see section 4.1.2.1.1). The Board may call in an outside consultant to conduct an appraisal. The Chief Executive Officer Furthermore, the non-executive Directors also proceed, Appointment and removal once a year, in the performance evaluation of the Board’s When the Board of Directors determines to split the roles of Chairman, of the Chief Executive Officer and of the one or Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, it shall several Deputy Executive Officers, outside their presence. appoint the Chief Executive Officer, fix his or her term of office, and determine any restrictions on his or her powers. Means of the Board The Chief Executive Officer may be dismissed at any time by The Board of Directors may establish temporary or permanent the Board of Directors. If the Chief Executive Officer is not the specialized committees which are made up of at least three Chairman, his or her dismissal may give rise to damages if his members and no more than six Directors and appoints the or her dismissal is unjustified. Chairmen of said committees. The Chief Executive Officer is subject to the provisions These Committees submit their opinions and proposals to the of Article L.225-94-1 of the French Commercial Code on Board and report back to the Board on their work. simultaneous holding of terms of office as Chief Executive In order to ensure efficient and prudent control of the Officer, member of Management Board, sole managing Company’s and the Group’s management, the Board may Director, Director or member of the Supervisory Board of hold a hearing with the Group’s main senior managers, sociétés anonymes having their registered offices in France. Ipsen Registration document 2016 169 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE If the Chairman is also the Chief Executive Officer, the and no more than six Directors and appoints the Chairmen provisions concerning the Chief Executive Officer also apply of said committees. These committees issue proposals and to him or her. recommendations and report their work to the Board. Powers Committee members are chosen from among the Directors The Chief Executive Officer has the broadest powers to act at and are appointed in a personal capacity for the duration of any time and in any circumstances in the name and on behalf their term of office as a Director. They cannot get somebody to of the Company within the limits of the Company’s corporate represent them. The Board can replace or dismiss Committee purpose and subject to those powers expressly conferred by members at any time. Their mandates are renewable. A single law to Shareholders’ Meetings and to the Board of Directors. Director can be a member of several Committees. The Chief Executive Officer represents the Company with Subject to the specific rules applicable to them, every respect to third parties. The Company is bound by the Chief Committee defines how frequently it will hold meetings. Said Executive Officer’s acts even if the acts are outside of the meetings are held in the head office or any other location corporate purpose, unless the Company can prove that the decided by its Chairman when he convenes it and sets the third party knew the act was ultra vires or could not fail to have meeting’s agenda. known this given the circumstances, on the understanding that A Committee can meet only if at least half of its members the sole publication of the Company’s Articles of Association attend the meeting, in one of the ways allowed by the law or is not sufficient to constitute such proof. the Articles of Association with respect to directors attending Deputy Chief Executive Officers Board meetings. Upon proposal of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of The Chairman of a Committee may invite all Board members Directors may appoint one or more persons to assist the Chief to one or several of its meetings, as well as anyone else. Only Executive Officer. This appointed position for assiting the CEO members of the Committee shall take part in its deliberations. shall have the title of Deputy Chief Executive Officer. The minutes of every Committee meeting are drawn up by the The maximum number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers is Secretary of the Board under the authority of the Chairman set at five. of the Committee. The minutes are then sent to all members of the Committee. The Chairmen of Committees report to the The scope and term of the powers granted to Deputy Chief Board on the work carried out by their Committees under the Executive Officers are determined by the Board of Directors conditions set by the Board. and the Chief Executive Officer. In its respective competence, each Committee issues With respect to third parties, Deputy Chief Executive Officers proposals, recommendations, or opinions. To this end, each have the same powers as the Chief Executive Officer. Committee may undertake or arrange for, at the Company’s Deputy Chief Executive Officers may be dismissed by the expense, all external studies likely to shed light on the Board’s Board of Directors at any time upon proposal of the Chief deliberations. Each Committee reports to the Board on its Executive Officer. work at each one of the Board’s meetings. A summary of the activity of every Committee is included in the Annual Report. If the Chief Executive Officer ceases to exercise or is prevented from exercising his or her duties, the Deputy Chief Executive Each Committee decides on its other operating procedures Officers will remain in office until a new Chief Executive if need be. Each Committee periodically makes sure that its Officer is appointed, unless the Board of Directors decides rules and operating procedures enable it to help the Board otherwise. deliberate in a fruitful manner on the issues of its competence and can propose to the Board a change in its by-laws. Board Committees The Board of Directors has set up five permanent committees: Common rules to all committees the Strategic Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation In accordance with its Internal Rules, the Board of Directors Committee, Nomination and Governance Committee, and may establish temporar y or permanent specialized the Ethics Committee (see section 4.1.2.1. – Report of the committees which are made up of at least three members Chairman of the Board of Directors). ■■4.1.1.2 Composition of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Management During 2016 financial year, the changes that occurred within the Board of Directors and the Executive Management are as follows: Nature of the change Consequences in term of diversification Shareholders’ Meeting held Renewal of Mayroy S.A. and Ms. Carol Xueref N/A on 31 May 2016 as Directors Board of Directors held Separation of functions between Chairman Internationalization of the Executive on 8 July 2016 (Marc de Garidel) and Chief Executive Officer management (David Meek is an American (David Meek) national) The Board of Directors is currently comprised of eleven In 2016, the Board of Directors met fourteen times. The members, four of whom are independent. attendance rate amounted to 91%. Individual information concerning the Directors is presented in the section 4.1.1.3 “Main activities of the active Board members”. 170 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE List of the members of the Board of Directors in function as at 31 December 2016 Name Function Age Date of first End of Member of a Committee appointment term of and last renewal office(*) Marc de Garidel Chairman of the 58 11/10/2010 ASM 2019 Strategic Committee (Chairman) Board of Directors(**) with effect as Nomination and Governance Committee at 22/11/2010 27/05/2015 Antoine Flochel Vice-Chairman 52 30/08/2005 ASM 2017 Compensation Committee (Chairman) and Director 31/05/2013 Strategic Committee Hélène Auriol-Potier (a) (c) Director 54 04/06/2014 ASM 2018 Ethics Committee (Chairperson) Compensation Committee Anne Beaufour(c) Director 53 30/08/2005 ASM 2018 Nomination and Governance Committee 04/06/2014 (Chairperson) Strategic Committee Henri Beaufour Director 52 30/08/2005 ASM 2019 Strategic Committee 27/05/2015 Nomination and Governance Committee(***) Hervé Couffin (a) Director 65 30/08/2005 ASM 2018 Nomination and Governance Committee 04/06/2014 Audit Committee Michèle Ollier (a) (b) (c) Director 58 27/05/2015 ASM 2019 Nomination and Governance Committee Strategic Committee Mayroy SA Director 47 01/06/2012 ASM 2020 Ethics Committee (represented by 31/05/2016 Philippe Bonhomme) Pierre Martinet (a) Director 67 19/09/2005 ASM 2018 Audit Committee (Chairman) 04/06/2014 Compensation Committee Christophe Vérot Director 56 27/05/2011 ASM 2019 Audit Committee 27/05/2015 Nomination and Governance Committee Carol Xueref (b) (c) Director 61 01/06/2012 ASM 2020 Strategic Committee 31/05/2016 Ethics Committee (*) The Company has implemented staggered terms of office in 2011, which explains the different maturity dates. (**) Mr. Marc de Garidel has been entrusted with the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors within the framework of the new governance structure which became effective on the date of entry into office of the new Chief Executive Officer, David Meek, on 18 July 2016. (***) Henri Beaufour is a member of the Nomination and Governance Committee since 17 January 2017. (a) Independent Director. (b) Director of non-French nationality. (c) Woman director. In 2015, the Board of Directors decided to renew Marc de Antoine Flochel has been renewed as Vice-Chairman of the Garidel as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for the Board at its Meeting held on 31 May 2013 for the duration of duration of his term as a Director, i.e., until the Shareholders’ his term as a Director, i.e., until the Shareholders’ Meeting to Meeting to be held in 2019 to approve the 2018 financial be held in 2017 to approve the past financial statements. statements. Anne Beaufour and Henri Beaufour are brother and sister. At its meeting held on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors There are no other family relationships among the other approved the launching of the recruitment process of a new members of the Company’s Board of Directors and/or Chief Executive Officer and decided to separate the duties Executive Management. of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Upon proposal of the Nomination and Governance Committee, Officer. The Board of Directors also confirmed that the duties the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February of Chairman of the Board of Directors will be exercised by 2017, considered that Hélène Auriol-Potier, Michèle Ollier, Marc de Garidel within the frame of the new governance Hervé Couffin and Pierre Martinet are independent Directors structure. within the meaning of the Board Internal Rules described The Board of Directors which held on 8 July 2016 appointed in section 4.1.1.1 of the present registration document. The David Meek as Chief Executive Officer. From 18 July 2016, other Directors are related to an entity which controls the effective date of appointment of David Meek as Chief Company. Executive Officer, Marc de Garidel became Chairman of In addition, the Nomination and Governance Committee the Board of Directors. For further details, see section appraises once a year, during the annual review of the 4.1.2.1.1. Ipsen Registration document 2016 171 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE qualification of independence of directors, on the basis Committee estimates, on the basis of a multicriteria approach of a multi-criteria approach combining quantitative and combining quantitative and qualitative criteria (in particular qualitative criteria (including duration and the continuity of duration and continuity of the relation, organization of the the relationship, the organization of the relationship, the relation, amounts involved) the significant nature (or not) of amounts concerned), whether or not the directors’ business the business relations maintained by the Directors with the relationship with the Company or the Group is significant. To Company or the Group. To this end, the Committee verifies, this end, the Committee shall verify, where appropriate, that as the case may be, the transaction amounts between the the amounts of transactions between the Company and the Company and the concerned Directors or the company to relevant director or the company with which he is associated which he or she is associated (as a client, provider, investment, (as a customer, supplier, merchant banker or investment or as a business banker) to ensure those transactions do banker) do not exceed certain thresholds of the turnover, not exceed certain Group’s turnover, stockholder’s equity, equity, assets or debt of the stakeholders. Company’s assets, or stockholder’s debt thresholds. At its meeting of 22 February 2017, on the recommendation Upon recommendation of the Nomination and Governance of the Nomination and Governance Committee, the Board Committee, the Board of Directors in its meeting held on of Directors noted that there was no business relationship 29 February 2016, considered that there was no business between the members of the Board of Directors and the relationship between the members of the Board of Directors Company. and the Company. Once a year, during the annual evaluation of the Director’s The detail of the independence criteria evaluation is as follows: independence qualification, the Nomination and Governance Independence He or she is neither Is not an Is not a Does not Has not been Do not have criteria an employee, nor executive customer, or (i) represent a Statutory close family an executive officer, officer and is a supplier, or shareholder that Auditor of the ties with an nor a member of the not closely an investment owns, (ii) is not Company in executive officer Board and is not related to an banker or a a member of an the previous closely related to executive commercial entity holding five years an executive officer officer of a banker, or a directly or indirectly or to a member company in significant or (iii) does not, of the Board, of a which a Group service provider directly or indirectly, Group entity or of entity holds of the Company own more than five an entity controlling an executive or of the Group, percent (5%) of the the Company and office, either or a member Company’s share was not during the directly or of a customer capital or voting previous five years indirectly company, or a rights through an supplier, or an employee investment bank appointed or a commercial as such or bank or a in which a material service corporate provider of the officer of the Company or of Company the Group or for (currently in which either the office or having Company or the held such Group accounts office within for a material the past five share of business years at least) holds, directly or indirectly a corporate office Directors Marc de Garidel Marc de Garidel – – – – – has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors since this date Antoine Flochel – – – Antoine Flochel is – – Vice-President of the Board and Managing Director of Mayroy SA, the company controlling Ipsen SA 172 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independence He or she is neither Is not an Is not a Does not Has not been Do not have criteria an employee, nor executive customer, or (i) represent a Statutory close family an executive officer, officer and is a supplier, or shareholder that Auditor of the ties with an nor a member of the not closely an investment owns, (ii) is not Company in executive officer Board and is not related to an banker or a a member of an the previous closely related to executive commercial entity holding five years an executive officer officer of a banker, or a directly or indirectly or to a member company in significant or (iii) does not, of the Board, of a which a Group service provider directly or indirectly, Group entity or of entity holds of the Company own more than five an entity controlling an executive or of the Group, percent (5%) of the the Company and office, either or a member Company’s share was not during the directly or of a customer capital or voting previous five years indirectly company, or a rights through an supplier, or an employee investment bank appointed or a commercial as such or bank or a in which a material service corporate provider of the officer of the Company or of Company the Group or for (currently in which either the office or having Company or the held such Group accounts office within for a material the past five share of business years at least) holds, directly or indirectly a corporate office Directors Anne Beaufour – – – Anne Beaufour is the – Anne Beaufour Board Vice-President and Henri and Managing Beaufour are Director of Mayroy brother and sister SA, the company controlling Ipsen SA Henri Beaufour – – – Henri Beaufour is a – Anne Beaufour Director of Mayroy and Henri SA, the company Beaufour are controlling Ipsen SA brother and sister Hervé Couffin – – – – – – Michèle Ollier – – – – – – Hélène Auriol-Potier (*) – – – – – – Mayroy SA – – – Mayroy SA is the – – (represented by main shareholder Philippe Bonhomme) of Ipsen SA Pierre Martinet – – – – – – Christophe Vérot Christophe Vérot – – – – – is closely linked to Mayroy SA Carol Xueref Carol Xueref is closely – – – – linked to Mayroy SA (*) Ms. Hélène Auriol-Potier, independent director of the Company, is also as member of the Supervisory Board of the company Oddo&Cie. The Board of Directors of Ipsen has taken note of the policies on management of conflicts of interests set up by the Oddo Group. The Board also noticed that the consolidated holding of the subsidiary Oddo Asset Management in the share capital of Ipsen, through several management funds, was below the 5% legal threshold. Executive Management on 31 December 2016 Name Function Age Date of first End of Member of a Committee appointment term of and last renewal office David Meek Chief Executive 53 08/07/2016 with Unlimited Executive Leadership Team (Chairman) Officer effect as 18/07/2016 Ipsen Registration document 2016 173 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For the purposes of their office, Directors and members of To the Company’s best knowledge as of the date of the the Executive Management are domiciled at the Company’s present registration document, during the past five years, registered office. none of the Directors of the Company have been; On 16 Februar y 2016, the Company announced the • convicted of fraud, charged with any other offence, or had implementation of a new governance structure based on the any official public disciplinary action taken against them by separation of the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors statutory or regulatory authorities; and Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors which held • implicated in a bankruptcy, receivership, or liquidation as an on 18 July 2016 appointed David Meek as Chief Executive executive officer or director; Officer. From 8 July 2016, effective date of appointment of • disqualified from acting as a board member, senior executive, David Meek as CEO, Marc de Garidel became Chairman of the or supervisory board member or from participating in the Board of Directors. management of a listed company. ■■4.1.1.3 Main activities of the Board members on 31 December 2016 Marc de Garidel Nationality: Shares owned: 181,968 Chairman of the Board of Directors French Voting rights: 202,391 Committees: Biography and experience Strategic Committee (Chairman) Nomination and Governance Marc de Garidel is Chairman of the Board of Directors within the frame of the new governance Committee announced by the Company on 16 February 2016. Marc de Garidel held the position of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen SA since Date of birth: November 2010 and until 18 July 2016, date on which the decision to dissociate the functions 16 March 1958 of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Office became effective with the appointment of David Meek as Chief Executive Officer. For further details, see section 4.1.2.1.1. Date of 1st appointemnt: Marc de Garidel is Chairman and spokesperson of the G5, an association of eight leading French 22 November 2010 healthcare companies, since January 2011. He is also Vice-President of France’s Healthcare Industries and Technologies Strategic Committee since July 2011. Marc de Garidel is Vice-President and a Last renewal date: board member of the EFPIA (European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations). 27 May 2015 He is a member of the Board of Directors of Galenica (Switzerland). Marc de Garidel is a knight of France’s National Order of the Legion of Honor. Term of office: He is a teacher in the Master’s Programs at ESSEC and ESCP Europe business schools. 2019 General Meeting Marc de Garidel began his career with pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly in 1983, where he held various roles, mainly finance-related, in France, the US and Germany. In 1995, Marc de Garidel joined Amgen, an American biotech company, where he held positions of increasing responsibility in finance. In 1998, he was appointed Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the Group “Corporate Controller”, based in the US. In 2000, he takes up operational responsibilities in France, and progressively oversaw an increasing number of countries before heading the Southern region of Amgen International, the group’s most important region in terms of sales. Between 2010 and 2012, Marc de Garidel was Chairman of the European Biopharmaceutical Enterprises association. Marc de Garidel is a graduate of École Spéciale des Travaux Publics (a leading French civil engineering school), and holds a Master’s degree from the Thunderbird School of Global Management (Arizona, US) and an Executive MBA from Harvard Business School (Massachusetts, US). Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other position: • Ipsen SA, Chairman of the Board of • G5 Santé (France), Chairman Directors • EFPIA, Director and Vice-President • Healthcare Industries and Technologies (France), Vice-President of the Strategic Committee • Galenica (listed company in Switzerland), Director • IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative), Chairman of the Board of Directors Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years • Ipsen SA (France), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman • Suraypharm SAS (France), Chairman • Pharnext (France), Director • Comité Biotech du Leem (Les Entreprises de Médicament) • European Biopharmaceutical Enterprises, Chairman • Promethera (Belgique), Non-Executive Chairman • Inserm Transfer (France), Vice-President of the Advisory Board 174 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Antoine Flochel Nationality: Shares owned: 5,000(*) Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors French Voting rights: 7,000 Committees: Biography and experience Chairman of the Compensation Committee and member of the Antoine Flochel is currently the legal manager of Financière de Catalogne (Luxembourg) and Strategic Committee Vice-Chairman of Ipsen SA’s Board of Directors. He is a Managing Director and Chairman of the board of Mayroy SA and Director of Beech Tree. Date of birth: Antoine Flochel worked for Coopers & Lybrand Corporate Finance (now PricewaterhouseCoopers 23 January 1965 Corporate Finance) from 1995 to 2005 and was a partner in 1998. Antoine Flochel is a graduate of the Paris Institut des Études Politiques (institute of political Date of 1st appointment: studies), holds a law degree and a postgraduate degree in economics of the Paris Dauphine 30 August 2005 University, as well as an MSc in finance from the London School of Economics. Positions and functions currently held Last renewal date: 31 May 2013 Main function: Other position: • Financière de Catalogne SPRL (Luxembourg), • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Managing Term of office: Legal Manager Director and Chairman of the Board 2017 General Meeting • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director • Alma Capital Europe SA (Luxembourg), Director • Alma Capital Investment Funds SICAV (Luxembourg), Director • Blue Hill Participations SARL (Luxembourg), Legal Manager • Financière CLED SPRL (Belgium), Legal Manager • VicJen Finance SA (France), Chairman Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years • Baigo Capital GmbH (Germany), Member of the Advisory Board • Financière Althea IV SAS (France), Advisor • Beavan Somua Fund (Guernsey), Director • SCI Financière CLED (France), Legal Manager • New Challenger SAS (France), Member of the Supervisory Board • ADH (France), Director (*) Antoine Flochel is Chairman of Vicjen Finance SA which held 2,000 shares of the Company and 4,000 voting rights as of 31 December 2016. He is also Legal Manager of Financière de Catalogne, which held 3,000 shares of the Company and 3,000 voting rights at the same date. Anne Beaufour Nationality: Shares owned: 1 Director French Voting rights: 2 Committees: Biography and experience Chairperson of the Nomination and Governance Committee and member Anne Beaufour holds a Bachelor’s degree in geology (University of Paris Orsay). of the Strategic Committee Anne Beaufour is the shareholder of several companies, as described in section 4.2.3.1, which directly and/or indirectly hold shares of the Company. Date of birth: Positions and functions currently held 8 August 1963 Main function: Other position: Date of 1st appointment: • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Vice Chairperson • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director and 30 August 2005 of the Board of Directors and Managing Chairperson of the Board of Directors Director • Highrock S.à.r.l. (Luxembourg), Le gal Last renewal date: Manager 4 June 2014 • Bluehill Participations S.à.r.l. (Luxembourg), Legal Manager Term of office: • South End Consulting Limited (SEC Ltd) 2018 General Meeting (United Kingdom), Director Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years • FinHestia S.à.r.l. (Luxembourg), Legal Manager Ipsen Registration document 2016 175 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Henri Beaufour Nationality: Shares owned: 1 Director French Voting rights: 2 Committees: Biography and experience Member of the Strategic Committee Member of the Nomination and Henri Beaufour holds a Bachelor of Arts degree (Georgetown University, Washington DC, United Governance Committee States). Henri Beaufour is the shareholder of several companies, as described in section 4.2.3.1, which Date of birth: directly and/or indirectly hold shares of the Company. 6 January 1965 Positions and functions currently held Date of 1st appointment: Main function: Other position: 30 August 2005 • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Director • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years Last renewal date: 27 May 2015 None Term of office: 2019 General Meeting Hervé Couffin Nationality: Shares owned: 1,200 Independent director French Voting rights: 2,400 Committees: Biography and experience Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee and member Hervé Couffin is Chairman of Callisto, a consultancy advising management teams on LBOs. of the Audit Committee He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Mersen and sits on the board of directors of Antargaz as well as on the Supervisory Board of Gerflor. From 1998 to 2004, he was a member Date of birth: of the executive committee and senior partner at PAI Partners. Previously, he worked for Paribas 26 October 1951 for 15 years. Hervé Couffin is a graduate of the École Polytechnique and a member of the Corps des Mines. Date of 1st appointment: Positions and functions currently held 30 August 2005 Main function: Other position: Last renewal date: • Callisto SAS (France), Chairman • Mersen (listed on Euronext) (France), Chairman 4 June 2014 of the Board of Directors • HC Conseil SARL (France), Managing partner Term of office: • Antargaz, Finagaz, UGI France (France), 2018 General Meeting Permanent representative of HC Conseil in the Board of Directors • Topf lor SAS (France) (Group Ger f lor), Permanent Representative of HC Conseil in the Advisory Board Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years • French-Tunisian Oil Company (Tunisia), Director 176 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Hélène Auriol-Potier Nationality: Shares owned: 600 Independent director French Voting rights: 600 Committees: Biography and experience Chairman of the Ethics Committee and member of the Compensation Since October 2016, Helene Auriol-Potier is General manager Public Sector Western Europe at Committee Microsoft. Hélène Auriol-Potier built her career in the digital technologies and telecommunications industry Date of birth: in the United States, Europe, Africa and Asia. She started her career in New York at France 26 November 1962 Telecom in 1986. In 1990, she joined the Canadian mobile technology company, Nortel, where she spent 16 years and successively held several management positions including ViceDate of 1st appointment: President Mobile Pre-Sale division and Vice-President EMEA, Services & Operations. 4 June 2014 In 2006, she joined Dell as Managing Director in charge of Africa and the Mediterranean Region and as member of the Executive Committee of Dell Emerging Markets. In 2009, she was Term of office: recruited by Microsoft as Managing Director – Enterprises, Public Sector and Partners – and as 2018 General Meeting member of the Executive Committee for Microsoft France. Then, she was appointed Chairman of Microsoft Singapore and member of the Executive Committee of Microsoft Pacific Asia. Hélène Auriol-Potier graduated from the École Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications in Paris and completed an Executive Program from INSEAD. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other position: • Microsoft, General Manager Public Sector • Oddo & Cie, Member of the Supervisory Western Europe Board Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years • Faiveley Transport (France) (listed on Euronext), Independent Director • Microsoft Dynamics Europe, General manager Mayroy SA Nationality: Shares owned: 47,269,813 Director Luxembourg Voting rights: 94,539,617 Committees: Biography and experience Member of the Ethics Committee The company Mayroy SA is a société anonyme incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg in Date of 1st appointment: 1994. The company Mayroy SA is a shareholder of Ipsen SA. 6 June 2012 Registered office: 11 boulevard Royal, L-2449 Luxembourg. Number B48865 RCS Luxembourg. Date of last renewal: As of 31 December 2016, Mayroy SA held 47,269,813 shares, i.e., 56,57% of the share capital 31 May 2016 and 94,539,617 voting rights, i.e., 72.58% of net voting rights. Term of office: 2020 General Meeting Philippe Bonhomme Nationality: Shares owned: 500 permanent representative of Mayroy SA French Voting rights: 500 Date of birth: Biography and experience 5 November 1969 Since 2005, Phillippe Bonhomme has been the Managing Director and a member of the management committee of Hottinguer Corporate Finance, which is the investment banking arm of Hottinguer bank. He has been advising in France and abroad on numerous transactions in the pharma and healthcare sectors as well as on private equity-backed transactions. From 1993 to 2005, Philippe Bonhomme was first an auditor and then, a Corporate Finance consultant with Coopers & Lybrand (renamed into PricewaterhouseCoopers). Philippe Bonhomme is a graduate of École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC, Paris) and a French Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other position: • Hottinguer Corporate Finance SA (France), • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Director Pa r tne r, D ire ctor a nd M e mbe r of the Management Committee Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years None Ipsen Registration document 2016 177 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Pierre Martinet Nationality: Shares owned: 2,132 Independent director French Voting rights: 4,264 Committees: Biography and experience Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Compensation Pierre Martinet is the Chairman of Almacantar (Luxembourg). Committee From 1993 to 2014, he held different general managing duties within Exor’s Group in Paris, Luxembourg, and Geneva. Date of birth: From 1990 to 1992, he was a member of Perrier’s executive team. From 1986 to 1990, he 2 December 1949 participated in the management of investment funds at Paribas Technology, then at Pallas Venture, a group that he helped co-found. Previously, he worked at Cartier as General Secretary Date of 1st appointment: from 1977 to 1985. In 1974, Pierre Martinet started his career in Rothschild Bank. 19 September 2005 Pierre Martinet is a graduate of the Paris ESC business school and of the Columbia Graduate School of Business. Date of last renewal: 4 June 2014 Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other position: Term of office: • Almacantar (Luxembourg), Chairman None 2018 General Meeting Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years • Old Town SA (Luxembourg), Managing Director Michèle Ollier Nationalité : Shares owned: 500 Independent director Swiss Voting rights: 500 Committees: Biography and experience Member of the Strategic Committee and the Nomination and Governance Since 1 February 2016, Michèle Ollier is one of the partner and founder of Medicxi Ventures, a Committee capital venture company located in Geneva and London. Medicxi ventures is the spin-off of the life science section of Index Ventures. Date of birth: From February 2006 to February 2016, Michèle Ollier was Partner in the life science investment 2 June 1958 team of Index Ventures. From 2003 to 2005, she was the investment’s manager at Edmond de Rothschild Investment Date of 1st appointment: Partner in Paris. From 2000 to 2002, she was the corporate’s vice-manager at Serono 27 May 2015 international. From 1994 to 2000, she occupied various posts at Rhone-Poulenc Rorer in particular in oncology and in the division “gene therapy”, RPR Gencel. Term of office: Before, Michèle Ollier occupied various functions in strategy, development, and commercialization 2019 General Meeting in the pharmaceutical companies Sanofi International and Bristol-Myers Squibb France. Michèle Ollier is a graduate of the medicine faculty of Paris-Ouest. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other position: • Medicxi Ventures (Switzerland and United • Minerva Neuroscience, Inc. (United States of Kingdom), Partner America) (Listed Company at the NASDAQ) • Epsilon 3 Bio Limited (United Kingdom) • LinguaFlex Inc. (United States of America) • Funxional Therapeutics (United Kingdom) • STX pharma Limited (United Kingdom) • Purple Therapeutics Limited (United Kingdom) • AbTco BV (Netherlands) • Human Antibody Factory (United Kingdom) • Palladio Biosciences Inc. (United States of America) • Kymo Therapeutics (United Kingdom) • Kaerus Bioscence Ltd. (France, United Kingdom) • Mavalon Therapeutics Ltd (United Kingdom) • Diasome Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (United States of America) Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years • Encare Biotech BV (The Netherlands) • Aegerion Inc (United States of America) (listed Company at the NASDAQ) • OncoEthix (Switzerland) • Cyrenaic Pharma Inc (United States of America) • Sonkei Pharma Inc (United States of America) • Mind-NRG (Switzerland) • Profibrix (Netherlands) 178 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Christophe Vérot Nationality: Shares owned: 1,500 Director French Voting rights: 3,000 Committees: Biography and experience Member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination and Governance Since 1991, Christophe Vérot has a consultancy activity in Corporate Finance then Valuation Committee & Economics within PwC where he is a partner since 1995. Christophe Vérot is the author of several articles and publications on merger and acquisitions and valuation methods. Date of birth: From 1985 to 1988, Christophe Vérot was an auditor at Price Waterhouse. From 1988 to 1991, 23 July 1960 he was a consultant at SIAR, a Scandinavian consultancy firm on strategy. Christophe Vérot is a graduate of the ESSEC. Date of 1st appointment: Positions and functions currently held 27 May 2011 Main function: Other position: Date of last renewal: • PwC Investissements SAS, Chairman and • PwC Corporate Finance SAS, Permanent 27 May 2015 Member of the Management Committee Representative of PwC Investments at the Board of Directors Term of office: • PwC Holdings France, Member of the 2019 General Meeting Management Committee and Chairman • PricewaterhouseCoopers Corporate Finance, Permanent Representative of PwC Corporate Finance at the Management Committee • Director and Company Secretary of Association Guersanté • Director of Pricewaterhouse Coopers GIE Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years None Carol Xueref Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Director British Voting rights: 1,000 Committees: Biography and experience Member of the Strategic Committee and member of the Ethics Committee Carol Xueref is Chairman of Floem SAS, consulting firm. She has been Company Secretary and member of the Executive Committee of Essilor International until 30 June 2016. Date of birth: Carol Xueref is a founder member and a past-President of the Cercle Montesquieu (Association 9 December 1955 of French in-house lawyers (1998-2002)) and chaired its “Ethics of in-house lawyers” working group. She is member of the Association Française des Femmes Juristes and Director of the Date of 1st appointment: Franco-British Lawyers Society. 1 June 2012 Carol Xueref is the author of numerous articles and a speaker in conferences on international commerce and competition law. Date of last renewal: From 1982 to 1986, Carol Xueref was Deputy to the Attachée for Commercial Affairs of the 31 May 2016 British Embassy in Paris. From 1986 to 1990, she was appointed Head of Division of the International Chamber of Commerce (Paris). In 1990, she became Director for Legal and Tax Term of office: Affairs of Banque Populaire de la Région Ouest de Paris. From 1993 to 1996, she became 2020 General Meeting Head of a legal department of Crédit Lyonnais and subsequently, Director for Legal Affairs of OIG (Crédit Lyonnais defeasance entity). From 1996 to 2014, Carol Xueref is Director for Legal Affairs and Group Development, and from 2014 to 2016 Company Secretary and member of the Executive Committee of Essilor International. She is also member of the Autorité de la Concurrence (French Competition Authority) since 2006, and chaired its “Compliance” working group. Carol Xueref holds a Master’s Degree in Law and a Post Graduate Degree in International Commercial Law (DESS) from the University of Paris II (Assas). Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other position: • Floem SAS, Chairman • Eiffage (listed on Euronext) (France), Director and member of the Compensation and Appointments Committee and member of the Strategic Committee • Essilor International (listed on Euronext) (France), Director of several non-French subsidiaries of the Group Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years • Essilor International, Director of several subsidiaries of the Group (France and abroad), Company Secretary and Member of the Executive Committee. Ipsen Registration document 2016 179 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ■■4.1.1.4 Conflicts of Interests and Service on this occasion, request that an assessment be carried out Contracts by an external consultant. Conflicts of interest involving Directors and Executive The Board also proceeds to a formal assessment at least Officers every three years. The Director is elected by all the shareholders and must act in A formal assessment of the Board of Directors’ functioning all circumstances in the Company’s interest. was carried out, by Ms. Michèle Ollier, independent Directors must inform the Board about any existing or potential Director, under the aegis of the Nomination and Governance conflicts of interest between themselves and the Company or Committee. This assessment was conducted by Ms. Michèle the Group and must abstain from taking part in any vote by Ollier on the basis of individual interviews with each director. the Board on the relevant deliberations. The conclusions of this assessment were presented and debated during the Board of Directors meetings held on To the Company’s best knowledge and as of the date of 15 December 2016, 22 February 2017 and 9 March 2017. publication of the present registration document: The Directors emphasized the satisfactory functioning of the • there is no conflict of interest between the duties of the Board of Directors. They appreciate the improvements made members of the Board of Directors, Executive Management, in 2016, in particular regarding the prior transmission by the and corporate officers vis-à-vis the Company and their management of justified documents, the good interaction personal interests and other duties; between the Board and the specialized committees, as well as the quality of the reports prepared by the chairmen of the • there is no undertaking or agreement with the main specialized committees which are in constant improvement. shareholders, clients, suppliers, or other parties pursuant to which one of the members of the Board of Directors and Some new areas of improvement were also mentioned, such of the Executive Management of the Company has been as initiating reflection aimed at focusing on the recruitment appointed as director; of Directors with a management, scientific, development or company management experience in our sector and • no Director or members of the Executive Management adjacent sectors. Furthermore, Directors estimated it was have entered into any agreement restricting the sale of their appropriate to create a Scientific Advisory Board, paying shareholding in the Company, at the exception, for the Chief attention to conflict of interest issues. Finally, although recent, Executive Officer, of the minimum portion of shares that in the opinion of the Directors, the separation of the functions msut be held until his term of office. of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer is considered positive. The executive officers have signed a commitment to prevent certain situations of conflicts of interest taking effect when A reflection should be carried out in 2017 on the question of they leave the Group. the introduction of a variable part on the Director’s fees based on the attendance of directors at the meetings of the Board Service contracts with members of the Company’s and committees, in accordance with the recommendations governing bodies of the Afep-Medef Code, although the presence (14 Board To the Company’s best knowledge, no services contracts meetings in 2016 and more than 30 Committee meetings) is has been signed, involving Directors or any member of the already high (overall attendance rate of 97% in the Board and Executive Board and the issuing company or its subsidiaries Committees meetings in 2016). likely to provide such benefits. The Internal rules of the Board will be updated to take account, Loans and guarantees granted to members of the Board among others, the recent changes of the Afep-Medef Code. No loan or guarantee has been granted by the Company During these discussions, Directors were given the opportunity to any member of its Board of Directors or its executive to express their appreciation of individual contributions during management. the general comments. ■■4.1.1.5 Assessment of the Board’s ■■4.1.1.6 Executive Leadership Team Performance The Group has an Executive Leadership Team that is The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors provides for an responsible for managing the Company’s day-to-day annual debate regarding its functioning, composition and operations and for coordinating the Group’s various scientific, organization through a session without the presence of the legal, financial, commercial, and strategic actions. Chairman of the Board as the case may be, the Chief Executive Officer and senior executives. This executive session meeting The Executive Leadership Team is also responsible for is prepared by the Nomination and Governance Committee, in establishing consistent management policies throughout cooperation with the Vice-Chairman of the Board or a Director the Group and for assisting the Chairman of the Board of specifically appointed for this purpose. The Committee may, Directors in implementing the Board’s decisions. 180 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.1.1.6.1 Composition As of 15 March 2017, the current members of the Executive Leadership Team are: Name Function Date of entry in the Group David Meek Chief Executive Officer 2016 Jonathan Barnsley Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations 2014 Stéphane Bessette Executive Vice-President, Human Resources 2015 Aymeric Le Chatelier Executive Vice-President, Finance 2014 François Garnier Executive Vice-President, General Counsel 2015 Christophe Jean Executive Vice-President, Strategy and Business Development 2002 Cynthia Schwalm Executive Vice-President and President, North American Commercial 2014 Operations Harout Semerjian Executive Vice-President and President, Specialty Care International & 2017 Global Franchises Benoît Hennion Executive Vice-President and President, Primary Care 2006 – (*) Executive Vice-President Research & Development, – Chief Scientific Officer (*) Alexandre Lebeaut currently leads the R&D division in the interim. In 2016, a number of changes occurred in the composition of the Executive Leadership Team (formerly named Executive Committee). New members of the Executive Leadership Team since 1 January 2016 Name Function Date of entry Member of in the Group the Executive Leadership Team since David Meek Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Executive 2016 18 July 2016 Leadership Team Cynthia Schwalm Executive Vice-President and President, 2014 26 August 2016 North American Commercial Operations Harout Semerjian Executive Vice-President and President, 2017 2 February 2017 Specialty Care International & Global Franchises Benoît Hennion Executive Vice-President and President, Primary Care 2006 13 March 2017 Members having left the Executive Leadership Team since 1 January 2016 Name Function Date of entry Member of in the Group the Executive Leadership Team until Christel Bories Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of 2013 15 February 2016 the Executive Committee Marc de Garidel(*) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of 2010 18 July 2016 the Executive Committee Pierre Boulud Executive Vice-President, Specialty Care Commercial 2002 30 September 2016 Operations Claude Bertrand Executive Vice-President, Research and Development, 2009 31 December 2016 Chief Scientific Officer Philippe Robert-Gorsse Executive Vice-President, Specialty Care Franchises 2005 31 December 2016 Jean Fabre Executive Vice-President, Primary Care Global Busness 2008 10 March 2017 Unit (*) From 15 February 2016 and until 18 July 2016, effective appointment date of Mr. David Meek as Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Marc de Garidel replaced Ms. Christel Bories as Chairman of the Executive Committee following the announcement of her departure. Ipsen Registration document 2016 181 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE David Meek replaced Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the the Board (being specified that Mr. Marc de Garidel is also Executive Leadership Team as of 18 July 2016, in relation with Chairman of the Board of Directors). the separation of functions of Chairman of the Board and CEO To the Company’s best knowledge and as of the date of at that date. Mr Marc de Garidel replaced Mrs Christel Bories publication of the present registration document, over the last as Chairman of the Executive Committee as of 15 February five years, none of the members of the Executive Leadership 2016, following the announcement of the departure of Mrs Team have been: Christel Bories (see paragraph 2.1.1 for additional information). • convicted of fraud, charged with any other offence or had Ms. Cynthia Schwalm joined Ipsen in 2014 and the Executive any official public disciplinary action taken against them by Leadership Team on 26 August 2016 as Executive Vice statutory or regulatory authorities; President and President, North American Commercial Operations. • implicated in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation as an executive officer or director; With an experience of more than twenty years in the pharmaceutical industry, Mr Harout Semerjian joined Ipsen • disqualified from acting as a board member, senior executive and the Executive Leadership Team on 2 February 2017 or supervisory board member or from participating in the as Executive Vice President and President, Specialty Care management of a listed company. International and Global Franchises. The members of the Executive Leadership Team, except for Mr Benoit Hennion joined Ipsen in 2006 and the Executive Mr. David Meek, hold employment contracts with the Group. Leadership Team on 13 March 2017 as Executive Vice There are no other agreements or service contracts entered President and President, Primary Care. into between the Company or one of its subsidiaries and one of the members of the Company’s Executive Leadership There are no family relationships between the members of Team. the Executive Leadership Team, nor with the members of 4.1.1.6.2 Presentation of the members of the Executive Leadership Team David Meek Chief Executive Officer Citizenship: Biography and experience US In the frame of the change of governance, Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen SA Appointment date: since 18 July 2016, replaced Mr. Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Executive Committee from 18 July 2016 his nomination date. David Meek has over 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry where he held Date of birth: various global executive positions in major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Most 12 September 1963 recently, he was Executive Vice-President and President of the oncology division of Baxalta Inc., which was recently acquired by Shire. David led the formation of the oncology division and rapidly created an innovative oncology portfolio through strategic acquisitions and partnering deals. He holds a BA in Management from the University of Cincinnati and started his career at Johnson & Johnson and Janssen Pharmaceutica (1989-2004) where he held a variety of U.S. senior sales and marketing positions across multiple therapeutic areas in primary care (gastroenterology, pain management, dermatology) and specialty care (oncology, neuroscience). He then joined Novartis (2005-2012), where he successively served as the global business franchise head for the company’s respiratory and dermatology franchise in Basel, Switzerland; President and Chief Executive Officer of the pharmaceutical division in Canada; and the head of oncology for Northern, Central and Eastern Europe, based in Milan, Italy. From 2012 to 2014, he served as Chief Commercial Officer of Endocyte, an American biotechnology company. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Chairman Other: None 182 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Jonathan Barnsley Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations Citizenship: Biography and experience British and Swiss Jonathan Barnsley graduated from Sheffield University in chemical engineering. He has acquired a broad range of experience in the biotech and pharmaceutical industry on an international Appointment date: level (notably within Beecham Pharmaceuticals Ltd, GD Searle Company Ltd, Celltech Ltd, 1 April 2014 Biocompatibles Ltd, GSK and Merck Serono). Before joining Ipsen, Jonathan Barnsley spent the last 18 years with Merck Serono, where he Date of birth: held various positions of leadership in corporate engineering and manufacturing. In 2000, he 26 January 1957 became site Director of the Serono Biotech Center (Vevey, CH). In 2007, he was appointed Senior Vice-President of biotech manufacturing with the responsibility of 6 manufacturing sites and, since 2013, has been Senior Vice-President of biotech development covering the development of processes for transfer to manufacturing. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Managing Director • Ipsen Biopharm Limited (United Kingdom), Chairman and Director • Ipsen Developments Limited (United Kingdom), Chairman and Director • Ipsen Limited (United Kingdom), Chairman and Director • Pothold Limited (United Kingdom), Chairman and Director • Specwood Limited (United Kingdom), Chairman and Director • Sterix Limited (United Kingdom), Chairman and Director • Syntaxin Limited (United Kingdom), Chairman and Director • Ipsen Bioinnovation Limited (United Kingdom), Chairman and Director Other: None Stéphane Bessette Executive Vice-President, Human Resources Citizenship: Biography and experience French Stéphane Bessette is Executive Vice-President, Human Resources since October 2015. Appointment date: He is graduated from the ECAM (Lyon), IGS (Paris) and INSEAD (Advanced Management Programme). 1 October 2015 Stéphane Bessette worked in several international groups. He held several leadership positions of increasing responsibility and acquired solid managerial experience in human resources at Date of birth: Alcatel Telecom, Alstom and Guerlain. 18 May 1966 Stéphane Bessette has over 11 years of experience in the medical device sector, working for Sorin Group, a leader in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. Prior to joining Ipsen, Stéphane Bessette was leading its global Human Resources function, based in Milan, Italy, and made a large contribution to Sorin’s expansion worldwide. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Managing Director Other: None Aymeric Le Chatelier Executive Vice-President, Finance Citizenship: Biography and experience French Aymeric Le Chatelier is a graduate from HEC. Appointment date: He started his career at Arthur Andersen audit firm in 1993. He became internal auditor first at 3 November 2014 Lagardère group in 1997 and then at Vivendi group in 1998. From 1999, Aymeric Le Chatelier successively assumed several responsibilities in finance management in France and the United States within Veolia Environnement, notably as Deputy Chief Financial Officer of Veolia Water Date of birth: in 2004-2005. In 2006, he joined Arjowiggins group, a leading manufacturer of creative and 26 May 1969 technical paper, and was assigned as Group Chief Financial Officer in 2009. In 2013, Aymeric Le Chatelier was nominated Financial Director of ERDF (electricity French distribution network company of EDF) and in 2014, he became member of the Management Board in charge of Finance and Sourcing within ERDF. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Managing Director Other: None Ipsen Registration document 2016 183 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE François Garnier Executive Vice-President, General Counsel Citizenship: Biography and experience French Former student from the IEP of Paris and graduated from the University of Panthéon-Assas, François Garnier worked in the legal department of a number of pharmaceutical Groups. Appointment date: 5 January 2015 Previously, François Garnier was International General Counsel (outside the US) for Pfizer Inc. starting in January 2014. He joined Pfizer France in April 2003 as Vice-President, of General Date of birth: Counsel before moving on to become General Counsel for Pfizer’s operations in Europe in 4 May 1962 January 2009, a position he held until January 2014. François Garnier began his career in March 1989 at Servier S.A. as International Contracts Manager and remained with the firm until September 1995. He then moved to Rhône Poulenc Rorer S.A. to take up the position of Counsel for Corporate Transactions. In May 1996 he moved to the United States as Associate Counsel, before being appointed Chief Counsel for France in May 1999. François Garnier continued his career as Chief Counsel at Aventis Animal Nutrition until September 2001, when he joined the Pharmacia Group as General Counsel for Europe. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Managing Director Other: • Union des Fabricants (UNIFAB), Director Benoît Hennion Executive Vice-President and President, Primary Care Citizenship: Biography and experience French Benoît Hennion joined Ipsen in 2006 within the Corporate Strategic Planning team. In 2009, he became Primary Care Business Unit Head for France, and subsequently, in 2011, General Appointment date: Manager of France Operations (including both Specialty Care and Primary Care). Following 13 March 2017 the split between Specialty Care and Primary Care in 2014, Mr. Hennion was appointed VicePresident, Asia-Pacific Specialty Care. Mr. Hennion earned his MBA degree at ESSEC (Paris, Date of birth: France). Before joining Ipsen, he started his career at Societe Generale in the Czech Republic 7 March 1976 and then served for six years at the Paris office of Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Managing Director Other: None Christophe Jean Executive Vice-President, Strategy and Business Development Citizenship: Biography and experience French Graduating from the Harvard Business School, Christophe Jean started his career in the pharmaceutical industry in Ciba-Geigy where he held several marketing and international Appointment date: management positions in both Europe and Latin America. He was then appointed ViceNovember, 2013 President of Finance and Information Technology and a member of the Pharmaceutical Executive Committee in Basel, a position that he held after the merger of Ciba-Geigy and Date of birth: Sandoz (to create Novartis) until his appointment as Head of the Pharmaceutical division for 22 December, 1955 Europe, Middle East, and Africa in 1997. In 2000, he joined the Pierre Fabre group as President and Chief Executive Officer of pharmaceutical activities. Christophe Jean joined the Group in September 2002 as Executive Vice-President, Operations in charge of the Group’s commercial and medical affairs activities worldwide. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Managing Director Other: • DiaxonHit (France), Member of the Supervisory Board • EBE (European Biopharmaceutical Enterprises) (Belgium), Director • Rhythm Holding Company LLC, Member of the Board of Managers • Rhythm Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Director 184 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Cynthia Schwalm Executive Vice-President and President, North American Commercial Operations Citizenship: Biography and experience US Cynthia Schwalm has over 30 years of senior healthcare experience in the fields of pharmaceuticals, Appointment date: biotechnology and medical devices. Cynthia Schwalm has spent her entire career in the healthcare 26 August 2016 industry. Prior to joining in February 2014, she held a variety of COO roles for various biotech and specialty Date of birth: companies. 27 February 1960 Cynthia started her career at Janssen Pharmaceutica, a division of Johnson & Johndon, where she held multiple commercial roles over an eighteen year period, including her role as General Manager of Ortho Biotech UK & Ireland. As Executive Vice President & President of Ipsen North American Commercial Operations, she leads all commercial operations for the U.S. and Canada, and manages shared services for Ipsen research facility in Cambridge, MA. Previously, she served as Chief Operating Officer of Eisai Inc. She joined Eisai in 2008 from Amgen Inc. where she served as a Vice President and General Manager of the Oncology Business Unit of Amgen Inc. since May 2005. Cynthia currently serves on the Harvard JFK School Women’s Leadership Board. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc, Chairman and Board Member • Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Canada Inc, Board Member Other: None Harout Semerjian Executive Vice-President and President, Specialty Care International & Global Franchises Citizenship: Biography and experience Canadian Harout Semerjian was appointed Executive Vice-President and President, Specialty Care Appointment date: International & Global Franchises on 2 February 2017. 2 February 2017 Harout Semerjian has more than 23 years of pharmaceutical experience, including the last 17 years at Novartis focused on oncology and specialty care. He took on leadership roles with Date of birth: increasing responsibility across the U.S., Canada, Europe, Middle East & North Africa in addition 6 November 1970 to headquarter-based roles. His last role was Senior Vice-President and Global Launch Head of ribociclib. Prior to that, he was Vice-President and U.S. Hematology Franchise Head based in New Jersey. He holds dual MBA degrees from Cornell University, New York and from Queen’s University, Canada. He also holds a Bachelor Degree of Science in Biology from the Lebanese American University. Other current terms and positions Ipsen Group: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Managing Director Other: None ■■4.1.1.7 Transactions on Company’s Shares would be likelty to have a significant effect on the prices of Definition of blackout periods those financial intruments or on the price of related derivative financial instruments: The Company complies with the recommendation n°201608 of the Autorité des marchés financiers of 26 October • 30 calendar days prior to the publication of press release on 2016, and the AFEP-MEDEF Code as revised in Novembre the annual and half-year financial statements and the day of 2015 and November 2016. Accordingly, purchases and publication included, and sales of Company securities or financial instrumentsare • 30 calendar days prior to the publication of quarterly prohibited during the periods running from the date on which information and the day of publication included. persons having managerial responsibilities, as well as any other person who has access to privileged information on a At the beginning of every year, the Company draws up and regular or occasional basis, have knowledge of information of releases, a timetable that defines the periods during which a precise nature, which has not been made public, relating, trading in Company securities is prohibited and stipulates directly or indirectly, to one or more issuers ot to one or more that the indicated periods do not anticipate the existence of financial instruments, and which, if it were made public, other blackout periods that result from knowledge of precise Ipsen Registration document 2016 185 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE information that directly or indirectly concerns Ipsen, which, if or on shares issued following the exercise of options or on it were disclosed, would be likely to have a significant affect on performance bonus shares granted until the end of the holding the price of the securities concerned. period that has been decided by the Board of Directors. Mrs Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF 2016 had taken a similar commitment. Code (section 24.3.3), hedging of any kind on securities of the Company, with regard to options, to shares resulting from the Transactions on the Company’s Securities Carried Out exercise of options or to performance shares, is prohibited. in 2016 Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016, Pursuant to Article 223-26 of the General Regulations of the and Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Autorité des marchés financiers, the table below sets out Officer until 18 July 2016 and Chairman of the Board of transactions on Company’s securities carried out in 2016, Directors since this date undertook a formal commitment as such transactions were notified to the Company and the not to engage in hedging transactions either on their options Autorité des marchés financiers: Purchases Sales Exercice of stock-options Date Number Price Date Number Price Date Number Price per unite per unite per unite Christophe Jean, Executive Vice-President Strategy, 22 July 2016 711.24 43.15 – – – – – – Business Development and Alliances(1) Claude Bertrand, Executive Vice-President, 21 September – – – 12,000 60.63 – – – Research and Development, 2016 Chief Scientific Officer Marc de Garidel, 3 November – – – – – – 121,180 25.01 Chairman of the Board of Directors(2) 2016 (1) Purchase of FCP Ipsen Shares units made within the frame of the employee sharehokding plan launched by the Company in June 2016, see 4.2.2.4. (2) Simple exercise (not followed by the sale of the shares as of the date of filing of this document). 4.1.2 Reports of the Chairman of the Board and the Statutory Auditors ■■4.1.2.1 Report of the Chairman of the Board 4.1.2.1.1 Preparation and organization of the work of the of Directors on the Composition and Board of Directors – Corporate governance Preparation and Organization of the Governance structure Work of the Board and on Internal Ipsen is a société anonyme with a Board of Directors, where Control and Risk Management the functions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Procedures Officer are separated since 18 July 2017. The present report will be presented to the Combined On 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors approved the Shareholders’ Meeting to be called to deliberate in 2017 on the launching of a recruitment process for a new Chief Executive 2016 annual accounts, in accordance with the provisions of Officer and decided to separate the duties of Chairman of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. It has been the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer according prepared with the assistance of the Executive management, to Article 18.1 of the articles of association, and after opinion the office of the Company Secretary, the Internal Audit and of the Nomination and Governance Committee.During the the Risks Management departments and has been presented same meeting, the Board of Directors decided to to confirm to the Audit Committee prior to its approval by the Board of the appointment of Mr. Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Directors held on 22 February 2017 and sent to the Statutory Board. Auditors. This evolution about the governance reflects the determination Information described in the present Report relating to the of the Group to accelerate his international development and preparation and organization of the work of the Board of to be prepared for the challenges that the pharmaceutical Directors, and the internal control and risk management industry is currently facing. The separation of said duties is procedures implemented by the Company and the Ipsen also governance’s good practice, more and more applied in Group during financial year ended 31 December 2016. the pharmaceutical industry. 186 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors, during its meeting held on 8 July provisions of the articles of association, the Chief Executive 2016, to appoint Mr David Meek as Chief Executive Officer for Officer could be assisted by one or several Deputy Chief an indefinite period. The separation of functions is effective Executive Officers. since 18 July 2016. Corporate governance Code Thisseparation of functions gives to the Chief Executive The Company refers to the AFEP-MEDEF corporate Officer the capacity to focus on strategy, on the pursuit of the governance Code of April 2010, revised on November 2016, transformation and Group’s operations while the Chairman available on the website www.medef.com. In accordance with will be fully dedicated to the management of the Board of the provisions of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Directors. Code, the Report of the Chairman sets out the provisions of In this perspective, the general management has been the AFEP-MEDEF Code which have not been applied, as well entrusted to an executive officer with an international profile as the reasons. and experience, Mr. David Meek. In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Practice of Ipsen and justifications recommendations not applied Article 8 The independence criteria of the Board members are defined in the paragraph 4.1.1.1 of this Independence criteria registration document. Although inspired by the independence criteria drafted by the AFEPMEDEF Code, the Board of Directors took the decision, at the time of its stock exchange listing in 2005, to establish its own independence criteria. In particular, the criterion which states that a director should not have been a director for more than twelve years has not been selected by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors considers that being a director for a long period does not automatically result in the loss of independent director status and can not consequently constitute in itself a reason of non-independence without taking into consideration the director’s personality and experience. The Board of Directors considers otherwise that the experience gained within the Board combined with a good knowledge of the Company is an advantage in a Group characterized by long-term investment cycles and allows particularly to formulate an informed opinion with regard to its experience in the decision-making process. Every year, as well as at the end of the term of office during which this 12-year seniority is reached, the Board examines the maintenance or loss of this quality by taking into consideration the personal situation of the director. Following the 2013 Registration Document, the High Committee of Corporate Governance (HCGE) considered that this explanation doesn’t seem relevant. Nevertheless, the explanation was maintained by Ipsen, who considered that it could not, on its own, alter the Director’s critical objectivity. Article 16.1 This provision is not applied because the Company is controlled by a majority shareholder. The Appointments Committee should Furthermore, the Board has considered that both quality and experience of independent have a majority of independent members within the Nomination and Governance Committee allows the establishment of an directors open debate and that the current distribution does not undermine the good functioning of the said committee. Article 17.1 This provision is not applied because the Company is controlled by a majority shareholder. The Compensation Committee should Moreover, two out of three members of the Compensation Committee are independent which be chaired by an independent director is enough to ensure the proper functioning of the Committee. Furthermore, it is specified, that no executive officer is a member of this Committee. The chairmanship of this Committee was entrusted to Mr. Antoine Flochel given his deep knowledge of the Group’s functioning, the pharmaceutical industry and of his experience regarding compensations. Article 20.1 Due to the strong involvement of Directors, the high attendance rate (97% of global attendance Directors’ compensation should take rate in 2016 for the Committees and Board meetings) and number of meetings of the Board into account the directors’ attendance and its Committees (49 meetings in 2016 including 14 Boards meetings and 35 Committees at meetings of the Board and meetings), the Board of Directors has decided not to establish a variable part based on committees, and therefore include attendance in the Directors’ fees. However, the allocation of the attendance fees takes into a major variable portion account the time dedicated to their functions, especially as a result of their belonging to one or several Committees. A reflection should be carried out in 2017 on the question to introduce a variable part to the fees depending on the attendance of Directors to Board and committee meetings, in compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The provisions on equal representation of men and women accounts., in accordance with the provisions of Article L.225within Board of Directors have been deleted from the AFEP18-1 of the French Commercial Code regarding the equal MEDEF Code as revised in November 2016, the provision representation of men and women within Board of Directors. having been included in French law. The Board of Directors Currently four of Directors are women (i.e. 36.36%). The Composition objective of 40% of women within the Board of Directors is not achieved yet. The objective of 40% of women within Board The Board of Directors is currently comprised of eleven of Directors will be achieved at the conclusion of the General members, including four women, Ms. Hélène Auriol-Potier, Meeting called to deliberate in 2017 on the 2016 annual Ms. Anne Beaufour, Ms. Michèle Ollier and Ms. Carol Xueref. Ipsen Registration document 2016 187 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Two of its members are non-French nationals: Ms. Carol During financial year 2016, the Board of Directors of the Xueref of British nationality and Ms. Michèle Ollier of French Company met 14 times. The average attendance rate at the and Swiss nationalities. meetings amounted 91% (without committee meetings). Among the members of the Board, four Directors, Ms. Hélène The Statutory Auditors of the Company were convened to Auriol-Potier and Ms. Michèle Ollier, Messrs. Pierre Martinet the Board meetings held to approve the annual and half-year and Hervé Couffin are independent Directors as such quality is financial statements. defined by the Board’s internal regulations and in accordance with the independence criteria described in the latter. These Works of the Board in 2016 criteria are: In 2016, the Board of Directors discussed, among other • Be neither an employee nor an executive officer nor a things, the following matters: member of the Board, and not be closely related to an executive officer or to a member of the Board of a Group • concerning financial statements and financial situation: entity or of an entity controlling the Company within the review and approval of the 2015 annual and consolidated meaning of Article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code financial statements, the 2016 half-year financial statements, and was not during the previous five years; examination of the management forecast documents, and 2017 budget; • Not be an executive director, and not be closely related to an executive director of a company in which a Group entity • concerning strategy and development: examination and holds an executive office, either directly or indirectly through follow-up of the Group acquisision, partnership and an employee appointed as such or in which a corporate development projects, and Group strategic review; officer of the Company (currently in office or having held • c o n c e r n i n g c o m p e n s a t i o n: e x a m i n a t i o n o f t h e such office within the past five years at least) holds, directly compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or indirectly, a corporate office; determination of the compensation of the Chairman of the • Not be a customer, or a supplier or an investment banker Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer within the or a commercial banker, or a significant service provider of frame of the decision to separate these two functions, grant the Company or of the Group, or a member of a customer of performance shares, and implementation of an employee company, or a supplier, or investment bank or a commercial shareholding plan; bank, or a material service provider of the Company or of • concerning organization and functioning of the Board the Group for which either Ipsen or the Group accounts for of Directors: discussion on the functioning of the Board a material share of business; of Directors (self-assessment), proposal to renew of the The assessment as to whether the relationship with the appointments of directors, nomination of Marc de Garidel Company of the Group is material or not is debated at a as chairman of the Strategic Committee and member meeting of the Nomination and Governance Committee of the Nomination and Governance Committee, report once a year and the criteria having led to this assessment on the independence of the Directors, assessment of are explained in the registration document; executive officer’s performance, without their presence, decision to separate the functions of Chairman of the • Do not have close family ties with a corporate officer; Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, definition • Do not (i) represent a shareholder that owns, (ii) not be a of the specific missions of the Chairman of the Board and member of an entity holding, directly or indirectly, or (iii) do subsequent amendment of the internal rules of the Board not, directly or indirectly, own more than five percent of the of Directors; Company’s share capital or voting rights; • concerning the Shareholders’ Meeting: examination and • Not have been a Statutory Auditor of the Company in the approval of the report of the Chairman of the Board of previous five years. Directors on preparation and organization of the work of the Board and on internal control and risk management It is specified that the independent Directors maintain no procedures, convening of the Combined Shareholders’ business relationship with the Group. Meeting held on 31 May 2016; Individual information concerning Directors and in particular • share capital: capital increase linked to exercises of the list of their terms of office are presented in section 4.1.1.3 subscription options and capital reduction by cancellation of the registration document. of own shares. The table listing the composition of the Board of Directors and the table with the detail of the independence criteria appears Conditions of preparation of the works of the Board – in section 4.1.1.2 of the registration document. Confidentiality Members of the Board of Directors receive all appropriate Meetings of the Board of Directors information and necessary documents required for them to Number Number of Number Attendance perform their duties and responsibilities and prepare their of members independent of meetings rate deliberations. Prior to any meeting, they may request any members reports, documents, and research prepared by the Group and may commission any external technical reports at the 11 4 14 91% Company’s expense. 188 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE To this respect, and together with the individual directors’ The Chairman of a Committee may invite all Board members information right provided for by legal provisions and the to one or several of its meetings, as well as anyone else. Articles of association, the Vice-Chairman of the Board, Only members of the Committee shall take part in its acting on behalf of all Directors, may request from the deliberations. Chairman of the Board, where this person also acts as Chief Executive Officer, any information, document which The minutes of every Committee meeting are drawn up by the communication would be necessary in order for the other Secretary of the Board, under the authority of the Chairman Directors to accomplish their duties in accordance with the of the Committee. They are subsequently sent to all members laws and regulations. of the Committee. The Chairmen of Committees report to the Board on the work carried out by their Committees under the The Board of Directors is informed of any significant event or conditions set by the Board. transaction concerning the company by its Chairman on an ongoing basis and by the use of any necessary means. In its field of competence, each Committee issues proposals, recommendations, or opinions. To this end, each Committee The Board of Directors may have access to the Group’s may undertake or arrange for, at the Company’s expense, main senior executives, whether these senior executives all external studies likely to shed light on the Board’s are directors or not. The Directors, together or individually, deliberations.It reports to the Board on its work at each one may consult the Group’s senior executives for advice on of its meetings. any matters after advising the Chairman of the Board and may meet senior executives without the Chairman being A summary of the activity of every Committee is included in present. the Annual Report. The Board of Directors is a collective body whose deliberations The compensation of the members and of the Chairman of bind all of its members. Members of the Board of Directors, each Committee is set by the Board and paid from the total as well as any other person participating to its meetings, are annual amount of its remuneration. bound by strict obligations of confidentiality and discretion with The Board of Directors has set up five permanent committees: respect to any information disclosed to them by the Company a Strategic Committee, an Audit Committee, a Compensation in connection with the Board and Committee deliberations Committee, an Nomination and Governance Committee and that are of a confidential nature or that are presented as such an Ethics Committee. by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. At every meeting of the Board of Directors, Chairpeople of Members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the all Committees makes an oral report on the meetings that have the shareholders and must act at any given circumstances been held. in the Company’s corporate interest. Every member has the obligation to convey to the Board any plausible conflict of The Strategic Committee interests’ situation that may involve him/her and the Company or Group. Consequently, he must refrain from taking part in Number Number of Number Attendance the voting of the Board’s corresponding deliberations. of members independent of meetings rate members Organization and functioning of the Committees of the Board of Directors 6 1 8 94% The Board of Directors may establish temporary or permanent The Strategic Committee comprises at least three Directors specialized committees which are made up of at least three and no more than six Directors, including the Chairman of members and no more than six Directors and appoints the the Board. Chairmen of said committees. These Committees submit their opinions and proposals to the Board and report back to The Strategic Committee is currently comprised of six the Board on their work. members, one of whom is independent in regard to the independence criteria referred to above. Its members are: Committee members, chosen from among the Directors, Marc de Garidel (Chairman), Anne Beaufour, Henri Beaufour, are appointed in a personal capacity for the duration of their Carol Xueref, Michèle Ollier (independent member) and term of office as a Director. They cannot get somebody to Antoine Flochel. represent them. They can be replaced or dismissed at any time by the Board. Their mandates are renewable. A single The role of the Strategic Committee is: Director can be a member of several Committees. • study all the strategic issues of interest for the Company Subject to the specific rules applicable to them, every and the Group, in the field of research and development, Committee defines how frequently it will hold meetings. Said in the industrial field, in business and financial matters and meetings are held in the head office or any other location with regard to alliances and partnerships of all kinds; decided by its Chairman when he convenes it and sets the meeting’s agenda. • study all significant investment, disinvestment, restructuring, alliance or partnership projects; A Committee can meet only if at least half of its members attend the meeting, in one of the ways allowed by the law or • study and approve the Group’s strategic plan, subsequently the Articles of Association with respect to Directors attending submitted to the Board for validation, and changes to be Board meetings. made to the plan, if need be; Ipsen Registration document 2016 189 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • ensure the annual monitoring of progress achieved by the • examine draft annual and interim financial statements, draft strategic initiatives under way; forecasts and annual budgets as well as any accounting and financial information relating to any significant project; • submit to the Board all the reports, issue all opinions and to that end, the Audit Committee should be able to make all recommendations, relating to issues covered by cooperate (by exchanging information and working jointly) its mission. with the Strategic Committee and the Company’s General The Committee may, on its own initiative, present to the Board Management before a summary of their work is presented a program of strategic initiatives or a review of the strategic to the Board; issues that are important for the Group, which it would like the • examine, before they are presented presentation to the Board to study. Board of Directors, press releases on financial results and The Strategic Committee meets at least four times a year, guidelines, as well as related presentations; when convened by its Chairman, or by a majority of its • study draft resolutions related to the financial statements in members. order to voice any observation or suggestion, before they To carry out its work, the Strategic Committee may audition are presented to the Board; the Group’s senior executives, whether corporate officers or • the draf t interim and annual consolidated financial not. It can obtain access to all reports, documents and studies statements, together with budgets and forecasts prior to conducted in-house by the Group and moreover, provided their presentation to the Board; this does not breach any confidentiality rules, request that technical studies be carried out and external experts be used • control the quality of and compliance with procedures, at the Company’s expense. and evaluate the information received from management, internal committees and internal and external auditors; In the course of 2016, the Strategic Committee met eight times and had an attendance rate of 94%. Its activities • monitor the effectiveness of internal control and risk particularly involved the examination and review of the Group’s management systems; acquisision, partnership and development projects. • examine the risk exposure and of f-balance sheet The Audit Committee commitments of the Company; Number Number of Number Attendance • supervise the selection and reappointment of the Statutory of members independent of meetings rate Auditors, verify their independence, give an opinion on the members amount of the fees they request, and submit the results of its work to the Board; 3 2 6 100% • examine the pertinence of the fees paid by the Company The Audit Committee comprises at least three Directors and the Group to the Statutory Auditors and make sure that and no more than six Directors, including two-thirds said fees and corresponding services are unlikely to affect of independent Directors who meet the criteria set out the auditors’ independence; hereabove, none of whom may be the Chairman of the Board. One of the two independent Directors chosen as a member • validate the services other than statutory audit work that the of the Committee must boast specific financial, accounting or Statutory Auditors and the members of their networks may statutory audit expertise. The Board appoints the Chairman be asked to perform in accordance with the applicable laws of the Committee from among its members. The Chairman of and regulations; the Committee also holds independent status with respect to • conduct an annual review ot the status of major disputes. the Company’s independence criteria. The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year when The Audit Committee is currently comprised of three members convened by its Chairman. two of whom are independent. Its members are: Pierre Martinet (Chairman and independent member), Hervé Couffin In the performance of its tasks, the Audit Committee: (independent member) and Christophe Vérot. • submits to the Board its proposals regarding the In accordance with the terms of Article L.823-19 of the French appointment, compensation or replacement of the Commercial Code at least one member of the Audit Committee Company’s Statutory Auditors; must be independent and have finance, accounting or statutory audit expertise. Messrs. Pierre Martinet and Hervé • reviews with the management team and the Company’s Couffin fulfill the independence and financial, accounting or Statutor y Auditors the interim and annual financial statutory audit criteria given their professional experience as statements, the accounting principles and methods described in 4.1.1.3 of the registration document. implemented, the Group’s audit and internal control principles and methods, risk management procedures The role of the Audit Committee is to: and the analyses and repor ts relating to financial repor ting, accounting policy and communications • ensure the relevance and permanence of the accounting between management and the Company’s Statutory policies used to prepare both the statutory and consolidated Auditors; financial statements, review and assess the consolidation scope as well as evaluate and confirm the relevance of the • examines and checks the rules and procedures applicable accounting methods applied to the Group; to conflicts of interest, expenses incurred by members 190 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of the management team and the identification and at least one independent Director as defined by the criteria quantification of the main financial risks, as well as their set forth hereabove. The Board appoints the Chairman of the application and submits its assessment every year to the Committee from among its members. Board; In 2016, the Nomination and Governance Committee was • examines, checks and assesses on an annual basis the comprised of five members, two of whom are independent independence as well as the control procedures of the having regards to the independence criteria referred to above Company’s Statutory Auditors, and the problems they have set forth by the Board’s internal regulations. Its members are: encountered as well as the measures adopted to solve said Anne Beaufour (Chairperson), Marc de Garidel, Hervé Couffin problems, and monitors in the same manner the way in (independent member), Michèle Ollier (independent member) which internal audit operates; and Christophe Vérot. Henri Beaufour is a member of this Committee since 17 January 2017, increasing the number of • more generally speaking, examines, checks and assesses its members to 6 since this date. everything likely to affect the regularity and fairness of the financial statements. The role of the Nomination and Governance Committee is to: The Audit Committee ensures it is provided, and in sufficient • make proposals to the Board of Directors concerning the time, all the necessary or useful information to be able to carry re-election, replacement or appointment of new Directors, out the above task and auditions everybody whose testimony in close cooperation with the Chairman of the Board; is deemed necessary or useful with regard to said task. It may in particular have recourse to outside experts. • give its opinion, with the support of the Board’s Chairman, on the recruitment or the replacement of the Chief Executive During the annual and half-year accounts examination an Officer and/or Deputy Chief Executive Officers where Audit Committee’s meeting is held in a sufficient time prior to required, as well as some key positions in the Executive the examination and the financial statements by the Board of Committee; Directors. • prepare, in close cooperation with the Deputy Chairman The Company refers to the AMF recommendation dated of the Board or a Director specially appointed for this 22 July 2010 on the report of Audit Committees. Its functioning purpose, the annual “executive session” of the Board is yearly evaluated during the global evaluation of the Board of of Directors dedicated to the assessment of its modus Directors. Moreover, its work is subject to a report. operandi outside the presence of the Chairman of the During the course of 2016, the Audit Committee met Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the management six times and had an attendance rate of 100%. The Statutory team members; Auditors were present at meetings regarding the review of • give its opinion, with the suppor ted of the Board’s annual and half-yearly financial statements and presented Chairman, on the list of independent members of the Board the main aspects of the outcomes of the statutory audit of Directors; and of the chosen accounting methods. The Committee heard, in particular, the Statutory Auditors, the Executive • design a plan for replacement of executive company Vice-President Finance, the Group Controller, the Head officers. of Internal Audit and the Head of Risk Management. A presentation was also prepared for the members of the The Nomination and Governance Committee meets at least Audit Committee by the Executive Vice-President Finance, twice a year when convened by its Chairman or at the request regarding the Company’s significant risks and off-balanceof the Chairman of the Board. sheet commitments. The Committee’s activities primarily During the course 2016, the Nomination and Governance involved the review of the 2015 annual and consolidated Committee met thirteen times and had an attendance rate financial statements, the 2016 half-year financial statements, of 96%. Within the frame of the separation of the functions the 2016 closing options and the 2017 budget review, the of Chairtman and Chief Executive Officer, which occurred in review of the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors 2016, its activities primarily involved the selection of a new on preparation and organization of the Board’s work and Chief Executive Officer. The Committee also worked on the on internal control and risk management procedures, the assessment of the organization and functioning of the Board review of the 2015 internal audit report, the 2016 and 2017 of Directors, the determination of independent members and internal audit plan and the work review of the Group’s the selection of new Directors. internal audit and of the internal control procedures, and the approval of the services other than statutory audit work The Compensation Committee provided by the Statutory Auditors. Number Number of Number Attendance The Nomination and Governance Committee of members independent of meetings rate members Number Number of Number Attendance of members independent of meetings rate 3 2 5 100% members 6 2 13 96% The Compensation Committee comprises at least three Directors and no more than six Directors, including a The Nomination and Governance Committee comprises at majority of independent Directors as defined by the criteria least three Directors and no more than six Directors including set hereabove, chosen among members of the Board of Ipsen Registration document 2016 191 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors although none of whom may be the Chairman of the and Mayroy SA (represented by Mr. Philippe Bonhomme). The Board. The Board appoints the Chairman of the Committee role of the Ethics Committee is to: from among its members. • review the definition of the Group’s fundamental values as The Compensation Committee is currently comprised of well as of its ethics and compliance policies; three members two of whom are independent having regards • submit recommendations on ethics and compliance to the to the independence criteria referred to above set forth by Board of Directors; discuss all issues related to ethics and the Board’s internal regulations. Its members are: Antoine compliance referred to it by the Board; Flochel (Chairman), Hélène Auriol-Potier and Pierre Martinet (independent members). • ensure the dissemination throughout the Group of the Code The role of the Compensation Committee is to: of Ethics and general ethics policies defined by the Group and their updates; • make proposals to the Board of Directors on all components of the compensation paid to the Group’s corporate officers, • monitor the implementation and efficiency of procedures senior management and senior executives; used to disseminate the Code of Ethics and overall policies and make sure they are bought into by employees and • be informed on all the matters pertaining to the recruitment complied with throughout the Company; of the Group’s main senior managers, other than the Chief Executive Officer, as well as on any decisions related to all • study the Group’s risks mapping from ethics and compliance components of their compensation; standpoint; • give an opinion on the amount and allocation of Directors’ • review the ethics and compliance activity report within the fees among Board members; Group; • make recommendations to the Board of Directors on • study the organization of the ethics and compliance function Group compensation policies and employee savings plans, and make recommendations, when relevant; employee share ownership schemes, stock options and • receive any information concerning possible breaches of bonus shares or any other similar forms of compensation. the ethics and compliance policy and review action plans If it deems this is useful, the Compensation Committee may implemented after such breaches are detected. ask the Chairman of the Board to help in its deliberations The Ethics Committee when it deems necessary, may audition and work, except when it is discussing the Chairman’s the General Management team or members of this team, compensation. Internal Audit, the Ethics & Compliance Department or any The Compensation Committee meets at least twice a year other member of the Management team. Said auditions can when convened by its Chairman, or at the request of the be held, when necessary, outside the presence of members Chairman of the Board. of the General team. During the course of 2016, the Compensation Committee The Ethics Committee meets at least once a year when met five times and had an attendance rate of 100%. Its convened by its Chairman. activities primarily involved the fixing of the compensation of During the course of 2016, the Committee met three times the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive and had an attendance rate of 100%. Its activities primarily Officer within the frame of the separation of functions which involved the review and/or examination of the procedures and occurred in 18 July 2016, as well as the examination of the regulations concerning ethics, transparency and governance. compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The Committee has also been involved in the performance Internal Rules of the Board of Directors shares grants policy within the group, performance shares The Board of Directors adopted its Internal Rules, which and the employee shareholding plan implemented in 2016. mainly provides for the following: The Ethics Committee • role, functioning, and means of the Board of Directors, Number Number of Number Attendance • independence criteria of the Directors, of members independent of meetings rate members • duties of the Directors, in particular in terms of conflicts of interest including in this case, the non-participation to the 3 1 3 100% vote just as in terms of confidentiality including a general obligation of discretion concerning all informations and The Ethics Committee comprises at least three Directors and documents which Directors have access to, no more than six Directors, including at least an independent Director as defined by the criteria set forth hereabove. The • permanent Committees of the Board of Directors. Board appoints the Chairman of the Committee from among its independent members. The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors are presented in section 4.1.1.1 of the registration document for 2016. The Ethics Committee is currently comprised of three members one of whom is independent having regards to 4.1.2.1.2 Company’s executive management the independence criteria referred to above set forth by the The Chief Executive Officer has the widest powers to act Board’s internal regulations. Its members are: Hélène Auriolin the name of the Company in any circumstances. He Potier (Chairperson and independent member), Carol Xueref exercises these powers within the limits of its corporate 192 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE object and subject to the powers expressly granted by law, It is decided not only on the basis of the work carried out, articles of association and the Internal Rules to the General the results obtained and the responsibility assumed, but also Shareholders’ Meetings and to the Board of Directors on the basis of practices for comparable companies and the (described in section 4.1.1). He represents the Company in its compensation of the Company’s other senior executives. dealings with third parties. The compensation paid to Company officers is structured as The balance of powers within the Board of Directors is follows: safeguarded by the presence of a Vice-Chairman who assists • fixed compensation; the Chairman in his mission of organization and management of the Board’s works and participates to the preparation of • annual variable compensation (only for executive officers); Board’s meetings. • if applicable, multi-annual variable compensation (only for At its meeting held on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors executive officers); approved the launching of a recruitment process for a new Chief Executive Director and decided to separate the duties • if applicable, benefits for taking up a position; of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive • if applicable, eligibility to directors’ fees paid to Directors; Officer according to Article 18.1 of the articles of association. • allocation of stock options and performance bonus shares This evolution about the governance reflects the determination under plans approved by the Board of Directors (only for of the Group to accelerate his international development and executive officers); to be prepared for the challenges that the pharmaceutical industry is currently facing. The separation of said duties is • if applicable, other benefits; also good practice in governance that is increasingly applied • if applicable, payments, benefits and compensation granted throughout the pharmaceutical industry. to Company officers upon termination of their functions. The separation of functions will give to the Chief Executive The individual elements of the Company officers are described Officer the capacity to focus on strategy, on the pursuit of the in section 4.1.3.2 of the registration document. transformation and Group’s operations while the Chairman will be fully dedicated to the management of the Board of In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code (§24.3 in its version Directors. of November 2015 and §26 in its version of November 2016), the compensation elements due or allocated to Mr. Marc de This separation of functions allows the Chief Executive Officer, Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July who is solely responsible for the management and operational 2016 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since this date, management of the Group, to act in close coordination with and Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer since 18 July the Chairman of the Board of Directors within the frame of the 2016, shall be submitted to the vote of the Shareholders at the specific missions granted to him. Annual Combined General Meeting to be held in 2017 deciding on the accounts for the financial year closed on 31 December In this perspective, during its meeting dated 8 July 2016, 2016, following a specific resolution for each of them. effective 18 July the general management has been entrusted to an executive officer with an international profile and The compensation elements due or allocated to Ms. Christel experience, Mr. David Meek. Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016, for the 2016 financial year, will be submitted to the Shareholders According to the articles of association, the Chief Executive at the Annual Combined General Meeting to be held in 2017 Officer could, if he wishes, be assisted by one or several deciding on the accounts for the financial year closed on Deputy Chief Executive Officers. 31 December 2016. During the same meeting, on 8 July 2016, the Board of For the record, from the Annual General Meeting to be held Directors decided to confirm the appointment of Marc de in 2018, and according to article L.225-37-5, alinéa 2 of the Garidel as Chairman of the Board of Directors, French Commercial Code, the payment of the compensation elements of the company officer concerned will depend 4.1.2.1.3 P  rinciples and rules governing the on their approval by an ordinary general meeting, under compensation of Directors and Company the conditions details at article L.225-100 of the French officers Commercial Code. The compensation policy with regard to company officers Fixed compensation and their individual compensation are decided by the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, The fixed compensation is used as the basis for the calculation in the absence of the company officers concerned. The Board of the annual and multi-annual variable compensations. It is of Directors also refers to the AFEP-MEDEF recommendations subject to re-evaluation by the Board of Directors, basically at on the compensation paid to executive officers of listed relatively long intervals, according to the Company’s market companies. position and taking into account the extension of operational responsibilities. In the frame of the separation of the offices of This policy covers all aspects of the fixed, variable and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board exceptional compensation, and of the benefits of any nature, of Directors has decided to pay only a fixed compensation to paid by the Company. the non-executive Chairman of the Board. Ipsen Registration document 2016 193 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual variable compensation positions as Directors, and according to the rules applicable The annual variable compensation is linked to the Group’s to all of the Company officers. overall performance and to the achievement of Company In the frame of the separation of the offices of Chairman of officers’ personal targets. Every year, the Board of Directors the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors defines and precisely predetermines qualitative and has decided that no directors’ fees shall be paid to the nonquantitative criteria for determining the fixed compensation and executive Chairman of the Board and, if applicable, to the the target objectives. Quantitative criteria are preponderant Chief Executive Officer. for the determination of the annual variable compensation. Furthermore, a limit is determined for the qualitative part. The specific details of gross directors’ fees paid during the 2016 financial year are presented at section 4.1.3 of the The annual variable compensation is set on the basis of registration document. a target bonus equal to 100% of the fixed compensation, within a range between zero to a certain percentage, Stock options and performance bonus shares predetermined by the Board of Directors, in case of over or Grant policy underperformance. The detail of qualitative criteria and the level of completion expected for quantitative criteria are not Executive Company officers as well as certain senior made public for confidentiality reasons. executive officers of the Group may benefit from stock option and/or performance bonus shares under plans approved by In the frame of the separation of the offices of Chairman of the the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors has Committee. Each year, during the second quarter, the Board decided that no annual variable compensation shall be paid to of Directors approves the stock options and/or performance the non-executive Chairman of the Board. bonus shares plans. In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Multi-annual variable compensation Code (§24.2 in its version of November 2016), the nonexecutive officers shall not benefit from stock option and/or Company officers as well as certain senior executive officers performance bonus shares plans. of the Group may benefit from Mid-Term Bonus plans approved by the Board of Directors upon proposal of the The definitive number of performance bonus shares that Compensation Committee, depending on opportunities and will be vested will depend upon the level of achievement of legislative changes on the free shares. The Mid-Term Bonus is the performance conditions set by the Board of Directors, determined as a percentage of the fixed compensation. which are based on an internal criterion (quantifiable financial ratio) and on an external criterion (share price compared These plans are subject to attendance and, if applicable, to a benchmark of comparable companies). Each of these precisely predetermined performance conditions, which conditions shall be assessed annually by comparing the must be fulfilled during an acquisition period set by the Board target threshold and the actual performance of the Company of Directors. Nevertheless, in the event of death, disability, over the first and second financial years used as reference retirement or dispensation, decided by the Board of Directors periods for the applicable plan. Each of these conditions may before the end of the acquisition period, the beneficiary can generate a payout varying within a range between zero to a keep his rights. The completion levels expected and realized certain percentage predetermined by the Board of Directors of the external and internal criteria are not disclosed for at the implementation of the plan. confidentiality reasons. In the frame of the separation of the offices of Chairman of the Retention and Vesting policy Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors has The Board of Directors decided that the Company officers decided that no multi-annual compensation shall be paid to must retain, until the end of their term of office, a number of the non-executive Chairman of the Board. shares equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from the exercise Exceptional compensation and/ or financial indemnity of his stock options or from the bonus shares. The Board of Directors may decide, in case of specific circumstances, to grant exceptional compensations. These plans are subject to attendance and, if applicable, performance conditions, which must be fulfilled during an It can decide to grant an exceptional compensation and/or an acquisition period of two or four years depending on the exceptional financial indemnity to the Company officers while beneficiaries’ country of tax residence. The beneficiaries taking into account specific circumstances during the course submit to an acquisition period of two years and then must of which they carry out their duties. also respect a two years-period of retention. Nevertheless, in the event of death, disability, retirement or dispensation, Special financial indemnity decided by the Board of Directors before the end of the The Board of Directors can decide to grant a special financial acquisition period, the beneficiary can keep his rights. indemnity to a new executive Officer who has come from a company outside the Group. The payment of this benefit The Company officers who are beneficiaries of these stock is intended to compensate the director for the loss of the options and/or performance bonus shares plans undertook entitlements from which he or she previously benefited. a formal commitment not to engage in hedging transactions either on their options or on shares issued following the Directors’ fees exercise of options or on performance bonus shares granted The Company officers who are members of the Board of until the end of the holding period that has been decided by Directors may receive directors’ fees due on the basis of their the Board of Directors. 194 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Particular terms governing the exercise of options 4.1.2.1.4 Participation in Shareholders’ Meetings The Board of Directors has set the periods preceding the Each shareholder has the right to attend Shareholders’ publication of interim and annual financial statements and Meetings and to participate in the deliberations personally or sales figures during which it is not permitted to exercise by proxy, regardless of the number of shares owned, upon options, and has established the following procedure: proof of shareholder status being provided. • the dates of the closed periods for each financial year are In accordance with article R.225-85 of the French Commercial communicated at the beginning of each year; Code, the right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is subject to the account registration of the shares being • outside closed periods, the Group appoints an officer who registered in an account in the name of the shareholder must be consulted to ensure that no insider information is or of the financial intermediary acting on the shareholder’s held. behalf, at midnight, Paris time, on the second business day Other benefits preceding the date of the General Meeting, either in the registered share accounts kept by the Company or in the The Company officers may also be awarded benefits in bearer share accounts kept by the authorized intermediary. respect of their duties carried out within the Ipsen Group, including : benefits in kind (company car and temporary In accordance with the terms of Article 26.1 of the Articles accommodation), assistance for the preparation and filing of of association, each shareholder has a voting right equal personal income tax returns, global healthcare policy (mutual to the number of shares he/she holds or represents in all and life-illness schemes) coverage under the Group’s policy, Shareholders’ Meetings. reimbursement of travel expenses and expenses incurred with the exercise of their corporate duties, officers liability A double voting right is attached to any ordinary fully paid-up insurance. share which is owned under the registered form by the same shareholder for at least two years. The double voting rights Payments, benefits and compensation granted to shall automatically end with its conversion to the form of Company officers upon termination of their functions bearer share, as well as its transfer of ownership unless in Severance payment cases provided for by law. The Company officers may benefit from a severance payment Pursuant to the terms of Article 11.3 of the Articles of clause, due in the event of the termination of their term of association, the voting right attached to shares belongs to the office which the terms have been decided by the Board of usufruct holder in Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and to Directors and compliant with the recommendations of the the bare owner in the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. AFEP-MEDEF Code: 4.1.2.1.5 Information likely to have an impact in the event • a payment due only in the event of a forced departure within of a take-over bid the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, Information likely to have an impact in the event of a take• in an amount corresponding to 24 months’ fixed and annual over bid is described in section 4.2.3.5 of the registration variable remuneration in respect of their term of office, document for 2015. • which includes the amount due in respect of any non4.1.2.1.6 Internal control or Risk management compete obligation, if applicable, The following describes Ipsen’s framework created for • payment of which is subject to a predetermined performance Group Internal Control and Risk Management. Ipsen aims to condition, assessed at least on two financial years. continuously improve its internal control and risk management environment to be compliant with the “Cadre de Référence” Non-competition payment issued by “l’Autorité des marchés financiers” (AMF). The Board of Directors may conclude a non-competition Introduction agreement with the Company officers in case of their departure from the Group for a reason other than a change Risk management objectives are to: of control. This agreement shall be valid for a certain period • Secure the general Group objective to improve patient following the date of departure. health and quality of life by providing effective therapeutic The non-competition payment may not exceed a ceiling of solutions for unmet medical needs; 24 months’ fixed and annual variable remuneration in respect • Create and preserve the value, assets and reputation of the of their term of office. The compensation due by the Company Group; in consideration of this commitment is comprised in the severance payment described above. • Make decisions and processes secure to reach Group objectives by taking into account risk factors; Pension commitment The Company officers may benefit from a defined contribution • Ensure consistency between actions and Group values; pension plan or the defined benefit additional pension • Mobilise employees around a shared vision of the commitment existing within the Company (benefits, more Company’s main risks and around the specific risks in their generally, to the company’s executives), compliant with the own area of activity; recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code. • Protect Group employees and the environment. Ipsen Registration document 2016 195 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control is defined and implemented by operational Commercial Operations. In addition, the respective Senior management and Group employees to provide Executive Vice-Presidents responsible for SCCO Europe and SCCO Management and shareholders with reasonable assurance Intercontinental sit on the committee pending replacement of about the achievement of the following objectives: the EVP for Specialty Care Commercial Operations. • Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; The scope of responsibility of the ELT includes: • Implementation of the instructions and directives provided • Setting the Group Strategy; by the Executive Leadership Team ; • Validating the 10-year strategic plan, 5-year business plan • Effectiveness of Group internal processes, notably those and target settings for annual budget; aimed at protecting Group assets; • Preparing recommendations for the Board Strategic • Reliability of financial data and, more generally of all data Committee and/or the Board of Directors. included in published statements. • Ensuring consistency in the implementation of decisions The Group’s internal control rules apply to all Company made by the Board of Directors; entities under exclusive control within the meaning of the IFRS standards. The main internal control components that are • Promoting good corporate governance; further explained in this report are as follows: • Overseeing and reviewing risk management, legal and • A n o r g a niz atio n that gi ve s a c l e a r d ef initio n of compliance key subjects and priorities; responsibilities, with competent and adequate resources • Coordinate with Risk Management, Global Ethics & using appropriate information systems, procedures, Compliance and Global Internal Audit functions to ensure processes, tools and rules; adequate level of risk mitigation; • Reliable and relevant information management that • Approving financial and external Group communications; enables every employee, whatever his/her level to fulfil his/ her responsibilities; • Approving Group financing solutions; • A risk management framework; • Ensuring efficient and transparent investor and shareholder • Control activities aimed at monitoring risks and securing relations; objectives; • Creating the conditions for sustainable results; • A regular review and assessment of the internal control • Setting annual objectives for divisions and functions; framework. • Monitoring Group performance; 4.1.2.1.6.1 Organization • Overseeing and sponsoring key scientific, commercial, General framework industrial, and financial projects for the Group; If necessary, local management is in charge of applying, • Arbitrating key projects at the request of other operational adapting and supplementing Group procedures. The constant committees (CAPEX Board, Deal Review Board, Portfolio collaboration between Global Quality, Risk and Insurance, Management Board, etc.) or in case of major deviations; Global Internal Audit and Ethics & Compliance departments at various levels and on numerous subjects is an important • Assessing key talents of the Group and ensuring succession consistency factor for internal control. planning. Operational Committees The ELT functioning has also been defined. Executive Leadership Team Each ELT member has set up his/her own leadership team. Ipsen governance model changed in July 2016 following the appointment of David Meek as CEO and the transition of Mark Deal Review Board (DRB) de Garidel to non-executive Chairman of the Board. Previously, • The DRB is chaired by the CEO and serves as a decision two committees governed Ipsen. Those two committees were body for M&A and Corporate Business Development the Chairman’s Committee and the COMEX. Going forward activities; there is one governing body leading the strategic direction of Ipsen and its implementation: the Executive Leadership Team • Permanent members are the EVP CS&BD, EVP Finance, (ELT). The ELT is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and EVP Legal, EVP R&D, EVP TechOps, EVP SC Franchises, meets on a monthly basis. EVP PCBU, EVP NA, and ad interim the Senior VicePresidents responsible for SCCO Europe and SCCO Permanent members include: the Chief Executive Officer, Intercontinental the EVP Research & Development / Chief Scientific Officer, the EVP Technical Operations, the EVP Primary Care Global Portfolio Management Board (PMB) Business Unit, the EVP Human Resources, the EVP Legal/ The PMB, co-chaired by the Executive Vice-President General Counsel, the EVP Corporate Strategy and Business Research and Development and Executive Vice-President Development, the EVP Finance/Chief Financial Officer, Speciality Care Franchises, decides on key pre and post the EVP Specialty Care Franchises, EVP North America Proof of Concept stage gates. 196 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Intellectual Property Supervision Committee (IPSC) • The definition of the transfer policy of residual risks to the IPSC is in charge of Ipsen patent management. Chaired by insurance market, the conception and the management of the Senior Vice-President Intellectual Property, the IPSC takes the Group insurance programs such as described in the decisions related to Group patent families and makes sure paragraph 1.2.8.6; relevant stakeholders are updated on relevant information • The piloting of a crisis management process. regarding patents. Risk Committee Ethics & Compliance The Risk Committee includes individuals representing A Code of Ethical Conduct governs all Group employees. transversal Group functions with its members connected to The Code of Ethical Conduct is one of the key elements of either a member of the ELT or directly to the Chief Executive the Ethics and Compliance program which is more precisely Officer. The Risk Committee’s mission is to facilitate the defined through Policies,Procedures and Education. The implementation of the risk management approach and to Company’s Ethics and Compliance department, reports control its efficiency. The Risk Committee members meet at directly to the Chief Executive Officer. Its missions are to: least once a quarter. • Maintain an effective compliance and ethics program Quality and Safety that ensures a culture of integrity enabling the Company Global Quality Function to conduct its global business with the highest ethical standards, in full compliance with all applicable laws and The Company has one Global Quality Function that reports regulations and the Group Code of Conduct; to the Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations, with a dotted reporting to the Chief Executive Officer. This function • To regularly review and improve our compliance and supports the research, development, manufacturing and ethics program to ensure it remains current with respect to distribution activities across the product life cycle and is significant risks, developments and trends; accountable for Good Practices (GXP) compliance across the Group. Its role is to establish, improve and maintain an • Communicate and train employees and relevant third integrated global Quality Management System that complies parties to these standards; with good laboratory practices (“GLP”), good clinical practices • Monitor the enforcement of these standards within the (“GCP”), good manufacturing practices (“GMP”), good Group entities; distribution practices (“GDP”) and good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP) for clinical and commercial products. • Develop and maintain Ethics & Compliance Due Diligence for Third Parties Each manufacturing plant and development unit has a Quality group that is on site and is responsible for assuring site GMP • Develop a continuous improvement approach with the and GDP compliance. These manufacturing plants have a update of these standards; local auditing program, integrated with the global program, • Act as the point of contact for anyone who would like to and site-specific procedures and processes that are aligned address Ethics and Compliance issues, and to investigate with the Group Quality Manual. Site Quality heads have a in a confidential manner; functional reporting to the Senior Vice-President, Quality. The Ethics & Compliance team covers all geographical scope Quality Governance where the Group operates. A Group Quality Council meets on a semi-annual basis to discuss quality vision and strategy for the Company. It The Group Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer periodically includes the Chief Executive Officer, ELT members and the reports on the state of progress of the Ethics and Compliance Senior Vice-President for Quality. program to the Board of Directors Ethics Committee. Quality Management system Risk Management organization The Quality Management System is described in the Group The following organization supports the framework described Quality Manual which: in section 4.1.2.1.6.3. • Gives an overview of the Company’s Quality Management Risk Management and Insurance department System; Reporting to the Executive Vice-President General Counsel, • Defines the GXP policies and procedures used to ensure the Risk Management and Insurance department’s role is that the Company’s products and services meet GXP to guarantee that a relevant process of identification and regulatory requirements and business objectives in a management of the Group major risks is in place. Its main consistent, compliant and reliable manner; objectives are: • Defines the Quality governance structure, which includes • The distribution of a culture of risk management to ensure a Group Quality Council, a Quality Leadership Team, an homogeneous approach to risk management, in manufacturing site Quality Councils, Global R&D Quality compliance with the Group policies. This objective includes and Commercial Operations Quality Councils; elaborating the Group Risk Map; • Defines the GXP documentation system; • Providing methodological and technical support to the divisions (risk identification, analysis and processing, engineering • Defines the roles of Group GXP personnel as well as senior prevention and protection, risk exposure monitoring); management. Ipsen Registration document 2016 197 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group Quality Manual is co-signed by the Chief Executive Information on Risk Management and Insurance Officer and Senior Vice-President of Quality. A major risk mapping for the Company validated by the Pharmacovigilance ELT and reported once a year for approval by the Board of Directors Audit Committee. Operational and finance The Global Patient Safety (pharmacovigilance) department is management are informed annually of existing coverage and part of the Research and Development Division that reports procedures. to the Senior Vice-President Chief Medical Officer, and is led by a Senior Vice-President, who is also the European Union Information on Audit findings and conclusions Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance. With patient safety Internal Audit reports are communicated as presented in as central to our work, the Global Patient Safety department section 4.1.2.1.6.4. ensures the proactive evaluation and communication of evolving safety knowledge about all Company drug products, Information on products Quality and Safety so that benefit-risk is optimised for our patients, both in Information on product Quality and Safety is ensured clinical development and after market launches. To do this we by the Quality and Safety functions as presented in maintain a sustainable cross-functional Pharmacovigilance paragraph 4.1.2.1.6.1. System that is compliant with pharmacovigilance legislation worldwide. The Pharmacovigilance System, described Financial information in detail in the Pharmacovigilance System Master File, operates throughout the full life cycles of our products and Reporting to the Finance Division, internal control over extends across the entire company, including all Affiliate financial reporting is responsible for: staff, specifically, but not limited to, for those with direct • Preparing consolidated financial statements in accordance pharmacovigilance responsibilities. with the applicable laws and regulations; Quality Systems Evaluation Board (QSEB) • Managing the budgeting and forecasting processes; The QSEB is chaired by the Senior V ice-President • Reviewing Group performance and any variance against Global Quality. The European Union Qualified Person for forecasts and providing the ELT with the relevant Key Pharmacovigilance is also a permanent member of this Pe r fo r m a n c e I n d i c ato r s to s u p p o r t th e s tr ate g y Board. QSEB’s role is to decide on non-routine global issues implementation; that impact the Quality and/or Safety of Company products that require awareness beyond the site level. The QSEB: • Reviewing periodical management reporting for each of the • Ensures resolution of critical product Quality issues; Company’s entities; • Ensures reporting of relevant issues to key stakeholders; • Managing fiscal affairs; • Ensures or propose corrective actions; • Ensuring effective treasury management and financing for all Company entities; • Ensures follow up on relevant actions; • Controlling the integrity of financial reporting. • Ensures issues are communicated to the ELT and CEO. Preparation of consolidated financial statements Expenditures and Cash control financial framework The Group Finance department centralises information Financial authorization reported by the Finance department of each Company entity The financial authorization procedure lays down the financial and produces consolidated financial statements for the approval levels for managers who are authorized to enter into Group. commitments. The financial statements reported by each Company entity Financing and Treasury are analysed before consolidation. The Company has a centralised cash management system to The financial statements are reconciled with the management optimize its financial assets and liquidity. Exchange rate and indicators monitored by the Group Finance department. interest rate risk exposures are centralised by the Treasury department, in order to cover the risks related to commercial As part of its responsibility for producing consolidated and industrial activities, the variations of perimeter and/or financial statements, the Group Finance department draws financing structure. up accounting manuals, management reporting packages and the chart of accounts to be used for preparing the The cash position and performances are evaluated and consolidated financial statements. The Group Finance reported regularly to the ELT. department also ensures that all Company entities produce consistent information that complies with the Company A Treasury charter defines the rules and principles for accounting policies. A Finance Handbook is made available to managing financing, treasury, and risks. all employees’ to provide them with the reference information 4.1.2.1.6.2 Information management they need. Reliable and relevant information, provided to the right people The Group Finance department also verifies that the financial at the right time is a key element in the internal control and risk and accounting information reported externally by the management. Company is fair and comprehensive. 198 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company has implemented an ERP system, which Risk identification and analysis is contributing to the optimisation of financial processes Risks are identified and analysed through an annual risk and activity management. This ERP system has been mapping process that documents the main risks of the implemented across the majority of the Company’s research group’s divisions and prioritizes them in terms of impact and and commercial entities. Further deployment is planned in the level of control. coming years to extend ERP’s geographical coverage. Risk mapping now covers all entities and critical processes External Communications committees within the Group. The Investor Relations department, which is overseen by Once a year, a Group Major Risks Map is validated by the ELT the Executive Vice-President Finance, and the Corporate and submitted for approval by the Chief Executive Officer and Communications department, which is overseen by the Chief the Board of Directors Audit Committee. Executive Officer, are both responsible for preparing external communications documents for the approval of the Chief Risk factors Executive Officer, ELT and the Chief Medical Officer. The Group’s main risk factors are described in chapter 1.2.8 of this registration document. The Corporate Disclosure Committee meets as required to prepare communications and statements related to Risk action plans unfore se e n eve nts, w hic h c ould pote ntia ll y have a For every major risk identified, an owner is designated to significant impact on the value of Company shares, and to monitor it and to ensure that the corrective action plan is decide, when appropriate, if those communications must implemented. The process and all related information are be postponed. coordinated by the Group’s Risk Management and Insurance department. Validation of Corporate Press releases follows a three-round process: Financial Risk Management 1. Core team (IR, Corporate Communications and ad-hoc Financial Risk Management hedges the following risks: functions) to make first draft; • Foreign exchange risks: 2. Draft to be validated by Head of each function involved, SVP The potential exposure to foreign exchange risk is estimated Global Regulatory Affairs, Company Secretary (Legal), and by the Company entities then transmitted to the Group EVP North America Commercial Operations for US-related Treasury department. The hedging operations are partially press releases; realised on behalf of Company entities and the intragroup foreign exchange risk management is operated centrally 3. Draft to be validated by Chief Executive Officer, ELT and with standard hedging tools, according to the Group Chief Medical Officer. hedging policy. Financial controlling In 2016 the Group hedged the budgeted amount of foreign currencies cash-flow to mitigate the effect of currency rate Financial Controlling is organized on the basis of the Group’s changes. business activities. The Group Finance department issues budgets and forecasts instructions and controls the quality In 2016, the Group Treasury department bought currency of information related to the Actuals and Planning exercises. derivatives (forward exchange contracts and “plain vanilla” options). The instruments purchased to hedge exposure are The Group’s Finance department analyses the Group actual primarily denominated in USD, RUB, GBP, BRL, CNY/CNH, performance and variances against forecasts and identifies PLN, CZK, HUF, RON, AUD, CHF. The Group Policy is to and quantifies the risks and opportunities involved in budget hedge for the budget period to come. Detailed information and forecast information. The Finance deparment also advises can be found in section 1.2.8.4.2 of this report. the operational managers on financial matters. A “hedging committee” composed of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Vice-President 4.1.2.1.6.3 Risk Management framework Treasury meets every quarter, or upon request of any of its The Risk Management framework described below has been members, to review and approve the forex policy, provide defined in accordance with measures described in the COSO guidelines, and validate the hedging strategy. II standard (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) and refers to the “Cadre de Référence • Interest rate risks: de l’AMF”. Due to its positive treasury position and its current non exposure to net debt the Group has not set up a hedging Risk Management Components operation on interest rate risks in 2016. The Group’s Risk Management Policy Statement and • Counterpart and liquidity risks: Framework describes Risk Management objectives and terminology, defines roles & responsibilities, and documents Within the scope of its activities, the Finance Department approaches to risk identification, assessment, prioritisation, makes forecasts regarding the Group application of funds treatment, and monitoring. and resources and implements financial instruments aligned with these forecasts, which are duly submitted to The Risk Management organization is described in and approved by the Board of Directors. On 31 December section 4.1.2.1.6.1. 2016 the Group had a net positive cash position. This cash Ipsen Registration document 2016 199 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE position is mainly centralised and the selection of investment that the risk management and internal control frameworks are options is carried out by the Treasury Department in operating effectively. Global Internal Audit reports to the Chief pursuance of a formalised charter which defines: Executive Officer and to the Chief Financial Officer. Global –– the treasury management objectives; Internal Audit also has direct and regular access to the Audit Committee of the Board. –– the criteria in terms of asset allocation and risk diversification; As part of Global Internal Audit governance, an Audit Charter –– the methodology for monitoring the performance and (approved by the Chief Executive Officer and the Audit position of the Group cash flow. Committee) is in effect. This Audit Charter defines the Global Internal Audit’s scope of audit services as covering all areas In accordance with its treasury charter, the Group Treasury of Ipsen’s activities, functions, and processes. These audits Department is in charge of optimising the Group liquidity, may include, but are not limited to, audits of country managed overseeing the selection of banking establishments with units, Group functions, internal control frameworks, compliance which it subscribes to foreign exchange derivatives, and requirements, Information Technology, Environmental, Health ensuring financial asset allocation is safe and liquid. and Safety and independent assessments of the effectiveness of Within the scope of its commercial operations, the Ipsen’s Good Quality Systems across the Good Pharmaceutical Group Treasury Department ensures that the credit limits Practices (GxPs) where GxPs apply (Note: in this case GxPs refer applicable to its international customers are respected to the quality systems related to Good Manufacturing Practices, (notably distributors and agents), in particular upon the Good Clinical Practices, Good Laboratory Practices,Good receipt of new orders. It also monitors the overall status of Distribution Practices and Good Pharmacovigilance Practices). average payment timescales of customers in its entities. The GXP good practices audits (quality audits) are covered under the GXP Quality Audit programme as described below. Within the scope of its partnerships, and with the support of the Group’s Legal Department and respective Development The Global Internal Audit plan is risk-based and developed Departments, the Group’s Finance Department approves using a variety of inputs including the Group Risk Map and contractual provisions that aim to protect the Group from inputs from Global Ethics and Compliance and the ELT. The the potential negative consequences of the possible failure GIA audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee on an of its partners. annual basis. • Identification of and accounting for risks: Audit repor ts containing findings and specific recommendations are generated and distributed to relevant Jointly within the overall risk management process and management with a copy to the relevant ELT members as part of the continual improvement of financial risk responsible for the audited areas. Key findings and main management, the Finance department has set up an conclusions are communicated within an Executive Summary accounting closing process based on three major elements. report to the Board of Directors Audit Committee (the These elements are: “Audit Committee”) and to ELT members. Corrective and –– Pre-closing meetings to identify potential risks beforehand Preventative Action plans are developed and owned by that are being supported by the Company’s financial management in response to audit observations and the status managers and the Group’s controlling department; of all actions is tracked to completion. –– The control of information provided by Company entities Global Internal Audit works with other internal assurance type for consolidation by the Group accounting department functions such as Risk Management, Ethics and Compliance to ensure compliance of financial translations with Group and Quality Audit to enable consistency of objectives. Global standards; Internal Audit liaises with the Company’s external Statutory –– Permanent files maintained to follow up the evolution of Auditors on a periodic basis to ensure their respective work risk for the next accounting period. will be complementary. The Board of Directors Audit Committee attends the preGXP Quality Audit closing meeting with the external auditors and final meetings GxPs refer to the qualit y systems related to Good for half-year and full-year accounts. Manufacturing Practices, Good Clinical Practices, Good 4.1.2.1.6.4 Control activities Laboratory Practices, Good Distribution Practices and Good Audits Pharmacovigilance Practices. The pharmaceutical industry is regulated at both the national The GXP Quality Audit (Quality Audit) group reports into the and international level. A strict framework of laws and standards SVP of Quality who reports to the EVP Technical Operations. govern all Company business activities. These laws govern the GXP Quality Audit assures audits of all GXP (good practices) Group’s research and development, manufacture of active areas are performed including on many of the Group sites as substances and drugs, promotion and distribution into the well as service providers and suppliers where GXPs apply. global market, financial reporting, and business ethics and Audit frequencies are proceduralized using a risk-based compliance requirements. Audits within Ipsen are conducted approach. Annual audit schedules are determined at the by two functions; Global Internal Audit and Quality Audit. start of the year. Critical audit observations are escalated for prompt attention. Corrective and Preventative Action plans Global Internal Audit are developed and owned by management in response to Global Internal Audit provides the independent assurance audit observations and the status of all quality audit action that key business risks are being managed appropriately and plans are tracked to completion. 200 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit compliance to quality targets is measured routinely 4.1.2.1.6.5 Review and assessment of internal control and Global Internal Audit is provided with regular status Global Internal Audit periodically presents a summary of key updates from the Quality Audit programme. The GXP Quality observations and trend analysis resulting from its internal Audit group also coordinates with the Global Internal Audit audit assignments to the ELT. Global Internal Audit is also department to assure efficiencies are maximized. responsible for providing a summary update on the Quality External Audit Audit program to the Audit Committee. The SVP, Quality is responsible for providing regular updates on quality audit In accordance with the law, Group financial statements outcomes to the ELT. are audited by Statutory Auditors. Their responsibility encompasses all Group companies included in the scope of Global Internal Audit met with the Audit Committee three times consolidation. Each company, with the exception of certain in 2016 and provided summary reports and status updates, companies which are not material to the consolidated financial including dashboard and trend data, on the progression of statements, is subject to an audit or limited review as required. the respective audit plans along with an assessment as to the overall level of internal control. Apart from the legal requirements, the Statutory Auditors produce a report on their work summarising all key audit points Statutory Auditors and Global Internal Audit met periodically identified and their resolution, as well as recommendations on throughout 2016 including as part of the Audit Committee the Group internal control system. The Statutory Auditors’ updates. Report is presented to the Audit Committee and the Board The Chairman of the Board of Directors of Directors. February 2017 In addition, Group manufacturing plants, clinical research programmes and information systems are also frequently inspected by regulatory agencies and periodically by the Company’s partners. Ipsen Registration document 2016 201 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ■■4.1.2.2 Report of the Statutory Auditors This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in the language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered office: 65, quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Statutory Auditors’ report, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company Year ended 31 December 2016 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditors of Ipsen S.A. and in accordance with Article L.225-235 of French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the report prepared by the Chairman of your Company in accordance with Article L.225-37 of French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) for the year ended 31 December 2016. It is the Chairman’s responsibility to prepare, and submit to the Board of Directors for approval, a report on the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company and containing the other disclosures required by Article L.225-37 of French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), particularly in terms of corporate governance. It is our responsibility: • to report to you on the information contained in the Chairman’s report in respect of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information, and • to attest that this report contains the other disclosures required by Article L.225-37 of French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), it being specified that we are not responsible for verifying the fairness of these disclosures. We conducted our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Information on the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information The professional standards require that we perform the necessary procedures to assess the fairness of the information provided in the Chairman’s report in respect of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the accounting and financial information. These procedures consisted mainly in: • obtaining an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the accounting and financial information on which the information presented in the Chairman’s report is based and the existing documentation; • obtaining an understanding of the work involved in the preparation of this information and the existing documentation; • determining if any significant weaknesses in the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the accounting and financial information that we would have noted in the course of our engagement are properly disclosed in the Chairman’s report. On the basis of our work, we have nothing to report on the information in respect of the Company’s internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the accounting and financial information contained in the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors in accordance with Article L.225-37 of French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Other disclosures We hereby attest that the Chairman’s report includes the other disclosures required by Article L.225-37 of French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Paris-La Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, 22 February 2017 The Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés Division of KPMG S.A. Philippe Grandclerc Jean-Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner 202 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.1.3 Compensation of directors and officers ■■4.1.3.1 C  ompensation of the members Committee receive an additional director’s fee of €20,000 of the Board of Directors for a full year of service, 4.1.3.1.1 Directors’ fees • the Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee receive, for a full year of service, an additional Terms of allocation of directors’ fees director’s fee of €35,000. The Board of Directors decided at its meeting of 10 November 2009, with effect from the 2010 financial year, and within Each Director who is a member of at least one committee the global limit of €990,000 approved by the Combined shall receive an additional amount of €5,000 for a full year of Shareholders’ Meeting held on 1 June 2012 (until new service. decision), the allocation of the directors’ fees as follows: The Board of Directors can decide to allow additional • each member of the Board of Directors receives a director’s directors’ fees amounting to €5,000 for intercontinental fee of €40,000 for a full year of service, traveling in order to attend a meeting of the Board. • the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors receives an Directors’ fees are paid on a half year basis (within the month additional fee of €50,000 for a full year of service, following each half-year closing). • the members of Committees of the Board receive a The gross amount of directors’ fees paid for 2016 was director’s fee of €15,000 for a full year of service, €963,655.91. • the Chairmen of the Nomination and Governance Committee, the Strategic Committee and the Ethics Individual amounts of fees and other compensation paid to directors (gross amounts – rounded) (Table 3 of AMF recommendations) Directors Amounts paid(**) in 2015 Amounts paid(**) in 2016 Marc de Garidel(*) – Director’s fees €60,000 €81,989 – Other compensation see section 4.1.3.2 see section 4.1.3.2 Hélène Auriol-Potier – Director’s fees €80,000 €95,000 – Other compensation – – Anne Beaufour – Director’s fees €95,000 €95,000 – Other compensation – – Henri Beaufour – Director’s fees €80,000 €61,667 – Other compensation – – Hervé Couffin – Director’s fees €75,000 €75,000 – Other compensation – – Martha Crawford(1) – Director’s fees €55,000 – – Other compensation – – Antoine Flochel – Director’s fees €160,000 €160,000 – Other compensation – – Pierre Martinet – Director’s fees €110,000 €110,000 – Other compensation – – Mayroy SA – Director’s fees €60,000 €60,000 – Other compensation – – Michèle Ollier (2) – Director’s fees €6,250 €75,000 – Other compensation – – (1) Director until 27 May 2015. (2) Director since 27 May 2015. (*) To that should be added the compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel, paid prorata temporis in respect of his functions as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, and as Chairman from this date, that are presented at section 4.1.3.2 of the registration document. (**) Directors’ fees are paid on a half-year basis (within the month following each half-year closing), based prorata temporis on the term of office along the semester, if applicable. Ipsen Registration document 2016 203 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Amounts paid(**) in 2015 Amounts paid(**) in 2016 Christophe Vérot – Director’s fees €75,000 €75,000 – Other compensation – – Carol Xueref – Director’s fees €75,000 €75,000 – Other compensation – – Total – Director’s fees €931,250 €963,656 – Other compensation – – (*) To that should be added the compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel, paid prorata temporis in respect of his functions as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, and as Chairman from this date, that are presented at section 4.1.3.2 of the registration document. (**) Directors’ fees are paid on a half-year basis (within the month following each half-year closing), based prorata temporis on the term of office along the semester, if applicable. ■■4.1.3.2 Compensation of Company officers by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on 22 February 4.1.3.2.1 C  ompensation of Company officers holding 2017. office as of 31 December 2016 In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code (§24.3 in its 4.1.3.2.1.1 Compensation elements of Mr. David Meek, version of November 2015 and §26 in its version of November Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016 2016), the compensation elements due or allocated to Mr. For financial year 2016, the basis of compensation of Mr. David David Meek, Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016, for Meek, Chief Executive Officer, was determined by the Board the 2016 financial year, shall be submitted to the vote of the of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation Shareholders at the Annual Combined General Meeting to be Committee, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016. The basis held in 2017 deciding on the accounts for the financial year of compensation for financial year 2017 was determined closed on 31 December 2016, following a specific resolution. A. Summary tables of compensation, options and shares granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016 Summary table of compensation, options and performance bonus shares (Table 1 of AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2015 Financial Year 2016 Financial Year David Meek Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016 Compensation due for the year (see details below) – 1,599,554 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – – Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the performance bonus shares granted during the year(*) – 478,311(1) Total – 2,077,865 (*) For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.1 paragraphs B and C below. (1) Book value for a target award of 10,021 performance bonus shares. The amount of bonus shares granted in 2016 to Mr. David Meek is calculated on a prorata temporis basis. 204 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Summary table of the compensation (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) 2015 2016 Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts (gross rounded amount – in euros) due paid due paid David Meek Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016 Fixed compensation – – 410,714(1) 410,714 Annual variable compensation – Performance for 2016 – – 438,840(2) – – Integration within the Group – – 300,000(3) – Multi-annual variable compensation – – – – Exceptional compensation – Special financial indemnity – – 450,000(4) 450,000 Directors’ fees – – – – Benefits in kind – – 0 0 Total – – 1,599,554 860,714 (1) The Board of Directors fixed an amount of €410,714 for the period from 18 July 2016 to 31 December 2016 in respect of his duties as Chief Executive Officer (prorata temporis amount calculated on an annual basis of €900,000). (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation for 2016 of the Chief Executive Officer at €438,840 (prorata temporis amount calculated from 18 July 2016 on an annual target basis of €900,000). This amount will be paid in 2017. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed an amount of €300,000 in respect of Mr. David Meek’s exceptional bonus linked to the success of his integration within the Group. (4) The Board of Directors decided to grant Mr. David Meek a special financial indemnity of a gross amount of €900,000, to be paid in two instalments. For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.1 paragraph B below. B. D  etails of the compensation elements granted to (i.e. 0 to €1,800,000) based on quantitative and qualitative Mr. David Meek, Chief Operating Officer from 18 July performance criteria. Two-thirds of this gross target bonus 2016 will depend on the achievement of consolidated revenues, The compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is determined current operating profit, cash flow from operations and diluted by the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation earnings per share. One-third will depend on qualitative criteria Committee. regarding strategic guidelines. Details regarding the qualitative criteria and the level of expectations of the performance Fixed compensation criteria have not been disclosed for confidentiality reasons. For 2016, the gross target bonus will be calculated and paid The determination of the annual and multi-annual variable on a prorata temporis basis. compensations is based on the fixed compensation. The Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the At its meeting held on 22 February 2017, the Board of Directors Compensation Committee, has set Mr. David Meek’s fixed has stated that the performance conditions were fulfilled and compensation as a gross annual amount of €900,000. For decided to grant Mr. David Meek an amount of €438,840. the 2016 financial year, this compensation has been paid on a The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016, prorata temporis basis starting from 18 July 2016. It amounts and upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, has also to €410,714 for the 2016 financial year. decided to grant Mr. David Meek an exceptional bonus of a For the 2017 financial year, the Board of Directors, at its meeting maximum gross amount of €300,000. The definitive amount held on 22 February 2017 and upon recommendation of the of this special bonus was subject to his successful integration Compensation Committee, has set the elements relating to within the Company by the end of the year 2016. The Board the compensation and benefits of the Chief Executive Officer. of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, has The amount of the gross fixed remuneration for 2017 has not decided to set an amount of €300,000 in this respect. been changed, and still amounts to €900,000. For the 2017 financial year, the Board of Directors, upon Annual variable compensation recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, The annual variable compensation is linked to the Group’s at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, the compensation global performance and to the realization of personal goals and benefits elements of the Chief Executive Officer. The set for the Chief Executive Officer. amount of the target annual variable compensation for 2017 was fixed at a gross amount of €900,000 (amounting to a The Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the 100% achievement of the objectives), that may vary from 0 Compensation Committee, during its meeting held on 8 July to 200% (i.e. 0 to €1,800,000), depending on quantitative 2016 has decided to grant Mr. David Meek a gross target and qualitative criteria as follows: the two-thirds of this target bonus of €900,000 (i.e. 100% of the fixed compensation), bonus are based on the achievement of levels of consolidated which may vary within a range between 0% and 200% net sales, core operating income, diluted earnings per share Ipsen Registration document 2016 205 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and cash-flow from operations; the balance is based on in particular a relocation package in France, assistance for qualitative criteria concerning managerial and strategic the filing of his personal income tax returns, reimbursement objectives. The detail of qualitative criteria and the level of of reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred in completion expected for quantitative criteria are not made connection with the finalization of the terms and conditions public for confidentiality reasons. of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer, company car and driver, business travel and accommodation expenses Multi-annual variable compensation incurred whilst exercising his duties as Chief Executive Officer, Mr. David Meek does not receive any multi-annual variable healthcare under a global healthcare policy, and death and compensation. disability coverage under the Group’s policy or a specific policy, D&O liability insurance consistent with the D&O liability Special financial indemnity insurance of the previous Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors may grant a special allowance to a new executive company officer coming from a company Payments, benefits and compensation granted to outside the Group on taking up duty in order to compensate Company officers upon termination or change of their the loss of financial advantages he used to benefit from. functions The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016, Details of these commitments are given below (see section D). and upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, C. S ubscription or purchase options granted to has decided to grant Mr. David Meek a special financial Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July indemnity of an annual gross amount of €900,000, payable 2016 in two installments (50% on the date of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and 50% one year later, provided Executive directors and other managers of the Group can be that he has not resigned or left the Company by that time), awarded stock options and/or bonus shares in the scope of to compensate for the loss of a portion of the elements of his the plans approved and set every second term of the year by variable remuneration at his previous employer. This special the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation financial indemnity amounts then to €450,000 for 2016. Committee. The definitive number of shares that will vest will depend on the applicable performance conditions. Bonus shares a. Subscription or purchase options granted to The Chief Executive Officer can be awarded bonus shares Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July in the scope of the plans approved and set every year by 2016 the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation Committee. The features of these plans are described at Subscription or purchase options granted during the 2016 paragraph 4.2.2.3.2 of the registration document. financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016, No option was granted to the Chief Executive Officer, has agreed on the principle of granting to Mr. David Meek in Mr. David Meek, during the 2016 financial year. 2016, as part of the long term incentive plan, depending on Synthesis of the subscription or purchase options granted the performance of the Company over the 2016-2017 period, (table 8 of AMF recommendations) LTIs equal to 100% of his annual gross fixed remuneration The Chief Executive Officer, Mr. David Meek, does not hold (amounting to 10,021 shares). any Ipsen option. Details regarding this allocation are given below, see section C. Subscription or purchase options exercised during the Other benefits 2016 financial year (table 5 of AMF recommendations) Mr. David Meek receives benefits resulting from the conditions No option was exercised by the Chief Executive Officer, linked to the performance of his duties at Ipsen, namely and Mr. David Meek, during the 2016 financial year. b. B  onus shares granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016 Bonus shares granted during the 2016 financial year (table 6 of AMF recommendations) Book value Number of bonus of the shares Book value of Acquisition Date of Performance Plan date shares granted (per share) 1) the shares(1) date availability conditions David Meek 29/07/2016 10,021(2)(3) €47.73 €478,311 30/07/2018 30/07/2020 Yes (1) Under the method used for the consolidated financial statements. The shares’ book value amounted to €56.69, which corresponds to the share’s value during the allocation, after taking into account the drop in value linked to the performance criteria and to the probability of attendance in the company at the end of the acquisition period. The global amount of granted shares book value is listed on table 1 under paragraph 4.1.3.2.1.1. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions, representing 0.01% of the share capital as of 31 December 2016. (3) Mr. David Meek has been appointed as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 18 July 2016. The number of bonus shares granted to Mr. David Meek in 2016 is calculated on a prorata temporis basis. 206 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At its meeting held on 29 July 2016, upon proposal of the Operating Income and, for the other half, on an external Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors has decided criterion based on the relative performance of IPSEN’s stock to award Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 price compared to that of the other companies which are July 2016, an envelope amounting to 100% of his gross fixed part of the STOXX TMI 600 Health Care index. The details compensation, i.e. 10,021 shares in bonus shares under article of these internal and external performance conditions as L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code. This number of well as the degree of achievement (expected and achieved), shares is calculated on a prorata temporis basis. that have been precisely determined, are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons. In case of over achievement of the The definitive acquisition of the bonus shares is subject to expected performance (i.e. 100%), the number of bonus a presence condition in the Group. The definitive number shares granted will be adjusted correlatively. These bonus of bonus shares that will be vested will depend on the level shares are subject to a 2-year acquisition period from the date of achievement of the performance conditions applicable, of grant and 50% of the shares thus acquired will be subject that will be assessed annually by comparing the target level to a 2-year holding period. of performance achieved by the Company during the first and the second financial years set by the plan. Each of the Synthesis of the bonus shares granted conditions may induce a payment varying from 0 to 250%. The table below describes, as of 31 December 2016, the total The performance conditions are based, for the half of the of bonus shares granted to the Chief Executive Officer. For granted shares, on an internal criterion based on the Core further details, see Table 8, section 4.2.2.3. Company Officer Date of grant Number Date of vesting Date of Number of of options availability shares to be granted retained David Meek 20% capital gain Chief Executive Officer from 29/07/2016 10,021(1) 30/07/2018 30/07/2020 net of acquisition 18 July 2016 value Total 10,021(2) (1) Award subject to performance conditions, see section B above. (2) i.e. 0.01 % of the share capital as of 31 December 2016. In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 of issued following the exercise of options or on performance the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its bonus shares granted until the end of the holding period that meeting held on 29 July 2016, fixed the retention policy for the has been decided by the Board of Directors. Chief Executive Officer for the shares resulting from bonus Performance bonus shares that have become available for shares. The Board decided that the Chief Executive Officer the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 must retain, until the end of their term of office, a number of financial year (Table 7 of AMF recommendations) shares equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from bonus During the 2016 financial year, no performance bonus shares shares until the termination of his office as Chief Executive granted to the Chief Executive Officer became available, as Officer. Mr. David Meek was appointed on 18 July 2016. Mr. David Meek undertook a formal commitment not to engage in hedging transactions either on his options or on shares D. Summary of commitments issued in favor of Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016 Employment Additional pension Payments or benefits due Compensation under contract scheme or to be due in connection a non-compete with the termination or clause change of functions Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No M. David Meek X X X X Chief Executive Officer Date of appointment: 8 July 2016 with effect from 18 July 2016 End of term of office: unlimited Ipsen Registration document 2016 207 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Employment contract Payments or benefits due or to be due in connection Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016, with the termination of function within the Group does not hold employment agreement. At its meeting held on 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors decided to grant Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, Additional pension scheme (article L.137-11 of the the benefit of a severance payment on the following terms, in French social security code) accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, potentially benefits Code: from the defined benefit additional pension commitment • a payment due only in the event of a forced departure within existing within the Company according to the decision of the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016. This pension commitment benefits, more generally, to the company’s • in an amount corresponding to a 24-month remuneration executives. (fixed and annual variable) in respect of his term of office, The benefit of the pension commitment is subject to: • payment of which is subject to a performance condition (maintenance of the Group’s recurring operational profit • a minimum 5-year service, margin) over the 3 years preceding the departure, with a • the liquidation of the social security pension at a full rate, minimum threshold of 15%), and • the termination of any professional activity with the • which includes the amount due in respect of any nonCompany at the date of the liquidation of basic and compete obligation, if applicable. additional pensions. Non-competition payment However, the right is maintained in case of early retirement or dismissal after the age of 55 subject to non-resumption Mr. David Meek agreed, in the event of his departure from of professional activity or in case of admission in the 2nd or the Group, during a period of 24 months following the date 3rd category of invalidity. of his effective departure from the Company, not to perform or participate from an operational standpoint (including as Furthermore, in case of death of the potential beneficiary a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic in activity, the right to widow’s or widower’s pension is Area (EEA) and/or North America, in any activity relating to maintained. the development and/or the marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic category (source IMS-Health) as In accordance with ar ticle L.225-42-1 of the French one of the top three products of the Group based on the Commercial Code, the grant of this additional pension scheme turnover generated by such products or their importance shall be subject to the following performance condition: the from a strategic standpoint (as assessed by the Board) and maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group any product acquired by the Company, between 1 January during the three years preceding departure at a minimum 2016 and the date of Mr. David Meek’s effective departure, for threshold of 15%. a total consideration exceeding €300 million. The pension is calculated at rate of 0.6% per year of seniority to the part of the reference compensation below 8 times the The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this Annual Social Security Ceiling (“PASS”) and at a rate of 1% for non-compete undertaking will be deemed to be included in the part of the reference compensation in excess of 8 times the severance package referred to above if it is also owed. the PASS. 4.1.3.2.1.2 Compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel, The reference compensation is the average of the total gross Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until amount of the compensation perceived for a full time job’s 18 July 2016, Chairman since this date (bonus included) during the last 36 months preceding the For financial year 2016, the basis of compensation of Mr. Marc end of contract and/or office. The termination fees, expense de Garidel, first as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and reimbursement, profit-sharing and incentives are excluded. then as Chairman, was determined for 2016 by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation The seniority is limited to 40 years. Committee, at its meetings held on 29 February 2916 and Widow’s or widower’s pension modalities are organized in 8 July 2016. The basis of compensation for financial year the plan. 2017 was determined by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, at its The annual amount of pension expected by the beneficiaries meeting held on 22 February 2017. could not exceed 45% of their fixed and variable compensation. In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code (§24.3 in its The potential rights are financed by non-individualisable version of November 2015 and §26 in its version of November premiums paid to an insurance institution. These premiums 2016), the compensation elements due or allocated to are deductible from the tax company base and subject to the Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman since 18 July 2016 and contribution organized by article L.137-11, I, 2° a) of the Social Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until this date, for the Security code at the rate of 24%. 2016 financial year, shall be submitted to the vote of the Since the entitlement to benefit from this scheme requires Shareholders at the Annual Combined General Meeting to be 5-year seniority, if Mr. David Meek had to ask the payment of held in 2017 deciding on the accounts for the financial year his pension plan on 1 January 2017, the pension that would closed on 31 December 2016, following a specific resolution. have been paid to him would have amounted to zero. 208 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A. Summary tables of compensation, options and shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, Chairman since this date a. Summary table of compensation, options and performance bonus shares Total amount of compensation, options and performance bonus shares granted for 2016 (table 1 of the AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2015 Financial Year 2016 Financial Year Marc de Garidel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Chairman from this date Compensation due for the year (see details below) 2,828,800 2,865,894 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year (*) 375,000 (1) –, Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the performance bonus shares granted during the year (**) 391,487 (2) 241,997(3) Total 3,595,287 3,107,891 (*) For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.1 paragraph B below. (**) For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.1 paragraphs B and C below. (1) Gross target amount. The final amount could change depending on the performance criteria and on the reference share price of the Company under the plan for the determination of the mid-term bonus’ final amount. (2) Book value for a target grant of 12,588 bonus shares. (3) Book value for a target grant of 5,070 bonus shares. The number of bonus shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel in 2016 is calculated on a prorata temporis basis of the time served as Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen during the 2016 financial year. As Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, until 18 July 2016 (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2016 Financial Year Marc de Garidel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Compensation due for the year (see details below) 2,498,043 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – Book value of the options granted during the year – Book value of the performance bonus shares granted during the year (*) 241,997 (1) Total 2,740,040 (*) For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.1 paragraphs B and C below. (1) Book value for a target grant of 5,070 bonus shares. The number of bonus shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel in 2016 is calculated on a prorata temporis basis of the time served as Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen during the 2016 financial year. As Chairman, from 18 July 2016 (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2016 Financial Year Marc de Garidel Chairman from 18 July 2016 Compensation due for the year (see details below) 367,851 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – Book value of the options granted during the year – Book value of the performance bonus shares granted during the year – Total 367,851 Ipsen Registration document 2016 209 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE b. Summary table of the compensation (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) Total amount of the compensation for 2016 2015 2016 Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts (gross rounded amount – in euros) due paid due paid Marc de Garidel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Chairman from this date Fixed compensation 750,000 750,000 772,817(1) 772,817 Annual variable compensation 1,075,000(2) 1,033,000(3) 454,950(4) 1,075,000(2) Multi-annual variable compensation 931,318(5) 931,318 1,588,396(6) 1,588,396 Exceptional compensation – – – – Directors’ fees 60,000 60,000 43,656 81,989 Benefits in kind(7) 12,482.15 12,482.15 6,075 6,075 Total 2,828,800.15 2,786,800.15 2,865,894 3,524,277 (1) The Board of Directors fixed an amount of €407,738 for the period from 1 January 2016 to 18 July 2016 in respect of his office as Chief Executive Officer (prorata temporis amount calculated on an annual basis of €750,000) as well as an amount of €365,079 for the period from 18 July 2016 to 31 December 2016 in respect of his office as Chairman (prorata temporis amount calculated on a target annual basis of €800,000) (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 February 2016, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the variable compensation for 2015 for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at €1, 075,000. This amount was paid in 2016. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 2 March 2015, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation for 2014 of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at €1, 033,000. This amount was paid in 2015. (4) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2016 at €454,950 (prorata temporis amount until 18 July 2016 calculated on a target annual basis of €750,000). This amount will be paid in 2017. (5) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 1 April 2015, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the multi-annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2013 and 2014 at €931,318. For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.1.2 paragraph B. (6) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2014 and 2015 at €1,588,396. For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.1.2 paragraph B. (7) Benefits in kind are comprised of a company car. As Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, until 18 July 2016 2016 (gross rounded amount – in euros) Amounts due Amounts paid Marc de Garidel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Fixed compensation 407,738(1) 407,738 Annual variable compensation 454,950(2) 1,075,000(3) Multi-annual variable compensation 1,588,396(4) 1,588,396 Exceptional compensation – – Directors’ fees (5) 43,656 81,989 Benefits in kind(6) 3,303 3,303 Total 2,498,043 3,156,426 (1) The Board of Directors fixed an amount of €407,738 for the period from 1 January 2016 to 18 July 2016 in respect of his office as Chief Executive Officer (prorata temporis amount calculated on an annual basis of €750,000). (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2016 at €454,950 (prorata temporis amount until 18 July 2016 calculated on a target annual basis of €750,000). This amount will be paid in 2017. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 February 2016, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the variable compensation for 2015 for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at €1,075,000. This amount was paid in 2016. (4) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the multi-annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2014 and 2015 at €1,588,396. (5) The amount of directors’ fees due corresponds to the term of office as Chief Executive Officer between 1 January 2016 and 17 July 2016. The amount of directors’ fees paid corresponds to the term of office as Chief Executive Officer together with the amount paid in January 2016 in respect of the second half of the 2015 financial year. See section 4.1.2.1.3.1. (6) Benefits in kind are comprised of a company car. 210 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As Chairman, from 18 July 2016 2016 (gross rounded amount – in euros) Amounts due Amounts paid Marc de Garidel Chairman from 18 July 2016 Fixed compensation 365,079(1) 365,079 Annual variable compensation – – Multi-annual variable compensation – – Exceptional compensation – – Directors’ fees – – Benefits in kind(2) 2,772 2,772 Total 367,851 367,851 (1) The Board of Directors fixed an amount of €365,079 for the period from 18 July 2016 to 31 December 2016 in respect of his office as Chairman (prorata temporis amount calculated on a target annual basis of €800,000). (2) Benefits in kind are comprised of a company car. B. D  etails of the compensation elements granted to two-thirds of this target bonus are based on the achievement Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman since 18 July 2016 and of levels of consolidated revenues, current operating profits, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until this date diluted earnings per share and cash-flow from operations; The compensation of the Chairman is determined by the the third is based on qualitative criteria concerning strategic Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation orientations. The detail of qualitative criteria and the level of Committee. completion expected for quantitative criteria are not made public for confidentiality reasons. For the financial year 2016, the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, At its meeting held on 22 February 2017, the Board of at its meeting held on 29 February 2016, the compensation Directors has decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel an amount elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel in respect of his office as calculated on a prorata temporis basis in respect of his office Chief Executive Officer; and at its meeting held on 8 July as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Having established 2016, the compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel in the fulfilment of the performance conditions, the Board of respect of his office as Chairman, which are as follows: Directors has decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel an amount of €454,950 (i.e. 842,950 on an annual basis), upon proposal a. As Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, until 18 July of the Compensation Committee. 2016 Multi-annual variable compensation Fixed compensation The determination of the annual and multi-annual variable The Chief Executive Officer may benefit from a Mid-Term compensations is based on the fixed compensation. The Bonus under plans approved each year during the second amount of Mr. Marc de Garidel’s fixed compensation in quarter by the Board of Directors upon proposal of the respect of his office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Compensation Committee. has not been changed since 1 January 2013. The Board of Directors decided that no such plan would be The Board of Directors has set Mr. Marc de Garidel’s fixed implemented in 2016, therefore the volume of performance remuneration at a gross annual amount of €750,000. For the bonus shares granted has increased. 2016 financial year, this compensation has been paid on a The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 28 March 2013, prorata temporis basis until 18 July 2016, thus amounting to upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, €407,738. decided the implementation of a mid-term bonus, subject to Annual variable compensation performance condition for the 2013 and 2014 financial years, to the benefit of 161 beneficiaries within the Group. The Board In respect of his office as Chairman and Chief Executive of Directors granted, within this plan, a mid-term bonus to Officer, the annual variable compensation of Mr. Marc de the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of a gross amount Garidel is linked to the Group’s global performance and to the of €375,000 (representing 50% of the fixed compensation). fulfilment of objectives determined by the Board of Directors. The performance conditions are based, for two-third of the The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 February target amount, on quantitative criteria: revenues in constant 2016, and in respect of his office as Chairman and Chief exchange rate (1/3), adjusted operating EBIT (1/3) and cash Executive Officer, has decided to fix the variable part of the flow from operations (1/3); and for the third of the target compensation of Mr. Marc de Garidel to a gross target bonus amount, on qualitative criteria. For confidentiality reasons, of €750,000 (100% of his fixed compensation), within a the details regarding the qualitative criteria and the level of range of 0 to 150% (i.e., from 0 to €1,125,000), based on the achievement expected of quantitative criteria are not made following quantitative and qualitative performance criteria: the public. This mid-term bonus was subject to a presence Ipsen Registration document 2016 211 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE condition. The Board of Directors at its meeting held on presence conditions, to the benefit of 168 beneficiaries within 1 April 2015 assessed the achievement of the performance the Group. The Board of Directors granted, within this plan, a conditions and decided to pay to the Chairman and Chief mid-term bonus to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Executive Officer the amount of €931,318. of a gross amount of €375,000 (representing 50% of the fixed compensation). This bonus is to be paid in 2017, subject to The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 27 March the assessment by the Board of Directors of the achievement 2014 decided, upon recommendation of the Compensation of performance conditions, which are based, for the half of Committee, the implementation of the mid-term bonus, the target amount, on the achievement of internal criterion subject to performance conditions for the 2014 and 2015 based on the level reached by the current operating income financial years, to the benefit of 156 beneficiaries within the (excluding research tax credit) of the Group and, for the other Group. The Board of Directors granted, within this plan, a half of the target amount, on an external criterion based on mid-term bonus to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the performance of the stock market price of the share of the of a gross amount of €375,000 (representing 50% of the fixed Company regarding the STOXX 600 TMI Health Care index. compensation). This bonus was paid in 2016, subject to the For confidentiality reasons, the intern and extern criteria assessment by the Board of Directors of the achievement of details and the level of achievement expected and realized performance conditions, which are based, for the half of the are not made public. The Board of Directors will consider in target amount, on the achievement of an internal criterion 2017 the achievement of the performance conditions and the based on the recurring adjusted EBIT level of the Group (50%) amount to be paid to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and, for the other half of the target amount, on an external on this basis. The mid-term bonus plan decided by the Board criterion based on the performance of the stock market price of Directors on 1 April 2015 is subject to a presence condition of the Ipsen share regarding the STOXX 600 TMI Health Care which must be fulfilled between 1 April 2015 and 1 April index (50%) For confidentiality reasons, the intern and extern 2017. However, in the event of death, disability, retirement or criteria details and the level of achievement expected and dispensation decided by the Board of Directors, prior to the realized are not made public. This mid-term bonus was subject end of the acquisition period, the beneficiary or, if necessary, to a presence condition during the period from 27 March 2014 his beneficiaries can keep his rights. to 27 March 2016. The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 30 March 2016 measured the level of achievement of the Mr. Marc de Garidel shall continue to benefit, in proportion performance conditions and fixed the amount of €1,588,396 to the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 due to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. financial year (i.e. 27.35%), from the multi-annual variable compensation elements which have been granted to him as At its meeting held on 1 April 2015, the Board of Directors part of referred Cash plan indexed on the Ipsen share price also decided, upon recommendation of the Compensation determined by the Board of Directors on April 1, 2015 (for the Committee, the implementation of the mid-term bonus for the 2015 and 2016 financial years). 2015 and 2016 financial years, subject to performance and Summary table of multi-annual variable compensation 2014 2015 2016 (gross rounded amounts – in euros) Due Paid Due Paid Due Paid Marc de Garidel 263,400 263,400 931,318 931,318 1,588,396 1,588,396 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Chairman of the Board from this date Directors’ fees decided to grant to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, For the 2016 financial year, Mr. Marc de Garidel keeps the subject to performance and presence conditions, 18,539 directors’ fees owed to him until the termination of his term as performance bonus shares (see section B above). Mr. Marc de Chief Executive Officer of the Company, i.e. €43,656 for the Garidel was granted 7.5% of the total amount of performance period from 1 January to 17 July 2017. bonus shares decided by the Board, at its meeting held on 31 May 2016 (0.6% of the share capital if the target were Stock options and performance shares exceeded at a maximum level). Mr. Marc de Garidel, as Chairman and Chief Executive In the frame of the separation of the functions, the Board of Officer, could benefit from performance bonus shares under Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016 decided that plans approved each year during the second quarter by Mr. Marc de Garidel shall continue to benefit, in proportion the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation to the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 Committee. The characteristics of these plans are described financial year, from the multi-annual variable compensation in paragraph 4.2.2.3.2 of the Registration document. which have been granted to him as part of the restricted The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 31 May 2016, shares plans by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2016 (for the upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, 2016 and 2017 financial years). The number of performance 212 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE bonus share granted to him, adjusted prorata temporis, has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel will not receive any amounted to 5,070 shares or (27.35%) of the initial grant. multi-annual variable compensation in respect of his office as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. For further information see C below. Directors’ fees Other benefits In the frame of the separation of the functions of Chairman of In respect of his office as Chairman and Chief Executive the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors Officer, Mr. Marc de Garidel used to receive the same benefits has decided on 8 July 2016 that Mr. Marc de Garidel will not as described at point b. below in respect of his office as receive any director’s fees in respect of his office as Chairman Chairman from 18 July 2016. of the Board. Payments or benefits due or to be due to Mr. Marc de Stock options and bonus shares Garidel in connection with the termination of function within the Group In the frame of the separation of the functions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors In accordance with Ipsen policy and compliant to the AFEPhas decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel will not receive any MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on stock option and/or bonus share in respect of his office as 11 October 2010, decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel: Chairman of the Board. • a severance pay, Other benefits • the benefice of defined benefit additional pension commitment existing within the Company, Mr. Marc de Garidel receives benefits resulting from the conditions linked to the performance of his duties at Ipsen, • a compensation under a non-compete agreement. namely and in particular assistance for the filing of his Payments or benefits due or to be due to Mr. Marc de Garidel personal income tax returns, reimbursement of reasonable in connection with the termination of function are now void attorney fees and expenses incurred in connection with as a result of the separation of the functions of Chairman and the finalization of the terms and conditions of his corporate Chief Executive Officer. mandate, company car and driver, business travel and accommodation expenses incurred whilst exercising his b. As Chairman of the Board, from 18 July 2016 duties as Chief Executive Officer, healthcare under a global Fixed compensation healthcare policy, and death and disability coverage under The fixed compensation is likely to be revaluated by the Board the Group’s policy or a specific policy, D&O liability insurance of Directors in respect of its position on the market and in consistent with the D&O liability insurance of the previous order to consider the increase of operational responsibilities. Chief Executive Officer. In the frame of the separation of the functions of Chairman of Payments or benefits due or to be due to Mr. Marc de the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors Garidel in connection with the termination of function decided that the Chairman of the Board would benefit from a within the Group fixed compensation. In accordance with Ipsen policy and compliant to the AFEPMEDEF Code, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on For the 2016 financial year, upon the recommendation of the 8 July 2016, decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel: Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors has set the fixed remuneration of Mr. Marc de Garidel at an annual gross • a severance pay, amount of €800,000. This compensation namely considers the • the benefice of defined benefit additional pension specific missions of the Chairman of the Board in the frame of commitment existing within the Company, the separation of the functions (see section 4.1.1.1). For the 2016 financial year, this remuneration was paid on a prorata temporis • a compensation under a non-compete agreement. basis from 18 July 2016, thus amounting to €365,079. These payments or benefits due or to be due to the Chairman For the financial year 2017, the Board of Directors, upon in connection with the termination of function replace those recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, at previously granted in respect of his office as Chairman its meeting held on 22 February 2017, the compensation and and Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors of benefits of the Chairman of the Board. The amount of the 11 October 2010. gross fixed compensation for 2017 remained unchanged (i.e. €800,000). Details of these commitments are given below (see section D. below). Annual variable compensation C. S ubscription or purchase options granted to In the frame of the separation of the functions of Chairman of Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors Officer until 18 July 2016 has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel will not receive any variable compensation in respect of his office as Chairman of Executive directors and other managers of the Group can be the Board of Directors of the Company. awarded stock options and/or bonus shares in the scope of the plans approved and set every second term of the year by Multi-annual variable compensation the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation In the frame of the separation of the functions of Chairman of Committee. The definitive number of shares that will vest will the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors depend on the applicable performance conditions. Ipsen Registration document 2016 213 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code (§24.2 in its version a. Subscription or purchase options granted to Mr. Marc of November 2016), no stock option and/or performance de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until bonus share is granted to the Chairman. The bonus shares 18 July 2016 that have been awarded to Mr. Marc de Garidel in 2016 Subscription or purchase options granted during the 2016 have been so in respect of his office as Chairman and Chief financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) Executive Officer until 18 July 2016. No option was granted to the Chairman, Mr. Marc de Garidel, during the 2016 financial year. No options were granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel in respect of his office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016. Synthesis of the subscription or purchase options of Ipsen shares granted For further details, see section 4.2.2.3. Date Number Nature Exercise Exercise Expiry date Number of grant of options of the price date of options granted options exercised Marc de Garidel 30/06/2011 121,180 (1) Subscription e25.01 01/07/2015 30/06/2019 121,180(2) Chairman and Chief options Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Chairman from this date Total 121,180 (1) Allocation subject to performance conditions, see section B below. (2) Mr. Marc de Garidel exercised 121,180 options on 3 November 2016. The shares resulting from the exercise of the options granted have not been sold at the submission date of the registration document. In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 of end of their term of office, a number of shares equivalent the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its to 20% of the net capital gain that would be realized upon meetings held on 30 June 2011, fixed the retention policy the sale of the shares resulting from bonus shares until the for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for the shares termination of his office as Chairman and Chief Executive resulting from bonus shares. The Board decided that the Officer. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer must retain, until the Subscription or purchase options exercised during 2016 (Table 5 of the AMF recommendations) Company officer Date of grant Number of options exercised during Exercise price the financial year Marc de Garidel 30/06/2011 121,180(2) e25.01 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer(1) (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel has been Chairman of the Board since 18 July 2016, at the date of the separation of the functions of Chairman and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. (2) The shares resulting from the options exercised on 3 November 2016 have not been sold at the submission date of the registration document. 214 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE b. Bonus shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Bonus shares granted during the 2016 financial year (table 6 of AMF recommendations) Plan date Number of bonus Book value Book value of Acquisition Date of Performance shares granted of the shares the shares(1) date availability conditions (per share)(1) Marc de 31/05/2016 5,070(2) (3) e47.73 e241,997 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 Yes Garidel (1) Under the method used for the consolidated financial statements. The shares’ book value amounted to €56.69, which corresponds to the share’s value during the allocation, after taking into account the drop in value linked to the performance criteria and to the probability of attendance in the company at the end of the acquisition period. The global amount of granted shares book value is listed on table 1 under paragraph 4.1.3.2.1.2. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. (3) In the frame of the separation of the functions, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016, decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel shall continue to benefit, in proportion to the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year, from the multi-annual variable compensation which has been granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2016 (for the 2016 and 2017 financial years). The number of performance bonus shares granted to him, adjusted prorata temporis, amounted to 5,070 shares (27.35%) compared to an initial grant of 18,549 shares. The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 31 May 2016, are subject to a 2-year acquisition period from the date of upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, grant and 50% of the shares thus acquired will be subject to decided the implementation of a plan of bonus shares to a 2-year holding period. the benefit of 192 beneficiaries, on a total of 245,738 shares These performance conditions are based, for the half of the (equivalent to about 430,000 shares in case of an over target amount, on an internal criterion based on the level achievement of 175%, i.e. 0.60% of the share capital), each of reached by the current operating income of the Group and for them subject to performance and presence conditions. This the other half of the target amount, an external criterion based bonus shares represent 0.30% of the share capital at the date on the performance of the stock market price of the share of grant. of the Company regarding the STOXX 600 TMI Health Care The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 31 May 2016, index. For confidentiality reasons, the intern and extern criteria upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, details and the level of achievement expected and realized are initially decided to grant to the Chairman and Chief Executive not made public. In case of over achievement of the expected Officer, in respect of this plan, 18,539 performance bonus performance (i.e. 100%), the number of bonus shares granted shares to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Marc will be adjusted correlatively. de Garidel, i.e. 0.02 % of the share capital. In the frame of the separation of the functions, the Board of The definitive acquisition of bonus shares is subject to a Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016, decided that presence condition within the Company. The definitive Mr. Marc de Garidel shall continue to benefit, in proportion number of bonus shares that will be vested will depend on to the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 the realization of the applicable performance conditions that financial year, from the multi-annual variable compensation will be assessed annually by comparing the target threshold which has been granted to him as part of the restricted shares and the actual performance of the Company over the first plans by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2016 (for the 2016 and second financial years used as reference periods for the and 2017 financial years). The number of performance bonus plan. Each of these conditions may generate a payout varying shares granted to him, adjusted prorata temporis, amounted within a range between zero to 175%. These bonus shares to 5,070 shares (27.35%). Synthesis of the bonus shares granted The table below describes, as of 31 December 2016, the total of bonus shares granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer(1). For further details, see Table 8, section 4.2.2.3. Company Officer Date of grant Number Date of vesting Date of Number of of options availability shares to be granted retained Marc de Garidel 30/06/2011 4,490(2) 01/07/2013 01/07/2015 Chairman and Chief 30/03/2012 23,940(2) 31/03/2014 31/03/2016 Executive Officer until 18 July 2016(1) 28/03/2013 22,590(2) 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 20% capital gain net of acquisition 27/03/2014 18,712 (2) 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 value 01/04/2015 12,588(2)(3) 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 31/05/2016 5,070(2)(3) 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 Total 87,390(4) (1) In the frame of the separation of functions, Mr. Marc de Garidel has been Chairman since 18 July 2016. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions, see section B above. (3) In the frame of the separation of the functions, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016 decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel shall continue to benefit, in proportion to the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year, from and (i) the variable compensation elements which have been granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 1 April 2015 (for the 2015 and 2016 financial years) as well as (ii) the variable compensation elements which have been granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2016 (for the 2016 and 2017 financial years). The number of performance bonus share granted to him, adjusted prorata temporis, amounted to 5,070 shares (27.35%). (4) Representing 0.10 % of the share capital on 31 December 2016. Ipsen Registration document 2016 215 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 of Performance bonus shares that have become the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its available during the 2016 financial year (Table 7 of AMF meetings held on 30 June 2011, 30 March 2012, 28 March recommendations) 2013, 27 March 2014, 1 April 2015 and 31 May 2016 fixed The table below describes all of the bonus shares that have the retention policy for the Chairman and Chief Executive become available during the 2016 financial year for the Officer for the shares resulting from bonus shares. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Board decided that the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer must retain, until the end of his term of office, a number of Company Officer Date of Number shares equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would grant of options be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from bonus granted shares until the termination of his office as Chairman and Marc de Garidel 30/03/2012 16,282(2) Chief Executive Officer. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer(1) Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, undertook a formal commitment not to (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel has been Chairman of the Board since 18 July 2016, at the date of the separation of the functions of Chairman and engage in hedging transactions either on his options or Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. on shares issued following the exercise of options or on (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions, see section B above. performance bonus shares granted until the end of the holding period that has been decided by the Board of Directors. D. Summary of commitments issued in favor of Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and Chairman from this date Employment Additional pension Payments or benefits due Compensation under contract scheme or to be due in connection a non-compete with the termination or clause change of functions Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Marc de Garidel X X X X Chairman and Chief Executive Office until 18 July 2016 Chairman from this date Date of reappointment as Director: AGM 2015 Employment contract shall be subject to the following performance condition: the Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group until 18 July 2016 and Chairman since then, does not hold any during the three years preceding departure at a minimum employment agreement. threshold of 15%. Additional pension scheme The pension is calculated at rate of 0.6% per year of seniority to the part of the reference compensation below 8 times the Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman, potentially benefits from Annual Social Security Ceiling (“PASS”) and at a rate of 1% for the defined benefit additional pension commitment existing the part of the reference compensation in excess of 8 times within the Company according to the decision of the Board the PASS. of Directors held on 8 July 2016. This pension commitment benefits, more generally, to the company’s executives. The reference compensation is the average of the total gross amount of the compensation perceived for a full time job’s The benefit of the pension commitment is subject to: (bonus included) during the last 36 months preceding the • a minimum 5-year service, end of contract and/or office. The termination fees, expense • the liquidation of the social security pension at a full rate, reimbursement, profit-sharing and incentives are excluded. • the termination of any professional activity with the The seniority is limited to 40 years. Company at the date of the liquidation of basic and additional pensions. Widow’s or widower’s pension modalities are organized in the plan. However, the right is maintained in case of early retirement or dismissal after the age of 55 subject to non-resumption The annual amount of pension expected by the beneficiaries of professional activity or in case of admission in the 2nd or could not exceed 45% of their fixed and variable compensation. 3rd category of invalidity. The potential rights are financed by non-individualisable Furthermore, in case of death of the potential beneficiary premiums paid to an insurance institution. These premiums in activity, the right to widow’s or widower’s pension is are deductible from the tax company base and subject to the maintained. contribution organized by article L.137-11, I, 2° a) of the Social Security code at the rate of 24%. In accordance with the Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, the grant of this additional pension scheme 216 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For Mr. Marc de Garidel, the amount of the annual pension, as his effective departure, not to perform or participate from an of 31 December 2016, is estimated at €151,439. This amount operational standpoint (including as a consultant), within the was calculated according to the procedures under Decree territory of the European Economic Area (EEA) and/or North Nr. 2016-182 of 23 February 2016, bearing in mind that this America, in any activity relating to the development and/or amount is based on a reference compensation calculated on the marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic the average gross full-time compensation (bonus included) category (source IMS-Health) as one of the top three products received during the last 36 months. In view of the new frame of of the Group in terms of turnover on the date of Mr. Marc de compensation of Mr. Marc de Garidel, who will only receive a Garidel’s effective departure. fixed compensation in respect of his office during the following The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this financial years, this pension should progressively amount to a non-compete undertaking will be included in the severance level comparable to the one preceding his appointment as package described above if it were also due. Chairman, should he leave on 31 December of the year of his 62nd birthday (see 2015 Registration Document). 4.1.3.2.2 C ompensation of the Company Officers whose term ended during the 2016 financial year Payments or benefits due or to be due in connection with the termination of function within the Group At its meeting held on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company noted the departure of Ms. Christel At its meeting held on 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors Bories due to diverging strategic considerations, and, on decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman, the benefit the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, it of a severance payment on the following terms, in accordance determined the following remuneration and compensation with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code: payable in connection with the termination of her duties. In • a payment due only in the event of a forced departure within accordance with article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, Code and with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF code (§24.5 of the AFEP-MEDEF code in its November 2016 • in an amount corresponding to 24-months’ remuneration version), the information related to the termination of the (fixed and annual variable) in respect of his term of office, mandate of Ms. Christel Bories as Deputy Chief Executive • payment of which is subject to a performance condition Officer have been published on the Company’s website. (maintenance of the Group’s recurring operational profit The compensation elements due or allocated to Ms. Christel margin) over the 3 years preceding the departure, with a Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016, for minimum threshold of 15%), and the 2016 financial year, will be submitted to the Shareholders • which includes the amount due in respect of any nonat the Annual Combined General Meeting to be held in 2017 compete obligation, if applicable. deciding on the accounts for the financial year closed on 31 December 2016. Non-competition payment Mr. Marc de Garidel agreed, in the event of his departure from the Group, during a period of 24 months following the date of A. S  ummary table of the compensation, options and performance shares accruing to Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016 Summary table of the compensation, options and performance shares (table 1 of the AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2015 Financial Year 2016 Financial Year Christel Bories Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016 Compensation due for the year (see details below) 2,167,802 4,725,440 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year (*) 300,000 (1)(2) – Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the performance bonus shares granted during the year (*) 313,177 (2) – Total 2,780,979 4,725,440 (*) For further details, see Table 10 and section 4.1.3.2.1 paragraphs B and C below. (1) Gross target amount. The final amount could change depending on the performance criteria and on the reference share price of the Company under the plan for the determination of the mid-term bonus’ final amount. (2) At its meeting held on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors decided that Ms. Christel Bories’s acquisition rights, within the plan of 1 April 2015, shall cover 50% of the number of bonus shares initially granted (50% of 10,070 bonus shares, i.e. 5,035 bonus shares) and her rights to the medium term bonus, within the plan of 1 April 2015, will therefore be calculated based on a target bonus of €150,000, i.e. 50% of the amount of the target bonus initially granted (€300,000), corresponding to the time spent by Ms. Christel Bories at the Company during the reference period set out in the plan, depending on the relevant performance criteria for 2015 only. Ipsen Registration document 2016 217 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Summary table of the compensation (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) 2015 2016 Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts (gross rounded amount – in euros) due paid due paid Christel Bories Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016 Fixed compensation 600,000 600,000 150,000(1) 150,000(1) Annual variable compensation 860,000 (2) 819,000 (3) – (4) 860,000(2) Multi-annual variable compensation 707,802 (5) 707,802 – – – for 2014 and 2015 – – 1,207,180(6) 1,207,180 – for 2015 and 2016 – – 448,260(7) 448,260 Exceptional compensation – – – – Directors’ fees – – – – Benefits in kind – – – – Severance payment(8) – – 2,920,000 2,920,000 Total 2,167,802 2,126,802 4,725,440 5,585,440 (1) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, fixed an amount of €150,000 for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 March 2016 in respect of her office as Deputy Chief Executive Officer (prorata temporis amount calculated on an annual basis of €600,000). (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation for 2015 of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer at €860,000. This amount will be paid in 2016. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 2 March 2015, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation for 2014 of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer at €819,000. This amount was paid in 2015. (4) No variable remuneration was awarded to Ms. Christel Bories for the 2016 financial year as a result of her departure on 31 March 2016. (5) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 1 April 2015, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the multi-annual variable compensation for 2013 and 2014 of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer at €707,802. This amount was paid in 2015. For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.2 paragraph B. (6) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, upon proposal of the Compensation Committee, noted that Ms. Christel Bories would benefit from the multi-annual variable compensation of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer due to her for 2014 and 2015, i.e. €1,207,180. For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.2 paragraph B below. (7) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, decided to lift the condition of presence relating to Ms. Christel Bories for the period running from 1 April 2016 to 1 April 2017, applicable to the determination of the amount of the multi-annual variable compensation of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer for 2015 and 2016. The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation at €448,260. Ms. Christel Bories’s rights are calculated on the basis of a target bonus amounting to 50% of the target bonus awarded in 2015. (8) For further details, see section 4.1.3.2.2 paragraph B below. B. D  etails of the compensation elements granted to Committee, the implementation of the mid-term bonus, Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer subject to performance conditions for the 2013 and 2014 until 31 March 2016 financial years, to the benefit of 161 beneficiaries within the The compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is determined Group. The Board of Directors granted, within this plan, the by the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation gross amount of €285,000 (representing 50% of the fixed Committee. compensation) to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer. The performance conditions, which are based, for the two thirds For the financial year 2016, the Board of Directors, upon of the target amount, on quantitative criteria which are based recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, at on the achievement of a certain level of revenues at constant its meeting held on 15 February 2016, the elements regarding exchange rate (1/3), adjusted operating EBIT (1/3) and cash the compensation and the departure of the Deputy Chief flow from operations (1/3); and for the third of the target Executive Officer, which are as follows: amount, on qualitative criteria. For confidentiality reasons, the qualitative criteria details and the level of achievement Fixed compensation expected set by quantitative criteria are not made public. The Board of Directors has set Ms. Christel Bories’s fixed The allocation of this bonus is also subject to a presence compensation at a gross annual amount of €600,000. For condition. The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on the 2016 financial year, this compensation has been paid on 1 April 2015, assessed the achievement of performance a prorata temporis basis until 31 March 2016. It amounts to conditions and decided the payment of €707,802 to the €150,000 for the 2016 financial year. Deputy Chief Executive Officer. Annual variable compensation The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 27 March No variable remuneration was awarded to Ms. Christel Bories 2014, decided, upon recommendation of the Compensation for the 2016 financial year as a result of her departure on Committee, the implementation of the mid-term bonus, 31 March 2016. subject to performance conditions for the 2014 and 2015 financial years, to the benefit of 156 beneficiaries within the Multi-annual variable compensation Group. The Board of Directors granted, within this plan, the The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 28 March gross amount of €285,000 (representing 50% of the fixed 2013, decided, upon recommendation of the Compensation compensation) to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer. This 218 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE bonus was to be paid in 2016, subject to the assessment Bonus shares by the Board of Directors of performance conditions. These No bonus share was awarded to Ms. Christel Bories for the performance conditions are based, for the half of the target 2016 financial year as a result of her departure on 31 March amount, on an internal criterion based on the recurring 2016. adjusted EBIT level of the Group (50%) and for the other half, on an external criterion based on the performance of the stock Payments or benefits due or to be due to Ms. Christel market price of the Ipsen share regarding the STOXX 600 TMI Bories in connection with the termination of function Health Care index (50%). For confidentiality reasons, the within the Group intern and extern criteria details and the level of achievement In accordance with Ipsen policy and compliant to the AFEPexpected and realized are not made public. The acquisition MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on of the mid-term bonus was subject to a presence condition 26 February 2013, decided to grant Ms. Christel Bories: during the period from 27 March 2014 to 27 March 2016. The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 15 February • a severance pay (€2,920,000 paid in 2016); 2016 measured the level of achievement of the performance • the benefice of defined benefit additional pension conditions and fixed the amount of €1,207,180 due to the commitment existing within the Company (minimum 5-year Deputy Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors, at its seniority required); meeting held on 1 April 2015, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, also decided the implementation • a compensation under a non-compete agreement (50% of of the mid-term bonus, subject to performance conditions, the severance pay paid in 2016). Details of the payment that for the 2015 and 2016 financial years, to the benefit of 168 occurred in 2016 are given below (see section D below). beneficiaries within the Group. The Board of Directors C. S ubscription or purchase options granted to granted, within this plan, the gross amount of €300,000 to Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer the Deputy Chief Executive Officer. This bonus is subject to until 31 March 2016 the assessment by the Board of Directors of the achievement of performance conditions, which are based, for the half Executive directors and other managers of the Group can be of the target amount, on an internal criterion based on the awarded stock options and/or bonus shares in the scope of level reached by the current operating income (excluding the plans approved and set every second term of the year by research tax credit) of the Group (50%) and for the other the Board of Directors upon proposal of the Compensation half of the target amount, an external criterion based on the Committee. The definitive number of shares that will vest will performance of the stock market price of the share of the depend on the applicable performance conditions. Company regarding the STOXX 600 TMI Health Care index. a. Subscription or purchase options granted to For confidentiality reasons, the intern and extern criteria Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer details and the level of achievement expected and realized are until 31 March 2016 not made public. This attribution of mid-term bonus is subject to a presence condition for the period running between 1 April Subscription or purchase options granted during the 2016 2015 and 1 April 2017. financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) No option was granted to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Within the framework of the departure of Ms. Christel Bories Ms. Christel Bories, during the 2016 financial year. from the Group on 31 March 2016, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, decided to lift the Synthesis of the subscription or purchase options granted condition of presence relating to Ms. Christel Bories for The Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Christel Bories, was the period running from 1 April 2016 to 1 April 2017. The not granted any option during her term of office. Board of Directors also decided that Ms. Christel Bories’s rights to the medium term bonus, within the plan of 1 April Subscription or purchase options exercised during the 2015, will therefore be calculated based on a target bonus of 2016 financial year (table 5 of AMF recommendations) e150,000, i.e. 50% of the amount of the target bonus initially No option was exercised by the Deputy Chief Executive granted (e300,000), corresponding to the time spent by Ms. Officer, Ms. Christel Bories, during the 2016 financial year. Christel Bories at the Company during the reference period set out in the plan, depending on the relevant performance b. B onus shares granted to Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy criteria for 2015 only. The Board of Directors, at its meeting Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016 held on 30 March 2016, fixed the level of achievement of Bonus shares granted during the 2016 financial year the performance conditions and decided the payment of (table 6 of AMF recommendations) €448,260 to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer in this respect. Ms. Christel Bories was not awarded any bonus shares during No multi-annual compensation was granted to Ms. Christel the 2016 financial year. Bories for the 2016 financial year. Ipsen Registration document 2016 219 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Synthesis of the bonus shares granted The table below describes, as of 31 December 2016, the total of bonus shares granted to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer. For further details, see Table 8, section 4.2.2.3. Company Officer Date of grant Number Date of vesting Date of Number of of options availability shares to be granted retained Christel Bories 28/03/2013 17,169(1) 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 20% capital gain Deputy Chief Executive 27/03/2014 14,221(1) 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 net of acquisition Officer until 31 March 2016 value 01/04/2015 10,070(1)(2) 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 Total 41,460 (3) (1) Grant subject to performance conditions, see section B above. (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, decided that Ms. Christel Bories’ rights to the mid-term bonus, within the plan of 1 April 2015, will therefore be calculated based on 50% of the amount of shares initially granted (50% of 10,070 free shares, i.e. 5,035 free shares), corresponding to the time spent by Ms. Christel Bories at the Company during the reference period set out in the plan (1 April 2015 to 1 April 2017 included). (3) Representing 0.05% of the share capital as of 31 December 2015. In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 of in hedging transactions either on his options or on shares the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at issued following the exercise of options or on performance its meetings held on 28 March, 27 March 2014 and 1 April bonus shares granted until the end of the holding period that 2015, fixed the retention policy for the Deputy Chief Executive has been decided by the Board of Directors. Officer for the shares resulting from bonus shares. The Board Performance bonus shares that have become decided that the Chief Executive Officer must retain, until available during the 2016 financial year (Table 7 of AMF the end of their term of office, a number of shares equivalent recommendations) to 20% of the net capital gain that would be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from bonus shares until the During the 2016 financial year, no performance bonus shares termination of his office as Deputy Chief Executive Officer. granted to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer became available. Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016, undertook a formal commitment not to engage D. Summary of commitments issued in favor of Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016 Employment Additional pension Payments or benefits due Compensation under contract scheme or to be due in connection a non-compete with the termination or clause change of function Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Ms. Christel Bories X X(*) X X Deputy Chief Executive Officer Date of appointment: 26 February 2013 with effect from 1 March 2013 End of term of office: 31 March 2016 (*) Because of her departure on 31 March 2016, Ms. Christel Bories did not benefit from this scheme. Employment contract As its meeting held on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 of the Company decided the departure of Ms. Christel Bories March 2016, did not hold employment agreement. because of diverging strategic considerations and, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved Additional pension scheme (article L.137-11 of the payment of the severance pay to her profit for an amount of the French social security code) €2,920,000, corresponding to 24 months of fixed and variable Because of her departure, Ms. Christel Bories will not benefit remuneration, calculated on the basis of the fixed and variable of this commitment in particular because she doesn’t have remuneration of Ms. Christel Bories during the financial year the seniority required (at least 5 years) to benefit from it. 2015. This amount was subject to for the approval of the 2015 financial statements and the assessment of the achievement Payments or benefits due or to be due in connection of the performance criteria by the Board of Directors held on with the termination of function within the Group 29 February 2016. The Board of Directors noticed that the At its meetings held on 26 February 2013, the Board of maintenance of the Group’s recurring operational profit margin Directors decided to grant Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy over the 3 years preceding the departure with a minimum Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016, the benefit of a threshold 12.5% was fulfilled. The compensation under the severance payment, in accordance with the recommendations non-compete clause is included, representing 50% of the of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. granted amount. The payment occurred on 1 April 2016. 220 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non-competition payment same therapeutic class (source IMS-Health) than the three In case of departure from the Group (for a reason other first products of the Group in terms of revenues. than a change of control), Ms. Christel Bories undertook, The compensation due by the Company in consideration for a 24-month duration after her effective departure, not of this commitment is comprised in the severance payment to exercise or participate, from an operational point of view described above. In this purpose, the severance pay of Ms. (including as a consultant), in the territories of the European Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March Economic Union and/or in Northern America, to an activity 2016, includes a non-compete compensation representing of development and/or commercialization of products of the 50% of the granted amount. 4.1.4 Agreements entered into by the Group with its senior executives or principal shareholders and Statutory Auditors’ Report This is a free translation into English of a report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered office: 65, quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments Year ended 31 December 2016 To the shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company, we hereby present to you our report on the regulated agreements and commitments. We are required to inform you, on the basis of the information provided to us, the terms and conditions, and the reasons for the interest of the company, of the agreements and commitments of which we were notified or we could find relating to this engagement. It is not our role to determine whether they are beneficial or appropriate or ascertain whether any other agreements or commitments exist. It is your responsibility, under the terms of article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code, to evaluate the benefits arising from these agreements and commitments prior to their approval. We are also required, where appropriate, to inform you about the terms of article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the applicable agreements and commitments in 2011, which were already approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. We performed the procedures we considered necessary in accordance with professional guidance issued by the national institute of auditors (“Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes”), relating to this engagement. Our work consisted in verifying that the information provided to us is in agreement with the underlying documentation from which it was extracted. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS TO BE APPROVED BY THE GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS Agreements and commitments entered into during the past financial year We inform you that we have been advised of the following agreements and commitments that have been pre-authorized by your Board of Directors pursuant to Article L.225-40 of the French Commercial code. Benefit from performance bonus shares and mid-term bonus granted to Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016, in connection with her departure Your Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, noted the departure of Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, due to diverging strategic considerations, with effect from 31 March 2016, and determined the elements of remuneration and compensation payable in connection with the termination of her duties. The details regarding elements of compensation are presented below in second part of this report. In this context, your Board of Directors authorized: • The benefit of the performance bonus shares and the mid-term bonus granted to Ms. Christel Bories within the framework of plans decided by your Board of Directors held on 27 March 2014, i.e. 14,221 performance bonus shares and a target mid-term bonus amount of €285,000; Ipsen Registration document 2016 221 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • The benefit of 50% of the number of performance bonus shares and of the target mid-term bonus initially granted to Ms. Christel Bories within the framework of plans decided by your Board of Directors held on 1 April 2015, i.e. in fine 5,035 performance bonus shares and a target mid-term bonus amount of €150,000. To this end, the Board of Directors lifted the condition of presence for the period running from 1 April 2016 to 1 April 2017 and authorized Ms. Christel Bories to keep the benefit of 50% of these elements of remuneration, corresponding to the time spent by Ms. Christel Bories at the Company during the reference period set out in the plan (from 1 April 2015 to 1 April 2017). Your Board of Directors considered that this decision retaining the benefits of the performance bonus shares and the mid-term bonus, granted to Ms. Christel Bories at the time of her departure, was motivated by her contribution to the transformation and improvement of the Ipsen’s results as well as by the circumstances of her departure. Commitments made in the case of the termination of her functions in favor of Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors since 18 July 2016 Your Board of Directors, at its meeting of 8 July 2016, approved the compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors from 18 July 2016 and previously Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from 22 November 2010. These compensation elements include: • The benefit of membership from the existing additional pension scheme in force within the Company, giving right to, on retirement and subject to (i) a minimum seniority of 5 years within the Group, already acquired, (ii) an eligibility to social security retirement at the full rate (i.e. a retirement age of 62 at the earliest in accordance with the current French law), and (iii) the respect of a performance condition mentioned below, the payment of an annual pension calculated by reference to seniority within the Group, (x) at a rate of 0.6% of the total gross remuneration (“TGR”) per year of seniority for the portion of the TGR lower than 8 times the French annual social security ceiling and (y) at a rate of 1% per year of seniority for the portion of the TGR exceeding 8 times the French annual social security ceiling (with the French annual social security ceiling amounting to €38,616 in 2016). The grant of this additional pension scheme will be subject to the same performance condition as the one applicable to the severance payment (the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding departure at a minimum threshold of 15%). Your Board of Directors also decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel is to benefit from three additional years of seniority within the context of the Company’s additional pension scheme in return for his undertaking to continue his involvement within the Group as Chairman of the Board, provided that his effective departure from the Company does not take place prior to the month of November of the year he reaches 62 years of age. These additional years of seniority will allow Mr. Marc de Garidel to benefit from an annuity equal at least to €80,000, i.e. an annuity comparable to the one that would result from the pension entitlements at the end of the 2015 financial year (about €88,000), should he leave on the year of his 62nd birthday. The accrual of these additional years of seniority would take place on a year-by-year basis starting with fiscal year 2017 and subject to compliance with the performance conditions described above for the year in question. This benefit would not result in Mr. Marc de Garidel accruing conditional rights at a pace exceeding the maximum accrual allowed by law (i.e., currently, 3% of the annual benchmark remuneration for the calculation of the annuity paid within the Company’s supplementary pension plan). • A severance payment which terms and conditions in accordance with the recommendations are set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, in other words: –– an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, –– of an amount equal to the remuneration received from the Company over the last 24 rolling calendar months preceding the effective date of his departure, –– the grant of which will be subject to the same performance condition as the one applicable to the severance payment due to the Chief Executive Officer (the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of 15%), and –– including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete undertaking mentioned below. Your Board of Directors considered that the decision to grant the benefit of the supplementary defined benefit pension plan in force within the Company and a severance payment to Mr. Marc de Garidel, as Chairman of the Board of Directors, is motivated by the fact that the latter has been entrusted with a long-term assignment within the Group and that the Group and the Company benefit from his experience in the pharmaceutical sector. These commitments supersede those made in favor of Mr. Marc de Garidel, in the case of the termination of his duties as Chief Executive Officer between 22 November 2010 and 18 July 2016; the latter commitment had been originally authorized by your Board of Directors at its meeting held on 11 October 2010 and modified by your Board of Directors at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, it being specified that these modifications had been approved by your General Meeting held on 31 May 2016, upon special report of the Statutory Auditors of 3 May 2016. Non-compete undertakings taken by Mr Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board since 18 July 2016 Your Board of Directors approved at its meeting of 11 October 2010 the commitment taken by Mr. Marc de Garidel, if he were to leave the Group for any other reason than a change in control, not to carry out or participate in any activity related to the development and/or marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic category (source: IMS-Health) as the two best selling products of the Ipsen Group, during the twenty-four months after his effective departure, in an operational capacity (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Area (EEA) and/or Northern America. 222 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016, Mr. Marc de Garidel accepted to maintain this undertaking in the frame of his sole functions as Chairman of the Board, it being specified that the non-compete obligation will now focus on the three products of the Group in terms of turnover on the date of Mr. Marc de Garidel’s effective departure. It is stated that the compensation due by your Company in consideration of these non-compete commitments would be included in the severance payment described above if it also were to be due. Your Board of Directors considered that the undertaking of Mr. Marc de Garidel takes place within the frame of the separation of functions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and of the respect of governance principles implemented within the Company. Commitments granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016, in the case of termination of employment Your Board of Directors, in its meeting held on 8 July 2016, approved the compensation elements of Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016. These compensation elements include: • The benefit of membership from the existing additional pension scheme in force within the Company, giving right to, on retirement and subject to (i) a minimum seniority of 5 years within the Group, already acquired, (ii) an eligibility to social security retirement at the full rate (i.e. a retirement age of 62 at the earliest in accordance with the current French law), and (iii) the respect of a performance condition mentioned below, the payment of an annual pension calculated by reference to seniority within the Group, (x) at a rate of 0.6% of the total gross remuneration (“TGR”) per year of seniority for the portion of the TGR lower than 8 times the French annual social security ceiling and (y) at a rate of 1% per year of seniority for the portion of the TGR exceeding 8 times the French annual social security ceiling (with the French annual social security ceiling amounting to €38,616 in 2016). The grant of this additional pension scheme will be subject to the same performance condition as the one applicable to the severance payment (the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding departure at a minimum threshold of 15%). • A severance payment which terms and conditions in accordance with the recommendations set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, in other words: –– an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, –– equal to 24 months of gross (fixed and variable) remuneration paid for his duties as Chief Executive Officer, –– the grant of which will be subject to the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of 15%, and –– including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete undertaking of Mr. David Meek referred to below. Your Board of Directors considered that the decision to grant the benefit of the supplementary defined benefit pension plan in force within the Company and a severance payment to Mr. David Meek is motivated by the fact that the latter has been entrusted with a long-term assignment within the Group and that the Group and the Company benefit from his experience in the pharmaceutical sector, notably in the American market, which is a strategic area of development for the Company. Non-compete undertakings taken by Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016 During the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016, Mr. David Meek agreed, in the event of his departure from the Group, during a period of 24 months following the date of his effective departure from the Company, not to perform or participate from an operational standpoint (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Area (EEA) and/or North America, in any activity relating to the development and/or the marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic category (source IMS-Health) as: (1) one of the top three products of the Group based on the turnover generated by such products or their importance from a strategic standpoint (as assessed by the Board) on the date of Mr. David Meek’s effective departure, and (2) any product acquired by the Company between 1 January 2016 and the date of Mr. David Meek’s effective departure for a total consideration exceeding €300 million (such consideration being the aggregate of any upfront payment and any subsequent commercial or regulatory milestone payment or, in the case of a corporate acquisition, the portion of the acquisition price thereof (being the sum of the initial price and any earn-out or other additional price) allocable to the relevant product). It is stated that the indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this non-compete undertaking will be deemed to be included in the severance package referred to above if it is also owed. Your Board of Directors considered that the undertaking of Mr. David Meek takes place within the frame of the separation of functions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, of the respect of governance principles implemented within the Company, and the negotiations allowing the arrival of Mr. David Meek within the Company as Chief Executive Officer. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS ALREADY APPROVED BY THE GENERAL MEETING Agreements and commitments approved in prior years that were implemented during the past financial year Pursuant to article R.225-30 of the French Commercial Code, we have been informed of the continuation of the following agreements and commitments, already approved by the General Meeting in prior years, which lasted or were implemented during the past financial year. Ipsen Registration document 2016 223 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As indicated in the first part of the present report, your Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, noted the departure of Mrs. Christel Bories due to diverging strategic considerations, and, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, it determined the following remuneration and compensation payable in connection with the termination of her duties: Commitments granted to Ms. Christel Bories, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2016, in the case of termination of employment Your Board of Directors authorized at its 26 February 2013 meeting granting to Ms. Christel Bories: • the benefit of membership of the supplementary pension plan in force at Ipsen S.A., giving right to, on retirement and subject to seniority of at least 5 years, the payment of an annuity calculated by reference to seniority within the Group, at a rate of 0.60% per year of seniority on the part of total gross compensation (bonus included) that is lower than eight times the annual social security ceiling and at a rate of 1% per year on total gross compensation (bonus included) for the part of said total gross compensation higher than eight times the annual social security ceiling. Total gross compensation corresponds to the average compensation of the last 36 months of office; • a severance payment due under her position as Deputy CEO of the Company, the terms and conditions of which are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code, in other words: –– a payment due only in the event of a forced departure related to a change in control or in strategy decided by the Board of Directors, –– a sum amounting to 24 months’ (fixed and variable) compensation due under her position as Deputy CEO of the Company, –– payment of which is subject to a performance-related condition: the Group’s recurring operating margin needs to remain above a minimum threshold (12.5% for 2013) during the three years preceding her departure, –– including the amount due, if applicable, in respect of any non-compete commitment described below. In the framework of Ms. Christel Bories’ departure, your Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, noticed the achievement of the performance condition and approved the payment of the severance payment due in case of the termination of her duties, of a gross amount of €2,920,000, corresponding to 24 months of fixed and variable remuneration for the 2015 financial year. As Ms. Christel Bories does not fulfill the seniority required (at least 5 years) by the Company’s additional pension scheme she will not benefit from said pension scheme. Non-compete undertakings taken by Ms. Christel Bories Your Board of Directors approved at its 26 February 2013 meeting the commitments taken by Ms. Christel Bories, in the event she should leave the Group for any other reason than a change in control, not to carry out or participate in any activity related to the development and/or marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic class (source: IMS-Health) as the two best selling products in terms of revenue of the Ipsen Group, during the twenty-four months after her effective departure, in an operational capacity (including as a consultant), in the European Economic Area (EEA) and/or in Northern America. The compensation due by your Company to Ms. Christel Bories in consideration of these non-compete commitments is included in the severance payment due in the case of termination of employment, described above. In the framework of Ms. Christel Bories’ departure, your Board of Director, at its meeting held on 15 February 2016, noticed that the amount payable for Ms. Christel Bories’ non-compete compensation is included for 50% of this severance payment. Paris La Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, 22 February 2017 The Statutory Auditors KPMG AUDIT Deloitte & Associés A division of KPMG S.A. Philippe Grandclerc Jean-Marie Le Guiner 224 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 4.2 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 4.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association ■■4.2.1.1 Corporate purpose (Article 2 of ■■4.2.1.3 Rights and obligations attached the Articles of association) to shares The Company’s corporate purpose is the following in France Distribution of profits (Article 29 of the Articles and any other country whether directly or indirectly: of association) • to invent, manufacture, process, and sell pharmaceutical In accordance with the terms and provisions of Article 29 products, para-pharmaceutical products, cosmetics or of the Articles of association, after approval of the financial any other manufactured products in the fields of drugs statements and recognition of a distributable profit within the and fine chemicals, and all products and materials used to meaning of the law, the Shareholders’ Meeting may resolve to manufacture, process and sell such products; transfer the distributable profit to one or more discretionary reserve accounts, for which it fixes the allocation or use, • to conduct all industrial and commercial activities directly or retained earnings or to distribute it as a dividend. After or indirectly related to the foregoing purpose, including deduction of any prior year losses, at least 5% of each year’s research and design, acquiring, owning, exploiting and net profit is transferred to the statutory reserve as required by selling patents, licenses, know-how and more generally all law. This provision ceases to apply once the statutory reserve intellectual and industrial property rights; and has reached one tenth of the Company’s share capital. • more generally, to conduct all industrial, commercial, The Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute amounts financial or property transactions which may directly from reserves to which the shareholders are entitled. In this or indirectly facilitate or further the achievement of the case, the resolution must expressly indicate which reserve foregoing purposes and any similar purposes. accounts are to be used. However, dividends must be drawn in priority from the year’s distributable profit. ■■4.2.1.2 Governance of the Company The Shareholders’ Meeting may resolve to offer payment of all Board of Directors or part of the dividend or interim dividends in cash or in shares The Company is governed by a Board of Directors. The Board at the personal choice of each shareholder. of Directors is responsible for defining and implementing the Company’s strategic objectives. Subject to the powers A shareholder’s right to the profits and contribution to losses expressly reserved for the Shareholders’ Meeting and within is proportional to the percentage of share capital owned. the limits of the Company’s corporate purpose, the Board Form of shares issued by the Company (Article 9 of of Directors is competent to consider and settle all issues the Articles of association) involving the proper functioning of the Company through the The shares issued by the Company may be registered or bearer passing of its resolutions. shares. Existence of the shares is evidenced by their registration Executive Management on securities accounts held in the name of the holder under the In accordance with the legal provisions, the executive terms and conditions set out by law either by the Company or management of the Company is the responsibility either of its appointed custodian in the case of registered shares or by an the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who then serves as authorized intermediary authorized of bearer shares. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or of another person Shareholders’ voting rights (Article 26.1 and 11.3 appointed by the Board of Directors who then serves as Chief of the Articles of association) Executive Officer. In Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, each The Board of Directors is responsible for electing one of these shareholder has a voting right equal to the number of shares two options for a period which may not be less than one year. he/she holds or represents without limit. At its meeting on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors However, the Board of Directors held on 30 August 2005 decided to change the Company’s form of governance by decided that a double voting right is attached to any ordinary separating the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors fully paid-up share which is owned under the registered form and Chief Executive Officer. The Company also announced by the same shareholder for at least two years. The double on 16 February 2016 that it had initiated the process to recruit voting rights shall automatically end with its conversion to the its future Chief Executive Officer. The separation of said form of bearer share, as well as its transfer, except in cases functions is effective since 18 July 2016 date of entry into provided for by law. office of David Meek as Chief Executive Officer. Within this The voting right attached to shares belongs to the usufruct change of governance, the appointment of Marc de Garidel as holder in Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and to the bare Chairman of the Board of Directors has been confirmed. For owner in Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. further details, see section 4.1.2.1.1. Ipsen Registration document 2016 225 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Actions necessary to modify shareholder’s rights in the name of the shareholder or intermediary acting on its There are no specific existing rules regarding the modification behalf, no later than on the second business day preceding of shareholders’ rights which are made in accordance with the meeting at 0.00 AM (Paris time), either in the registered the legal provisions. securities accounts kept by the Company or in the bearer securities accounts kept by the authorized intermediary. ■■4.2.1.4 Shareholders’ Meetings (Articles 21 to Quorum 26 of the Articles of association) The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting validly deliberates, on Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings first notice, if the shareholders present or represented, or The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting receives the Board voting by postal vote, represent at least one fifth of the shares of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ reports, with voting rights. No quorum is required for an adjourned approves the annual financial statements and votes on the meeting. It passes its resolution by a simple majority vote or distribution of profits. It appoints and dismisses the Directors the shareholders present or represented or voting by postal and sets their compensation in accordance with the legal vote. The quorum is calculated on the basis of the shares provisions and the Articles of association. It appoints the comprising the share capital, less any shares deprived of Company’s Statutory Auditors. voting rights in accordance with the law and provisions of the Company’s Articles of association. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may delegate authority to the Board of Directors at the Board’s request to deal The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting validly deliberates if with all matters not specifically reserved for Extraordinary the shareholders present or represented, or voting by postal Shareholders’ Meetings. vote, represent, on first notice, one quarter of the shares with voting rights, and one fifth on second notice. In the event this More generally, the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting resolves quorum is not reached, the second Shareholders’ Meeting on all matters that do not entail a direct or indirect modification may be postponed to a further date no later than two months of the Articles of association. from the original convening’s date. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting is held every year no later Shareholders attending the meeting by videoconferencing or than six months after the end of the previous financial yearother means of telecommunication allowing their identification end, unless this time period is extended by court order. and compliant with the legal and regulatory provisions are Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting counted as present for the purpose of calculating the quorum. The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may amend any ■■4.2.1.5 Crossing of thresholds (Article 10.3 and all of the provisions of the Articles of association of the Company. However, it may not increase the shareholders’ of the Articles of association) liability, or change the nationality of the Company except under In addition to the legal disclosure requirements set out in the terms and conditions set forth by law and international Article L.233-7 of the French Commercial Code, any person treaties. or legal entity, acting either alone or in concert, who holds by any mean a number of shares representing one percent Notice and Meeting of Shareholders’ Meetings (1%) of the share capital or voting rights, or any multiple General Shareholders’ Meetings are called by the Board of thereof, must no later than five (5) business days after the Directors or, if applicable, by the Statutory Auditors or any occurrence, advise the Company by fax of the total number other person duly empowered by law. The meetings take and percentage of shares and voting rights held, with written place at the registered office or any other place indicated in confirmation sent the same day by recorded delivery mail. the notice of meeting. Such persons are also required to advise the Company if their The agenda is set by the person who convenes the meeting. holding falls back below those thresholds, under the same However, one or several shareholders may request, under terms and conditions. the terms and conditions set forth by legal and regulatory provisions in force, the inclusion of items or draft resolutions in In case of failure to comply with these requirements, the the agenda. The works council may also require the inclusion shares exceeding the part that should have been disclosed of proposed resolutions in the agenda in accordance with are deprived of the voting right for any Shareholders’ Meeting the regulation in force. The Shareholders’ Meeting may not that would be held in a two-year period following the date of resolve on items which are not on the agenda, in accordance regularization of the disclosure. Except in the case of crossing with the current regulation. However, it may in any event one of the thresholds provided for by Article L.233-7 of the remove one or more Directors from office and appoints new French Commercial Code, the deprival of the voting rights, directors in replacement. The agenda may not be revised for which will be recorded in the minutes of the Shareholders’ an adjourned meeting. Meeting, may only occur if requested by one or more of the shareholders representing at least one percent (1%) of the Any shareholder has the right to attend Shareholders’ share capital and voting rights of the Company. Meetings and take part in the vote either in person or by proxy, regardless of the number of shares owned, by providing ■■4.2.1.6 Identification of bearer shareholders evidence of his/her status as shareholder. (Article 10.2 of the Articles of association) The General Shareholders’ Meeting, held on 27 May 2015, The Company may at any time, in accordance with the modified the Article 24.3 of the Company’s Articles of applicable legal and regulatory provisions and at its own association, in order to bring it into line with the regulations in expenses, request the relevant central depositary for financial force, as follow: “The right to attend the shareholders’ meeting instruments, to provide it with the name, or the corporate is subject to a book entry showing the number of shares held name in case of a legal entity, nationality and address or as 226 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL the case may be, the registered office, of holders of securities ■■4.2.1.8 Financial year (Article 27 of the Articles conferring the right to vote at its General Shareholders’ of association) Meetings either immediately or in the future, as well as the Each financial year has a 12-month term beginning on number of securities held by each of them and any restrictions 1 January and ending on 31 December. attached thereto. ■■4.2.1.9 Provisions that could delay, defer or ■■4.2.1.7 Specific provisions governing changes in the share capital prevent a change in control There is no specific provisions of the Articles of association The share capital and the rights attached to shares can only that could delay, defer or prevent a change in the control of be modified in accordance with applicable legal provisions. the Company. The Articles of association of the Company do not provide for any specific provision in that respect. 4.2.2 Share Capital ■■4.2.2.1 Amount of share capital fully subscribed and paid-up of same class, each with a par As of 31 December 2016, the share capital of the Company value of €1. amounted to €83,557,864 divided into 83,557,864 shares All the shares are registered or bearer shares and are fully subscribed and paid-up of same class, each with a par freely transferable. They are traded on Euronext Paris value of €1. (Compartment A) (ISIN code FR 0010259150). As of 22 February 2017, the share capital of the Company amounted to €83,580,494 divided into 83,580,494 shares ■■4.2.2.2 Changes in share capital Date Transaction Par value Number Nominal Share or Cumulative Cumulated Cumulated per share of shares amount contribution share or amount of number of (in euros) of share capital premium contribution share capital outstanding (in euros) (in euros) premiums (in euros) shares (in euros) 31/12/2013 Options exercises 1 7,710 7,710 167,835 711,850,533 84,242,701 84,242,701 27/02/2014 Options exercises 1 11,500 11,500 243,800 712,094,333 84,254,201 84,254,201 17/03/2014 Cancellation – shares 1 (800,000) (800,000) – 712,094,333 83,454,201 83,454,201 24/03/2014 Cancellation – shares 1 (842,542) (842,542) – 712,094,333 82,611,659 82,611,659 27/03/2014 Options exercises 1 5,110 5,110 120,443 712,214,776 82,616,769 82,616,769 31/03/2014 Bonus shares grant 1 152,306 152,306 – 712,214,776 82,769,075 82,769,075 (Plans dated from 31/03/2010 and from 30/03/2012) 04/06/2014 Options exercises 1 7,100 7,100 158,200 712,372,976 82,776,175 82,776,175 28/08/2014 Options exercises 1 4,965 4,965 124,032 712,497,008 82,781,140 82,781,140 08/10/2014 Options exercises 1 59,833 59,833 1,677,241 714,174,249 82,840,973 82,840,973 17/12/2014 Options exercises 1 26,610 26,610 656,125 714,830,374 82,867,583 82,867,583 31/12/2014 Options exercises 1 1,500 1,500 43,320 714,873,694 82,869,083 82,869,083 02/03/2015 Options exercises 1 13,875 13,875 361,245 715,234,939 82,882,958 82,882,958 01/04/2015 Options exercises 1 39,898 39,898 1,068,756 716,303,695 82,922,856 82,922,856 01/04/2015 Bonus shares grant 1 142,596 142,596 – 716,303,695 83,065,452 83,065,452 (Plan dated 28/03/2013) 27/05/2015 Options exercises 1 22,200 22,200 541,052 716,844,747 83,087,652 83,087,652 Ipsen Registration document 2016 227 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Date Transaction Par value Number Nominal Share or Cumulative Cumulated Cumulated per share of shares amount contribution share or amount of number of (in euros) of share capital premium contribution share capital outstanding (in euros) (in euros) premiums (in euros) shares (in euros) 01/07/2015 Bonus shares grant 1 39,100 39,100 – 716,844,747 83,126,752 83,126,752 (Plan dated 30/06/2011) 30/07/2015 Options exercises 1 19,726 19,726 577,654 717,422,401 83,146,478 83,146,478 07/10/2015 Options exercises 1 77,784 77,784 2,163,896 719,586,297 83,224,262 83,224,262 16/12/2015 Options exercises 1 21,340 21,340 525,967 720,112,264 83,245,602 83,245,602 29/02/2016 Options exercises 1 900 900 27,657 720,139,921 83,246,502 83,246,502 31/05/2016 Options exercises 1 13,180 13,180 457,229 720,597,150 83,259,682 83,259,682 21/07/2016 Capital increase by issue 1 80,000 80,000 3,372,000 723,969,150 83,339,682 83,339,682 of shares 27/07/2016 Cancellation of treasury 1 (80,000) (80,000) – – 83,259,682 83,259,682 shares 27/07/2016 Options exercises 1 10,435 10,435 326,749 724,295,899 83,270,117 83,270,117 05/10/2016 Options exercises 1 117,367 117,367 4,157,665 728,453,564 83,387,484 83,387,484 15/12/2016 Options exercises 1 160,380 160,380 4,166,322 732,619,886 83,547,864 83,547,864 31/12/2016 Options exercises 1 10,000 10,000 322,100 732,941,986 83,557,864 83,557,864 22/02/2017 Options exercises 1 22,630 22,630 796,433 733,738,419 83,580,494 83,580,494 (1) Amount after imputation of the tax-free expenses on premiums. ■■4.2.2.3 Potential share capital With respect to all plans, in the event of a tender offer, granted As of 31 December 2016, the potential share capital represents options are immediately acquired and exercisable. Moreover, a maximum potential dilution of 0.26% distributed as follows: the underlying shares are negotiable, without any condition attached. 4.2.2.3.1 Stock purchase or subscription options plans As of 31 December 2015, with respect to all Ipsen plans, Description there were 744,771 outstanding options (after deduction of Every Ipsen SA stock subscription or purchase option grants the number of options exercised or cancelled to take into the right to subscribe to or purchase one Company share. account the departure of certain beneficiaries), of which 530,819 purchase options and 213,952 subscription options, The rights resulting from options granted to beneficiaries are representing a potential increase of the share capital up to entirely acquired at the end of a four-year period and can be €213,952 and a maximum potential dilution of 0.26%. exercised on one or several occasions. 228 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL The following table (Table 8 of AMF recommendations) presents, as of 31 December 2015, the description of the Ipsen Options granted: Date of Date of Board Grant date Number of options granted Nature of Date Date Exercise Number of options Shareholders’ of Directors the options of exercise of expiry price Meeting Total number Of which number granted granted (in euros) Exercised Cancelled or Outstanding as at expired as at as at Of Of options Number of Of options 31/12/2016 31/12/2016 31/12/2016 beneficiaries beneficiaries 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 18 23,000 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2016 29.88 13,500 9,500 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 31 42,000 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 29.88 7,500 15,500 19,000 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 20 28,500 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 33.21 10,000 9,500 9,000 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,668 – – Purchase 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 38.73 34,334 20,000 212,334 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,666 – – Purchase 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 35.86 61,401 20,000 185,265 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,666 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 33.21 161,833 20,000 84,833 02/06/2006 30/05/2007 30/05/2007 3 55,000 – – Subscription 30/05/2011 31/05/2017 39.06 23,333 5,000 26,667 02/06/2006 12/12/2007 12/12/2007 2 53,334 – – Purchase 12/12/2011 13/12/2017 41.33 53,334 0 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2007 12/12/2007 2 26,666 – – Subscription 12/12/2011 13/12/2017 41.33 19,999 0 6,667 02/06/2006 12/12/2007 12/12/2007 2 53,334 – – Purchase 12/12/2011 13/12/2017 38.27 53,334 0 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2007 12/12/2007 2 26,666 – – Subscription 12/12/2011 13/12/2017 38.27 19,999 0 6,667 02/06/2006 29/09/2008 29/09/2008 1 10,000 – – Subscription 29/09/2012 29/09/2018 34.68 0 0 10,000 02/06/2006 29/09/2008 29/09/2008 201 216,200 – – Purchase 29/09/2012 29/09/2018 34.68 81,650 39,450 95,100 02/06/2006 30/03/2009 30/03/2009 41 148,300 – – Purchase 30/03/2013 30/03/2019 26.39 34,500 75,680 38,120 04/06/2009 10/11/2009 10/11/2009 1 12,000 – – Subscription 10/11/2013 10/11/2019 34.74 12,000 0 0 04/06/2009 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 22 40,710 – – Subscription 31/03/2014 01/04/2018 36.64 19,390 14,900 6,420 04/06/2009 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 105 321,360(*) – – Subscription 31/03/2014 01/04/2018 36.64 29,360 259,750 32,250 27/05/2011 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 10 16,005 – – Subscription 30/06/2015 01/07/2019 25.01 12,347 2,775 883 27/05/2011 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 6 189,703 (*) 1 121,180 Subscription 30/06/2015 01/07/2019 25.01 164,302 13,836 11,565 (1) Total 2,062,778 812,116 505,891 744,771 (*) Options granted under performance conditions. (1) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 1 April 2015, noticed the achievement of performance conditions attached to these options based on the evolution of income and the achievement of strategic objectives. Details concerning Mr. Marc de Garidel last grant are under be retained by French tax resident beneficiaries for an Paragraph 4.1.3.2.1.2, C. additional two-year period following the final acquisition; Grant of stock options during 2016 financial year to ten • of a four-year duration starting from the date of grant for employees of the Group receiving the highest number non-French tax resident beneficiaries as of the date of (Table 9 of AMF recommendations) grant. During the 2016 financial year, no options were granted. The final acquisition is then effective subject to a presence condition and, for certain plans, to the achievement of Exercise of stock options during 2016 financial year by performance conditions set out by the Board of Directors. employees of the Group exercising the highest number (Table 9 of AMF recommendations) During the 2016 financial year, 152,031 shares were transferred to beneficiaries at the end of the acquisition period for bonus 6 financial year, the options exercised by the ten Group shares granted under the 30 March2012 and 27 March 2014 employees that have exercised the highest number reached plans, under the form of existing shares. a total of 203,100 options at a weighted average price of €35.82. These exercises resulted in the attribution of 203,100 As of 31 December 2016, with respect to all Ipsen plans, Ipsen shares. 442,314 rights to bonus shares that may be acquired by beneficiaries were still valid (after deduction of the number of 4.2.2.3.2 B  onus Shares and Performance Bonus shares shares acquired or of rights cancelled to take into account the grants departure of certain beneficiaries), under the form of existing Description shares, no increase of share capital is to be planned. The final acquisition of shares is effective at the end of the acquisition period: • of a two-year duration starting from the date of grant for French tax resident beneficiaries. These shares must Ipsen Registration document 2016 229 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL The following table (table 10 of AMF recommendations) granted, subject to the completion of presence conditions presents, as of 31 December 2016, the description and terms and, for certain grants, of performance conditions set out by of the Ipsen bonus shares and performance bonus shares the Board of Directors: Date of the Date Grant date Number of Bonus shares granted Nature of Date of final Date of Number of Bonus shares Shareholders’ of the Board the Bonus shares acquisition availability Meeting of Directors Total number Of which number granted granted Cancelled as Number of shares Outstanding as to executive directors at 31/12/2016 transferred or at 31/12/2016 created Of Of Bonus Number of Of Bonus beneficiaries shares beneficiaries shares 27/05/2011 30/03/2012 30/03/2012 8 84,685 (5) 1 23,940 New shares 31/03/2014 31/03/2016 31,851(2) 52,834 – 27/05/2011 30/03/2012 30/03/2012 96 55,099 (5) – – New shares 31/03/2014 31/03/2016 8,657 (2) 46,442 – 27/05/2011 30/03/2012 30/03/2012 14 35,645 (5) – – New existing shares 31/03/2014 31/03/2016 17,945 (2) 17,700 – 27/05/2011 30/03/2012 30/03/2012 27 18,550 – – New shares 31/03/2014 31/03/2016 2,100 16,450 – 27/05/2011 30/03/2012 30/03/2012 37 19,416 (5) – – Existing shares 31/03/2016 31/03/2016 4,235 15,181 – 27/05/2011 30/03/2012 30/03/2012 16 11,200 – – Existing shares 31/03/2016 31/03/2016 2,800 8,400 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 9 79,859 (5) 2 39,759 New shares 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 3,313 (3) 76,546 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 104 71,065 (5) – – New shares 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 12,435 (3) 58,630 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 14 7,420 – – New shares 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 – 7,420 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 12 34,329 (5) – – Existing shares 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 24,216 (3) – 10,113 (*) 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 36 21,791 (5) – – Existing shares 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 3,110 – 18,681 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 18 9,540 – – Existing shares 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 3,180 – 6,360 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 103 62,368 (5) – – Existing shares 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 11,397 50,971 – 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 10 76,011(5) 2 32,933 Existing shares 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 16,232 59,779 – 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 10 30,781 (5) – – Existing shares 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 12,322 – 18,459 (*) 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 33 20,795 (5) – – Existing shares 28/03/2018 28/03/2018 5,505 – 15,290 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 10 48,310 (5) 2 22,658 Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 9,506 – 38,804 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 80 47,572 (5) – – Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 5,139 – 42,433 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 17 39,970 (5) – – Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 4,665 – 35,305,(*) 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 31 26,195 (5) – – Existing shares 02/04/2019 02/04/2019 1,859 – 24,336 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 115 60,008 (5) 1 2,535 Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2018 3,164 – 56,844 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 115 59,963 (5) 1 2,535 Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 3,164 – 56,799 31/05/2016 29/07/2016 29/07/2016 1 5,011 (5) 1 5,011 Existing shares 30/07/2018 30/07/2018 – – 5,011 31/05/2016 29/07/2016 29/07/2016 1 5,010 (5) 1 5,010 Existing shares 30/07/2018 30/07/2020 – – 5,010 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 58 47,571 (5) – – Existing shares 01/06/2020 01/06/2020 500 – 47,071 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 19 32,367 (5) – – Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2018 1,465 – 30,902 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 19 32,360 (5) – – Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 1,464 – 30,896 Total 1,042,891 190,224 410,353 442,314 (*) The registration in the accounts will be after a four-year period following the date of grant. (1) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 27 June 2013, noted the non-achievement of performance conditions attached to 2,733 rights to performance shares granted under the plan dated 30 June 2011. (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 27 March 2014 noted the partial achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 1 April 2015, noted the partial achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (4) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (5) Bonus shares granted under performance conditions. Grants of Ipsen performance Bonus Shares to the employees during financial year 2016 During the 2016 financial year, the top ten Group employees (excluding executive officers) to whom have been granted the highest number of performance shares, received a total number of 53,628 bonus shares. 230 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■4.2.2.4 Authorized and non-issued share capital The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings held on 27 May 2015 and 31 May 2016 authorized the delegation of authority to the Board of Directors regarding shares capital increases as followed, being specified that below are mentioned only the ongoing delegations and authorizations as of 31 December 2016: Issues reserved to shareholders Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase by incorporating reserves, 27 May 2015 (14th) 26 months 20% of the share capital (a, b, d) profits and/or premiums as bonus shares grant (26 July 2017) and/or increase share par value Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 27 May 2015 (15th) 26 months 20% of the share capital (a, b, d) and/or securities with retention of preferential (26 July 2017) subscription rights for shareholders As of the date of the present registration document, these delegations have not been used. Issues without preferential subscription rights for shareholders Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 27 May 2015 (16th) 26 months 10% of the share or securities without preferential subscription rights (26 July 2017) capital (a, b, c, d) for shareholders by offer to the public Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 27 May 2015 (17th) 26 months 10% of the share or securities without preferential subscription rights (26 July 2017) capital (a, b, c, d) for shareholders by private placement Share capital increase to compensate contributions 27 May 2015 (19th) 26 months 10% of the share capital (a, d) in kind of shares or securities (26 July 2017) As of the date of the present registration document, these delegations have not been used. Issues reserved to employees (and, if applicable, to executive directors) Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal Shareholders’ amount of the share Meeting (resolution capital increase number) authorized Share capital increase reserved for members 27 May 2015 (22th) 26 months 5% of the share capital (a, i) of a company savings plan (26 July 2017) Stock subscription and purchase options granted 27 May 2015 (20th) 26 months 3% of the share to employees and executive directors (26 July 2017) capital (d, e, h) Authorization to allocate free of charge existing 31 May 2016 (13th) 26 months 3% of the share capital(e, f, h) shares and/or shares to be issued to waged (30 July 2018) staff members and/or certain company officers Preferential bonus shares granted to employees 27 May 2015 (23th) 26 months 3% of the share and/or certain executive directors (26 July 2017) capital (d, e, g, h) (a) Based on a share capital of €83,065,452 as at the date of the combined Shareholders’ Meeting held on 27 May 2015. (b) Global common limit of 20% of the share capital as of the date of the 27 May 2015 combined Shareholders Meeting. The issues decided under this delegation are deducted from the global common limit of 20% of the share capital. (c) The issues decided under delegations by offer to the public or private placement are deducted respectively from limits of each delegation, in addition to the global limit of 20% of the share capital. (d) Unused. (e) Common limit. (f) On the basis of the share capital at the grant day. Used in 2016 up to a target amount of 245,738 shares, i.e., 0.60% of the share capital at the date. (g) On the basis of the existing share capital at the day of the first allocation (that is to say €82,882,958 on 1 April 2015 concerning the authorization regarding bonus shares). (h) Sub-ceiling of 20% of the share capital within this envelop for allocation to company officers. (i) Used in 2016, see below. Ipsen Registration document 2016 231 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting dated 27 May 2015, representing not more than 1% of the share capital of the delegated to the Board of Directors under the 22nd resolution Company. The number of shares issued under the plan is the authority to decide on a Company share capital increase limited to the number of shares actually subscribed by the via the issuance of new shares reserved for employees of the beneficiaries. Company and its French and foreign subsidiaries who are The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, acting pursuant members of a plan d’épargne d’entreprise (French company to the delegation of authority granted to him by the Board savings plan) of the Group. of Directors, has set the share subscription price at €43.15, In accordance with this delegation, the Board of Directors of pursuant to a decision dated May 30, 2016. The subscription 30 March 2016 decided on the principle of a Company share price is equal to the average of the Ipsen share opening prices capital increase, reserved for employees, and eligible former on the Euronext Paris regulated stock exchange during the employees and corporate officers, of the Company and its twenty (20) trading days preceding the date of the Chairman French and foreign subsidiaries, within the framework of and Chief Executive Officer’s decision, minus a 20 % discount. Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code, who are The subscription period extended between 7 to 21 June 2016 members of a plan d’épargne d’entreprise (French company and 159,000 shares were subscribed. savings plan) of the Group, limited to a number of shares ■■4.2.2.5 Number of shares held by the Company Authorizations Share repurchase program and cancellation of shares Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Characteristics Shareholders’ Meeting (resolution number) Share repurchase 31 May 2016 18 months Maximum repurchase price per share: €90 (12th resolution) (30 November 2017) Limit of 10% of the number of shares comprising the share capital Cancellation of shares 27 May 2015 24 months 10% of the share capital as of the date (13th resolution) (26 May 2017) of decision of cancellation(*) (*) On 27 July 2016, the company cancelled 80,000 of its shares, acquired for the purpose of cancellation in accordance with the share repurchase program implemented in 2015. Treasury shares (excluding liquidity agreement) Since 26 February 2007, the Company had mandated Natexis As of 31 December 2016, the Company held 1,120,778 of its Bleichroder, a subsidiary of Natixis, to implement a liquidity own shares dedicated to the covering of its stock purchase contract for a one-year period with tacit renewal. This contract options, bonus shares and performance bonus shares plans is compliant with the Business Ethics Charter of the AMAFI (see sections 4.2.2.3.1 and 4.2.2.3.2). (French Association of Investment Firms) which was approved by the French Autorité des marchés financiers. As per the As of 1 March 2017, the Company held 1,116,178 of its own liquidity contract, the following assets appeared on the shares dedicated to the covering of its stock purchase liquidity account: 46,838 shares and €1,259,939.79. options, bonus shares and performance bonus shares plans (see sections 4.2.2.3.1 and 4.2.2.3.2). On 27 June 2016, the Company announced having appointed Natixis to repurchase a target number of 400,000 Ipsen SA ■■4.2.2.6 Share repurchase program shares, or about 0.48% of the share capital, for a period of at least 2 months and until December 30, 2016, at the The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting dated 31 May 2016 maximum. The program ended on 30 December 2016. conferred to the Board of Directors a new authorization to repurchase the Company’s shares for a 18 month period and 81,624 treasury shares have been used in 2016 as part of the terminated the prior authorization granted on 27 May 2015. exercised purchase options’ coverage (see 4.2.2.3.1). Pursuant to this decision, the Board of Directors decided on 31 May 2016 to set up a new share repurchase program with a limit of 10%. 232 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL The following tables present the purchase and sale transactions carried out by the Company in respect of its own shares, between the opening and closing dates of the 2016 financial year: Number of shares purchased: 907,261 Average purchase price: €57.93 Number of shares sold: 505,326 Average sale price: €56.72 Total amount of dealing and brokerage expenses: €127,179 Number of shares used in 2016: 161,624 allocated shares: – 81,624 shares for the coverage of options and shares plans – 80,000 aux fins d’annulation(*) Number of shares registered in the name of the Company at the end of the 1,128,340 shares (of which 7,562 shares within financial year: the liquidity contract and 400,000 within the repurchase program) Estimated value at the average purchase price: €65,364,736.20 Nominal value: €1,128,340 including: – €1,120,778 dedicated to the coverage of options and shares plans – €7,562 within the liquidity contract for the purposes of the animation of shares price (*) The Company cancelled 80,000 shares held by the Company on 27 July 2016 and these shares were acquired during the share repurchase program implemented in 2015. Distribution of own shares % of the share capital Animation of share price 0.01% Coverage of stock purchase options or other employee share ownership system 1.34% Securities giving right to shares – Acquisitions – Cancellation – ■■4.2.2.7 Non-equity securities As at 2 December 2015, the Company organized an emission plan of commercial papers (negotiable debt securities) to satisfy the general needs for financing the Group. Maximum ceiling of the program €300,000,000 Duration Less than 1 year old Minimal unit value of emissions €150,000 Currency of issue Euros (€) or any value authorized by the the French legislation Domiciliary agent CACEIS Corporate Trust Arranger Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank Placement agent Crédit Agricole CIB BNP Paribas Société Générale BRED Banque Populaire Natixis The case of financial display about the emission plan of commercial The Company issued on 9 June 2016 its inaugural unsecured papers and the outstanding discounted bills of emissions can be 7-year Notes for a total of €300 million. These Notes mature consulted on the Society’s website (www.ipsen.com) and on the on 16 June 2023 and pay interest at an annual rate of 1.875%. banque of france website (www.banque-france.fr). Ipsen Registration document 2016 233 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 4.2.3 Shareholding ■■4.2.3.1 Share ownership and voting rights a par value of €1. The corresponding theoretical number of As of 31 December 2016, the Company’s share capital voting rights amounts to 131,393,723 and the number of net amounted to €83,557,864, divided into 83,557,864 shares, voting rights amounts to 130,268,714. each with a par value of €1. The corresponding theoretical The difference between the number of theoretical voting number of voting rights amounted to 131,386,875 and the rights and the number of real voting rights corresponds to the number of net voting rights amounts to 130,258,535. number of treasury shares. As of 22 February 2017, the Company’s share capital amounts As of 31 December 2016, to the best knowledge of the to €83,580,494, divided into 83,580,494 shares, each with Company, the main shareholders were: Share capital Gross voting rights Net voting rights Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Mayroy 47,269,813 56.57% 94,539,617 71.96% 94,539,617 72.58% Free Float 34,019,228 40.71% 34,019,228 25.89% 34,019,228 26.12% Treasury shares 1,128,340 1.35% 1,128,340 0.86% 0 0 Other registered shareholders 750,581 0.90% 1,196,456 0.91% 1,196,456 0.92% Board of Directors (excluding Mayroy SA) (1) 188,902 0.23% 214,659 0.16% 214,659 0.16% Employee FCP (2) 201,000 0.24% 288,575 0.22% 288,575 0.22% Total 83,557,864 100% 131,386,875 100% 130,258,535 100% (1) Certain Directors of the Company are presumed to act in concert: Anne Beaufour, who owns 1 share and 2 voting rights, Henri Beaufour, who owns 1 share and 2 voting rights, Carol Xueref, who owns 500 shares and 1,000 voting rights, Christophe Vérot, who owns 1,500 shares and 3,000 voting rights, Marc de Garidel, who owns 181,968 shares and 202,391 voting rights, the company Mayroy SA and Antoine Flochel. It is specified, to the Company’s knowledge and based on Directors’ statements, that VicJen Finance SA, a company whose Antoine Flochel is Chairman of the Board of Directors, held as at 31 December 2016, 2,000 shares and 4,000 voting rights, and the company Financière de Catalogne whose M. Flochel is the manager, hold, 3,000 shares and 3,000 voting rights as at 31 December 2016. Subsequently the concert participation amounts to 56.80% of the share capital and 72.74% of the voting rights. (2) FCP Ipsen Shares is the only mutual fund for employees. In accordance with the provisions of the law and its bylaws • the company “Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations” providing the disclosing of any detention of more than 1% declared to the Company that it crossed, upwards, on of the share capital or voting rights, the Company has been 21 March 2014, the 1% share capital threshold; informed of the following thresholds during the last three • the company Opera Finance Europe SARL to the Company financial years: that it crossed: • the company AXA Investment Managers, acting on its own –– downwards, on 1 April 2015, the 4% et 3% of the share account and the account of its affiliates, declared to the capital threshold; Company that it crossed: –– downwards, on 1 April 2015, the 2% of the voting rights –– downwards, on 15 April 2014, the 2% of the share capital threshold; threshold; –– downwards, on 27 May 2015, the 2% et 1% of the share –– downwards, on 4 December 2015, the 1% of the share capital threshold; capital threshold; –– downwards, on 27 May 2015, the 1% of voting rights • the company Amundi Asset Management declared to the threshold; Company that it crossed: • the company Serimnir Fund SICAV declared to the Company –– upwards, on 25 April 2014, the 2% of the voting rights that it crossed: threshold; –– upwards, 1 April 2015, the 1% et 2% of the share capital –– upwards, on 11 September 2014, the 4% of the share threshold; capital threshold; –– upwards, 1 April 2015, the 1% of the voting rights • the company Franklin Resources Inc., acting for its own threshold; account et the account of its affiliates declared to the –– downwards, 17 April 2015, the 2% of the share capital Company that it crossed: threshold; –– downwards, on 14 January 2015, the 1% of the voting –– downwards, 28 April 2015, the 1% of the voting rights rights threshold; threshold; –– downwards, on 9 February 2015, the 1% of the share –– downwards, 6 May 2015, the 1% of the share capital capital threshold; threshold; –– upwards, 26 May 2015, the 1% et 2% of the share capital • the company UBS declared to the Company that it crossed: threshold; –– downwards, on 24 December 2014, the 1% of the share –– upwards, 26 May 2015, the 1% of the voting rights capital threshold; threshold; –– downwards, 27 May 2015, the 2% of the share capital threshold; 234 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL –– downwards, 27 May 2015, the 1% of the share capital the share capital distribution, with regard to the one presented threshold; above on 31 December 2016. –– downwards, 27 May 2015, the 1% of voting rights Mayroy is a société anonyme organized and existing under threshold; the laws of the Luxembourg. As at the date of registration of • the company BNP Paribas Investment Partners declared to the present registration document, its share capital is owned the Company that it crossed: by Beech Tree S.A. (“Beech Tree”), also a société anonyme –– upwards, on 12 February 2016, the 1% share capital organized and existing under the laws of the Luxembourg, up threshold; to 93.23%, including 58.10% directly, and 35.13% indirectly, –– upwards, on 7 April 2016, the 1% voting rights capital through its subsidiaries FinHestia S.àr.l. and Bee Master threshold; upwards, on 30 June 2016, the 2% share Holding BV, these two companies are incorporated under the capital threshold. forms of limited liability companies existing under the laws of the Luxembourg. To the Company’s knowledge, on this declaratory basis, no other shareholder owns, directly or indirectly, acting alone or Anne Beaufour and her brother, Henri Beaufour, hold together, in concert, more than 1% of the share capital or voting rights directly and indirectly, 100% of Beech Tree share capital. except to what is described above. None of them control Beech Tree, which in the absence of any shareholders’ agreement, is governed by its Articles of As at the registration document’s setting-up date, and to the association. Company’s knowledge, there were no significant alterations of ■■4.2.3.2 Evolution of share ownership and voting rights over the past three financial years (as of 31 December 2016) 2016 Number of shares % Number of gross % Number of net % voting rights voting rights Mayroy 47,269,813 56.57 94,539,617 71.96 94,539,617 72.58 Free Float 34,019,228 40.71 34,019,228 25.89 34,019,228 26.12 Treasury shares 1,128,340 1.35 1,128,340 0.86 0 0 Other registered shareholders 750,581 0.90 1,196,456 0.91 1,196,456 0.92 Employee FCP(**) 201,000 0.24 288,575 0.22 288,575 0.22 Board of Directors(*) 188,902 0.23 214,659 0.16 214,659 0.16 Total 83,557,864 100 131,386,875 100 130,258,535 100 2015 2014 Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % of shares of gross of net of shares of gross of net voting rights voting rights voting rights voting rights Mayroy 47,269,813 56.78 94,539,617 72.15 94,539,617 72.78 47,269,807 57.04 94,539,611 72.40 94,539,611 72.84 Free Float 34,026,745 40.88 34,026,745 25.97 34,026,745 26.19 34,098,116 41.15 34,098,116 26.11 34,098,116 26.27 Treasury shares 1,119,090 1.34 1,119,090 0.85 0 0 790,716 0.95 790,716 0.61 0 0 Other registered shareholders 689,809 0.83 1,098,450 0.84 1,098,450 0.85 580,786 0.70 909,917 0.70 909,917 0.70 Employee FCP (**) 91,135 0.11 182,270 0.14 182,270 0.14 100,400 0.12 200,800 0.15 200,800 0.15 Board of Directors (*) 49,010 0.06 58,185 0.04 58,185 0.04 29,258 0.04 37,393 0.03 37,393 0.03 Total 83,245,602 100 131,024,357 100 129,905,267 100 82,869,083 100 130,576,553 100 129,785,837 100 (*) Excluding Mayroy SA. (**) The FCP Ipsen Shares is the sale employee shareholding fund to the share capital of the Company. Agreements between shareholders of Mayroy ■■4.2.3.3 Shareholders’ agreements, liquidity On 17 December 2003, Beech Tree, FinHestia S.à.r.l. and Bee mechanisms and parties acting in Master Holding BV on the one hand, and certain members concert of the Schwabe family which holds Finvestan S.à.r.l., limited Agreements between shareholders of the Company liability company existing under the laws of the Luxembourg, None. on the other hand, entered into a shareholder’s agreement which purpose is to preserve a stable controlling ownership structure of Mayroy. Ipsen Registration document 2016 235 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL This Agreement requires Bee Master Holding BV, FinHestia Information likely to have an impact in the event of S.à.r.l., and Finvestan Sarl to make lock-up undertakings in a takeover bid respect of their Mayroy shares, and prevents Beech Tree In accordance with provisions of Article L.225-100-3 of the from selling its Mayroy shares without first giving Bee Master French Commercial Code, the following information may have Holding BV, FinHestia S.à.r.l., and Finvestan Sàrl the option to an impact in the event of a takeover bid: sell or otherwise transfer their own Mayroy shares at the same • Ownership of the Company’s share capital: see section 4.2.3 time and on the same terms and conditions. The Agreement of the present document. also provides for a majority representation of the parties on Mayroy’s Board of Directors, including one person nominated • Restrictions contained in the Articles of association on by Finvestan Sàrl. voting rights: none; except, in case of none-statement of crossing a statutory threshold, temporary suspension of Initially concluded for the duration expiring on 31 December voting rights which may be requested during a shareholders’ 2008, this agreement has been renewed until 1 July 2017. meeting by one or more shareholders holding at least 1% of This agreement constitutes an agreement to act in concert the share capital or voting rights (article 10.3 of the Articles between the shareholders and Mayroy, both signatories to of Association, see section 4.2.1.5). the agreement. • Restrictions contained in the Articles of association on transfer of shares or agreements whose the Company has Parties acting in concert knowledge in accordance with the provisions of Article Certain Directors of the Company (Anne Beaufour, Henri L.233-11 of the French Commercial Code: none. Beaufour, Antoine Flochel, Carol Xueref, Christophe Vérot and • Direct and indirect interests in the share capital known by Marc de Garidel) and the company Mayroy SA are presumed the Company in accordance with the provisions of Articles to act in concert. L.233-7 and L.233-12 of the French Commercial Code: see section 4.2.3 of the present document. ■■4.2.3.4 Nature of control • Shareholders holding any share conferring specific control The Company is controlled as described above. Measures rights and description: there are no shares conferring taken to avoid any abusive control are, in particular, the specific control rights. However, a double voting right following: exists for any fully paid-up registered under the name of • separation of the functions of Chairman of the Board and a same shareholder for at least 2 years as described in Chief Executive Officer; section 4.2.1.3 (Article 26 of the Articles of association). • presence of four independent Directors of eleven members • Control mechanisms provided for in an employee in the Company’s Board of Directors as described in shareholding system if controlling rights are not exercised chapters 4.1.1.1, 4.1.1.2 and 4.1.2.1 of the present registration by said system: voting rights attached to the Ipsen shares document; held by employees through the FCPE Ipsen Shares, the • presence of an independent Director of six members in the only mutual fund for employees, are exercised by a person Strategic Committee; empowered by the supervisory board of the mutual fund • presence of two independent Directors of four members in in order to be represented in shareholders’ meeting (see the Nomination and Governance Committee; section 4.2.3 of the present registration document). • presence of two independent Directors of three members • Agreements between shareholders of which the Company in the Audit Committee, including the Chairman of the is aware that may cause restrictions to transfers of shares Committee; and exercises of voting rights: see section 4.2.3.3 of the present registration document. • presence of two independent Directors of three members in the Compensation Committee; • Provisions governing the election and replacement of Board Members: see section 4.1.1 of the present document. • presence of an independent Director of three members in the Ethics Committee, including the Chairman of the • Provisions governing the amendment of the Company’s Committee. Articles of association: legal rules. • Powers of the Board of Directors, in particular concerning ■■4.2.3.5 Information or agreements likely to issuance or repurchases of shares: see sections 4.2.2.4 involve a change in control or to have and 4.2.2.5 of the present registration document. an impact in the event of a takeover bid • Agreements entered into by the Company that are amended or expire in the event of a change of control of the Company, Agreements likely to involve a change in control unless this disclosure, except if required by law, may have a None. material negative impact on its interests: none. • Agreements providing for compensations of members of the Board of Directors or employees in case of resignation or dismissal without cause or if their employment ends as a result of a takeover bid: see section 4.1.3 of the present document. 236 Ipsen Registration document 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 4 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■4.2.3.6 Dividends Dividends paid in the past five financial years Dividends paid in 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total number of shares giving rights 83,246,502 82,882,958 82,611,659 84,100,253 84,226,573 to dividend Distribution (in euros, excluding 70,759,526.70(*) 70,450,514.30(*) 66,089,327.20(*) 67,280,202.40(*) 67,381,258.40(*) tax credit) Gross dividend amount per share 0.85 0.85 0.80 0.80 0.80 (in euros, excluding tax credit) (*) Including dividends on treasury shares assigned to the carry-forward profit account. Dividends and reserves distribution policy ■■4.2.3.7 Related-party transactions The dividend payout policy is determined by the Company’s Subject to, (i) the agreements entered into with the Schwabe Board of Directors based on an analysis of the Company’s group described in section 1.2.2.2 of the present document, financial results and position. The Company’s objective for (ii) information regarding related-party transactions described future years is to develop a payout policy consistent with in chapter 2.2 note 25 of the present document, (iii) the its growth strategy, which should lead to a dividend payout agreements and commitments described in the Special of 30% at least of consolidated net earnings (excluding Report of the Statutory Auditors on regulated agreements and amortization of its intangible assets arising from the allocation commitments presented in section 4.1.4 of the registration of the purchase price of its acquisitions). However, this is not document, there are no other agreements between the Group an undertaking on the Company’s part, and the Company and related parties. may decide to change for each fiscal year its distribution policy or not pay a dividend at all based on its financial performance, investment needs and debt management imperatives. Statute of limitations Dividends which are not claimed within five years of their payment date shall lapse and become the property of the State. Ipsen Registration document 2016 237 238 Ipsen Registration document 2016 5 ANNEXES 5.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 240 5.1.1 Attestation of the person responsible for the registration document 240 5.1.2 Person responsible for financial information 240 5.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees 240 5.2 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTERESTS 241 5.3 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS 241 5.4 COMPONENTS OF THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT, BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT INCLUDED IN THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 241 5.4.1 Component of the Annual Financial Report 241 5.4.2 Correspondence table for the registration document 242 5 ANNEXES PERSON RESPONSIBLE 5.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 5.1.1 Attestation of the person responsible for the registration document Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen “I affirm that having taken all reasonable care to ensure that financial position of the Company and all the other companies such is the case, the information contained in this registration included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. may be confronted. I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial I’ve obtained a letter from the Statutory Auditors certifying that statements have been prepared in accordance with the they have verified the financial and accounting information applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view provided in this registration document and that they have read of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the the document as a whole.” Company and all the other companies included in the scope David Meek, of consolidation, and that the Management Report presented Chief Executive Officer in paragraph 5.4.2 of the present registration document gives a fair description of the business developments, results and 5.1.2 Person responsible for financial information Aymeric Le Chatelier Chief Financial Officer Eugenia Litz Vice-President, Investor Relations Ipsen 65, quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt cedex Phone: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00 Fax: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 01 investor.relations@ipsen.com www.ipsen.com 5.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees ■■5.1.3.1 Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés KPMG Audit Represented by Mr. Jean-Marie Le Guinier Department of KPMG S.A. 185, avenue Charles de Gaulle Represented by Mr. Philippe Granclerc B.P. 136 2, avenue Gambetta 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex – France CS 60055 92066 Paris-La Défense Cedex – France First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 10 April 2002. Term of office renewed by the Annual First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held Shareholders’ Meeting held on 31 May 2016. on 18 June 2005. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 27 May 2011. 240 2016 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 5 COMPONENTS OF THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT, BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT INCLUDED IN THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT ■■5.1.3.2 Alternate Statutory Auditors B.E.A.S. KPMG Audit IS 7-9, villa Houssay 2, avenue Gambetta 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex – France CS 60055 92066 Paris-La Défense Cedex – France First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 10 April 2002. Term of office renewed by the Annual First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on Shareholders’ Meeting held on 31 May 2016. 27 May 2011. 5.2 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTERESTS None. 5.3 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS During the validity period of the present registration document, Copies of the present registration document are available the Articles of incorporation, the Statutory Auditors’ reports, free of charge at the Company’s registered office (located the annual financial statements of the past three years, as at 65 quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt well as any reports, letters or other documents and historical cedex – France – Tel.: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00) as well as on financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries over Ipsen’s website (www.ipsen.com) and on the AMF’s website the past three years and, valuations and statements made by (www.amf-france.org). experts, where such documents are provided for by law and any other document provided for by law may be consulted at the Company’s registered office. 5.4 COMPONENTS OF THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT, BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT INCLUDED IN THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 5.4.1 Component of the Annual Financial Report ■■5.4.1.1 Company financial statements ■■5.4.1.3 M  anagement Report pursuant The financial statements for the financial year ending to article 222-3-3 of the General 31 December 2016 are presented in section 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 of Regulations of the Autorité des this registration document. marchés financiers (AMF) 5.4.1.3.1 O  bjective and exhaustive analysis of the ■■5.4.1.2 Consolidated financial statements company’s business, results and financial The consolidated financial statements for the financial year situation as well as those of its consolidating ending 31 December 2016 are presented in section 2.2.1 to parent company, including a description of 2.2.5 of this registration document. the main risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed This information is presented in sections 1.2.8, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.1.3, 3.1 and in the notes 1 and 2 of the section 2.2.5 of this registration document. 2016 Ipsen Registration document 241 5 ANNEXES COMPONENTS OF THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT, BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT INCLUDED IN THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 5.4.1.3.2 Authorized unissued share capital ■■5.4.1.4 Statutory Auditors’ Report on This information is presented in section 4.2.2.4 of this the parent company and consolidated registration document. financial statements 5.4.1.3.3 Information likely to have an impact in case This report is presented in section 2.3.3 and 2.2.6 of this of take-over bid registration document. This information is presented in section 4.2.3.5 of this registration document. ■■5.4.1.5 R  eport by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent 5.4.1.3.4 S  hare repurchase program third party, on the consolidated This information is presented in section 4.2.2.6 of this human resources, environmental registration document. and social information included in 5.4.1.3.5 Attestation of the person responsible for the management report the registration document The information presented in section 3 is an integral part of This information is presented in section 5.1.1 of this registration the management report, in accordance with the requirements document. of article L225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. This report is presented in section 3.3 of this registration document. 5.4.2 Correspondence table for the registration document To facilitate consultation of this registration document, the table below outlines the minimum information to be included in this registration document pursuant to Appendices I of Regulation no. 809/2004 of the European Commission dated 29 April 2004. INFORMATIONS Sections Pages 1. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 1.1 Persons responsible for the registration document 5.1.1 – 5.1.2 240 1.2 Declaration of the person responsible for the registration document 5.1.1 240 2. STATUTORY AUDITORS 2.1 Identities and addresses 5.1.3 240 2.2 Changes NA 3. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3.1 Historical financial information Introduction 3 3.2 Financial information for interim periods NA 4. RISK FACTORS 1.2.8 28 5. INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.1 History and development 5.1.1 Legal and commercial name 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.2 Place of registration 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.3 Date of incorporation and duration 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.4 Headquarters – legal form – applicable law 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.5 Important events in the development of the company 2.1.1 40 5.2 Investments 5.2.1 Investments achieved 1.2.7.2 – 2.1.3 28 – 47 5.2.2 In progress 1.2.7.2 8 5.2.3 Scheduled NA 242 2016 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 5 COMPONENTS OF THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT, BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT INCLUDED IN THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT INFORMATIONS Sections Pages 6. BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Principal activities 6.1.1 Operations and principal activities 1.1.1.2 – 1.2.1 6–9 6.1.2 New products 1.2.1 9 6.2 Principal markets 1.2.1 – 1.2.5 9 – 25 6.3 Exceptions factors 2.1.1 40 6.4 Extent to which the issuer is dependent 1.2.8 28 6.5 Competitive position 1.2.5.2 25 7. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 7.1 Brief description of the Group 1.2.7.1 27 7.2 List of significant subsidiaries 2.2.5 note 29 110 8. PROPERTY, PLANTS AND EQUIPMENT 8.1 Information regarding any existing or planned material tangible fixed assets 3.2 140 8.2 Any environmental issues that may affect the utilisation of the tangible fixed assets 3.2 140 9. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 9.1 Financial condition Introduction – 2 3 – 39 9.2 Operating results 9.2.1 Significant factors 2 39 9.2.2 Material changes in net sales or revenues 2 39 9.2.3 Any factors that have materially affected, or could affect, directly or indirectly, 1.2.6 – 2 26 – 39 the issuer’s operations 10. CAPITAL RESOURCES 10.1 Capital resources (short and long term) 2.1.3 47 10.2 Cash flows 2.1.3 47 10.3 Borrowing requirements and funding structure 2.1.3 47 10.4 Restrictions on the use of capital resources 2.1.3 47 10.5 Anticipated sources of funds needed NA 11. RESERCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENCES 1.1.1 – 1.2.3 6 – 18 12. TREND INFORMATIONS 12.1 Recent trends production 1.2.6 – 2.1.6 26 – 56 12.2 Events that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on prospects 1.2.6 26 13. PROFIT FORECAST OR ESTIMATES 13.1 Principal assumptions NA 13.2 Report prepared by auditors NA 13.3 Forecast basis NA 13.4 Disclose of forecast approval NA 14. A  DMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 N ame, business address, and functions of the corporate officers in the issuing 4.1.1.2 – 4.1.1.3 – 170 – 174 – 180 company 4.1.1.6 14.2 A dministrative, management and supervisory bodies and senior management 4.1.1.4 180 conflicts of interest 2016 Ipsen Registration document 243 5 ANNEXES COMPONENTS OF THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT, BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT INCLUDED IN THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT INFORMATIONS Sections Pages 15. REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Remuneration paid 4.1.3 203 15.2 Amounts set aside to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits 4.1.3 203 16. BOARD PRACTICES 16.1 Date of expiration of the current term of office 4.1.1.1 – 4.1.1.2 166 – 170 16.2 Service contracts 4.1.1.4 180 16.3 Committees 4.1.1.1 – 4.1.2.1.1 166 – 186 16.4 Compliance with principles of corporate governance 4.1.2.1 186 17. EMPLOYEES 17.1 Breakdown of employees 3.1 136 17.2 Shareholding and stock options 4.1.3.2 – 4.2.2.3 228 17.3 Description of any arrangements for involving the employees in the capital 3.1.2 138 18. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 18.1 Interests in capital 4.2.3.1 234 18.2 Different voting rights 4.2.1.3 – 4.2.3.1 225 – 234 18.3 Control of the issuer 4.2.3.1 – 4.2.3.4 234 – 236 18.4 Description of any arrangements 4.2.3.3 – 4.2.3.5 235 – 236 19. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 4.2.3.7 237 20. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES 20.1 Historical financial information Introduction – 2 3 – 39 20.2 Pro forma financial information NA 20.3 Financial statements 2.2 – 2.3 57 – 116 20.4 Auditing of historical annual financial information 20.4.1 Statement that the historical financial information has been audited 2.2.6 – 2.3.3 114 – 131 20.4.2 Indication of other information audited 4.1.2.2 – 4.1.4 202 – 221 20.4.3 Indication of other information unaudited NA 20.5 Age of latest financial information 2.2.5 note 4 75 20.6 Interim and other financial information NA 20.7 Dividend policy 4.2.3.6 236 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings 1.2.8.3.2.2 33 20.9 Significant change in the issuer’s financial or trading position 2.2.5 note 1 et note 2 65 21. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.1 Share capital 21.1.1 Amount of issued and fully paid capital 4.2.2.1 – 4.2.2.4 – 227 – 231 – 232 4.2.2.5 21.1.2 Shares not representing the capital NA 21.1.3 Treasury shares or shares held by subsidiaries 4.2.2.5 232 21.1.4 Securities 4.2.2.3 228 21.1.5 Terms of any acquisition NA 21.1.6 Options or understanding NA 21.1.7 History of share capital 4.2.2.2 227 244 2016 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 5 COMPONENTS OF THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT, BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT INCLUDED IN THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT INFORMATIONS Sections Pages 21.2 Memorandum and articles of association 21.2.1 Corporate purpose 4.2.1.1 225 21.2.2 Regulations of administrative, management and supervisory bodies 4.1.1.1 – 4.1.2.1.1 166 – 186 21.2.3 Rights and preferences attached to shares 4.2.1.3 225 21.2.4 Modification of the rights of shareholders 4.2.1.3 225 21.2.5 Shareholders’ meetings 4.1.2.1.4 – 4.2.1.4 195 – 226 21.2.6 Change of control 4.2.3.5 236 21.2.7 Shareholding thresholds 4.2.1.5 226 21.2.8 Conditions governing modifications to articles of Association 4.2.1 225 22. MATERIAL CONTRACTS 1.2.2 14 23. THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF ANY INTEREST 23.1 Statement of an expert 5.2 241 23.2 Other statements NA 24. DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 5.3 241 25. INFORMATION ON HOLDINGS 1.2.7 – 2.2.5 note 29 27 – 110 2016 Ipsen Registration document 245 246 2016 Ipsen Registration document 6 INDEX 6 INDEX AFEP/MEDEF Corporate Governance Code 4.1.2.1.1 Attestation for the person responsible for the registration document 5.1.1 Bonus Shares of the Company 4.2.2.3.2 Cash flow Statement 2.1.3 Committees of the Board of Directors 4.1.1 / 4.1.2.1.1 Competition 1.2.5.2 Component of the Registration Document’s report 5.4.2 Composition of the Board of Directors 4.1.1.2 / 4.1.1.3 Conflicts of interests 4.1.1.4 Consolidated financial statements 2.2 Consultation of legal documents 5.3 Crossing of thresholds 4.2.1.5 Delegations of authority granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting to the Board of Directors 4.2.2.4 / 4.2.2.5 Dividends 4.2.3.6 Drugs 1.2.1 Executive Committee 4.1.1.6 Fees paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors and members of their network 2.2.5 note 31 Financial Risks 1.2.8.4 Financial statements 2.3 Global amount of compensation and benefits paid to company officers 4.1.3 History and Group evolution 1.1.1 Human Resources 3.1 Independent Directors 4.1.1.1 / 4.1.1.2 Industrial and environmental risks 1.2.8.5.2 Information likely to have an impact in the event of a take-over bid 4.2.3.5 Intangible and tangible assets 2.2.5 (notes 12, 13, 14) Internal control 4.1.2.1.6 Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors 4.1.1.1 Legal Risks 1.2.8.3 Major Contracts 1.2.2 Organizational structure 1.2.7 Ownership of the Company’s share capital and voting rights 4.2.3.1 / 4.2.3.2 Patents (Intellectual property) 1.2.4.1 Principle markets 1.2.5 Report of the Chairman (works of the Board of Directors and internal control) 4.1.2.1 Research and Development 1.2.3 Sales Forecast 2.1.6 Risks associated with the pharmaceutical industry 1.2.8.2 Risks specific to the Group and its structure 1.2.8.1 Share capital 4.2.2.1 / 4.2.2.3 Share repurchase program 4.2.2.5 / 4.2.2.6 Shareholders’ agreements 4.2.3.3 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements 2.3.3 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 2.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors 4.1.2.2 Statutory Auditors’ report on regulated agreements and commitments 4.1.4 Stock options 4.2.2.3.1 Sustainable development 3.2.3.3 Transactions on company stock by Directors and Executive Officers 4.1.1.7 248 2016 Ipsen Registration document Contacts Readers can address any comments and questions on this document to: Ipsen 65, quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Phone: +33 1 58 33 50 00 Fax: +33 1 58 33 50 01 www.ipsen.com Realization DESIGN MEDIA – 01 40 55 16 66 2015 Registration document This Annual Report is also available on the Company’s website at www.ipsen.com. * Innover pour mieux soigner. www.ipsen.com
