­ – 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ­ – Contents Section Page CEO statement 3 GHD at a glance 4 Achievements & awards 5 Support for the UNGC & SDGs 6-7 Managing our risk profile 8-11 Demonstrating good governance 12-13 Developing our people 14-15 Contributing to our world positively 16-17 Assisting our clients to be more sustainable 18-19 2 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report CEO Statement “GHD supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. The challenges facing our planet require innovative thinking and bold actions. Through our professional services, we assist our clients respond to this challenge, whilst also acting in a manner that aligns our own operations with the Sustainable Development Goals that affect us most.” – Ashley Wright, CEO Ashley Wright CEO Welcome to GHD’s 2016 Sustainability Report, which provides Our annual Sustainability Report is also our UNGC an overview of sustainability related performance for the period Communication on Progress. You will find the icon (see below) from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 and serves to demonstrate throughout the 2016 Sustainability Report. It indicates where our support of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global we are providing information on our progress in implementing Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals. the United Nations Global Compact principles and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). While we delivered progress across a number of identified focus areas throughout the year, I am pleased to see volunteer hours We recognise GHD’s core values of Safety, Teamwork, Respect for internal programs and community skilled programs has and Integrity are key business assets and critical factors in our again prominently featured throughout our global operations. continued success. All of GHD’s people strive to maintain the The associated social impact of this effort and many of our standard of ethical behaviour expected by our clients, suppliers, other activities can be found in the case studies throughout this stakeholders and communities. report. Highlights from this year include our work on improving diversity and inclusion, GHD in the Community, and health and We will continue to refine our sustainability initiatives across safety performance. our business, in an effort to ensure that our programs are as effective and efficient as possible in delivering value to the GHD is committed to making the Global Compact and communities we support. its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. It is our intent to continue our engagement in Full copies of GHD’s Annual Review and Sustainability Report collaborative projects that advance the broader development are available on ghd.com goals of the United Nations and aid the communities in which Your feedback is greatly appreciated. We invite our readers to we work. share comments, suggestions and thoughts on this report by emailing news@ghd.com Thank you to all our clients for your continued support and confidence, and to our people for their dedication and commitment. Ashley Wright CEO GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 3 GHD at a glance providing engineering, architecture, environmental and construction services services to 135+ countries 200+ offices worldwide 85 + years in operation 8500+ people 2016 revenue: AUD 1.68 billion serving 5 global markets 75+ service lines Together with our clients, we create lasting community benefit. GHD is one of the world’s leading network of professionals who collaborate GHD Advisory professional services companies operating to provide services, support and To address our clients’ needs for in the global markets of water, energy and outcomes to benefit our clients, people outcomes that are beyond engineering, resources, environment, property and and the communities in which we operate. we established GHD Advisory in 2016. buildings, and transportation. We provide Values Through a unique integration of new engineering, architecture, environmental thinking, deep technical expertise, sound and construction services to private and Our business is built on four core values: business acumen and practical real-world public sector clients. • Safety – We intrinsically value the experience, GHD Advisory helps drive Information on our business focus and safety of ourselves and others efficiencies and growth for our clients financial performance can be found in the affected by our operations and across their business and asset life cycle 2016 Annual Review: www.ghd.com services. – from strategy and planning through to • Teamwork – We collaborate within closure and divestment. Across the world, GHD operates in diverse our global community by helping and and complex communities. As our reach supporting each other to achieve Employee-owned broadens, our corporate responsibilities personal, client and company goals. As a 100 percent employee-owned expand. Our architects, engineers, project professional services company, GHD • Respect – We value each individual managers and advisory professionals stands out from the competition. Our and nurture both internal and external collaborate across four regions – Australia, people have a proprietary interest in our relationships through listening and North America, Asia pPacific and Europe/ performance, and it results in higher understanding. Middle East. retention rates for key personnel. Many of • Integrity – We embrace honesty and We continue to implement our Strategy trustworthiness through professional our people have been with the company to 2020, focusing our business on a and ethical behaviour with our clients, for 20+ years. client-service led culture and a connected communities and ourselves. 4 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report Achievements & awards Kevin Castro presented at ACE 16 (AWWA) Jo Metcalfe (left), Life Member, Property “Our talented and Council of Australia passionate professionals are regularly recognised for their technical excellence. They are diverse, results-oriented and take pride in meeting client needs.” Jill Hannaford,Technical Services Leader, Australia Rankings & recognition • #26 Top Civil Engineering of Toronto, Rotman School of Company (2016) New Civil Management (2016) Canada • Above and Beyond Award (2016) Engineering US Department of Defense Employer • Catherine Startari Support of the Guard and Reserve • #26 in Top 200 Environmental National Committee for Gender Firms, #11 for hazardous waste, Equity, Australian Institute of • Best Large Waste Consultant in #18 for firms working in non-US Architects (2016) Australia Australia (2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, locations (2016) ENR 2012) Inside Waste Magazine • Jeremy Stone • #27 in Top 500 Design Firms, Australia’s Most Innovative • Employer of Choice for Gender Engineers, Engineers Australia (2016) #11 in Pure Design Firms, #6 in Equality (2014, 2015) Workplace Australia Hazardous Waste, #15 in Sewer Gender Equality Agency, Australia and Waste (2016) ENR • Adrian Spencer • Gold Medal – GHD Livigunn (2016) Young Professional Engineer of the Royal Society for the Prevention of • #30 in Top 150 Global Design Firms, #3 in Hazardous Waste, #7 Year, Engineers Australia (2016) Accidents UK South Australia in Sewer and Waste (2016) ENR • Large Sustaining Member Firm of • Frederick Tack the Year and Five-Year Sustaining • #80 Top 100 Best Performing Australian Enterprises (2016) Engineer of the Year, American Water Member Award (2016) Society of Works Association, AZ (2016) USA American Military Engineers Ibisworld • James Taylor • #5 most attractive employer • #91 in Construction Management Operations Supervisor of the Year to work for in Australia (2016) for Fee Firms List (2016) ENR Large Systems, American Water Randstad Australia Works Association, AZ (2016) USA • #6 in Top 100 Architecture Achievements – People • Alice Varkey Practices in Australasia & #90 • Chantelle Bailey Chair, Florida Water Environment globally – GHDWoodhead (2016) President’s Silver Medal, Institute of Association (FWEA), West Coast Building Design World Architecture Professional Engineers (2016) New Chapter (2016) USA • #9 in Architecture, #8 Interior Zealand • Jeremy Svehla Design, #15 Town Planning and • Shelly Deitner Engineer of the Year, American #6 Landscape Architecture – Director, Ontario Society of Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) – GHDWoodhead (2016) Business Professional Engineers (2016) Canada San Francisco Section, North Coast News WA • Tim DeRuyscher Branch (2016) USA • #18 Top 500 Private Companies in Fellow, Society of Protection Australia (2016) Ibisworld Engineers (2016) USA You can view the full list of our project awards and people’s achievements: • #20 Top Engineering Firm (2016) • Steven Grace www.ghd.com/awards Portland Business Journal US Outstanding Service Award, CSX • #23 in Top 225 International Design Corporation (2016) USA Firms, #7 in Canada and #10 • Jo Metcalfe for USA (2016) Engineering News Life Member, Property Council of Record (ENR) Australia (2016) • Aman Singh Bregman Award, University GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 5 Support for the UNGC and SDGs GHD team protecting biodiversity in New Zealand by removing wielding pines in association with Environment Canterbury The GHD Sustainability Policy provides • Principle 3: Businesses should Sustainable Development strategic direction to our achievement of: uphold the freedom of association Goals (SDGs) and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Launched in September 2015, the United Improving human wellbeing Nations Sustainable Development Goals without compromising the • Principle 4: Businesses should (SDGs) consist of 17 ambitious goals local or global environment uphold the elimination of all forms of dedicated to improving the wellbeing of forced and compulsory labour. present and future generations. over the long term. In an organisational context this • Principle 5: Businesses should means integrating social, support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human economic and environmental rights. issues into core business • Principle 6: Businesses processes to achieve should uphold the elimination environmentally and socially of discrimination in respect of responsible operations. employment and occupation. The SDGs aim to tackle the world’s most pressing challenges through the • Principle 7: Businesses should promotion of sustainable development United Nations Global support a precautionary approach over the next 15 years. Compact to environmental challenges. The introduction of the SDGs has GHD has been a signatory to the UN • Principle 8: Businesses should enabled GHD to re-energise our Global Compact since 2007. undertake initiatives to promote Sustainability Strategy in 2016. We will greater environmental responsibility. The UN Global Compact supports continue refine our approach to the companies to do business responsibly by • Principle 9: Businesses should SDGs, and identify opportunities to aligning their strategies and operations encourage the development and further lift our contribution in partnership with 10 Principles on human rights, diffusion of environmentally friendly with other organisations. We have labour, environment and anti-corruption: technologies. mapped the SDGs that we can most directly help to achieve, against our • Principle 1: Businesses should • Principle 10: Businesses should material issues – see Page 7. support and respect the protection work against corruption in all its of internationally proclaimed human forms, including extortion and Communicating progress rights. bribery. Our annual Sustainability Report is • Principle 2: Businesses should our communication on progress. The make sure they are not complicit following table indicates the connectivity in human rights abuses. between the UNGC 10 Principles, the SDGs and the key pillars of our Sustainability efforts. 6 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report Support for the UNGC and SDGs 7 8 6 9 s 5 10 y lic UN G C 1 o 4 yP ilit 0P D ab GH stain Su rin EE 1 ci DD 2 pl CC 3 e BB AA als Go en t p m o v el e De bl The key pillars codified within our Sustainability policy include: a i n a A B C Sust D E Managing our risk Developing our Contributing to our Assisting our Demonstrating good profile people world positively clients to be more governance We understand our risk We connect our people We care by minimising our sustainable We commit to our values appetite and manage our with a healthy, safe, diverse ecological impact through We create opportunities for and policies. This is reflected business to maximise and rewarding career path. resource efficiency and nature our clients to enjoy prosperity in the way we manage our opportunities by identifying Our people feel valued and conservation initiatives, and and achieve sustainability business and interact with and managing material secure in their workplace. by supporting communities goals with innovative our clients and our people risks to an acceptable level through development ideas that embrace our in accordance with a risk initiatives and our GHD in the sustainability principles management framework Community program GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 7 Materiality We understand our risk appetite and manage our business to maximise opportunities by identifying and managing material risk to an acceptable level – in accordance with a risk management framework. Geotechnical services being carried out in Canada Materiality assessment Materiality assessment phases: Materiality matrix 2016 A materiality assessment was conducted The analysis phase resulted in a to understand the current material issues consolidated list of 23 economic, ANALYSIS affecting our business. A comprehensive environmental and social issues. The analysis was performed using employee Potential business issues and engagement phase sought feedback engagement and safety surveys, impacts identified from internal through surveys from our people (many of shareholder and investor reports, and and external sources (shareholder whom are shareholders) and clients, which group risk reports. reports, employee engagement were quantified via risk assessment and surveys, external trends, group risk plotted on a Materiality Matrix. The material Three main stakeholder engagement assessment). issues have been consolidated, providing groups were identified: our people, our greater clarity for our efforts going forward. clients and our shareholders. Applying This led to the creation of key pillars listed a materiality assessment to determine > in GHD’s Sustainability Policy, which can what economic, environmental and social be found on Page 7 of this report. issues are most important to our business ENGAGEMENT and stakeholders enables us to: Detailed information on each of these • >5600 employees in People • Inform our sustainability strategy Survey risks, and how we are managing them and operational programs to develop • >4000 employee in Safety Survey are detailed with the GHD Risk Register targeted programs to improve • 600 Clients in eSurvey program and status against each is reported to business sustainability • Participation in Beaton Research Executive and Board Risk Committee • Identify emerging sustainability • UNGC performance reporting monthly. trends and issues • Review of peer reporting • Improve internal decision-making using risk based thinking • Respond to expectations of our > stakeholder During 2016, our materiality assessment REVIEW Materiality matrix 2016 consisted of three phases as shown in Prioritised items identified in the the next column. Materiality Matrix feature in the Board and Executive performance reports. And, they are validated by senior management on regular basis. 8 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report Managing our risk profile GHD Technical Services Conference, Auckland, New Zealand, 2016 The General Manager – Operational in annual strategy discussions with the Quality Support and Risk is responsible for the Board Risk Committee to discuss and management design, implementation and continuous align the continuous improvement plans GHD’s Quality improvement of the risk management for the framework with the expectations Management framework. of the Board. System was first certified to ISO 9001 This accountability extends to The company’s activities are shaped by in February 1993. Since that time it has the development of the GHD risk our management system and culture. evolved and improved as GHD has grown management culture and the capability Guided by four governing policies, the and expanded. of our people to identify, understand and principles of sustainability are embedded Lloyds Register Quality Assurance treat risk. in all aspects of our operations and (LRQA), has been part of GHD’s journey relayed to new and existing employees since the beginning and provides As such, the General Manager monitors through our e-learning and on-boarding independent auditing of GHD’s Quality and reports on the GHD risk profile programs. Management System. in addition to providing independent assurance on the effectiveness of key Relevant corporate teams (eg Business The company’s maturity in quality risk management and internal controls Services, Finance, HSE, Quality etc.) management is illustrated by award of a in the business to the CEO, Executive engage with the business to monitor and three-year certification cycle. Management Group (EMG), the Board review the implementation of the risk and its Risk Committee. management framework to identify gaps Health, safety and environmental in the effective management of risk and management In addition, the General Manager opportunities to continuously improve the Operational Support and Risk participates Our goal is to framework and its implementation. be one brand, renowned for client service and a culture of safety. To achieve this goal, we have created a five year GHD HSE Strategic Plan – SAFE You, SAFE Me, SAFE GHD. By regularly reviewing our achievements against the HSE Strategy’s goals, we will continually improve our safety performance. Our global HSE Framework, including Management Standards, creates company-wide consistency and a platform for improvement. GHD management systems are certified to OHASAS 1800 and ISO 14001 and accredited with a range of industry 3rd party providers (eg ISN Achilles). GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 9 Managing our risk profile Soil sampling Integrity management Anti-slavery Client satisfaction GHD’s Integrity Management GHD is committed to upholding human GHD’s Strategy to 2020 inspires us to System (IMS) is integrated within the rights, including the protection of children become the recognised industry leader Management System Framework of the and the prevention of human trafficking, for client service. GHD governance model. slavery and forced labour, consistent with A key focus is a commitment to client international conventions and laws. This At its core, is our Business Code of service excellence from all our people. commitment is codified in GHD’s AntiConduct (our Integrity Management Slavery statement. One way we measure this is feedback Guidelines) which establishes the from our clients via our eSurvey process standards of business behaviour and Practical implementation of this with a set of questions that reflects our conduct, and associated principles commitment is provided through GHD’s focus on client service excellence, and: of operation in order to give effect Integrity Management System and to the commitments in the Board’s Quality Management System. These • Improve GHD’s client service and Integrity Management Policy. The expectations (along with Quality, HSE and project delivery and building a operational procedures and compliance wider Integrity requirements) flow down business development element to requirements are embedded in the to our suppliers through our Supplier our culture. various Management Systems, primarily Registration Scheme. • Demonstrate GHD’s commitment to the Quality Management System, People listening to our clients and providing Management System and Financial a medium for clients to provide Management System. Information security honest and constructive feedback. Reporting and investigation of integrity GHD’s Information Security Management • Encourage direct communication related matters is facilitated through System (ISMS) has aligned with the ISO between clients and GHD teams on GHD’s electronic Incident Reporting 27001 standard since its inception in performance, issues resolution and System and refreshers of these guidelines 2006. improvements. are undertaken every two years by all Our Strategy to 2020 includes an employees. • Measure client satisfaction levels enterprise-wide initiative to certify against specific project performance Our Integrity Management System is the GHD ISMS against the ISO/IEC criteria. benchmarked against international 27001:2013 standard which is currently standards such as ISO 37001:2016 – underway. • Provide a reporting mechanism to Anti-Bribery Management Systems. operating centre managers for client This executive-level commitment to the satisfaction on individual projects. continuous improvement of the GHD Information Security Program ensures that GHD has and continues to identify and manage information security risks in accordance with our risk profile. 10 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report Performance highlights 2016 Health and safety A 25% improvement in Positive Interactions was achieved compared to this time last year (3.62 per Full Time Equivalent (FTE) interactions against a target of 3.0). Quality A 15% reduction in Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) was achieved compared to FY15 results. Actual rates can be We have completed our recertification audit and LRQA has seen below. In summary, our efforts over the past year have recommended an upgrade to ISO 9001:2015 (excluding resulted in both lead and lag indicators treading in a positive North America). This upgrade calls for more focus on direction. leadership and risk-based thinking. Our North American operations will seek to have their regional quality system Lead v Lag Indicators (1 million hours) Global upgraded in FY17. 3.5 3 2.5 2 1.5 1 0.5 Smart behaviours 0 The introduction of our SMART Behaviours Model is an evolution in our approach to safety. It encourages and empowers our people to demonstrate positive safety 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 behaviours, avoid undesired actions, and cease work if risks TRIR (1 million hrs) Positive interactions by FTE to human safety or the environment occur. The proactive management of safety behaviours in this fair, transparent and repeatable manner will serve to greatly Anti-slavery increase accountability and trust, while strengthening our In response to the enacted Modern Slavery Act 2015, we overall safety culture. have developed an annual statement for the 2015-16 financial year, which is published on GHD’s website. The statement reflects our position in the supply chain, is Board approved and our position is reported annually. Client satisfaction – target = 4.4/5 For 2015/16 we received eSurvey responses from 600 clients. Crisis management Encouragingly, compared against our target of 4.4, our weighted average eSurvey score was 4.33 out of 5.0 which is Refresher training for 12 of our of major operations was an improvement over the previous two years. undertaken under the GHD Crisis Management framework training, and scenario testing occurred for 12 of our major Client satisfaction ratings operations. Overall performance Team accessibility Timeliness Our Crisis Management processes were again tested & responsiveness in 2016 with major earthquakes again occurring in New Zealand, with our people responding accordingly. We also completed a review of our processes to include provisions for injury of GHD employees travelling or living overseas. 87% 91% 84% Information security Significant progress has been made during 2016 in Source: GHD’s client satisfaction ratings are produced from our FY16 client eSurvey results mapping GHD ISMS against ISO/IEC 27001:2013 in in response to our clients’ satisfaction towards GHD on project deliverables including overall performance, team accessibility & responsiveness, and timeliness. For every eSurvey preparation for certification audit. completed by our clients, GHD donates AUD10 to UNICEF. GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 11 Demonstrating good governance We commit to our values and policies. This is reflected in the way we manage our business and interact with our clients and our people. On behalf of the Board and Executive 1. Determination of purpose – Committee of the Board four times a year. responsibility for the coordination, analysis exploration of and approving GHD’s The report addresses impacts, risks and reporting of organisational sustainability core purpose, goals and strategy to opportunities with respect to health and strategies rests with the Group Manager achieve these goals. safety, reputation, business practices and Health and Safety and Environment, with 2. Governance culture – operating ethics. practical implementation of the strategies within a high performance culture The Board receives regular reports the responsibility of General Managers that celebrates debate, thoughtful including: risk, corporate responsibility, responsible for the specific disciplines. challenge, commitment, candor HSE, diversity and inclusion, unethical Governance structure and trust. This requires effective practices and other matters that may The GHD Board has ultimate authority relationships within the Board, and affect our reputation. over the company and regards corporate with management, shareholders and Board Committees governance as a critical element in other stakeholders. The GHD Board Committees (Audit and achieving our objectives. Accordingly, the 3. Accountability – effective Risk) are responsible for assisting the Board has adopted appropriate standards demarcation of responsibilities Board in fulfilling its corporate governance and policies and established a number of through delegated authorities responsibilities, including: committees to discharge its duties. and policies, providing informed, • Integrity of GHD’s financial reporting The CEO reports directly to the Board. astute and effective oversight of management, and ensuring • Compliance with legal and regulatory The Executive Management Group (EMG) senior management selection and obligations is the senior management leadership team for GHD. The EMG advises the CEO succession processes are effective. • Effectiveness of GHD’s enterprise with regard to the effective and efficient 4. Compliance – ensuring the wide risk management and functioning of our global organisation. company is and remains solvent, accountability structures Respective corporate teams (eg Business probity of financial reports, • Oversight of the independence of Services, Finance, HSE, Quality, etc.) compliance with the regulatory external and internal auditors provide independent, objective assurance environment, operating ethically and The CEO is responsible for the day-to-day and advisory services on GHD systems consistently with its risk management management of GHD, with all powers, of risk management, internal compliance, framework. discretions and delegations authorised and control. The election of both executive and from time to time by the Board. GHD’s GHD Board FY16 independent non-executive directors is executive management team is known undertaken by GHD shareholders. When as the EMG. The group is chaired by The Board is made up of nine appointing new directors, the Board the CEO and meets monthly to review representatives (of which three are and its Nominations Committee seek an the performance of the company and women) and together with the CEO appropriate balance of skills, experience, make decisions that impact the overall have an appropriate balance of skills, expertise and diversity. operations of the business. experience and expertise, and bring independent judgement to bear in Material risks and internal controls Transparency and disclosure decision making. GHD has processes to systematically Effective communication and collaboration The role of the Board is to add value identify, assess and report on both assist GHD to deal with change. We use through furthering the achievement of financial and non-financial business risks. our internal website and emails to deliver GHD’s core purpose. This is achieved in A strategic and operational Risk Report important messages. four critical areas: is prepared and analysed by both In addition, ‘Staff Briefing’ sessions management and the Audit and Risk are presented by senior management 12 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report Demonstrating good governance Work on the Elan Valley Aqueduct, UK in our regions on ‘headline’ issues • No GHD representative may directly facing the business – often using video or indirectly offer, promise, grant or authorise the giving of money or Performance highlights 2016 conferencing. Local office information anything else of value to client and sessions inform our people and location Diversity & inclusion government officials to influence official specific updates. GHD supports and action or obtain improper advantage. Increase in female board membership encourages our people to voice their Facilitation fees are not acceptable. up to 3 out of 9. opinions and concerns as part our • All charitable donations must be communication strategy. transparent and clearly documented Engagement – People Survey In 2007, GHD implemented its first including the recipient’s identity and Engaged and empowered people independently-managed global employee confirmation that it was used for the are a fundamental strength of GHD’s intended purpose. We do not make engagement survey. Every year, the organisation and culture. direct political contributions including survey results are shared with our people donations to politicians, parties or We have conducted annual conduct and programs are implemented to candidates. regular People Surveys globally that manage any shortfalls. • Developing and maintaining client seek input on our business. To create a comfortable and motivated relationships is fundamental to sustainable business. By nature, these In the first People Survey conducted work environment, senior leaders are in North America following our relationships can include opportunities encouraged to relay key messages on for entertainment and gifts. Gifts must merged operations, our commitment strategy and vision to all employees. also comply with applicable laws and to clients and conducting work safely Ethical behaviour recognised local customs. were seen as two of our greatest GHD regards good corporate governance • All transactions and payments must strengths, and engagement levels be transparent and able to stand the were pleasingly high. as a critical element in our business scrutiny of an audit. practices and culture. We are committed Engagement – Safety Culture • It is expected that our people make to ethical business behaviour. This Survey business decisions in the best interests includes both internal conduct, and of GHD and our clients, and not our engagement with clients, and the This was GHD’s first Safety Culture based on their personal interests. Any community. potential conflict of interest must be Survey and the results were very disclosed. encouraging if not excellent, achieving We have an established Integrity IBM (Survey Facilitator) world class Management System. At its core sits an • The safety of our people and those around us is paramount, as is results in several criteria and provided Integrity Management Policy and Integrity confidence our efforts are recognised the protection of the environment Management Guidelines. The pivotal from harm. We will not tolerate any and accepted. element of our approach to integrity is abuse of human rights, any form of a zero tolerance towards unethical or discrimination, or the use of child Integrity unacceptable business conduct. labour. Aligning with our corporate Our commitment to ethical business • We foster an open environment governance initiatives including antibehaviour means that: where all our people can report fraud, we continued our journey to any suspected, fraudulent or other • Compliance with the law is fundamental, heightened levels of integrity in FY16. improper practice without fear of even in the face of contrary accepted reprisal. Our efforts are guided by the GHD local business practices or customs. • We will cooperate fully with external Integrity Management System • We compete fairly for our commissions agencies investigating corrupt Refresher e-learning for our people. based on quality, price and innovative practices within legal parameters. services, not by offering improper benefits to others. GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 13 Developing our people Through our connected global network, we enable people to have a healthy, safe, diverse and rewarding career path. Our people feel valued and secured in their workplace. Andree Maltais, Technologist, GHD At GHD, people are at the heart of our A commitment to our Health Safety sets out our ongoing commitment to the success, culture and enduring client Environment (HSE) Policy is a hallmark objectives and obligations in the Modern relationships. of GHD’s approach. Slavery Act 2015 (UK). Our connected global network comprises We embed HSE into every aspect of Developing our people a talented group of professionals who our operations, and protecting the are known for their technical prowess, safety of our people, our clients and the GHD Business School business acumen and long-term communities and environments in which The iconic GHD Business School is commitment to our clients and GHD. we operate. This enables us to promote a critical organisational capability that the delivery of our cultural objective: ‘Safe underpins our technical leadership and Great place to work You, Safe Me, Safe GHD’. supports our people’s development and Our 100 percent employee-owned career aspirations. GHD’s Integrity Management Policies business means our people have a and Guidelines establish our behavioural It plays a key part in the high retention vested interest in delivering and caring for expectations and conduct requirements. rates of our people through the delivery clients. of a combination of internal programs – As part of this commitment, we comply Additionally, our flat, regionally-focused such as training, seminars, eLearning and with the laws of the countries in which we operational model provides active conferences – and access to endorsed operate, and promote ethical business involvement in shaping the company’s external training initiatives. and personal behaviour consistent with direction, growth and success. Mobility our core values of Safety, Teamwork, To achieve this, we focus on the key Respect and Integrity. Relocation or transfer of our people elements of a great place to work. That (permanent or temporary) is guided Our Child Protection Statement is, we aim to create a high performing by the Relocations @ GHD online applies to employees, subcontractors workplace by embedding organisational portal. Access to health, education and and volunteers engaged within the GHD behaviours, developing our leaders and housing for our people and their families group of companies on international investing in our people for today and is considered and managed via this development assistance projects and tomorrow. framework. its implementation facilities. It reaffirms Policies our commitment to not use – directly or Engagement indirectly – forced labour or child labour. GHD maintains a suite of policies which We measure our people’s engagement outline minimum requirements for GHD’s Equal Employment Opportunity via the GHD People Survey and Safety conducting business and the standards Policy illustrates the company’s Survey, which: to be upheld by all of our people. commitment to women in the workforce, ensuring non-discrimination in personnel • Provides our people with an Our values of Safety, Teamwork, opportunity to voice their opinions practices and making reasonable Respect and Integrity reflect accommodations for all employees’ • Enables identification of areas for the collective behaviours, values, religious observance and practices. improvement expectations and attitudes of the company. They reflect ‘the way things are Anti-slavery statement • Supplies sufficient information for done around here’ and determine how development of group and local We commit to conducting our business we relate to our clients, both internal and action plans in compliance with the law and in the external, and our role as a responsible interests of the community. Our statement corporate citizen. 14 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report Performance highlights 2016 The GHD Business School team Talent Diversity and inclusion Training activities Our long-standing commitment to This year, we continued working towards During the year, we delivered more than organisational renewal and growth is the gender equity goals established 25,000 face-to-face and eLearning based on recruiting over 5% of our in 2015 and embedding initiatives training activities globally, including consulting staff each year as new surrounding GHD’s Step Up Strategy. design and delivery of health and graduates (200+ per annum). safety, leadership and management Our continued focus on gender diversity development, client service skills, as well This continuous renewal achieved by has resulted in a marked rise in female as environmental awareness programs attracting and retaining talented university participation overall during 2016 and for North America. and college graduates is key to developing expected further increases in leadership GHD’s future leaders. appointments expected in following During the year, we launched a new years within global, regional and recruitment campaign ‘my GHD impact’ technical executive roles. which features people across the business sharing their work experiences and Diversity and inclusion step-up plan 2014-2016 discussing the real difference they are making to the communities in which we Industry leader operate. See: www.ghd.com/global/ careers/graduates/ Encouragingly, GHD is also achieving Leveraging greater gender balance in its university opportunities and college recruits, with most parts of our business approaching a 40:60 ratio of women to men, which is creditable for our industry. Embracing diversity Career opportunities We offer our people rewarding careers with a wide variety of experiences within their home country and beyond. 2014 2015 2016 Our newly launched Cracking Careers Diversity Group Australia Higher profile/employer of Diversity culture embedded campaign is helping raise awareness of choice recognition Gender equity Targets in place internal job opportunities globally. More diversity in senior Strengthen leadership roles Shift to other emerging We continue to facilitate a mobile pipeline diversity issues workforce to encourage people to seek Unconscious bias Indigenous programs awareness education Refresh / restructure / new challenges across the GHD network dissolve Diversity Group of 200+ offices. The introduction of a new Flexibility Diversity Group extended migration support service is also resulting Internal/external profile to other regions in enhanced employee experience for international transfers. GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 15 Contributing to our world positively We care by minimising our ecological impact through resource efficiency and nature conservation initiatives, and by supporting communities through development initiatives Support the American Heart Association’s Go and our GHD in the Community program. Red for Women Day Our Sustainability Policy and HSE Policy Additionally, GHD preferences suppliers the enthusiasm, commitment and ideas confirm our commitment to care for the providing cost effective sustainable of our people to engage in beneficial health and safety of our people and the products. opportunities that make a difference environment. for less advantaged people within our Sustainability in design communities and other worthy causes. Support is provided through the Focusing on ‘designing for sustainability’, consistent applications of these policies The GITC objectives are to: our people apply the GHD Project which are internationally certified through Impact Assessment (PIA) process in their • Support the execution of high impact GHD’s HSE Management System. projects. strategic community projects The strategic and operational PIA is a methodology used by GHD • Become a vehicle for direct implementation of HSE at an business development and project teams corporate investment, fundraising organisational level is the responsibility of to evaluate the social, economic and and volunteering the Executive Management Group (EMG) environmental impacts of projects and as – chaired by the Chief Executive Officer • Expand opportunities for our a way to brainstorm project improvement (CEO). employees to be directly or indirectly strategies. involved in GITC activities GHD contributes to the public This is also supported by the Environment environmental debate through our • Raise awareness of GHD corporate in Design Guidelines for smaller projects. involvement with industry associations in responsibility credentials with its Coupled with partnerships with industry the countries where we have permanent stakeholders organisations, our people maintain the operations. currency of their discipline via structured GHD recognises and acknowledges We interact with all levels of government technical forums. employees for their personal contribution in the countries in which we operate on in activities that help promote the key Additionally, GHD makes the ‘best matters within our sphere of influence. themes of education, disaster recovery, available technology’ available to our skilled volunteering, diversity and Sustainability targets and indicators clients. inclusion and enterprise development. (economic, environmental and social) GHD in the Community as they relate to GHD are reported on a regular basis through the Executive In 2011, we established the GHD in the Reporting System as well as Executive Community (GITC) program. and Operating Centre management GITC provides funding and resources structures. support for worthwhile activities in the Environmental stewardship global and local communities within which GHD operates its business. GHD’s Environmental Stewardship approach details the environment specific It is designed to promote the ideal that objectives and targets and the reporting we all like give back to our communities, requirements for each. in a meaningful way, as an organisation and as individuals. GHD influences ‘downstream’ suppliers via procurement process requirements Generally, the nature of GITC activities including Registration of Subcontractors, is philanthropic and humanitarian, and Terms of Engagement. combining the resources of GHD with 16 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report Performance highlights 2016 Supporting disaster relief In the USA, we supported the victims of the Valley Fire in Northern California. In Australia, we partnered with Sydney Water to donate more than 300 bales of hay to drought-stricken farmers. And, as part of our partnership with RedR Australia, our people were EWB team in Sam M’Bollet, The Gambia deployed to Nepal following the earthquake and Vanuatu to assist with drought relief. And, we helped the WHO respond to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. Making a difference Our people in the USA and Canada supported an increasing number of causes: Habitat for Humanity, American Heart Association, Take Your Kids to Work/Earth Day event, Sick Kids Hospital, MS Society, Siena/Francis House, CANstruction, Movember, Pierre Lavoie Challenge, Heart & Stroke Foundation, Vision Research, Never Alone Foundation, Volunteers for Youth Justice, Women’s Crisis Services, Sacramento Food Bank & Family Services, and more. Fundraising for MS in Canada For the seventh year in a row, GHD people have completed the 150 km (93 miles) Grand Bend to London bike ride in Ontario in support of the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Society of Canada. Our team raised more than CAD36,000 to help people with MS. Dragon boating in UK The rouGHDiamonds, a team of GHD rowers, came first in the London Construction Industry Dragon Boat Challenge, thereby contributing to charity CRASH. Assisting Indigenous people Engineers Without Borders (EWB) GHD in Australia continued to provide As part of our flagship partnership with EWB, our people are involved in various internship placements and support for programs to assist communities in Australia, USA, Canada, Asia & Africa. This includes a range of study tours and technical mentoring of volunteers, and a development program Indigenous university students through in The Gambia, West Africa. our association with CareerTrackers. To date, GHD has hosted more than 45 In Australia, we support the Yorta Yorta Indigenous community and have begun helping students, helping them gain experience the Olkola Aboriginal Corporation develop a tourism enterprise. in a variety of disciplines. GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 17 Assisting our clients to be more sustainable We create opportunities for our clients to enjoy prosperity and achieve sustainability goals with innovative ideas that embrace our sustainability principles. GHD believes that its most significant GHD’s award-winning Innovation program contribution to sustainability is through is about business growth though “Thank you [GHD] for staying on top of all of these projects and ensuring the projects we work on with our clients. delivering new ideas, technology and that we get our reporting – Hazardous business models. Materials (HazMat), Site Remediation The range of work we do and the clients (SiteRem) – done in a timely manner.” we assist are broad, and we aim for Connecting infrastructure outcomes that provide a balance of Traci Rohde, Program Manager Led by GHD, this initiative provides asset Environmental Operations, Union Pacific environmental benefits, community owners with comprehensive end-to-end Railroad Operations, USA advantages and economic prudence. solutions to adapt to digital infrastructure The two key elements of GHD’s strategy and respond to the ways it is changing revolve around leveraging our connected the fundamental nature of common “GHD was able to complete the global network to put the best people infrastructure assets. proposed work [Sackville Rivers See: www.connectinginfrastructure.org Floodplain Study Phase 1] on time we have on a project – and a clientand on budget. GHD also managed service led culture – where we focus on Innovation and excellence a relatively major change in the partnering with our clients in the long proposed technical approach with no Now in its third year, GHD expanded additional costs or schedule impacts.” term. the Smart Seeds program to six cities Cameron Deacoff, Environmental With the additional economic challenges where YPs came together to solve real Performance Officer, Halifax Regional encountered on many projects, we are infrastructure challenges. Municipality, Canada finding clients are increasingly interested See: www.smartseeds.org in innovative concepts, which helps to GHD Advisory’s Innovation team is increase their overall sustainability. “Overall the project was completed on establishing an Innovation Hub for the time and on budget. It also delivered Also, we have a strong interest in having Queensland Government to assist with an innovative solution that will be sustainability concepts integrated into real bringing new ideas to the resources, used on other projects across the projects. We believe this is the key next engineering and construction sectors – airport. This has been a great model in project management and design that step in sustainability worldwide: to make on a global scale. the Auckland Airport will use again.” changes in what we build and do. David Hall, Infrastructure Reliability Manager, Auckland Airport, New Zealand 18 | GHD 2016 Sustainability Report Performance highlights 2016 Water Reclamation Centre, Canada Wetland Condition Assessment, Australia Reclaimed Water System, USA The Regional Municipality of York is developing For Melbourne Water, we have developed a In Alexandria, Virginia – one of America’s oldest one of the most advanced wastewater treatment large-scale condition assessment across 1100 towns – GHD has designed a system to supply facilities in Canada. Designed by GHD, the stormwater treatment assets – constructed reclaimed water to commercial, residential Water Reclamation Centre will help restore wetlands, sediment ponds and lakes. We and industrial customers, and reduce nutrients the Lake Simcoe watershed by producing used remote sensing technology to assess discharged to the Chesapeake Bay watershed. ultra-low phosphorus concentration. Following vegetation cover – as a measure of the By taking advantage of excellent transmissivity work on the environmental assessment, we condition of the spatially fragmented assets – results from the treatment plant and a new will also provide construction administration, virtually eliminating the need for fieldwork. As in-line UV system, capital costs were greatly water resources modelling and stakeholder a result, Melbourne Water estimates AUD20M reduced. engagement services. could be saved over five years*. Elan Valley Aqueduct, UK Transforming Water Infrastructure, Philip. Galliford Try Waste 2 Energy, UK As part of securing Birmingham’s water supply With rapid urbanisation putting significant Our teams in the UK and Australia are for the next century, GHD is helping rehabilitate pressure on water and sanitation infrastructure collaborating on the detailed design of 3 low a 100-year old aqueduct which brings water in the Philippines, we are helping a number of carbon Waste 2 Energy power plants that use from Wales. Joining the Elan Valley reservoirs clients improve services, including Manila Water innovative gasification technology. The plants will to Birmingham, the 117 km (73 mile) long Company and Maynilad Water Services. We are use wood waste and potentially refuse-derived aqueduct is showing signs of ageing. With most also providing technical assistance in financial fuel to each generate 10MW of low carbon of it located below ground, GHD is completing aid reviews for water supply projects in rural power. Due to the scale of the projects, GHD temporary and permanent works design for and provincial areas, including Rizal, Cebu, is using comprehensive 3D modelling and BIM three tunnel sections and a siphon replacement. Zamboanga, Pampanga, and Tarlac. functionality in which all discipline and vendor inputs are represented. Australia Pacific LNG, Australia Remediation for Petroleum Company, Aus. Residual Management & Compliance, USA Since 2010, GHD has played a key role in the GHD has provided environmental consultancy Our long-term association with Shell is helping Australia Pacific LNG project on Curtis Island and remediation services for one of Australia’s the company better manage environmental off the coast of Gladstone in Queensland. largest petroleum companies at 21 operational compliance. We manage a variety of terminal Working alongside Bechtel, we mobilised more sites across 6 states. We developed and pipeline wastes generated from operating than 25 services including marine and planning remediation and contamination management activities at 105 locations across the USA. to support the project’s growing needs. We strategies for each site. This helped Additionally, we provide environmental assisted with project and regulatory approvals, address regulatory compliance and assess compliance training to a range of pipeline sites. design and documentation of the early works contamination status to confirm suitability for Shell uses GHD’s WasteManager© Database to and support during construction. continued operation. track the residuals generated from these sites. Biodiversity Offsets & Biobanking, Australia Major Annual Criteria Pollutant & Anaerobic Digestion Facility, Canada The recent construction of 6 km (3.7 miles) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting, USA We are helping develop one of the largest food of new and upgraded track within Sydney’s We have completed a major annual criteria waste anaerobic digestion facilities in North rail corridor between Epping and Thornleigh pollutant and greenhouse gas emissions America for the Regional Municipality of Peel stations is being offset with biodiversity credits. reporting effort for several oil and gas clients in Ontario, Canada. The facility will process GHD completed the biobanking assessment in accordance with state and federal EPA 120,000 tonnes (132,000 tons) of residential which has resulted in placing the Sophia Doyle requirements. The inventory projects covered food waste bringing the Region one step closer and William Joyce Reserve under a biobanking over 4000 exploration and production sites, to achieving its 75% waste diversion target. GHD agreement. Income generated will allow rehab. 79 major gas processing plants, and 71 large is supporting the planning, procurement, design and management of other natural areas. compressor stations in Texas and New Mexico. and construction. GHD 2016 Sustainability Report | 19 www.ghd.com Services • Aquatic Sciences • Hydrocarbons Processing • Resource Evaluation • Agriculture • Hydrocarbons Transportation • Risk • Air and Noise • Hydrogeology • Road Network Management • Architecture • Impact Assessment & Permitting • Road Systems • Asset & Facilities Management • Industrial Water & Waste • Security • Aviation Management • Spatial Sciences • Bridges • Information Services • Stakeholder Engagement & Social • Building Sciences & Physics • Instrumentation & Control Sustainability • Climate Change • Integrated Water Management • Structures • Communication Systems • Intelligent Transport Systems • Tailings (Mines & Residue) • Construction Contracting • Interior Design • Transportation Planning & Traffic • Contamination Assessment & • Irrigation Engineering Remediation • Land Development & Municipal • Tunnels • Dams Engineering • Waste Management • Data Management Services • Landscape Architecture • Wastewater & Stormwater Collection • Design Documentation • Light Rail Systems • Electrical Engineering – Buildings • Maritime & Coastal Engineering • Wastewater Treatment & Recycling • Electrical Engineering – Industrial • Materials Handling • Water & Wastewater Strategy & • Emergency Response • Materials Technology Planning • Engineering Procurement & • Minerals Processing • Water Efficiency Construction Management (EPCM) • Mining Engineering • Water Transmission & Distribution • Fire & Life Safety • Mining Geosciences • Water Treatment & Desalination • Food Processing • Natural Resources • Waterways & Coastal • Forensic Engineering • Pavement Engineering • Forestry Management • Planning Connect with us: • Geology • Plant Engineering • www.facebook.com/GHDGroup • Geotechnical • Policy & Economics • www.linkedin.com/company/ghd • Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) • Power Delivery • https://twitter.com/GHDspeaks Systems & Industrial Hygiene • Power Generation • Heating, Ventilation & Air • Project Management • https://twitter.com/ghdgraduate Conditioning (HVAC) • Railways • https://twitter.com/GHDwoodhead • Hydraulics – Buildings • Renewable Energy • https://twitter.com/GHD_NAmerica This publication is printed at an ISO14001:2004 certified plant with Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification. © Copyright GHD Group Pty Ltd 2016. All right reserved. ABN 32 118 062 258
