UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 1 In a rapidly changing world, it Thoughts from the MP and CSR Partner is our belief that those companies that build their business on sustainability will be the most Developing society successful. Welcome to our UN Global Compact Communication on Progress report 2017. In a rapidly changing world, it is our belief that those companies that build their business on sustainability will be the most successful. Strong results go hand in hand with companies keeping an eye on the future and taking the long-term consequence into consideration. It is essential for us in every way that through our legal advice we steer our clients’ operations towards increased accountability. And we want to act responsibly ourselves as well. Our most important job is to make our clients successful and at the same time help make our people become successful. We cannot make our clients successful if we do not have the best people who are also allowed to develop their talents in the best possible way with us. The two go hand in hand. We will be a success to our clients if we succeed in attracting the best people and through collaboration and the right framework develop all people in a way that enables them to show their talents. Inherently, it is a central part of the legal profession to participate in the development of society due to our important role in the realisation and development of the rule of law. It is just as natural to us that, through pro bono work, we provide legal expertise and experience to more people in Denmark. However, legal expertise is not everything. We believe that education is a fundamental human right for everyone, regardless of his or her background, to have fair and equal access to education. This is why we invest so much in the School Project which helps pupils understand the importance of getting an education. The School Project has turned out to be the right solution as all pupils in the classes that have been a part of the Project have continued their studies after the 9th grade, which is quite a big change for the schools. We continue making great progress on our CSR work. Our aim is to have a sustainably run business and it is clear that it generates value for all of our surroundings. A big thank you to our clients who support our work. Thank you to all our people who are passionate about CSR and thank you to the entire Plesner team for their dedicated, ambitious and enthusiastic contributions every day. Tom Kári Kristjánsson Casper Münter Managing Partner CSR Partner Copenhagen, June 2017 2 3 3 The School Project Education is the way Plesner’s School Project forward for young persons facing challenges The project comprises two schools in Nørrebro in Copenhagen. Young persons’ choice of education today will influence their Two classes that started the 8th future tomorrow. We are now ready to share the extremely satisyear in August 2017 factory experience from our work with the school project and give other companies an opportunity to become involved. Nørrebro Park Skole The School Project is the flagship of Plesner’s CSR Learning by doing Programme a socially useful project that, for the sixth consecutive year, makes a significant and Each pupil has a role model who will follow him One class that started the 9th year measurable difference to schoolchildren by inspiring or her throughout the project and help him or her in August 2017 them to focus on education. decide which field of education to pursue. As a former pupil at Nørrebro Park Skole and someone who has broken the established pattern, Shaina is ”When we started the one of eight role models. Blågård Skole School Project in 2011, we ”We started from scratch, we have learned a lot on the hoped it would work. At way and we have gradually become more confident the time, our only ambition as role models. Throughout the process we have had was that if we could make a a close and inspiring collaboration with both the Since the beginning of 2011, more than 100 difference for one pupil, the school management and the teachers, and it has been pupils have taken part in the School Project and project would be a success. important to us to listen to the pupils’ own wishes and ideas during the development of the project”, explains they have all decided to continue their studies. Six years later, we have Shaina. seen the same positive development among the pupils many times, and now we know The pupils have now also expressed a wish to stay that it works. That is why it is so satisfying in touch, both with each other and with the role models, when they leave after their final exams. that today we can prove that all pupils who Work is therefore actively being done in the form of “We have come to know the have been involved in the project have new initiatives on social media, for example Facedecided to continue their studies. According book, that are to make it possible to stay in contact role models really well and it to the managements of our partner schools and follow the pupils on their way through further is rewarding to talk to them, in Nørrebro, this is very rare”. education or jobs. “We would really like to thank especially in small groups Plesner for this fantastic project. For Shaina Jabbar, Attorney-at-Law, Partner Increasing interest from the where we also talk about more Responsible for the School Project giving us the opportunity to visit business community personal stuff” companies and for opening our eyes The results are overwhelming Visits to companies where the pupils are introduced Thea, 8th grade to future job opportunities. Thank to a multitude of job functions form an important As a co-promoter and the person who is responsible part of the School Project. Interest among busiyou so much for letting us be part of for the School Project, Plesner Partner Shaina Jabbar nesses that want to invite the pupils to come visit has cause to rejoice in the results of the project your project. We are really grateful.“ has been steadily increasing. Many businesses want that far exceed the original expectations. Since the to open their doors to young persons who will be beginning, the project has developed enormously, a the employees of the future in a few years and want Fathma, 9th grade development that to a high degree is founded on the to be involved in influencing their choice of jobs and persistent interest and support of everyone involved. careers. The school classes have visited McDonald’s, This goes for both schools, pupils, role models, the Copenhagen Metropolitan Police, Dong Energy, businesses and, not least, Plesner’s own people. Sund & Bælt and Berendsen Textil Service, among many others. The pupils have been well received “For a long time I only thought ”Every time we start working with new school classes, it is a pleasant surprise how soon the pupils embrace the everywhere and a few times businesses have even that I was to be in school for project. We are met by great open-mindedness and a helped procure internships and student jobs. nine to ten years. But today I desire to be involved in the project, and the enthusiasm think differently. I like working of the pupils is far and away the most important driving with my hands and I would force for the collaboration”. like to become an engineer or a doctor.” 44 5 5 Mohammed, 8th grade ”Just imagine how many young persons we will Like ripples in the water The distinctively increased interest from the It takes a truly committed person It is a prime requisite for becoming involved in a be able to reach if we get new businesses on surroundings is the reason why Plesner, headed by Shaina, is now ready to share our experience in school project that you are passionate about making a difference and are ready to commit yourself to the hope that others will seize the good idea and some young persons who are both facing challenges board that want to be actively involved in this contribute to making a difference. She has collected experiences in a manual that illustrates the concept and are vulnerable. It is a big task that should not be underestimated. However, if you decide to follow the project. It is my greatest wish that the School and makes it plain why and how a business should get involved in a school project. pupils closely and help them on the way, you will get lots of gratitude, energy and joy in return. Shaina’s motivation is also based on her personal experience Project becomes a permanent thing and that we ”After a cautious start we can see that the message about the school project is spreading like ripples in the water. In the beginning, we sought out possible of breaking the cycle of disadvantage and setting your sights high in terms of education and career. will succeed in spreading it all over Denmark.” businesses but now businesses and organisations are contacting us. They realise that this is a unique project ”To me, there is no doubt. Education is the central element of a person’s personal and career development that makes a difference for the pupils by motivating and the degrees of freedom I have obtained today. For them to get an education. For me, it would be fantastic every step I have climbed up the educational system Shaina Jabbar, Attorney-at-Law, Partner if we could succeed in inspiring other businesses to I have been able to break away, in a positive way, adopt the idea and become involved in a socially useful from the prevailing prejudices and restrictions in my project on a nation-wide basis”. social environment. My family have seen me flourish and I have been fortunate to have their support. I use Initially, we plan to invite a number of resourceful the room and the opportunity I have as a role model businesses focusing on CSR to participate in a to some of the girls in the School Project to tell them dialogue about the interest and possibility to set about my own experiences and how I have succeeded up a school project. They will get a ready formula in reaching my goals against all odds. In my world, on how to get started as well as a number of good everything is possible and achievable if you really want reasons for committing to a school project. it. Those are the seeds I would like to sow in the pupils to enable them to make their own choices on an informed ”Overall, this is about the importance of basis. It is really of immense value to me to see them assuming social responsibility for children develop in such a positive way during the course of the and young people facing challenges to make project”, says Shaina. them more aware of their future prospects. But we have also seen our own business being re-energised and our employees being proud. It is our intention that the good advice, ideas and guidelines in the manual are to make it as easy and smooth as possible for businesses that are interested. That is why the package also includes a hotline to Plesner in order to ensure that the businesses get all the help they need during the upstart phase”. Shaina Jabbar, Attorney-at-Law, Partner The School Project receives the Dreyer Award In the autumn of 2016, the Plesner School Project received the Association of Danish Law Firms’ distinguished Dreyer Award. The award was given for the great effort with respect to social responsibility and the example set by Plesner to the legal industry as a whole. The honour is accompanied by a sum of money that is to be spent on further work on the project. “I am proud that the project is recognised and made visible. I am very pleased on behalf of both Plesner, the School Project and the pupils. The money accompanying the award is to be spent on making a difference for as many pupils as possible in the two schools in a manner that the pupils will be involved in deciding”, says Plesner Partner Shaina Jabbar, who received the award on behalf of Plesner. 66 7 7 Value-creating pro bono collaboration Plesner’s new pro bono work structure ensures that selected chaLegal advice with a humanitarian purpose ritable organisations receive faster and more specialised advice. On a regular basis, Plesner receives inquiries from the charitable organisations that want to appear trustworthy and professional to both their members and other stakeholders. The money not spent on procuring legal advice goes directly to the humanitarian work. For a number of years, Plesner has provided pro Collaboration in progress bono legal advice in collaboration with law students at the University of Copenhagen. From the start in In order to ensure full use of the resources that we 2012, the Student Volunteers programme has made have set aside for the CSR work, one new organizait possible for students to do pro bono work on a tion has joined during the past year, i.e. Child Brain During the year, we have assisted Børns Vilkår (Children’s Welfare) improving and holding its annual general meeting and voluntary basis and to strengthen their legal skills Cancer Foundation (Børne Hjernecancer Fonden). by making a special effort we succeeded in fulfilling the aim of obtaining increased attendance and more active members. through practical working experience supported by Future plans include strengthening the contact In connection with the organisation’s move to a new domicile we were involved in negotiating and drafting a new lease. experienced Plesner attorneys. to the eight organizations that we service today We have also provided feedback and advice in connection with contract negotiations with sponsors, and we have assisted by holding regular status meetings, says Lars (see with negotiating a collective agreement and with questions on labour and employment law in general. below list). ”The positive feedback Rasmus Kjeldahl, Executive Director, Børns Vilkår (Children’s Welfare): that we have received from ”The organisations’ request for our assistance varies a lot. Through regular contact we want to help and advise all involved parties makes ”Plesner is a very professional collaborator and we benefit greatly from the partnership, both in terms of specific the charitable organisations define more types of legal it abundantly clear that work that can be provided within the framework of the matters and advice of a more general legal nature. Our Plesner contact persons are always very helpful and the Student Volunteers collaboration.” forthcoming and understand the challenges of being an NGO. programme has been a In our work with children it is very important that we appear as a fully professional partner to our sponsors, success. The project has foundations and other stakeholders. In that context our collaboration with Plesner is very valuable to us, in particular combined the charitable Commitment on a voluntary basis at a time when the extent and the complexity of our financial circumstances, activities and contacts are growing”. organisations’ need for legal assistance with During the past year, Plesner has delivered more the opportunity for students, who first hand than 1.000 hours doing voluntary pro bono work. Børns Vilkår (Children’s Welfare) is a private humanitarian organisation that has worked for all children in Denmark since Lars is in charge of the internal coordination of the 1977. The goal is to ensure that children can get the help they need and ensure children’s right to a safe life and a good have experienced the value of voluntary work and he is delighted to be a part of Plesner’s pro childhood. involvement, to work professionally. Our bono network. own lawyers are also proud of the assistance ”We get much positive feedback from the humanitarian they have provided on a voluntary basis, both organisations that are grateful for the assistance we to the charitable organisations and to the provide. It also makes an impression when you meet students” all the committed people in the organisations who, on a voluntary basis or for modest pay, work tirelessly We have assisted Muskelsvindfonden (The Muscular Dystrophy Foundation) with looking into and structuring possible Lars Mygind Bojsen, Attorney-at-Law to help other people. If we can contribute to making payment solutions in connection with its regular events, for example the annual Grøn Koncert. The rules governing the Pro Bono Coordinator use of payment cards and electronic payment are complicated, primarily because it is important to ensure compliance their life just a little bit easier by using our professional expertise and skills, this is in itself very rewarding and with the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering. valuable.” Lea Haldrup, Financial Controller, Muskelsvindfonden (The Muscular Dystrophy Foundation): Optimised pro bono advice After four years, it was decided to phase out the ”We have a direct contact with Plesner who passes on our questions and problems to the specialists that can help us Student Volunteers arrangement from 2017 as it solve them. We are very pleased with this form of collaboration. It works really well for us. has required extensive in-house coordination. Many It also helps qualify our work that we are able to seek legal advice from Plesner, also in areas where we would not 1.000 internal resources are required to coordinate the collaboration to everybody’s satisfaction, wherefore normally use an attorney. It could be draft agreements or other collaboration agreements where we are uncertain of we wish to free resources to be able to provide the content and wording. It means a lot to us that we are able to minimise the costs relating to legal advice through faster and more specialised advice to the charitable our collaboration with Plesner. If we save money in that area, we are able to spend more money improving the organisations. Thereby, we will optimise our pro conditions for people with muscular dystrophy. bono work. PRO BONO HOURS Next year we must comply with the new Danish Act on Processing of Personal Data that enters into force in May 2018. The Act introduces stricter rules for the storage of personal data and one of the consequences is that we must enter into new agreements with our IT providers. It is a very complicated area that requires resources and skills that 8 we do not have. This is why we have high hopes for the future collaboration with Plesner.” Since 1971, Muskelsvindfonden (The Muscular Dystrophy Foundation) has worked for people with muscular dystrophy and their families being able to live an active live. It is an important condition that there is room for everyone so that PRO BONO handicapped people are able to be a part of all aspects of life. ORGANISATIONS 88 9 9 During the past year, more than 50 Plesner asSelected organisations sistant attorneys, attorneys and partners have It is a central element of Plesner’s CSR Programme that we provide delivered more than 1.000 hours on pro bono pro bono legal advice to selected charitable organisations in order to make a difference for vulnerable children and young people as well project work. To this number should be added a as those who are critically ill. The organisations’ work is primarily based on special allocation funds from the State as well as donations significant number of hours invested by secretaand grants from private individuals, foundations and the business rial and administrative staff. community. • Bryd Tavsheden (Break the Silence a Danish non-governmental organisation for individuals exposed to domestic violence) • Børns Vilkår (Children’s Welfare) • Julemærkefonden (The Christmas Seal Foundation) • Red Barnet Ungdom (Danish Child Rights Ambassadors) • Scleroseforeningen (The Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society) • Make-A-Wish Ønskefonden (The Make-A-Wish Foundation) • Muskelsvindfonden (The Muscular Dystrophy Foundation) • Børne Hjernecancer Fonden (The Child Brain Cancer Foundation) (NEW) 10 10 11 11 When we understand our own strengths and weaknesses The art of picking the right team better, we also become better Our ability to collaborate and act as a team is an important focus area in our CSR programme. It is extremely important both for the at deciphering the client’s prewell-being of our employees and for the results we deliver to our ferred form of collaboration. clients. A new typology tool optimises the setting of teams and strengthens the collaboration culture. Niklas Korsgaard Christensen, Attorney-at-Law, Partner ”Good collaboration starts ”We decided to make the personal profiles available by knowing who we are internally in the team in order that everybody would become aware of and understand each other’s preferences and which fundamental and strengths. As the head of the team, it became easier strengths and preferences for me to map the various skills and allocate the work in we act on as human relation to the tasks we were to perform. This is critical beings. It is essentially to the quality of the results that are to be delivered. a question of getting to When we understand our own strengths and weakknow yourself and your nesses better, we also become better at deciphering the client’s preferred form of collaboration. JTI has also colleagues better. When the team is aware of proved valuable in respect of getting right the service their differences, it is easier for the members level the client expects and needs”. of the team to recognise and appreciate their colleagues, all for the benefit of the collaboration in the organisation and our ability to Dynamic team setting provide high-quality solutions” A good example is that the client had a very great Niklas Korsgaard Christensen demand for detailed time schedules, fixed deadlines Attorney-at-Law, Partner and continuous feedback. More specifically, a Responsible for HR system was set up for the structured handling and exchange of documents. During that phase it was important that the employees on board were keen on structure and planning whereas profiles with a Since 2015, Plesner has worked intensively with more holistic approach and who are more flexible JTI, a typology tool used in the development of and spontaneous were needed for other parts of both principals, employees and teams. The process the project. Likewise, it turned out to be crucial that has focused on how to develop teamwork further the employees working on the project had an eye through increased self-insight and strengthened for details that enabled them to keep track of the collaboration. Active use of JTI has now also turned extensive material and the many requirements for out to be an efficient tool to set the right team for a documentation. specific project. ”Picking the team and allowing for different profiles create dynamics. But at the same time it is important Understanding promotes that the employees supplement and complement each other in the right way during the different phases of the collaboration project. In our everyday life we talk about customers Niklas has been heading a legal project that he deand clients but the fact of the matter is that we are scribes as the largest Danish arbitration proceedings always dealing with human beings. When the client in recent history. The proceedings concerned a very is represented by many different persons, each having complex and voluminous case, including extensive his or her own preference, it creates confidence that documentation. Over a period of 2-3 years, a Plesner we are able to adapt our services and our approach to team of up to 15-20 people were working on the the individual person’s requirements and expectations. case. The team benefited from JTI on several levels, That has been an important takeaway from this both as to the internal project collaboration and in project”, explains Niklas. balancing the expectations with the client. 12 12 13 13 First-class efficiency The project has been completed and the use of JTI has strengthened both the collaboration, the performance of tasks and the project results. This is also confirmed by the client’s feedback. ”Efficiency and productivity were significantly improved when we actively started allocating work by using JTI. The clients have expressed great satisfaction with our way of working and have specifically praised our ability to coordinate the proceedings, handle the very extensive material and structure the deliveries. In our line of business, time is money and the more efficiently we work and collaborate, the lower the client’s costs.” Anne-Sophie Truelsen, Attorney: ”I am a distinctly methodical person who is good at planning and structuring. It has therefore been natural for me to be the Tool for human resource coordinator for the planning of large projects. In that way, I development can ensure that the work is allocated in accordance with the team members’ preferred way of working. Like me, some are He expects that in future the use of personal profiles very structured and attentive to details whereas others are will become a natural way to collaborate and set more spontaneous and intuitive in their way of working. Some teams in Plesner. But more as an underlying tool that people prefer becoming absorbed in their work whereas others has turned out to be easily applicable in everyday get their energy from their relationships with colleagues and life. JTI has given principals and employees a tool that clients. Our collaboration is clearly strengthened when we can makes it easier to put into words the areas in which use the working methods that seem most natural to us”. the individual employees will benefit most from developing. The strength is in the differences Employee feedback indicates that the project boosted the employees’ well-being. ”I am convinced that as an employee you are more satisfied and is far more efficient when the work you do matches your own preferences and strengths. I have no doubt that our internal collaboration was rendered more flexible by this. Everyone has embraced the JTI mindset, and today it has become a natural way of communicating. We have a common language and a better understanding of why we have different approaches to work and how best to collaborate. This Development and feedback is where our differences really become a strength”, says walk hand in hand Niklas. Frederik Lenskjold Olsen, Attorney: Our employees are driven by the opportunity to constantly develop their skills and learn ”When you contribute your strengths to the project team, you more. The employees have expressly asked feel that you are doing your best for your colleagues and it affects collaboration and well-being favourably. JTI acts as a to receive constructive and regular feedback natural tool for assigning and performing tasks. I have seen a on their performance and results. This is why distinct allocation of tasks that involved planning or practicalievery individual employee is subject to a ties to the employees who are good at holding on to structure performance assessment. and fixed limits. I am myself more motivated by work that requires flexibility, adaptability and an innovative approach to The evaluation process is organised so as to finding new ideas and solutions. In the same way, we underensure that assistant attorneys and attorneys stand how to share communication and work with the client receive structured feedback from their according to our strengths. This approach has not only added immediate principal three times a year. At to the quality of our advice but has also contributed favourably the same time, this is a common balancing of to the personal relationships with the clients”. expectations that makes performance goals and results clearer. This connects the feedback directly to the individual’s professional and personal development, which both principals and employees find very valuable. 14 14 15 15 New energy saving options In the past few years, our energy consumption has been significantly reduced as a result of a large number of energy-saving measures. This includes replacing most of our light sources to LED lighting and optimising all our technical systems. In 2013, we gradually started the transition to LED lighting when we began using LED We will continue to focus on Power consumption 2012 2016 light bulbs in desk lamps and the lighting above the entrances contributing to an improved to our lifts. environment where possible In the most recent reporting period, we have had a slight and we continue our work 1150000 increase in our power consumption. To a certain extent, the in these four areas in partiincrease has been caused by the increased level of activity at our cular: Energy optimisation 1100000 offices. However, recent developments have made it possible for us to get the most optimal lighting. In the past year there have been great developments in LED lighting. It means that it and reducing carbon dioxide 1050000 is now possible to use LED light sources in our lighting. emissions. Environmental 1000000 considerations by making The developments have made it possible to replace our ordinary fluorescent tubes with LED lighting, also in our ceiling lighting, eco-friendly purchases. 950000 without the waste of resources that would otherwise have Maximum recycling of all been the result if we replaced our existing lamps. We expect waste. Organic profile in the 900000 that the change to LED lighting in the many areas of our offices staff canteen. where the light is always on, corridors, conference rooms, 850000 staff canteen, will result in a reduction in our aggregate power 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 consumption. We will continue to follow our energy consumption closely Consumption and our ambition is to have the most energy efficient solutions on the market. We will also work actively to ensure further improvements by changing people’s behaviour. Ecology in the canteen % 80 75 70 We have achieved our objective to continue to increase the amount of organic products in our staff 65 canteen and at meetings and we keep the silver badge issued by the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration With 60-90% organic raw materials. We are currently 60 focusing on serving less meat and more vegetables. Finally, food waste is kept at the low level that was the result of the efforts in recent years. 55 50 Q1 2015 Q2 2015 Q3 2015 Q4 2015 Q1 2016 Q2 2016 Q3 2016 Q4 2016 Q1 2017 16 16 17 17 The work on increasing the number of female partners is not quickly done. It requires a perPlesner steps up diversity sistent effort, close dialogue with the target It is being said that firms with diversity in leadership have group and a willingness for change. stronger financials, better client relationships and greater opportunities for innovation. The work relating to women and their careers is a long haul, also for us. Since 2011, one of our CSR objectives has been to Also the need for an acceptance of a ”slow period” increase the number of our female partners. Panel through a new model for norm and new plan for discussions with guests about current topics have offboarding, during and onboarding was emphabeen held to support the objective. We have systesised by many. A ’fast-track’ team headed by our matised meetings before, during and after maternity HR partner is designing the new model. This move leave to ensure a closer dialogue. And since 2014, we is one of a number of new initiatives made to ensure have offered all third-year female assistant attorneys that more women are coming up for partnership at a mentor scheme. Our many female talents have Plesner. We believe that at least partly it is an orgawelcomed the initiatives. nisational structure issue. The timing of parenthood can often be tricky for women on the partnership Our surroundings have also acknowledged our work ladder. and in 2014, 2015 and 2016 we were named the best Danish law firm for ’Women in Business Law’ by In another new initiative our partners have taken on the leading international financial magazine Euroan even bigger role in being measured in terms of money. However, the number of our female partners identifying talents early, confronting the challenges has not increased and in the past year there has been that the talents are expected to face and tailoring good reason to focus on the work even more. an individual plan for each woman’s road to partnership. Our panel discussions and workshops about women and their careers have definitely influenced our The work on increasing the number of female culture throughout the organisation. This is a very partners is not quickly done. It requires a persistent positive development and in the past year we have effort, close dialogue with the target group and a had an increasingly more open dialogue about willingness for change. We are persistent and look diversity. forward to reporting on the continued development. We now have a new generation of women and new ideas were conceived at the most recent workshop with the target group and the management and it has become clearer how we can create a better framework/better models for our work. One of the wishes has been that we continue our mentor scheme for female lawyers. We have applied for and received an approval for an extension of the mentor scheme for a five-year period. 18 18 19 19 How we implement Global Compact The UN Global Compact’s Plesner’s CSR initiatives 10 principles Human Rights: Human Rights: • Our firm should support and respect the protection • Pro bono legal advice of internationally proclaimed human rights within its • The School Project sphere of influence • Further and supplementary training of employees • Our firm is to make sure that it is not complicit in • Leadership programme human rights abuses Employee rights: Employee rights: • Employee satisfaction surveys • Our firm should uphold the freedom of association • Women and their careers and the effective recognition of the employee’s right • Employee performance reviews to collective bargaining • Quarterly reviews of assistant attorneys and • Our firm should support the elimination of all forms legal interns of forced and compulsory labour • Our firm should support the effective abolition of The Environment: child labour • Reduction of energy consumption • Our firm should support the elimination of • Reduction of paper consumption discrimination in respect of employment and • Electronic processes occupation • Environmentally labelled products The Environment: • Environmentally correct removal of waste • Our firm should support a precautionary approach to • Organic products in the staff canteen environ mental challenges Anti-Corruption: • Our firm should undertake initiatives to promote • Policy implemented – constant compliance greater environmental responsibility with legislation • Our firm should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption: • Our firm should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Plesner Advokatpartnerselskab | Amerika Plads 37 | DK-2100 København | Tel +45 33 12 11 33 | www.plesner.com | CVR 38 47 79 35
