CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Table of Contents Statement of Support 3 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 4 Human Rights 5 Labor 7 Corporate Sustainability 12 Environmental Product Compliance 23 Health and Safety 25 Quality Management Systems 27 Charitable and Social Responsibility 29 Anti-Corruption 34 About Anixter 40 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 2 Statement of Support To our Stakeholders, For the sixth consecutive year, I am pleased to reaffirm Anixter International’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual corporate responsibility report, we describe our actions to continually improve upon the integration of the Global Compact’s Ten Principles and three selected Sustainable Development Goals into our business. Sincerely yours, Robert J. Eck Chief Executive Officer 1957 2017 Celebrating 60 Years of People First Customers • Suppliers • Employees 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 3 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The contents of this report detail how Anixter has incorporated the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact into its strategies, policies and procedures. The Ten Principles are as follows: HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 1: PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should support a precautionary approach protection of internationally proclaimed to environmental challenges; human rights; and PRINCIPLE 8: PRINCIPLE 2: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental make sure that they are not complicit responsibility; and in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of LABOR environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of ANTI-CORRUPTION association and the effective recognition PRINCIPLE 10: of the right to collective bargaining; Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, PRINCIPLE 4: including extortion and bribery. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 4 HUMAN RIGHTS 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Anixter is committed to the fair and ethical treatment of people within its organization and throughout the world. With company policies that clearly state a commitment to human rights and efforts undertaken to strive toward conflict-free supply chains, Anixter complies with applicable employment laws and regulations around the globe and does not tolerate human rights violations or discrimination of any kind. HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTION TOWARD CONFLICT-FREE SUPPLY CHAINS Anixter upholds human rights based on its policies and regular • Anixter supports industrywide efforts to identify, reduce and management reviews combined with regularly engaging with eliminate the use of conflict minerals that originate from the peers and experts in the field. The following is a list of related Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, policies and programs that support these ongoing efforts: which are believed to be financing groups that are responsible • Human Rights Policy for human rights violations. • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy • Anixter is committed to fully complying with the conflict minerals requirements included in the U.S. Securities and • Reaffirmation of Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Dodd-Frank Act, which requires • Conflict Minerals Policy Statement publicly traded companies to perform due diligence as to the • Anti-Harassment Policy existence and source of conflict minerals in their supply chains. Anixter successfully filed its Form SD and Conflict Minerals • Anti-Retaliation Policy Report with the SEC in 2017 for the 2016 calendar year. • Workplace Violence and Response Policy • Anixter’s Conflict Minerals Policy Statement was the • Reaffirmation of Policy on Confidentiality fourth most downloaded item from Anixter’s corporate • Employee Personal Data Protection Policy and Notice responsibility webpage. • Global Health and Safety Policy • Anixter continued surveying suppliers for conflict minerals by using a risk-based approach to support its annual SEC • Non-discrimination in employment and personnel practices reporting obligations. • Comprehensive health and welfare benefit programs Additional conflict minerals accomplishments can be found in • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms the Environmental Product Compliance section on page 22. All human rights policies and programs are administered by the executive compliance committee, chief compliance officer, regional compliance officers and the human resources, legal and internal audit organizations. U.K. MODERN SLAVERY ACT A slavery and human trafficking statement was posted on the corporate responsibility webpage in 2017, highlighting the steps taken during 2016 to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in our business or supply chain. As required by the U.K. Modern Slavery Act, this statement has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors of Anixter Limited, Anixter’s operating entity in the U.K. The statement was made on behalf of all Anixter entities because the same policies and compliance framework relating to slavery and human trafficking exist across our entire business globally. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 6 LABOR 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 7 LABOR Anixter strives to create a positive and safe work environment — free of discrimination, harassment and inappropriate conduct and one in which employees treat each other fairly and with dignity and respect by: • Supporting and upholding the elimination of discriminatory practices particularly with respect to employment and occupation • Promoting and embracing diversity in all aspects of business operations • Supporting the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor • Supporting the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired • Providing a safe and healthy work environment for all employees • Condemning all forms of child exploitation and supporting the elimination of exploitative child labor. EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT A nixter’s labor policies and programs are communicated Anixter believes in employees taking charge of their careers through its: and cares about their professional development and goals. In • Anti-Harassment Policy 2017, Anixter launched It’s Your Move, a career exploration tool • Anti-Retaliation Policy for employees. The online tool includes tips, videos and other resources to teach employees about the different departments • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy and career opportunities within Anixter. Employees are also able • Workplace Violence and Response Policy to schedule meetings with “Career Champions” to discuss their • Global Health and Safety Policy career goals and help them plan their next move. • Employee Personal Data Protection Policy EMPLOYEE CONCERNS • Competitive employee benefit programs In addition to reporting a suspected issue through local • Nondiscrimination in employment and personnel practices management, human resources, the legal department or a compliance officer, employees around the globe can call a • Employee notices of right to join or form unions for purposes toll-free number or access the Business Integrity Line website of collective bargaining, if desired to ask ethicsor compliance-related questions or report a • Annual compensation benchmarking analysis suspected issue. Communications can be made anonymously • Business Integrity Line and other where permitted by local laws. The call center and website communication mechanisms. are managed by an independent, third-party provider and all submissions or conversations are kept confidential and shared only with those necessary to respond to or investigate a report. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 8 LABOR U.S. MILITARY VETERAN RECRUITING INFORMATION SECURITY Being a multinational company headquartered in the U.S., Information security is a critical part of Anixter’s business Anixter supports and values those who have served our environment. As a result, Anixter has a robust information nation and actively recruits U.S. military veterans as they security program, with policies and controls that are aligned transition out of careers within the Army, Air Force, Navy, with well-known security standards, such as ISO 27001 Coast Guard and Marines. Throughout our organization, U.S. and NIST SP 800-53. Anixter’s information security program military veterans are not only making a difference, but are also includes security awareness initiatives designed to educate embarking on rewarding careers. employees about computer security. The following lists select accomplishments attained this year: ANIXTER CONNECT • Members of our veteran steering committee, combined with In 2017, a team of women and executive leaders at Anixter personnel from human resources and senior leadership created Anixter CONNECT, a professional development and teams, continued to participate in outreach recruiting events networking group for women with the goal of empowering for U.S. military veterans. the women of Anixter in their professional and personal lives. • Anixter’s veteran steering committee, now in its second CONNECT provides a framework for both established and year, continues to focus on providing assistance in the up-and-coming leaders to share professional resources and recruitment and integration of recently discharged veterans knowledge as well as networking, education and mentorship as well as developing veteran-focused marketing material opportunities. Over 180 women from Anixter locations across and partnering with Anixter Cares, the charitable donations the globe have joined the group. program, to support local veteran groups. The corporate chapter plans to meet every few months and • In the U.S., Anixter hired 24 U.S. military veterans this year. women globally are invited to participate in the sessions through webinars. Women in other Anixter locations are also encouraged to develop their own local chapters that share the same corporate programming. Some of Anixter's proud U.S. veterans 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 9 LABOR EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION In the Anixter Blue Book, the first item listed under “Our Philosophy” is “People come first” and this is demonstrated across the organization in the various ways in which employees are recognized for their outstanding contributions. One way employees are recognized is through awards. The information below provides examples of the various employee recognition awards given to select Anixter employees throughout the year: TECHNOLOGY FELLOW AWARD AWARD OF EXCELLENCE The Anixter Technology Fellow award promotes leadership Nominated by fellow co-workers, the Award of Excellence among Anixter’s technical professionals who have contributed is Anixter’s most prestigious honor and is awarded to the extensively to driving innovation in alignment with Anixter’s top 1 percent of all employees globally. These employees business strategies and is awarded to one person each year. demonstrate Anixter’s philosophy to providing excellence for co-workers, customers and partners. In 2017, the Award of Excellence was given to 80 people to honor their outstanding President’s Club performance in 2016. PRESIDENT’S CLUB Anixter’s President’s Club is a prestigious group of people who embody the drive, spirit and achievement that constitute the best at Anixter. Through dedication, customer service and an incredible work ethic, the members of the President’s Club have earned the opportunity to be recognized. In 2017, 140 people were inducted into the President’s Club for outstanding AWARD OF EXCELLENCE: BLUE SKY AWARD performance in 2016. In the past, Anixter’s practice has been that once an employee has received the Award of Excellence, they cannot be nominated again. This was to ensure a broader group of people would be recognized for their efforts. However, many employees continue to provide outstanding support, excellent service and truly embody our goal of Excellence in Execution. LEAVE NO DOUBT As such, in 2017, Anixter introduced the Award of Excellence: The Leave No Doubt award is given to those employees Blue Sky Award. Anyone who has previously received the Award who go above and beyond in their jobs and truly leave no of Excellence is now eligible to be nominated and possibly doubt about the exceptional service they provide to customers, selected again. Winners of the 2017 Blue Sky Award will be suppliers and employees. Three people from each region announced in 2018. receive the award each quarter, totaling 48 winners each year. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 10 LABOR HEALTH AND WELLNESS FAIRS HEADQUARTERS INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES The following provides select examples of the various health and Anixter believes in building a strong workforce through handswellness events held for Anixter employees throughout the year: on learning experiences. Every year, a variety of internship • Anixter held its annual health and wellness fairs at its opportunities are made available to allow high school and Glenview, Ill. headquarters and its largest global distribution college students to gain real-world experience and evaluate facility in Alsip, Ill. making 24 local wellness and healthcare different career fields. providers available to more than 1,100 employees. These fairs In 2017, Anixter started the U.S. Finance Development include basic healthcare screenings, educational information Program for recent college graduates, in which three finance and free flu shots. graduates were placed in a two-year job rotation within the • Anixter’s São Paulo location held several events throughout corporate finance department located within the Glenview, Ill., the year where free eye exams, discounted eye glasses, headquarters. The program provides the graduates with onevarious medical screenings and safety, ergonomic, accident on-one support from management, cross-functional experience prevention and health presentations were offered to more through six different finance fields and support for professional than 80 employees. development and continuing education. Upon successful completion, participants will be promoted into full-time roles TUITION REIMBURSEMENT that fit their professional development plans. This program helps Anixter offers a tuition reimbursement program to eligible align the right people with the right position, allowing for a fully employees. In 2017, Anixter reimbursed more than engaged employee and a strong, talented workforce. $101,800 in employee tuition costs. ANNUAL EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION AND TRAINING The following provides select examples of the various employee certification and training programs distributed to Anixter employees throughout the year: • Annual online training and certification acknowledging compliance with the Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy is issued to all employees • Annual affirmation of adherence to Anixter’s security policies is required for all Anixter employees • As part of its worldwide trade compliance program, Anixter delivers a comprehensive online export compliance training course to a majority of its global employees on a scheduled basis. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 11 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 12 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Through its corporate sustainability program, Anixter seeks to continuously improve business processes to control and reduce the impact associated with its targeted environmental aspects of energy, waste, materials and natural resources and transportation. By targeting measurable results within each environmental aspect combined with using A Sustainable PathSM approach, which focuses on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, Anixter balances environmental responsibility and return on investment. PROGRAM GOALS ENERGY GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS ENERGY Anixter continues to operate and evaluate additional facilities for various Anixter reduces energy use through green building certifications based upon lease durations and payback innovative technologies, equipment calculations. Green buildings help lower operational costs, minimize and control systems. carbon emissions and provide a comfortable environment for employees. Anixter’s green building certified portfolio consists of the following facilities: WASTE • The 167,000 sq. ft. corporate headquarters located in Glenview, Ill. Anixter minimizes waste by first attained the EPA ENERGY STAR certification in 2014 and attained capitalizing on opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle. recertification in 2015 and 2016, while 2017 results are forthcoming. • The 61,000 sq. ft. annex office building located next to Anixter’s headquarters in Glenview, Ill. attained U.S. Green Building Council LEED® MATERIALS AND (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification in 2014. NATURAL RESOURCES The annex first attained ENERGY STAR certification in 2014 from the Anixter consumes fewer materials U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and attained recertification and natural resources by increasing recycled content in consumables in 2015 and 2016, while 2017 results are forthcoming. while simultaneously pursuing source •The 21,000 sq. ft. multitenant facility in St. John’s, Newfoundland, reduction strategies. attained LEED Silver in 2014. •The 195,000 sq. ft. facility in Edmonton, Alberta, attained TRANSPORTATION LEED Silver in 2011. Anixter lowers transportation • The 457,000 sq. ft. Alsip, Ill. facility attained LEED certification in 2007. emissions by utilizing third-party carriers, fleet vehicles and equipment HIGH-FREQUENCY BATTERY CHARGERS that meet current environmental standards, maintaining a global no Several Anixter locations around the world use high-frequency battery idling policy at warehouse locations chargers to recharge forklift batteries. These advanced battery chargers and leveraging technology to eliminate the need to travel. not only monitor the health and condition of the batteries, but they also reduce charging time and are energy efficient. This year, Anixter’s U.S. network added an additional 13 new high-frequency battery chargers to the existing units already deployed. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 13 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY FIELD SERVER VIRTUALIZATION Anixter’s global field locations continue to consolidate and Anixter locations that converted to LED lighting in virtualize servers. Currently, Anixter’s field locations are using 33 prior years include: physical servers to host 116 virtual machines. In 2017, Anixter 1. Denver, CO – 64,000 sq. ft. warehouse eliminated four field servers by migrating virtual machines into 2. Seattle, WA – 62,000 sq. ft. warehouse existing equipment within the Glenview, Ill. and Bracknell, U.K. 3. Charlotte, NC – 40,000 sq. ft. warehouse* data centers. Each field server eliminated helps to conserve 4. Dublin, Ireland – 4,000 sq. ft. office energy in the location and improves backup and recovery 5. Sydney, Australia – 22,000 sq. ft. warehouse operations as it is now controlled within a data center. 6. Reno, NV – 249,400 sq. ft. warehouse 7. Phoenix, AZ – 65,000 sq. ft. warehouse ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING AND ADVANCED 8. Memphis, TN – 93,300 sq. ft. warehouse LIGHTING CONTROL SYSTEMS 9. Alsip, IL – 457,000 sq. ft. warehouse* Energy-efficient lighting solutions remains one of the simplest, 10. Cranbury, NJ – 282,200 sq. ft. warehouse most cost-effective ways to improve efficiency and reduce 11. Mexico City, Mexico – 19,190 sq. ft. warehouse operating expenses. Anixter is a fully authorized value12. Windsor, CT 58,000 sq. ft. warehouse added distributor of lighting products and solutions and is 13. Detroit, MI 59,000 sq. ft. warehouse committed to improving the lighting efficiency of both our 14. G lenview, IL 61,000 sq. ft. LEED-certified annex office and our customers’ facilities. Anixter lighting experts perform building and adjacent parking lots lighting audits to determine the project scope and create an * Anixter may operate more than one location in large energy-efficient lighting solution specifically designed for each metropolitan areas to better service our customers. customer’s unique lighting needs. In our facilities, energy-efficient lighting systems can range ONGOING DATA CENTER EFFICIENCIES from advanced systems that include daylight harvesting, Anixter continues to consolidate and virtualize servers in its zone scheduling, dimmable ballasts/drivers and advanced data center, which currently uses 81 physical servers to host occupancy control sensors to energy-efficient systems that 1,288 virtual machines. Anixter’s data center is more than 90 include fluorescent fixtures and LED lighting. Anixter continues percent virtualized. Due to the decrease in data center cooling to increase the use of energy-efficient LED lighting and requirements, combined with more than a 40 percent decrease advanced wireless technologies to reduce energy consumption in server space, Anixter continues to successfully use an air and increase lighting system controls. conditioning auto changer that rotates the shutdown of one of In 2017, seven additional Anixter locations began three air conditioning units each month. utilizing LED technology: SPAIN’S ENERGY AUDIT RESULTS 1. Woodbridge, Ontario 24,000 sq. ft. warehouse 2. Alsip, IL – 238,000 sq. ft. warehouse and office* After successfully conducting Energy Savings Opportunity 3. Charlotte, NC – 40,100 sq. ft. warehouse* Scheme (ESOS) energy audits in July 2016, Anixter’s Barcelona 4. Plymouth, MN – 18,300 sq. ft. warehouse and Madrid locations implemented audit recommendations, 5. Houston, TX – 20,000 sq. ft. office which reduced year-over-year energy consumption by 6. Alpharetta, GA – 25,000 sq. ft. office 35.8 percent and 10 percent, respectively. 7. Gresham, OR – 28,200 sq. ft. warehouse 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 14 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY SINGAPORE’S CONTINUED ENERGY REDUCTION WASTE After moving to a new building in August 2015 and installing new energy-saving air conditioning systems and fluorescent REDUCING LANDFILL WASTE lighting, Anixter’s 25,655-square-foot Singapore location is using 67 percent less kilowatts of energy than the previous Anixter leases its global buildings in order to remain flexible building’s last full year of consumption data compared through to successfully meet both customer and market demands. October 2017. Seven percent of the 2017 energy savings are Leasing, combined with periodic divestitures and acquisitions, attributed to various employee conservation initiatives. causes the physical locations, building sizes and waste and recycling tonnages to continuously change. To help manage SOLAR ENERGY these changes, Anixter has successfully outsourced various The 142,000-square-foot Willebroek, Belgium, facility—Anixter’s disposal services over the last several years to specialized largest in continental Europe—successfully started attaining waste brokers that help reduce landfill waste, lower operating solar energy from rooftop solar panels in late 2011, which costs and increase recycling tonnages. Anixter currently has powers approximately half of the facility. more than 280 global locations successfully outsourced to waste brokers. HIGH-SPEED DOCK DOORS MATERIAL RECYCLING FACILITIES Several Anixter locations around the world use high-speed dock doors that are motion-sensor activated to open and Two U.S. locations continue to utilize specialized single-stream close within seconds. The speed of these dock doors helps material recycling facilities (MRFs) that leverage a combination to control warehouse temperatures and in turn helps of manual processes and automated equipment to extract conserve energy consumption. recyclables from the trash with no separation efforts required by Anixter. Based on the annualized projection of waste DATA CENTER BEST PRACTICES tonnage, as reported by Anixter’s waste broker, these two Anixter’s Infrastructure as a Platform (IaaP) approach facilities will send approximately 39,000 pounds of trash to the addresses the key building blocks for data center MRFs for recyclable recovery extraction this year. interoperability that can provide agility for budgets, scalability NEW RECYCLING PROGRAMS for demand and flexibility for technology choices. The building blocks of power optimization and thermal efficiency specifically Within North America, Anixter successfully implemented 13 identify product solutions and best practices that enable new recycling programs that will divert an estimated 185,500 customers to achieve energy savings by deploying state-of-thepounds of cardboard, wood and single-stream/mixed art infrastructure. recyclables from landfills annually. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 15 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY 2.2 million lb. of NORTH AMERICAN single stream/ commingled recyclables RECYCLING SNAPSHOT (paper, cardboard, 2.7 million lb. 1.6 million lb. Anixter’s North American operations maintain the glass, aluminum, of cardboard of wood largest square footage building footprint and total plastic, etc.) number of employees. This graphic provides a 2017 snapshot of key North American recycling volumes based on 43,200 lb. annualized projections from fixed and intermittent of plastics 55,200 lb. service frequencies, combined with industry of scrap guidelines and estimates for commodity weights metal and 12,900 lb. of steel and waste container capacity utilization. obsolete electronic 43,000 lb. equipment of retired warehouse equipment SUPPLY CHAIN SOLUTIONS REEL CONSOLIDATION Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions team provides customers with The Anixter-designed, reusable PARAPULLSM paralleling various value-added services that include, but are not limited to: reels can accommodate various cut-to-length cables of the • Kitting of multiple line items into a single finished good part same gauge on a single multichambered wooden reel. number to ease ordering, reduce waste at the job site and Because each PARAPULL reel is reused an average of six improve job site receiving times, their ongoing use helps preserve natural resources while eliminating empty reel disposal costs and waste from job sites. • Preassembling of racks, cabinets and cameras prior to Customers using a single PARAPULL reel can eliminate two to shipping to improve job site productivity and lower overall four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces project costs shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor • Providing job site waste diversion documentation, when productivity. Anixter shipped more than 3,300 reusable requested by customers, for performing the above services PARAPULL reels to customers over the last 12 months. to help earn points for green building certification projects. For example, 10 Anixter locations across eight countries RECYCLING AUDITS collectively diverted and recorded more than 90,100 pounds Anixter’s internal ISO audit team reviewed 12 office and of cardboard, wood and plastic for customer-specific green warehouse locations across North America to ensure the building projects in 2017. locations’ recycling programs—which can consist of paper, In addition, Anixter locations in 10 countries will have cardboard, wood, metal and plastic—were being effectively completed more than 800 customer-specific product supported by management and used by staff. Once again, all the enhancement and packaging services by year end that locations successfully passed the audit team’s screening criteria. will divert and recycle packaging waste prior to it reaching job sites. This packaging waste is included in the overall warehouse recycling snapshots. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 16 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY PAPER SHREDDING While Anixter endeavors to minimize paper consumption as much as possible, paper use is often a business necessity. By leveraging location-level paper recycling and shredding programs, Anixter seeks to minimize its overall environmental impact. For example, over the last 12 months, 38 U.S. and Canadian locations collectively shredded and recycled more than 96,567 pounds of paper. All recycled paper is sent to SELECT GLOBAL RECYCLING SNAPSHOT mills where it is pulped and de-inked to make recycled paper products like paper plates and paper towels. According to our • The Brisbane and Perth, Australia, locations will successfully shredding partner, Anixter’s program saved 826 trees in 2017. recycle approximately 164,440 pounds of paper, cardboard, metal and wood by year end. REUSE PROGRAMS •The Dubai, UAE, location will successfully recycle approximately Anixter locations around the world successfully harvest 36,200 pounds of paper, cardboard and plastic by year end. and reuse select inbound packaging and shipping materials • The Willebroek, Belgium, location will successfully recycle received from supplier partners when they are in like-new approximately 150,000 pounds of paper, plastic, cardboard condition and meet our strict quality standards. In addition, and wood by year end. Anixter locations receive cable reels from suppliers safely • The Stuttgart, Germany, location will successfully recycle secured to wooden reel cradles. All reel cradles that pass approximately 44,500 pounds of wood, paper, and plastic Anixter’s integrity inspections are reused to ship cable by year end. reels to customers. This has lowered freight claims and costs as well as improved operational efficiencies • The Barcelona, Spain, location will successfully recycle and customer satisfaction. approximately 3,200 pounds of cardboard, plastic and paper by year end. RECYCLING EMPTY PRINTER CARTRIDGES • The Singapore location will successfully recycle approximately By returning the empty printer toner and ink cartridges to office 14,300 pounds of wood and cardboard and more than 6,000 supply providers for reuse, Anixter helps prevent thousands of pounds of obsolete electronic equipment by year end. pounds of plastic and metal from entering landfills annually. • A total of 14 U.K. locations will successfully recycle For example, Anixter’s Alsip, Ill. facility continues to successfully approximately 513,000 pounds of cardboard, wood, paper, recycle toner cartridges and returned five pallets of empty metal and plastic by year end. cartridges this year alone. • The Brazil location will successfully recycle more than 1,000 CABLE CUTTING pounds of cardboard, metal, paper and wood by year end. This year, Anixter will process more than 2.1 million custom • Three Mexico locations will successfully recycle more cable cuts for customers from 140 global warehouse locations. than 17,200 pounds of cardboard, paper, plastic and By providing cable cut to the exact length required by the wood by year end. customer, job site cable waste is virtually eliminated. Job • In five countries alone, Anixter will successfully recycle more site costs are also reduced as the need to purchase, cut than 1.8 million pounds of scrap copper and other metals and control master cable reels and the resulting short cable by year end. lengths, or leftover cable, no longer exists. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 17 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ASSET TRACKING MATERIALS AND Anixter recently developed Anixter Trakr,SM a proprietary patent-pending asset-tracking solution that incorporates NATURAL RESOURCES multiple technologies to track, locate and provide visibility WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM to high-valued assets along with incorporating an inventory management component that helps customers locate assets The Anixter-developed and Anixter-supported next-generation in large laydown yards and complex project sites. The tool will WMX warehouse management system uses state-of-the-art help customers reduce labor costs by efficiently locating assets technology and was designed to quickly incorporate operational on large project sites via the tool’s mobile app. In doing so, it system enhancements to meet customer and market demands. will reduce the potential to cut from incorrect reels and overbuy The WMX system also significantly reduces paper and printing due to misplaced products, therefore reducing waste. The waste generated throughout the entire order processing cycle. tool can also provide visibility of the cut lengths remaining on In 2017, the Anixter WMX team continued to successfully master reels throughout the project site to help minimize scrap incorporate more enhancements that improved performance, and identify reorder points. increased operational efficiencies and expanded user functionality in the facilities across North America that currently TALKING TRASH use WMX. By year end, approximately 70 locations will have A recycling refresh campaign titled Talking Trash was unveiled been converted to the WMX platform with the majority of these to the approximately 850 employees within Anixter’s Glenview, locations utilizing the new point-of-sale storefront option. Ill, headquarters in November of last year. This year, targeted recyclable-specific signs were added in the headquarters as REDUCING CABLE REELS AT THE JOB SITE well as the Bracknell, U.K., location. A Talking Trash message Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions offers a layering service that continues to be featured on the large panel monitors outside reduces the total number of cable reels needed at a job site the employee cafeteria in the headquarters to encourage by adding multiple layers of cable to a single reel chamber. As people to recycle. more layers are added, fewer reels are needed. Having fewer reels at a job site reduces transportation costs, transportation emissions and, when wood reels are used, timber consumption. TALKING This service provides further value when combined with Anixter’s TRASH PARAPULLSM or PARASPINSM services that use returnable reels. Over the last 12 months, Anixter’s U.S. locations have shipped MIXED RECYCLING more than 2,600 layered reels to customers’ job sites. REUSABLE METAL REELS Plastic Anixter offers electrical contractors the option of receiving Glass cut-to-length cable on reusable metal PARASPIN reels that Paper and Cardboard have five independent spinning chambers from which to pull cable. Customers using a single PARASPIN reel can eliminate Aluminum Cans four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. As the PARASPIN reel completely eliminates the use of wood and is reusable, natural resources are preserved and cable reel waste and disposal costs are eliminated at the job site. Over the last 12 months, Anixter shipped and retrieved more than 2,700 reusable PARASPIN reels from customers’ job sites. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 18 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REUSABLE WOODEN REELS E-BUSINESS The INSTA-REEL by Anixter consists of a standard wooden Anixter’s e-business offerings allow global customers and reel that has oversized flanges attached to both sides. suppliers the ability to seamlessly process a vast array of business INSTA-REEL’s inner reel spins independently of the outer transactions with Anixter in a secure and paperless environment. flanges, creating a reel with a built-in payout stand. After use, Anixter’s e-business highlights include the following: the INSTA-REEL is returned to Anixter and is reused. The reuse • Electronic data interface (EDI): By year end, Anixter will of each INSTA-REEL helps preserve natural resources while have successfully processed more than 2.4 million global EDI eliminating empty reel disposal costs and waste from job sites. transactions of which more than 949,000, or approximately Over the last 12 months, Anixter has shipped more than 40 percent, will result in the elimination of a paper 1,400 reusable INSTA-REELs to customers. transaction, such as an invoice, purchase order or forecast E-TRAVEL AND EXPENSE REPORTING • Third-party electronic invoicing: Anixter communicates extensively with various online procurement applications and Anixter’s paperless travel and expense reporting system now supplier networks. By year end, Anixter will have successfully includes the U.S., Canada, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Central processed more than 167,000 paperless invoice transactions America and Latin America, excluding Brazil. During the last 12 through these networks months, there were more than 51,800 electronic expense report submissions that eliminated an estimated 311,100 sheets • eDelivery: In 2017, there are more than 111,700 global of paper and approximately 45,000 paper envelopes and the customer accounts using Anixter’s paperless invoice and subsequent postage expense. Currently, there are 29 countries statement email notification program. utilizing the paperless travel and expense reporting system. RECYCLED CONTENT In 2018, Brazil and the Asia Pacific region will be targeted for migration to the system. Anixter seeks to use recycled content in consumables where feasible. Here are two examples: GREEN OFFICE SUPPLIES • Anixter’s U.S. warehouses, which collectively process the Anixter continues to focus on purchasing office supplies that largest outbound line volume in the global network, shipped contain green attributes where feasible. Green attributes can more than 2 million pounds of corrugated boxes, packing include, but are not limited to, products that contain recycled paper, paper tape and related packaging items that are made or plant-based materials or are remanufactured. For example, from recycled content ranging from 40 to 100 percent as of Q4 2017, Anixter’s U.K. and North American locations • All of Anixter’s North American business cards and marketing spent 56 and 46 percent respectively of their total office supply collateral are printed on 100 percent recycled paper that is expenditures on products that contain green attributes, as approved by the Forest Stewardship Council, a group that identified by the office supply partners. works to ensure materials are sourced responsibly. Further accomplishments include: • Anixter’s global locations continued to use remanufactured CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WEBPAGE AND DOWNLOADS toner cartridges for printers instead of new OEM cartridges, Since launching the corporate responsibility webpage on where available anixter.com in recognition of Earth Day 2014, the site continues • Over 58 percent of print production jobs utilize soy-based inks. to add new content and draw global stakeholders as measured through pageviews and document downloads. In Q4 2017, the webpage is trending to exceed more than 6,200 unique visitors and Anixter’s Corporate Responsibility Report continues to be the page’s most frequently downloaded item, followed by the Supplier Code of Conduct and Business Ethics Guide. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 19 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY E-CARDS Anixter offers employees the option of sending animated e-cards this web-based software can be accessed from a PC or mobile to customers and supplier partners rather than using traditional device, allowing Anixter customers the ability to view inventory printed paper holiday cards. status in real time. In addition to helping customers use software to reduce stock outs, excess inventory and loss, Anixter, upon DIGITAL MARKETING request, can remove and recycle all product packaging prior to Anixter began its digital marketing initiatives in 2011 by focusing shipping to help customers attain their environmental goals. on the promotion of Anixter and its products and services over Currently, Anixter customers are collectively managing over various digital channels, such as web, mobile, social media and 37,000 SKUs through Anixter’s Rapid Fire 2.0 inventory email. Anixter’s U.S. and Canada websites are now useful tools for control software. customers to access their accounts, view real-time pricing and inventory, place orders, request quotes, track order and shipment ANIXTER MOBILE APP status, and download invoices. Part of the digital marketing In 2016, Anixter released its mobile app, making it easy for strategy has been the migration of traditional print materials customers to shop and manage their accounts on the go. into digital formats for use by internal sales representatives By digitizing the order and account management processes, and external customers. The materials converted into digital Anixter is helping customers work more efficiently and eliminating formats include print catalogs, case studies, fact sheets, the paper usage associated with the traditional ordering process. reference guides, product specification sheets and various Using the Anixter app on their mobile device, customers can now other documents. Anixter has nearly 350,000 parts with perform the following tasks from anywhere: accompanying product specification sheets in digital format • Search through 300,000 products and place orders online for easy access on anixter.com. Being able to perform all of • Download manufacturer specifications these business functions online reduces paper usage for both Anixter and its customers. • Find and contact the nearest Anixter location to request a quote • Explore Anixter services and customized solutions. JUST-IN-TIME (JIT) SCANNING SOLUTIONS Anixter has developed an automatic replenishment tool called JIT ELECTRONIC FUND PAYMENTS where customers or Anixter field representatives can scan product Anixter’s accounts payable team continued to successfully or rack labels to automatically create orders to Anixter. Users have migrate various material and service suppliers onto electronic the flexibility of digital input methods, such as scanning, web portal payment platforms, which eliminates check fraud as well as the or file uploads, to generate orders. These electronic submission paper usage associated with printing and mailing paper checks. and reporting methods reduce the use of paper on site since the In 2017, more than 340 suppliers began accepting electronic orders can be tracked without any handwritten order forms, sheets payments. By year end, Anixter will have processed more than or cards. By leveraging the Anixter solution, customers are able 1.4 million electronic checks and remittance transactions that to reduce time and resources allocated to purchasing inventory will have eliminated approximately 304,160 sheets of paper in addition to reducing the number of shipments received and and envelopes. excess inventory. By year end, Anixter will have received more than 890,000 sales order lines through its JIT system. CANADA CUSTOMS PAPERLESS INVOICING AND PAYMENTS Anixter has embraced a new program with Canada Customs INVENTORY CONTROL SOFTWARE called ARL, an online tool for viewing and downloading invoices, Anixter offers an inventory management software application which eliminates the need for paper invoices to be picked up called Rapid Fire 2.0, which allows customers to scan and from Canada Customs every day. The program also enables track inventory purchased from Anixter and other suppliers. Electronic Fund Transfers, eliminating the need to print and mail Rather than keep manual paper logs using a pen and clipboard, checks to Canada Customs. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 20 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY TRANSPORTATION LONGER COMBINATION VEHICLES SMARTWAY CARRIERS Anixter’s global transportation team successfully leverages More than 90 percent of Anixter’s preferred U.S. and third-party carriers’ longer combination vehicles (LCVs) that international transportation spend is with the EPA’s certified increase the cargo capacity of combination trucks by using SmartWay carriers for products shipped to and from the longer and/or multiple trailers. According to the EPA’s SmartWay United States. SmartWay carriers focus on reducing emissions program, LCVs generally have much better ton-mile fuel and fuel consumption. economy than other combination trucks as they carry more cargo per trip, which results in lower fuel consumption and SHIPMENT CONSOLIDATION reduced greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions. In 2017, Anixter successfully used third-party transportation partners to collect, consolidate and ship more than 43 million GPS NAVIGATION AND VEHICLE MONITORING SYSTEMS pounds of products from global suppliers to Anixter and Anixter continues to connect select fleet vehicles to GPS customer locations around the world. By leveraging supplier navigation systems that provide real-time route planning shipment consolidations at various origin points, Anixter and various vehicle performance metrics to help increase reduces operating expenses, increases material visibility and fuel economy, lower carbon emissions and improve driver lowers emissions. productivity. By year end, Anixter will operate 173 global fleet vehicles connected to a vehicle monitoring system. GREEN SCREENING Anixter’s international transportation team continues to COMMUTER BENEFITS PROGRAM evaluate third-party transportation providers’ environmental Since 2009, Anixter has offered U.S. employees a commuter programs as one of several weighted metrics in competitive benefits program that allows qualified public transportation bids. In 2017, Anixter evaluated numerous providers for the and/or parking expenses to be automatically deducted U.S. to India trade lane, where more than 217,000 pounds of pre-tax from paychecks. The program continues to grow and material was exported last year. The bid was awarded to two encourages staff to use public transportation, which helps providers that have green programs in place. protect the environment while saving users money. TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SERVICES NO IDLING PROGRAM Anixter’s global engineering teams work with customers to A Sustainable PathSM Anixter continues to operate a global no idling efficiently develop standards and compliant solutions that program at its warehouses and headquarters. respond to change, drive innovation and deliver customer value. Truck drivers are required to turn off their engines These teams use the latest in video and voice conferencing while waiting for materials to be loaded or unloaded tools to provide instant support for customers’ unique from their vehicles. Anixter-designed “No Idling” signs are placed application needs, when and where needed. This reduces the on driver entrance doors as well as in select yard and loading need to visit customers in person, thus reducing the emissions dock locations. The No Idling program seeks to improve air quality, associated with travel. reduce carbon emissions and increase safety. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 21 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ANIXTER’S UNIQUE CANADIAN CUSTOMS OPERATIONS ONLINE EMPLOYEE EDUCATION As Anixter electronically clears all its own products that ship Anixter uses an electronic delivery model for much of its to Canada under a self-clearance designation, U.S. imports learning and development programs. Web-based virtual moving by truck that pre-clear before reaching the border workshops, classes and e-courses are delivered via a global do not have to stop and await processing, thereby helping learning management system (LMS). The LMS helps to to reduce overall exhaust emissions. The self-clearance reduce carbon emissions by eliminating employee travel and designation also gives Anixter a distinct advantage as the also helps to preserve natural resources as printed training custom clearance transaction is faster since it does not materials are eliminated. This year, Anixter successfully attained need to pass through an outside custom broker. In addition more than 150,529 course completions from the 1,489 to improving the speed of transaction, it also improves the courses offered to employees. visibility and accountability of every international import Anixter brings into Canada. For example, over the last 12 ONLINE CUSTOMER EDUCATION months, Anixter Canada processed 78,036 import entries Through Anixter University, Anixter creates and offers universitycontaining more than 149,000 lines. In addition to handling like courses to educate customers globally on the latest the Canadian imports from the U.S., Anixter’s Canadian standards and industry best practices for data centers, physical transportation team is responsible to ensure compliance with security, building technologies and industrial infrastructure. U.S. Customs. The department also centrally manages all export Course examples include power distribution and thermal paperwork for shipments leaving Canada and has processed management, which covers energy-efficient design, metering 4,559 export shipments containing more than 8,800 lines over and monitoring of power using the power usage effectiveness the past 12 months. (PUE) metric established by The Green Grid and how best to separate hot exhaust air from chilled supply air. Courses are EMISSIONS-REDUCING FLEET VEHICLES available in live or on-demand formats. In 2017, Anixter’s U.S. locations replaced 23 diesel commercial motor vehicles, which will significantly reduce nitrogen oxide VIDEOCONFERENCING emissions from 1.2 g/hp-hr to 0.2 g/hp-hr, an 83 percent Many of Anixter’s meeting rooms have videoconferencing decrease. In Europe, Anixter replaced 11 vans with ones capabilities, plus, several employees use desktop cameras and that are Euro 6 compliant, which is a standard that aims to conferencing software to connect with co-workers, suppliers reduce nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and and customers around the world. Videoconferencing eliminates particulates from the exhaust gas. travel and its associated carbon emissions while lowering expenses and increasing employee productivity. TRANSPORTATION REDUCTION STRATEGIES Anixter’s Edmonton, Alberta, location continues to purchase CLEANER FUEL unassembled cable reels to assemble when needed, as Anixter’s U.S. forklift fleet will consume more than 80,000 gallons opposed to purchasing fully assembled reels. In doing so, the of propane in 2017 and because propane is a cleaner burning location can obtain nearly 2,000 unassembled reels in as few fuel, it qualifies for the IRS Federal Alternative Fuel Tax Credit. as two truckloads as opposed to 10 to 12 truckloads if the reels were fully assembled. This strategy reduces the location’s ADVANCED EMISSION CONTROLS inbound freight expenses, carbon emissions and reel storage In 2017, Anixter ordered nine forklifts that meet the EPA’s Tier 4 space requirements. emissions standards. This is a comprehensive national program focusing on reducing emissions from non-road diesel engines. To attain this standard, the forklift engines require advanced emission-control technologies. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 22 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 23 ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE Anixter’s environmental product compliance team is comprised of specialists who are committed to: • Determining the compliance status of products to applicable environmental regulations in the countries where Anixter conducts business • Fully complying with the Conflict Minerals Rule under the Dodd-Frank Act • Identifying, monitoring and addressing new and existing environmental product compliance, international substance control and extended producer responsibility obligations • Working with the global sales teams and partner suppliers to ensure customers’ requested environmental product compliance specifications are successfully met • Continuously improving processes and team training • Advancing the use of technology to help fulfill the above. ONGOING COMPLIANCE ENHANCEMENTS Anixter continued to enhance existing procedures and systems to • Anixter increased the number of methods in which suppliers further reduce the risk of potentially shipping products that may were contacted, including translating our communications not meet international substance regulations from U.S. facilities. to match that of the supplier’s country language during the In addition, customer notification processes were enhanced annual conflict minerals survey campaign. should a product containing REACH substances of very high • As a result of the above activities, Anixter’s annual conflict concern be identified by an Anixter supplier. Anixter continues minerals supplier survey resulted in an increase in the to successfully survey suppliers for compliance to the updated completed supplier conflict minerals reporting templates (CMRT) REACH candidate list, among other regulations. from the previous year. This, in turn, provides Anixter’s customers with better insight into Anixter’s distribution supply chain. CUSTOMER SUPPORT • Anixter continued generating a CMRT that better reflects the In 2017, Anixter’s environmental product compliance team supply chain for each specific customer when required. will have helped more than 800 customers address various international product compliance obligations for products • Utilizing its software partner, in 2017, Anixter distributed purchased from Anixter. conflict minerals training materials throughout its supply chain to increase knowledge and awareness of suppliers’ obligations ONGOING CONFLICT MINERALS ACTIONS under the rule. Anixter continues to partner with a third-party provider for • Throughout 2017, the North American and corporate all supplier outreach and follow-up activities as well as data environmental product compliance teams continued to provide management. The provider also analyzed all inbound supplier content that helped create Anixter’s annual: response documentation and provided various performance1. Company-level CMRT customer response based activity and status reports in support of Anixter’s annual Conflict Minerals Report. 2. SEC Form SD • Anixter improved supplier contact data quality to improve 3. Conflict Minerals Report. responsiveness and reduce duplication. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 24 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO HEALTH AND SAFETY 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 25 HEALTH AND SAFETY The Health, Safety and Environmental (HS&E) program is designed to create, implement and maintain a healthy and safe work environment for all employees, visitors and contractors. Everyone at Anixter is part of this program. Anixter’s global health, safety and environmental teams work to make sure compliance elements are met and that the guidelines of the global safety and environmental management system are followed. These teams make resources available and define responsibilities to enable the company to operate in a manner that provides a safe and healthy workplace for employees, visitors and contractors while also protecting the environment. Anixter is committed to providing employees with a safe and healthy work environment through its: • Global Health and Safety Policy • Certification or compliance OHSAS 18001 • Global safety and environmental management system International Occupational Health and Safety Management System • Continuous location management education • Business Integrity Line and other communication • Equipment safety training mechanisms • Electronic notification and mandatory staff training • “Start of Shift” weekly safety communication on policy modifications • Monthly “Safety Toolbox Talks” via Anixter’s learning • Certification to ISO 14001:2004 (2015 in progress) management system Environmental Management System • Department of Transportation driver safety training • Monthly driver safety communication. AUDITS AND CERTIFICATIONS ONGOING TRAINING AND EDUCATION • Internal and external compliance audits were successfully This year, the health, safety and environmental teams: completed at three international locations for ISO 14001:2004 • Provided oversight on five continents and in ten languages (2015 in progress) Environmental Management System and • Distributed 328 health and safety topics for local “safety one U.K. location for the Five Star British Health and Safety huddles” globally Certification. As a result of the audits, all locations maintained their certifications. • Completed 124 compliance site audits • In Alberta, Anixter’s Edmonton and Calgary facilities • Assigned 1,463 training modules and had 316 employees received the province’s Certificate of Recognition. complete written certification tests. This is awarded to companies who have health and FACILITY INSPECTIONS safety programs that meet or exceed standards established by Occupational Health and Safety. Anixter used an external auditor to voluntarily complete human element inspections at 15 global facilities. These inspections WORKPLACE VIGILANCE focused on fire protection systems, sprinklers, sprinkler control • Anixter’s HS&E senior director continuously monitors global valves and hot work areas. operations and reviews the global safety action list with management on a quarterly basis. This allows Anixter to address any current concerns and prioritize future actions. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 26 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 27 QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Anixter’s quality management system provides global support to all business divisions and segments through a variety of services by the corporate quality team. A commitment to continuously improving processes and maintaining the best quality practices drives Anixter’s focus to meet or exceed customers’ expectations. Anixter’s quality management system is supported by its: • Global quality manual • Mandatory staff training on policy and • Quality procedures procedure updates • Quality-related documents • Global on-site training and support for quality management system functions • Standard operating procedures • Formalized change management protocol to support • New business and customer audit support improvement initiatives • Continuous employee education in best practices • Operations help desk. • Certification or compliance to: ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems ISO STANDARDS CONTINUED QUALITY MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS • 12 locations certified to ISO 9001:2015 This year, the quality management teams have: • 40 locations compliant to ISO 9001:2015 • Continued the redesign to a single, global quality management • 28 locations certified to ISO 9001:2008 system that incorporates multiple languages (2015 standard transition in progress) • Completed over 50 internal location audits and site • 19 locations compliant to ISO 9001:2008 reviews to improve Anixter’s quality management system (2015 standard transition in progress) and location certification • Three locations certified to ISO 14001:2004 • Created 56 standard operating procedures to address new (2015 in progress). processes and customer requirements • Updated 144 existing standard operating procedures to OPERATIONS HELP DESK include revised best practice instructions derived from Anixter’s operations help desk is a support group available to customer and supplier feedback all Anixter employees to analyze internal systems and provide • Led 11 on-site customer audits. assistance to address customer or internal inquiries. This year, the team has: • Completed more than 350 customer and supplier quality questionnaires or surveys • Created and assigned 291 quality training modules addressing new or changing procedures • Addressed more than 8,000 individual internal support calls. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 28 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 29 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Around the world, Anixter is powered by employees who have the talent and dedication to address the most challenging opportunities and problems, and their efforts go beyond business and into the communities where they work and live. Anixter believes it is important to support global communities and encourages employees to get involved with the causes and charities they care about. The Anixter Cares program is powered by these people and supports various charitable organizations. Anixter also provides company-matching gifts to select charities and institutions of higher education within the U.S. and Canada and offers time off for employees to volunteer at nonprofit organizations. Anixter also believes in promoting diversity and is committed to the participation and advancement of small businesses and business enterprises owned by minorities, women and disabled veterans. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations has set forth 17 Sustainable Development Goals. According to the UN, the goals are “a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity.” While Anixter’s corporate and charitable initiatives apply to several of the Sustainable Development Goals, there are three goals we will focus on in 2017 and beyond: #3 GOOD HEALTH #4 QUALITY #11 SUSTAINABLE AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 30 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ASPIRE OF CHICAGO THE HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN Since 2016, all 2,800 pounds of coffee consumed In June, Anixter’s Toronto location raised more annually at Anixter’s corporate headquarters than $12,000 for the Hospital for Sick Children, comes from Aspire CoffeeWorks, a program through the second-largest pediatric research hospital in which adults with disabilities work side by side with employees the world, at the 32nd Annual Anixter Golf Classic. More than of Metropolis Coffee Company in Chicago. Not only does this 144 guests participated in the tournament, which was held at provide jobs to a greatly underemployed group, but 100 percent Glenn Abbey Golf Club in Oakville, Ontario. of the proceeds go back into Aspire’s programs and services to improve the lives of adults and children with disabilities. BERNIE’S BOOK BANK In 2017, Anixter donated $10,000 worth of cabling for Anixter’s corporate finance and treasury teams Aspire’s new career academy in the Chicago area that will have volunteered a total of 200 hours during allow people with disabilities to learn new skills, connect five community service outings at Bernie’s with local businesses and be placed with organizations that Book Bank in Lake Bluff, Ill., where they helped sort and can use those skills. pack books for students in need. Bernie’s Book Bank is a nonprofit organization that provides new and gently used AMERICAN RED CROSS children’s books to school districts throughout Chicagoland. In 2017, Anixter employees showed their support The organization is on target to distribute four million books in for victims of hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Jose and 2017 to over 333,000 at-risk children. Maria, as well as the earthquake in Mexico, by donating DISASTER RELIEF $21,437 to the American Red Cross, most of which was matched by Anixter for a total donation of $39,754. Anixter The 2017 hurricane season was especially was also a sponsoring member of the 15th annual Red Cross devastating and affected several Anixter Heroes Breakfast, an event that raised nearly $1.4 million employees, customers and supplier partners directly. In to provide disaster victims with basic necessities, as well as response, Anixter employees came together and started a vaccinations for children, volunteer training and other lifesaving GoFundMe account, which raised $58,960 for employees who skills. Additionally, the Anixter headquarters hosted two blood had lost their homes due to the hurricaines in Texas, Florida drives in which employees voluntarily donated 58 pints of and the Caribbean. Anixter locations across the globe collected blood, enough to save 174 lives. food, clothing and necessities to be shipped to the affected areas, including islands in the Caribbean that were hit by KOHL CHILDREN’S MUSEUM multiple hurricanes. Furthermore, numerous employees worked Anixter encourages the next generation of around the clock, including weekends, to help our utility scientists by sponsoring the Tinkering Tuesdays customers restore power to the affected areas as quickly and educational program at Kohl Children’s Museum in efficiently as possible. Glenview, Ill.. Tinkering Tuesdays aim to get more children TUITION REIMBURSEMENT interested in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math through a variety of fun and educational activities. Anixter offers a tuition reimbursement program to Anixter engineers worked with the program’s directors to eligible employees. In 2017, Anixter reimbursed develop six Tinkering Tuesday sessions geared toward exploring more than$101,800 in employee tuition costs. the world of engineering. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 31 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATION For the third year in a row, Team Anixter was a ANIXTER CARES top-10 fundraising team for the American Diabetes Association (ADA) Chicagoland Tour de Cure. With In 2017, donations generated support from fellow Anixter employees, Team Anixter raised over $8,500 for the ADA to help fund diabetes research and through Anixter Cares included: education. The seven riders, who totaled 300 combined miles, MORE THAN ANIXTER EMPLOYEE were among the 1,000+ participants who pedaled and pushed their way to raise more than $535,000 for the ADA. CONTRIBUTIONS $68,300 MISSION 500 Anixter is a continuing sponsor of Mission 500, + ANIXTER CARES MORE THAN a nonprofit organization that works closely with the security industry to serve the needs of children living EMPLOYEE MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS $68,300 in severe poverty across the U.S. Employees raised money for and even attended various fundraising events, including 5Ks, a security softball game and a benefit dinner. Employees also + volunteered their time filling book bags with school supplies ANIXTER MORE THAN and distributing them to kids in need. In total, Anixter and its employees donated $9,430 to Mission 500. CORPORATE DONATIONS $223,300 HABITAT FOR HUMANITY In 2017, Anixter employees once again volunteered with Habitat for Humanity on a total of 16 projects TOTAL ANIXTER MORE THAN throughout the Chicago, New York and Orlando EMPLOYEE AND ANIXTER CARES IMPACT $359,900 areas. Over 100 employees participated in the program in 2017, in which they hung drywall, installed flooring, built porches and performed a multitude of other tasks to build affordable homes for families in need. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 32 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Diversity Anixter is committed to promoting participation of minority, women-owned, and disabled veteran business enterprises (MWDVBE) in our distribution business. We will use reasonable efforts to provide opportunities to certified MWDVBE’s through purchasing or reselling opportunities, mentor-protégé programs, teaming arrangements and subcontracting whenever practical. DIVERSITY PURCHASING DIVERSITY SALES • Within the U.S., Anixter spent more than $224 million with Through a combination of long-term and recently established 2,036 small, minority-, womanand disabled-veteran owned partnerships with a vast array of diversity organizations business enterprises over the last 12 months. located across the U.S., Anixter’s and our partners’ strengths • Anixter continued to help U.S. customers report on their are combined to collectively help our mutual customers indirect diversity purchases from Anixter by distributing achieve their diversity business engagement goals for both electronic diversity purchasing reports each quarter. Anixter large projects and day-to-day operations. In 2017, Anixter has been supporting customers with quarterly diversity sold more than $141 million in products to various strategic purchasing reports since 1999. U.S. diversity partners. • As a GSA contract holder since 2000, Anixter continuously SUPPLIER DIVERSITY AWARD strives to attain annual small business subcontracting goals. In 2017, Anixter was presented with AT&T’s Supplier Diversity The small business subcontracting initiative focuses on Crystal Award for significantly exceeding their minority-, womanincreasing subcontracting opportunities for disadvantaged, and disabled-veteran owned business utilization targets. Per HUBZone-certified, veteran-owned, service-disabled-veteranAT&T’s recognition letter, Anixter was part of “a very select group owned and woman-owned small businesses to receive of prime suppliers who attained and/or exceeded 21.5 percent maximum practical opportunities in federal government diversity utilization in 2016.” This is the third time in four years subcontract awards. The program seeks to ensure that Anixter has attained this award. domestic small businesses receive a fair and equitable opportunity to compete for and receive subcontracts. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 33 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO ANTICORRUPTION 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 34 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anixter is proud of its reputation as a fair, honest and ethical company. All Anixter directors, officers, employees, suppliers and business partners are required to conduct business with the highest degree of honesty and integrity and in full compliance with applicable laws. These principles are set forth in company policies such as Anixter’s Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy (Ethics Policy), Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy (Anti-Bribery Policy), Supplier Code of Conduct, and Business Partner AntiCorruption Policy. As clearly stated in its policies, Anixter takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and any other form of corruption and is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships. It upholds all laws countering bribery and corruption wherever it operates. No Anixter employee or anyone acting on Anixter’s behalf may promise, offer, give, authorize, request, agree to receive or receive, directly or indirectly, a bribe to or from anyone. COMPONENTS OF ANIXTER’S GLOBAL ANTI•CORRUPTION PROGRAM Anixter promotes responsible business practices at every level of the company. It strives to conduct business ethically, honestly and in accordance with its Ethics Policy (anixter.com/ethics), and expects all employees and business partners to meet these high ethical standards. Countering bribery and corruption is one of Anixter’s standards and a primary focus area of its global Compliance program. The anti-bribery and corruption program is comprised of the following ten components: • Policies • Oversight, autonomy and resources • Commitment from senior management • Third-party due diligence • Incentives and discipline • Training and communication • Confidential reporting and investigations • M&A diligence and integration • Risk assessment • Periodic testing and review. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 35 ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES In support of Anixter’s high ethical standards, its global The Anti-Bribery Policy, Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy, Compliance program provides guidance and training for the Overview Presentation and Supplier Code of Conduct are Anixter employees worldwide on a variety of policies and available in 11 languages. topics, such as but not limited to, business ethics and conduct, All employees are familiar with the Blue Book, which drives anti-bribery and corruption, government contract compliance, the company’s culture by outlining Anixter’s core beliefs and fraud, conflicts of interest, prevention of workplace harassment guiding principles. Created over 45 years ago, the Blue Book and export compliance. The policies that reinforce Anixter’s zero continues to influence and shape Anixter’s overall culture. The tolerance of bribery and corruption include, but are not limited Blue Book is frequently quoted in companywide trainings and to, the Ethics Policy, Anti-Bribery Policy, Government Contracts internal communications. For a copy of the Blue Book, visit Policy, Global Fraud Policy and Conflicts of Interest Policy. See anixter.com/bluebook. “Relevant Policies” in this section for more information about All new employees globally are made aware of the Ethics Policy, these policies. Anti-Bribery Policy, Conflicts of Interest Policy and the Blue Book Additionally, as part of Anixter’s anti-corruption program, the during their on-boarding process. They also receive the other company has implemented a business partner compliance policies if applicable to the employee’s position. program (anixter.com/bpcompliance) that includes the Global Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy (anixter.com/bppolicy) OVERSIGHT, AUTONOMY AND RESOURCES and a business partner due diligence screening process. The Audit Committee of the Anixter International Inc. Board of Anixter has adopted a Supplier Code of Conduct available at Directors oversees the global Compliance program, including the anixter.com/suppliercode. This code incorporates the key Ten anti-bribery and corruption program. Anixter’s Chief Compliance Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and specifies Officer, who reports directly to the company’s CEO, updates how Anixter expects its suppliers to conduct business. This code the Audit Committee quarterly on the company’s anti-bribery also emphasizes Anixter’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery corruption compliance program and initiatives. and any other form of corruption. Anixter’s Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit The Anti-Bribery Policy is an internal policy that applies to all Committee of the Board of Directors. It provides independent Anixter employees globally. The Business Partner Anti-Corruption and objective advisory services designed to add value and Policy applies to Anixter’s suppliers, contractors, integrators, improve Anixter’s operations. The department helps Anixter resellers, channel partners, consultants, professional advisers, accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined joint venture partners, custom brokers, freight forwarders, sales approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of agents and any other parties with whom Anixter does business enterprise-wide risk management, internal control systems (business partners). For a copy of Anixter’s Business Partner and governance processes. The Internal Audit Department, Anti-Corruption Policy, visit anixter.com/bppolicy. in collaboration with other key departments, also provides Anixter’s anti-corruption policies are designed to comply with oversight and guidance related to applicable laws, regulations anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in countries where Anixter and company policies to foster a positive and ethical work operates or conducts business including, but not limited to, the environment for employees. U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. No Anixter’s Executive Compliance Committee (“ECC”) is led bribe of any kind may be authorized, offered, given, requested by the Chief Compliance Officer and is comprised of the or accepted in the course of doing business for Anixter. Anixter’s regional compliance officers and senior leaders from various policies also prohibit facilitation payments. Anixter’s zerodepartments within the company. The ECC administers the tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is not limited compliance program, oversees and assists in implementing the to government officials; it also extends to bribes involving compliance program initiatives and monitors the effectiveness of commercial parties. the compliance program. The ECC held three meetings in 2017. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 36 ANTI-CORRUPTION Regional compliance committees are responsible for identifying risk and compliance matters within their respective regions, and for overseeing the regional compliance initiatives. These TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION committees are comprised of senior leaders from various Employees complete training on Anixter’s Compliance departments within the company. The committees meet at least program policies online. These assignments must be twice a year and are led by regional compliance officers who are in-house regional attorneys. The regional compliance officers are completed when issued. All new hires receive these also members of the Executive Compliance Committee. assignments upon beginning their employment with Anixter. All new employees are also assigned the online COMMITMENT FROM SENIOR MANAGEMENT training module “Blue Book Living the Anixter Culture.” Company policies, including the Ethics Policy and Anti-Bribery Policy, clearly state Anixter’s commitment to conducting Targeted training sessions on the Compliance program business ethically and with integrity and include Anixter’s policies and topics are also conducted throughout zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. These the company. These sessions are tailored to the group are endorsed by CEO Bob Eck and Chairman of the Board attending the session and are typically presented by Sam Zell. Anixter managers include topics such as bribery and management or a member of the Legal Department. corruption, and ethics and integrity in their leadership-driven discussions with their teams throughout the year. The Compliance program policies are posted in various locations on Anixter’s intranet site and are easily THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE accessible by employees. News about and updates to the Anixter expects its business partners to act professionally Compliance program are communicated to employees via and ethically at all times in carrying out their services and contractual obligations to Anixter or on Anixter’s behalf to an company-wide newsletters and email blasts. Anixter customer or any other third party. Business partners To help Business Partners better understand Anixter’s must undergo a qualification and screening process if the zero-tolerance approach to anti-bribery and corruption, business partner is (1) located in or doing business in a “highrisk country” identified by Anixter or (2) performing services they are encouraged to review the “Understanding Anixter’s for or on behalf of Anixter in one of the “high-risk categories” Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy” presentation identified by Anixter regardless of country. Red flags identified available at anixter.com/bpoverview (the “Overview during this process are referred to a regional compliance Presentation”). This Overview Presentation summarizes officer for review and further investigation. Any business partner Anixter’s expectations of its business partners to comply that refuses to participate in the screening process or an with its zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. investigation will not be approved to do business with Anixter. INCENTIVES AND DISCIPLINE Performance and evaluation tools remind managers that ethics and integrity must be considered during performance evaluations. Anixter investigates all suspected incidents of corruption and violations of company policies. These investigations can result in disciplinary action, which could include termination. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 37 ANTI-CORRUPTION CONFIDENTIAL REPORTING AND INVESTIGATIONS PERIODIC TESTING AND REVIEW Anixter’s employees, business partners and other third parties The Annual Ethics Questionnaire was distributed in January can ask questions or report possible ethics or bribery and 2017 to all directors, officers, senior management and corruption violations through the Business Integrity Line. members of select departments and functions and was Anixter has partnered with an independent third party to host available in 11 languages. All recipients who received and track such reports made via telephone or online. Where the questionnaire completed it in a timely manner. This allowed by local laws, these reports can be made anonymously. questionnaire will be distributed again in January 2018. Reports made at anixter.ethicspoint.com are managed and To further monitor the compliance program, Anixter distributes responded to by members of the Legal, Human Resources and and analyzes a culture survey. This survey is issued every two Internal Audit departments, as appropriate. Anixter does not years. and was conducted in 2017. The survey was distributed tolerate any form of retaliation against employees who in good to a random selection of approximately 25% of active faith report a concern regarding illegal or unethical activities. employees globally. Participation is voluntary and all responses The anti-retaliation policy is emphasized by the Safe to Speak are anonymous. The results of this survey were reported to the FAQs document that is available in 11 languages and posted Audit and Executive Compliance committees. on its intranet sites. The anti-corruption program is monitored by a combination of Investigation reports are provided to executive management audits, reviews, risk assessments and internal investigations. and the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. The Internal Audit, Global Shared Services, Finance and Legal departments are engaged in these processes. M&A DILIGENCE AND INTEGRATION Prior to an acquisition, Anixter conducts a due diligence review that includes reviewing the targeted company’s anti-corruption compliance program and controls. Anixter also looks for prior anti-corruption issues or violations. Post-acquisition integration efforts include effectively communicating and implementing training on Anixter’s Compliance program, including all policies and procedures. RISK ASSESSMENT The Internal Audit Department reviews business practices for anti-corruption risks during the audits they conduct throughout the year. Also, business partners that represent a greater risk, such as those in high risk countries or high-risk categories, identified by the company, are required to complete Anixter’s business partner qualification process. This qualification process includes due diligence screening. Business partners who are approved are continuously monitored by the company. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 38 ANTI-CORRUPTION RELEVANT POLICIES GLOBAL BUSINESS ETHICS GLOBAL TRAVEL AND ENTERTAINMENT AND CONDUCT POLICY • Emphasizes prohibition of entertainment and gifts • Reflects current industry best practices, to government personnel emphasizes zero tolerance of bribery and restates • Adopted in 1999; last revised in 2014 commitment to anti-retaliation • Posted on intranet sites • Earliest version distributed in 1998; last revised in 2013 • Available in three languages • Posted on intranet and external sites • Distributed with training to all employees who travel and entertain on behalf of Anixter. • Available in 11 languages • Distributed with training at least every two years GLOBAL FRAUD POLICY to all employees. • Provides guidance on preventing, identifying and detecting fraud and instructions regarding GLOBAL ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY appropriate action in cases of suspected violations • Provides guidance on what bribery and corruption are and how to avoid them • Adopted in 2014 • Revised in 2015; first adopted in 2012 • Posted on intranet sites • Posted on intranet sites • Available in English • Available in 11 languages • Distributed with targeted live training to members of the Finance organization. • Distributed with training at least every two years to all employees. GLOBAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY • Identifies the most common types of activities GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS POLICY that may result in a conflict of interest and the • Provides guidance for meeting ethical and legal disclosure and approval process for each type of obligations as a supplier to U.S. federal, state and activity local governments • Adopted in 2014 • Adopted in 2011 • Posted on intranet sites • Posted on intranet sites • Available in 11 languages • Available in English • Distributed to all employees globally with targeted • Distributed with training to employees involved live training. with U.S. government contracting in the U.S., United Arab Emirates, Japan and Germany. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 39 ABOUT ANIXTER CORPORATE SNAPSHOT EMEA ENTERED REGION YEAR FOUNDED 1972 1957 NORTH ENTERED REGION AMERICA 1991 APAC ENTERED REGION 1990 CALA GLOBAL REACH. LOCAL ADVANTAGE. With Anixter, you get a true local partner around APPROXIMATELY OVER 50 MORE THAN OVER the world. No other distributor of our kind can claim an in-country presence in approximately YEAR FOUNDED 1957 8,800 150,000 CUSTOMERS 300 WAREHOUSES/ 50 countries and in over 300 cities. EMPLOYEES COUNTRIES BRANCHES We do business in more than 35 currencies and 30 languages, which means we are OVER IN OVER NEARLY FORTUNE uniquely positioned to help facilitate your $1.0 BILLION 300 STOCK SYMBOL AXE 600,000 500 project in the local environment, reduce risks INVENTORY CITIES PRODUCTS COMPANY and keep costs down. About Anixter: anixter.com/aboutus Anixter International Inc. Legal Statement: anixter.com/legalstatement 2301 Patriot Boulevard Glenview, Illinois 60026 17G8651GL © 2017 Anixter Inc. 1.224.521.8000 1.800.ANIXTER | anixter.com Products. Technology. Services. Delivered Globally.
