CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBIL ITY 2016•2017 REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Message from Frédéric Oudéa.................................. 3 3. Societe generale acts for the climate .... 23 Commitments, challenges and ambition . 3 Climate: strategy and management ......................... 23 Attention to climate change issues associated with Group commitments................................................. 3 financing and other services.................................... 24 Csr priority issues ..................................................... 4 Supporting customers in their low-carbon The reference bank................................................... 4 investments ............................................................ 25 A relationship banking culture based on Partnerships to support low-carbon development common values ........................................................ 4 policies ................................................................... 27 Reducing the group’s carbon footprint .................... 27 1. Corporate responsibility governance....... 5 Group governance.................................................... 5 4. Societe generale stands for solidarity Csr management ...................................................... 8 and commitment ................................. 31 Dialogue with stakeholders ....................................... 9 Extra-financial assessment ....................................... 9 Respect for human rights ........................................ 31 The bank is attentive to investors .............................. 9 Fighting insecurity and protecting vulnerable populations ............................................................. 32 2. Implementing responsible financing ...... 11 Solidarity banking activities ..................................... 35 Supporting smes, business creation and emerging Loyalty of practics .................................................. 11 countries’ development........................................... 37 Implementing e&s commitments in relation to our financing and investment activities...........................15 5. Societe generale supports its Positive Impact Finance...........................................158 employees on a daily basis .................. 40 Socially responsible investment (sri) ........................ 19 A responsible employer........................................... 40 E&s commitments as part of societe generale’s Commitment: sponsorship and partnerships ........... 54 sourcing policy: the 2018 positive sourcing program ................................................................. 20 6. Appendices ........................................ 58 Note on methodology ............................................. 58 Independent verifier’s report on consolidated social, environmental and societal information presented in the management report .......................................... 60 S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 2 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE Message from Frédéric Oudéa “For Societe Generale, being a responsible company lies at the financing, which was reflected in its participation in all European very heart of our business lines’ mission and reflects the essence offshore wind projects. The Group also successfully launched its of the relationship bank of reference that we strive to be. As a second positive impact bond in September 2016, in line with the key player in financing the economy, operating in 67 countries, 2015 Manifesto on Positive Impact Finance of the United Nations our mission is to offer the best solutions to advise and connect Environment Programme. Societe Generale played a leading role individuals, companies and institutions, in order to support them in this latter initiative by identifying the environmental and social in the development of their projects, the management of their impacts of its activities and reducing them in compliance with financial means and their risk coverage. Sensitive to the different international best practices. stakeholders within our ecosystem, we also strive to ensure the generation of a long-term positive impact on the environment The Societe Generale Group positions itself as a prominent surrounding us. banking at the forefront of the global playing field for its CSR achievements and its transparency; in 2016, Societe Generale In 2016 we continued our proactive approach initiated in the maintained its position among the first quartile of 132 banks that 2000s with the signature of national and international responded to RobecoSam questionnaires on a worldwide basis. commitments that bear the hallmark of precise and demanding The Group is also included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World principles. By signing in 2016 the Women’s Empowerment Index. Principles under the United Nations Global Compact on the one hand, and the Global Business and Disability Charter of the Accordingly, the Group is firmly committed to being a solid, International Labour Organization on the other, we have responsible financial player aiming to serve its customers. This demonstrated our determination to promote diversity within the commitment is based on the specific attention that Societe workplace and in the community. In addition, for the last ten Generale pays to quality of life at the workplace and teams’ years our Corporate Foundation has been supporting charities diversity as well as on our culture and conduct, meaning our involved in the integration of disadvantaged persons (our annual exemplary individual and collective behaviour. I am convinced budget, increased to EUR 3 million this year, has tripled over the that the leadership model that we have decided to adopt, last ten years) and around 15,000 employees worldwide have applicable to all employees and centred on four client-focused participated in initiatives organised by the company. values – team spirit, innovation, responsibility and commitment – will enable us to consolidate our position among the most Societe Generale implemented its commitment announced in responsible banks on a global level.” correlation with the COP21 to align its financing in order to contribute towards limiting the global temperature rise to less than 2°C by 2100. A key part of this ambitious commitment is the decision to stop all new financing for coal-fired thermal power plant projects or associated infrastructure. Societe Generale also doubled its support for renewable energy COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION GROUP COMMITMENTS Societe Generale conducts its business with the utmost respect 2007: adopted the Equator Principles (see p. 16, EQUATOR for the values and principles under: PRINCIPLES); the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its additional 2007: signed the SME Pact (France); commitments; 2010: signed the “Responsible Supplier Relations” Charter the fundamental conventions of the International Labour (France); Organization (ILO); 2014: signed the Joint Declaration organised by the UNESCO World Heritage Convention; Transparency International France for the promotion of transparent, honest lobbying; the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises of the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development); 2014: support for the Green Bond Principles; the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 2014: Lyxor signed the Principles for Responsible Investment Human Rights (see p. 31, RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS). (PRI); In addition, Societe Generale has shown its proactive 2015: signed a Global Agreement on Fundamental Rights commitment since 2000 to the following public or private with UNI Global Union; initiatives: 2015: launched the “Positive Impact Manifesto” of the 2000: founding member of the Wolfsberg Group; UNEP-FI; 2001: joined the United Nations Environment Programme 2015: joined the “Soft Commodities Compact” of the Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI); Banking Environment Initiative (with the Consumer Goods Forum) to fight tropical deforestation; 2003: joined the United Nations Global Compact, which encourages companies to integrate principles relating to 2015: subscribed to the “Principles for Mainstreaming human rights, working conditions and the fight against Climate Actions within Financial Institutions”, launched during corruption; COP21; 2004: signed the Diversity Charter (France); 2016: signed the Women’s Empowerment Principles – WEP, Professional Equality Charter of United Nations, and the International Labour Organization’s Global Business Charter on Disability. 3 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| CSR PRIORITY ISSUES The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy ensures that the These priority issues (17 in total) have been classed by the Group Group upholds its commitments and makes sustainable progress CSR and Sustainable Development Department, together with a according to priority areas related to its global strategy that respond group of in-house experts, according to their importance and the to two types of challenges: Group’s level of maturity or performance (existence of targets, performance indicators, extra-financial rating or points of view of other the relative significance for external stakeholders with particular stakeholders). attention paid to the expectations of extra-financial ratings agencies and particularly RobecoSam; They represent the Group’s CSR action priorities developed for 2016, the potential impacts on the mediumand long-term business model as set out in this chapter. (results, risks, competitiveness, opportunities, innovation, the Bank’s role, human capital, operational efficiency). ■ Customer satisfaction ■ Support for SMEs, business creation and emerging countries’ development Essential ■ Sustainability of the Bank through comprehensive risk management, including environmental and social aspects ■ Compliance with rules and regulations ■ Transparent and efficient corporate governance ■ Employability Very important ■ Business ethics ■ Respect for the environment in Societe Generale activities ■ Career management/Mobility ■ Respect for human rights in Societe Generale activities ■ Range of “Sustainable development” products ■ Attractive compensation policy Important ■ Diversity ■ Quality of life at work ■ Involvement in international initiatives on environmental and social topics related to finance Relevant ■ Transparent, relevant and reliable information on aspects of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) aspects Visible ■ Sponsorship and partnerships THE REFERENCE BANK Societe Generale’s aim is to become a benchmark in CSR among 46,000 people (Societe Generale’s staff in France). This same criterion Europe’s leading financial institutions. Since 2014, this ambition has is also one of the qualitative criteria applicable to the assessment of been demonstrated by the fact that the Group’s extra-financial Chief Executive Officers and/or Directors when determining a portion performance, as measured by ratings agencies such as RobecoSam, of their variable remuneration. is incorporated into the compensation components of approximately A RELATIONSHIP BANKING CULTURE BASED ON COMMON VALUES Societe Generale aims to be the reference relationship bank, close to Societe Generale has decided to continue this work by launching the its customers, chosen for the quality and commitment of its teams. strategic Culture & Conduct programme in 2016, which is directly This means placing the customer at the heart of the Bank’s concerns. under the authority of General Management. The programme aims to strengthen the confidence of all the Bank’s stakeholders, principally its To achieve this, Societe Generale redefined its fundamental values in clients, and to develop the Societe Generale culture by placing values, 2014 (the values of commitment and responsibility were added to the leadership quality and integrity at the heart of its transformation. historical values of innovation and team spirit), before focusing on the behaviours through which these values should be demonstrated by all This programme aims to implement the recommendations of the employees, to the benefit of its customers. This approach to “G30”, an international consultative group on economic and monetary employee behaviour is based on a new Leadership Model, which has affairs, which were published in the report entitled “Banking Conduct helped Societe Generale to reinforce its corporate culture combining and Culture – A Call for Sustained and Comprehensive Reform”. the ambition to develop activities (innovation), the desire to set an These recommendations are organised around five key themes: example as an individual (commitment) and as a group (team spirit), Development of the perception of culture; Governance and and attention to ethics and compliance with rules (responsibility). (See responsibilities of the governing bodies; Performance management p. 45, Developing a relationship banking culture based on common and incentives; Staff development and training and Effectiveness of values). the three lines of defence. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 4 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE 1. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE GROUP GOVERNANCE The governance of Societe Generale is precise and transparent, modifications related to developments of regulations (e.g. the as described in the Registration Document. It ensures duly audit reform) and of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. controlled decision-making that best serves the Group’s longterm interests whilst making sure that the expectations of its main The Board of Directors defines the Company’s strategy by stakeholders are met, in compliance with the rules and assuming and controlling the risks, and ensures that this strategy regulations. The fundamental principles of the functioning of the is applied. It is composed of eleven directors, who are elected by governance bodies are described in the Internal Rules, which the General Meeting, plus two directors representing the have been overhauled to insert, in particular, the provisions employees. One representative of the Works Council attends the arising from the European Capital Requirements Directive meetings of the Board of Directors, but without voting rights. The (CRD4). term of office of the directors appointed by the General Assembly is four years. The terms of office of the two directors elected by The remuneration of the corporate officers is in line with the Societe Generale’s employees, which were renewed in 2015, are CRD4 of 26 June 2013, whose objective is to impose for three years (2015-2018) remuneration policies and practices that are compatible with effective risk management. In accordance with CRD4, whose The composition of the Board aims to achieve a balance remuneration principles have been applicable since 1 January between experience, expertise and independence, whilst 2014, and the legislation transposing them in France, the respecting the principle of equal representation. Expertise and Compensation Committee has ensured that the remuneration experience in the financial world and the management of major policies followed by the Group not only comply with the companies are the basic selection criteria for directors. regulations, but are also in line with the company’s risk control As at 31 December 2016 the Board of Director is composed of policy and its objectives in terms of equity capital. Furthermore seven women and six men, i.e. 53.88% female or 45.5% Societe Generale also applies the recommendations of the excluding the two directors representing the employees in AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code. accordance with the provisions of the law of 27 January 2011. In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code the Board of Mission and organisation of the Directors has, in the report by its Nomination and Corporate board of directors Governance Committee, examined the situation of each of its members as at 31 December 2016 in light of the independence Further information on the “Board of Directors’ mission and criteria defined in the report. organisation” is available at https://www.societegenerale.com/en/aboutHence the number of independent directors as at 31 December us/governance/board-of-directors/mission-and-organisation 2016 is 10 out of 13, i.e. 90.9% of the members of the Board of Directors using the AFEP-MEDEF Code’s calculation rule, which On 15 January 2015 the Board of Directors decided that the excludes the employee representatives. functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer would be separated at the end of the General Meeting of 19 May 2015. On This proportion is well above the objective set by the Board of this date Lorenzo Bini Smaghi became the Chairman of the Directors to maintain the minimum proportion of 50% of Board and Frédéric Oudéa retained the position of Chief independent directors recommended in the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Executive Officer. In 2016 the Board of Directors held 10 meetings lasting three Frédéric Oudéa is assisted by two Deputy Chief Executive hours on average. The attendance rate of the directors was 93% Officers: per meeting on average (98% in 2015). Séverin Cabannes, who has held the position since May 2009, In 2016 the main subjects addressed were as follows: the Group and more specifically is responsible for the following activities: Code of Conduct; the activities of Corporate and Investment Finance, Risks, Resources, Global Banking and Investor Banking; the activities of Retail Banking abroad; the insurance Solutions; business; the securities business; the CSR policy (corporate and Bernardo Sanchez Incera, who has held the position since 1 social responsibility); information systems and IT security; January 2010, and more specifically has overall responsibility for problem resolution and disaster recovery plans; compliance; Retail Banking in France and for the supervision of Retail Banking human resources; the Group’s image. and International Financial Services. On 13 January 2017 the Board of Directors decided to appoint a Principles of governance, control and third Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Didier Valet. organisation of risk management The responsibilities and tasks of the Chief Executive Officer are The Societe Generale Group is committed to implementing a set out in article 5 of the Internal Rules. robust and efficient organisation to manage its risks, in all the In its meeting of 13 January 2017 the Board of Directors businesses, markets and regions in which it operates, as well as updated the Internal Rules for the purposes of incorporating the to achieving a balance between enhanced risk control and the new rules on the allocation of directors’ fees and various development of its activities. 5 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| The governance of the Group’s risk management is based on: The Board of Directors’ Committees ■ the high level of involvement of all corporate management in the risk management process and the promotion of the risk culture, Further information on the “Board of Directors’ mission and from the Board of Directors to the operational teams; organisation” is available at: ■ clearly defined internal rules and procedures; Https://www.societegenerale.com/en/about-us//governance/board■ ongoing supervision carried out by an independent body to of-directors/mission-and-organisation ensure the monitoring of risks and the application of the rules and Each committee is composed of four members. No director is a procedures. member of more than two committees. Each committee comprises The governance of the Group’s risk management is performed by at least one woman or a man and at least one non-French member. two main executive bodies: the Board of Directors and General One director representing the employees will sit on the Management. Compensation Committee. One director will sit on both the Risk Committee and the Compensation Committee. ■ General Management gives a presentation to the Board of Directors at least once a year (and more frequently if The missions of the four Board of Directors’ committees are set out circumstances make it necessary) on the main aspects and the in articles 10-13 of the Internal Rules (see chapter 7 of the major developments of the Group’s risk management strategy, Registration Document 2017). regardless of their nature. Within the Board of Directors the Risk Committee is specifically responsible for reviewing the AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL consistency of the internal framework for monitoring risks and their compliance with this framework as well as with the laws and COMMITTEE (CACI) regulations in force. The Audit and Internal Control Committee of the Board of Directors ensures the smooth functioning of the risk Its mission is to monitor matters related to the preparation and control systems. control of accounting and financial information as well as to monitor the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, measurement, ■ Within the Board of Directors the Risk Committee is specifically supervision and risk control. In January 2015 this committee was responsible for reviewing the consistency of the internal split into an Audit and Internal Control Committee and a Risk framework for monitoring risks and their compliance with this Committee in accordance with CRD4. As at 31 December 2016 the framework as well as with the laws and regulations in force. committee is composed of four directors. It is has been chaired by The Audit and Internal Control Committee of the Board of Directors Ms Schaapveld since 19 May 2015. The committee met ten times in ensures the smooth functioning of the risk control systems. 2016 and the attendance rate was 100% compared to 98% in 2015. The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) programme is closely The main subjects dealt with during the year were as follows: monitored at the highest level of the Bank: it is supervised by the ■ review of acquisitions/disposals; General Management, mobilises the members of the Executive Committee and is the subject of regular reports to the Risk ■ general organisation of compliance, the overall system, the roles Committee of the Board of Directors. and responsibilities; ■ the fight against money laundering; The first phase of the Enterprise Risk Management programme took ■ Enterprise Risk Management (risk culture); place from 2011 to 2015, and strengthened the integration of risk prevention and risk management, in their different components, in ■ resolution and recovery plans; the ongoing running of the Bank’s businesses. The existing ■ fiscal management; operational teams are responsible for the achievements of the ■ protection of clients; programme and the finalisation of the actions that have not yet been ■ compliance with the Volcker Rule; completed as part of their ongoing mission. The strengthening of the risk culture, for its part, has been incorporated into the strategic ■ Private Banking/Hambros, Switzerland. Culture & Conduct programme (see p. 45, Developing a relationship banking culture based on common values). The committee discussed the audit programme and the statutory auditors’ fees budget for 2016. The aim of the second phase of the ERM programme, which was launched in 2016, is to coordinate all the actions helping the Group RISK COMMITTEE to meet supervisors’ expectations in terms of the risk appetite framework in all its constituent components (governance, processes, The Risk Committee advises the Board of Directors on the overall strategy and formalisation of policies, setting targets, monitoring, etc.), their appetite in relation to all types of risks, both current and future, and helps the interaction and their documentation, including formalising the latter in latter to control the implementation of this strategy. As at 31 December written form. 2016 it is composed of four independent directors and it has been chaired by Ms Rachou since 19 May 2015. During the financial year Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk that the Group is prepared the Risk Committee met ten times. The attendance rate of its to assume in the course of achieving its strategic objectives. It is set members was 98% (95% in 2015). at Group level, is applied at the operational level in the businesses and subsidiaries, and is monitored in accordance with principles At each meeting the Risk Committee hears the report of the Chief described in the risk appetite governance and implementation Risk Officer on the development of the risk context and the key facts. system, namely the Risk Appetite Framework (see Chapter 3.5 of the It reviews: Group Registration Document, Risk Appetite, available on the ■ the risk panorama and risk mapping; institutional website). ■ the risk limits in respect of which it prepares the committee’s decisions; ■ the Group’s liquidity situation; ■ the result of the stress test exercises; ■ the reputation dashboard; ■ the compliance dashboard. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 6 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE In 2016 it devoted several items on the agenda, amongst others, to IT INTERNAL CONTROL security and information systems. It was kept informed of the main legal disputes, including fiscal disputes. It reviewed the organisation of Internal control is carried out within the strict regulatory framework the Risk Division and the ERM project. It also reviewed the imposed upon banking institutions. Compliance Division. It aims in particular to: COMPENSATION COMMITTEE ■ prevent failings; ■ measure the risks incurred and exercise sufficient control to The Compensation Committee prepares the decisions made by the ensure they are managed; Board of Directors concerning remuneration, in particular the decisions on the remuneration of the corporate officers. It prepares ■ ensure the adequacy and the proper functioning of internal processes, particularly those contributing to safeguarding assets; the decisions on the monitoring of the long-term or deferred remuneration. In particular it prepared the decisions on the ■ detect irregularities; remuneration of the Chair. In January 2017 it prepared the decision ■ guarantee the reliability, integrity and availability of financial concerning the remuneration of Didier Valet, who was appointed as a information and management information; Deputy Chief Executive Officer. ■ verify the quality of information and communication systems. As at 31 December 2016 the Compensation Committee is composed of four directors, of which three are independent and one is an The consistency and effectiveness of the overall system of internal employee. It is chaired by Mr Lévy, an independent director. control are steered by a Deputy Chief Executive Officer. He chairs the Group Internal Control Coordination Committee (CCCIG), which The Compensation Committee met seven times in 2016 and the comprises the Corporate Secretary, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief attendance rate of its members was 96% (97% in 2015). Financial Officer, the Head of Group Information Systems, the Head of Human Resources, the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Head In accordance with CRD4 and the legislation transposing it in France of Group Internal Control Coordination. the Compensation Committee has ensured that the remuneration policies followed by the Group are not only compliant with the The Group Internal Control Coordination Committee met eleven times regulations, but also in line with the company’s risk control policy as in 2016. well as its objectives in terms of equity capital. It reviewed the principles of the applicable compensation policy in the Group, in For further information see pages 144-148 of the Group Registration particular those concerning categories of staff whose activities have a Document, which is available on the institutional website. significant impact on the Group’s risk profile, in accordance with the PERMANENT CONTROL new regulations in force. It took particular care to ensure that the compensation policy takes account of the risks generated by the The system of permanent control comprises: activities and of staff compliance with the risk control policies and ■ level 1 permanent control, incorporated within the businesses, professional standards, and it consulted the Audit & Internal Control which is the bedrock of the Group’s permanent control. Its Committee and the Risk Committee in this regard. purpose is to guarantee the security, the quality, the regularity Finally, the Committee proposed the share (or share-equivalent) and the validity of transactions at the operational level. allocation plans to the Board and it prepared the Board’s work on ■ level 2 permanent control, which is independent of the gender equality within the company. businesses and reports to three directors, the Corporate Secretary, the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, NOMINATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and continued to be strengthened in 2016. COMMITTEE For further information see pages 144-148 of the Group Registration It is responsible for making proposals to the Board for the Document, which is available on the institutional website. appointment of directors and for the succession of the corporate PERIODICAL CONTROL (INSPECTION AND AUDIT DIVISION) officers, particularly where a position becomes vacant unexpectedly, after having made the appropriate enquiries. Reporting to the Head of Group Internal Audit, the Inspection and Audit Division (DCPE) comprises the General Inspection (DCPE/INS) With regard to the corporate officers, it defined a succession plan and and Internal Audit (DCPE/AUD) functions. The Inspection and Audit gave a favourable opinion to the Board on the appointment of Didier Division has support functions, which give operational support to the Valet as a Deputy Chief Executive Officer, in keeping with the teams of DCPE. This support function facilitates the monitoring of the proposal by Frédéric Oudéa. With regard to the appointment of the implementation of the plan, the recommendations and the training. Chief Risk Officer the Committee expressed a favourable opinion after having verified the procedure followed. Finally, a recently created team, which reports to General Inspection (INS/DAT), deploys the management’s initiatives in terms of data As at 31 December 2016 the Nomination and Corporate Governance management and analysis across the entire scope. In order to fulfil its Committee was composed of four independent directors. It has been objectives the Group Inspection and Audit Division is provided with chaired by Mr Mestrallet since 19 May 2015. adequate resources that are proportionate to the stakes, at both the The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee held seven qualitative and the quantitative level. Overall, the Inspection and Audit meetings in 2016 and its attendance rate was 91 % (88% in 2015). Division has around 1,265 staff. The committee prepared the resolutions for the General Meeting. It The Inspection and Audit Division is represented on the Internal examined the draft update of the Internal Rules of the Board. It Control Coordination Committees and the Audit Committees at prepared the appointments of the new directors and made the different levels of the Group (core businesses, business lines, selection of the nominees submitted to the Board with the help of an subsidiaries, etc.). In the respective committee meetings it reports on external firm. the periodical control activities, the audit plan and the follow-up on recommendations as well as any subject that warrants being brought to the attention of these bodies. For further information see pages 144-148 of the Group Registration Document, which is available on the institutional website. 7 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| CSR MANAGEMENT series of quantitative indicators to help evaluate its overall CSR Organisation & governance performance. Every year since 2005, data have been gathered, gathere The Group’s CSR strategy stands on five pillars: responsible finance, consolidated and analysed using a dedicated global CSR reporting the environment and the climate (with associated products and system, which was rolled out to the whole Group in 2014 and to services), the social and solidarity economy (with associated which more than 1,500 people contribute. products and services), the Group’s commitment to exemplary performance in its procurement strategy and as a responsible employer, and citizenship sponsorship/partnerships. They are all managed and monitored by a set of governance, compliance and Actions towards awareness and internal control procedures, the Code of Conduct, internal rules, employee engagement directives and instructions. The Group’s website has a special specia section presenting all relevant The Board of Directors has reviewed the implementation of the information on the implementation of the CSR strategy. In addition, Group’s strategy and has approved the CSR strategy for 2017-2020. 2017 an intranet system was set up in 2009 and enables all Group In addition, as of 1st January 2017, the Chief Executive Officer has employees and managers to learn about CSR best practices and appointed a CSR and Sustainable Development Director within the related events. Moreover, a bi-mo monthly newsletter and communities Bank’s Management Committee. coordinated via the Group’s internal collaborative tools provide The Executive Committee reviews the broad outlines of the Group’s Gro additional materials to discuss a wide range of issues relating to CSR CSR policy and regularly approves any action plans based on reports and sustainable development. received from the CSR and Sustainable Development Department. In Conferences are held every quarter and are open to all Head He Office 2016, the Group’s Executive Committee met four times (once a employees. The topics discussed in 2016 included post-COP21, post quarter) to discuss CSR-related related matters such as the CSR strategy, s climate change, socially responsible investment, solidarity in finance the social and solidarity economy, and the Group’s climate change and social entrepreneurship. strategy, particularly on coal policy. The Sustainable Development Week gives the Group yet another All commitments arising from the Senior Management Regime (UK) opportunity to demonstrate te its commitment through initiatives and the SOX Law (USA) have been taken into account at the highest implemented by the various departments, and to raise employee level of the Group, wherever they apply. awareness of these challenges. In 2016 and for the fourth year Furthermore, as part of the Code of Conduct, which was reviewed in running, the internal Environmental Efficiency Awards were a platform 2016, the governance structure has been strengthened with a for promoting new projects cts supporting the bank’s environmental specific monitoring process to check compliance with the th French policy. This scheme allows all the Bank’s entities and business lines Sapin 2 Law (see p. 12, Responsible lobbying, and p. 12, Ethics and to contribute to the efforts to reduce the Group’sG CO2 emissions Anti-Corruption). (see p. 27, The internal carbon tax, a governance tool). tool The CSR Department is supported by an inner circle of CSR As part of its environmental, social and governance (ESG) managers positioned in the Group’s core businesses. They rely on a commitments, Societe Generale organised a European conference in network of around sixty “CSR contributors” who are in chargech of Paris on 7th and 8th November 2016 on the topic of socially rolling out, implementing and monitoring the action plans. responsible investment (SRI), which whi was attended by corporate clients, institutional investors, research and analysis firms, index The CSR and Sustainable Development Department which reports to providers, private banks, asset managers and some of their own the General Management through the Group Corporate Secretary clients (see p. 19, Socially Responsible Investment (SRI)). (SRI) and along with the CSR managers, is in charge of defining and promoting omoting the Group’s CSR policy, overseeing its implementation as Societe Generale enerale also promotes innovative CSR initiatives via the part of the Bank’s global strategy, and coordinating the activities of annual Group Innovation Awards. In 2016, CSR took centre stage the CSR contributors and all related initiatives. It also provides with two innovations that received an ex aequo award: positive positiv assistance to the business lines, encourages dialogue and helps impact obligations (see p. 25,, Innovative solutions to rise to the disseminate best practices. challenges of energy transition), ), and the Hackathon, an innovation challenge held in Senegal for African start-ups start and which has been a Several business lines now have their own specialists in charge real catalyst for innovation at the heart of the African ecosystems. of structuring products with a CSR or SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) component. The Human Resourcess Division has also continued to organise regular conferences on “Well-Being Being in the Workplace” as part of its They play an essential role in informing the Bank’s customers of its “Life e at Work” programme (see p. 49, Caring about employees' CSR strategy and technical expertise. The Group has defined a wellbeing at work). S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 8 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Societe Generale is committed to listening to its stakeholders and procedures in a progress-driven approach. The Bank ensures it adapting its policies in order to better meet their expectations, holds regular discussions into the development and the wherever possible, in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. implementation of its policies. The Group has a policy to respond to complaints and requests, with special teams allocated to deal with each stakeholder. The Bank’s Through its E&S watch list, Societe Generale monitors any projects, steering strategy includes independent third-party assessments of its companies and sectors, irrespective of whether they are financed by achievements, similar to the “Reputation Risk” dashboard which is the Bank, that are the subject of public controversy or public submitted to General Management every quarter, together with a campaigns by civil society (see p. 17, E&S WATCH LIST). holistic overview of the relationships and indicators covered by this The Bank uses the CSR Department to centralise any request or reference document. More specifically, the Group has a policy of contact by NGOs or other civil society members informing it about proactively listening to: the impact of its financing portfolio or other services. Wherever ■ clients; possible, an internal enquiry is conducted and a documented response is given, either in writing or at meetings, where appropriate. ■ employees; In 2016, the Bank added a new section to its website entitled ■ investors and shareholders; “Dialogue & transparency” (https://www.societegenerale.com/en/ ■ regulatory bodies; news-and-media/dialogue-and-transparency). ■ civil society; Throughout 2016, Societe Generale participated in various working ■ suppliers; groups and discussion meetings with around a dozen NGOs ■ the media; (including Friends of the Earth, BankTrack, Greenpeace, Oxfam and WWF), either in the form of bilateral meetings or broader consultation ■ extra-financial ratings agencies. meetings organised by the associations themselves or by the OECD, the Equator Principles Association or even the World Bank. See the Group’s website and the analysis of its ratings, p. 9, EXTRAFINANCIAL ASSESSMENT. The discussions with NGOs focused on three main topics: ■ the challenges posed for the finance sector by the climate, Civil Society particularly coal-related financing; Societe Generale makes every effort to promote constructive ■ human rights; dialogue with all its stakeholders. In particular, the Group is keen to ■ the role of the finance sector in protecting UNESCO World listen and talk to any NGOs that alert it to E&S issues within their Heritage Sites. sphere of influence or that can help it to adapt its policies and EXTRA-FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT The Group places great importance on both its financial and extrathe Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World and Europe, financial ratings. Extra-financial ratings agencies assess and score the FTSE4Good, Euronext Vigeo, Ethibel and STOXX. In 2016, the Societe Generale Group based on its ESG practices. Group’s main Sustainable Development scores were: SAM: 84/100 (82/100 in 2015); VIGEO: 63/100 (57/100 in 2015); Sustainalytics: The scores received from the main ratings agencies constitute 74/100 (75/100 in 2015); FTSE4GOOD: 4/5 (constant since 2015); external and independent recognition of the quality and transparency MSCI: BBB (constant since 2015); Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): of the information provided and are an excellent reflection of our CSR B (99B in 2015 – new rating system); Ecovadis: 68/100 (constant actions. SRI managers use these scores when incorporating extrasince 2015). financial criteria into their investment choices. This information is available on the Group’s website Societe Generale shares can be found on the leading international (www.societegenerale.com). SRI indices. It is listed on sustainable development indices such as THE BANK IS ATTENTIVE TO INVESTORS FINANCE). This created the perfect opportunity, in October 2016, to A dedicated team present the Group’s SRI/CSR actions to its institutional investors (the Societe Generale has a department in charge of institutional and presentation can be downloaded from the Group website). The individual shareholder relations, whose role is to oversee the Group’s investment bank also held an SRI/CSR Day on 7th November 2016, financial communications about its strategy and results. which gave it the chance to hold several meetings about the CSR strategy of the Societe Generale Group. Meeting with investors Maintaining and developing a policy of dialogue with its individual shareholders is a priority for the Group. As such, Societe Generale The Group regularly meets with its investors to present its strategy took part in the Salon Actionaria in 2016, a trade fair for private and results and exchange views with them, including on shareholders drawing more than 25,000 visitors. The Bank also took environmental and social topics. part in four information meetings in partnership with other issuers, in In 2016, Societe Generale’s management and teams from the Lyon, Rennes, Lille and Strasbourg, each of which was attended by Finance Department, accompanied by the Investor Relations team, 150 to 400 people. conducted nearly 100 roadshows and participated in a dozen broker Five times a year, the Group publishes its Letter to Shareholders, conferences in the major international financial centres. In total, they which appears in newsletter format each quarter as well as in paper met with nearly 70% of our institutional shareholders. format in June after the Annual General Meeting. ln late 2015, In addition, a new type of roadshow was organised in 2016 as part of Societe Generale launched an app for shareholders, available for iOS the issue of the second Societe Generale positive impact green and Android smartphones and tablets. The app provides easy, bond, which helps finance the low-carbon economy. The funds instant access to all information that shareholders need, such as raised are used exclusively to finance projects that contribute to the stock prices, press releases and a calendar of upcoming events. This fight against climate change (see p. 18, POSITIVE IMPACT new tool is the perfect complement to the multi-channel information 9 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| already available to shareholders, in the form of designated pages on Committee meets twice a year. Its questions are relayed to the the Group’s website, a help line, the Shareholders’ Club, and more. Annual General Meeting. Released just one year ago, the app has already been downloaded nearly 3,000 times. In 2016, the Group received recognition for its digital shareholder and investor communications, in the form of the 2016 Best Digital To make sure it continues to meet the needs and expectations of its Communication Prize awarded by the financial newspapers Les private shareholders, the Group created a Shareholders’ Consultative Échos and Investir/Le Journal des Finances, in partnership with the Committee in 1988, whose primary role is to advise on the Group’s audit firm Mazars. private shareholder relations and communications policy. The S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 10 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE 2. IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE FINANCING LOYALTY OF PRACTICES The loyalty shown to its external stakeholders and, more generally, the integrity of its banking and financial practices make a vital Tax Code of Conduct contribution to Societe Generale’s reputation. By ensuring that it The Group’s Tax Code of Conduct, which was approved by the abides by these rules, the Group is able to nurture a key asset: the Board of Directors in November 2010, is part of a worldwide trust of its customers, suppliers, service providers, employees and movement to fight harmful tax practices, at the request of the OECD regulatory authorities. in particular. It is available on the Group’s website. Under this Code, Societe Generale undertakes in particular to refrain Placing Responsibility at the heart of from facilitating or supporting transactions with customers where the the relationship banking culture effectiveness of the transaction is dependent on information being withheld from the tax authorities. Throughout its activities, the Group aims to build customer relationships based on trust. The development of this trust relies on To this end, the Group is fully committed to implementing fiscal shared values which include Responsibility: as a bank, the Group transparency regulations (FATCA, the EU Directive on administrative contributes to the sustainable economic, social and environmental cooperation in the field of taxation and more recently the Common development of the economies in which it operates. The Group Reporting Standard – CRS). It is particularly worthy of note that all strives to help its customers achieve their goals whilst ensuring they establishments holding accounts within our Private Banking business are fully informed of the risks involved. Being responsible and ethical line are based in countries which meet the highest fiscal transparency means responding quickly to customers’ needs whilst protecting the standards set by the G20 and OECD in July 2016; all such countries long-term interests of all stakeholders, through strict compliance with have ratified the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in the rules applicable. Responsibility also means having the courage to Tax Matters, have implemented the Standard for Automatic take action and decisions, and to transparently express opinions. Exchange of Financial Account Information (CRS) and have been Lastly, it means attaching as much importance to the way in which rated “largely compliant” or “compliant” by OECD peer review. we achieve results as we do to the results themselves. The policy of sending international Private Banking customers information on their duty to comply with all tax laws and regulations Code of Conduct in every jurisdiction applicable to them has been strengthened. The Group has set itself the strategic target of protecting its In addition, since 2003 Societe Generale has laid down strict internal corporate image and ensuring that every employee acts with integrity rules designed to prevent the development of any operations in in their day-to-day activities. A great deal of work has been done countries that have been designated as non-cooperating tax havens since 2011 on Culture & Conduct. The Group has adopted a set of by the OECD. strict guidelines and rules of conduct. In 2010, Societe Generale decided to close down (and has since The Code of Conduct, which was updated in 2016, is the taken the necessary steps to do so) all Group sites located in cornerstone of professional ethics at Societe Generale. It promotes countries and territories deemed by France to be non-cooperative respect for human rights and the environment, the prevention of (NCCTs), the list of which was updated by the ministerial decree of conflicts of interest and corruption, the fight against money 21st December 2015 (published in the French Official Journal laundering and the financing of terrorism, respect for market integrity, (Journal Officiel) of 22nd December 2015). Furthermore, the Societe data protection, proper conduct with regard to gifts and invitations Generale Group prohibits the setting-up of any new operations in an and responsible sourcing. extended list of countries (based on countries which have only recently been removed from the OECD grey list), unless authorised These rules go beyond the minimum statutory and regulatory by the General Management based on local activities. requirements, especially in certain countries whose laws and regulations do not meet the Group’s high ethical standards. In 2016, Societe Generale neither directly nor indirectly held any active sites in these countries. Societe Generale holds an unused The Code of Conduct is available and applicable to all Group banking licence in Brunei. employees, irrespective of their level of responsibility, and to all managers. It also details the procedure for whistle-blowing in certain Lastly the Group complies with the French General Tax Code, situations where this is appropriate, and reiterates the principle of particularly Article 209 B (Controlled Foreign Companies rules), which protection for whistle-blowers. This Code of Conduct is available on governs the taxation in France of Group entities established in the Group’s website (see also Chapter 4.9 of the Registration countries where profit is taxed at less than 50% of the rate applicable Document, p. 236, Compliance and the Code of Conduct). in France. 11 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| Responsible lobbying Customer satisfaction and ombudsman There are numerous rules and regulations that affect the Bank’s CUSTOMER SATISFACTION activities, and they are growing in both number and complexity. Societe Generale therefore endeavours to hold proactive dialogue In 2014, Societe Generale reaffirmed its ambition to be the reference with political players, and its Public Affairs Department visibly and relationship bank in its markets, close to its customers and chosen constructively contributes to the public debates on any legislation for the quality and commitment of its teams. This strategic push has that has an impact on our activities. resulted in the introduction of various tools to improve customer relations and the customer experience, with the aim of managing In 2014, Societe Generale signed the Joint Declaration proposed by their satisfaction and recommendation intentions more closely. Transparency International France to promote honourable, transparent lobbying. The Group has also published a Charter for Since the quality of customer service is closely linked to the quality of responsible representation before public authorities and team management (the principle of the “symmetry of attention”) the representative institutions, which has the following aims: Group has developed a broad managerial support system in line with the Group’s customer-driven values. ■ to specify the conditions under which the Group will contribute towards the work of the regulatory authorities at every level of IN OUR FRENCH NETWORK ACTIVITIES governance; Within each of the main France Retail Banking customer segments ■ to promote transparent and ethical lobbying which contributes to public debate amongst employees and third parties that (individual, professional and corporate customers), Societe Generale, participate – in the name of the Group – in the public decisionits specialised subsidiaries (Sogécap, Sogessur, Franfinance, etc.) making process; and Credit du Nord have been surveying representative samples of their respective customers – as well as clients of the top 11 French ■ to establish the main rules governing representation before the banks – in order to assess their level of relative satisfaction. These public authorities and representative institutions. polls reveal the overall and detailed level of customer satisfaction across every aspect of the banking relationship. Acting in line with these commitments: In order to refine measurements of customer satisfaction with the ■ the main employees concerned within the Public Affairs Societe Generale network, this national competitor survey is Department are duly declared in the transparency registers of the supplemented by satisfaction surveys (monthly since 2016), the institutions within which the representational activities are results of which are available down to the level of each branch for exercised: the European Union (Commission and Parliament), the French Parliament (National Assembly and Senate); individual customers. These surveys are conducted by leading independent service providers (e.g. the market research agency ■ the main positions adopted by the Group in connection with its CSA). Each year, 120,000 individuals, 14,500 professional customers responsible representation policy are public and can be consulted and 5,000 SMEs are thus polled (every 18 months) on behalf of in particular on the Group’s institutional website, in the Societe Generale about their recommendation intention and their “Responsible Finance” section. overall satisfaction, as well as key aspects of customer satisfaction such as how their enquiries are handled and how well the services offered suit their needs and projects. Credit du Nord also asks over 55,000 individual, professional and corporate customers every year Ethics and Anti-Corruption about their satisfaction on a personal and/or professional level. Societe Generale entered into a series of commitments in 2000 as This initiative is supplemented by “mystery visits” carried out part of the Wolfsberg Group, and then again in 2003 under the throughout the branches every year. Following each mystery visit United Nations Global Compact. Its anti-money laundering measures every branch is given a detailed feedback report, broken down by include monitoring any potential corruption-driven abuse of the subject (greeting customers, finding out their needs, team spirit, etc.), banking system by third parties. enabling it to assess the quality of the handling of prospects so as to Societe Generale operates by very strict anti-corruption principles, capitalise on its successes by developing a strong culture of which are stated in its Code of Conduct, and abides by the highest experience of how to approach customers. possible standards, in particular the UK Bribery Act and the Sapin 2 Societe Generale is currently recognised as the leading mobile bank Law. It monitors the implementation of these standards very closely. (1) , the most reactive bank on Twitter and the only French brand to The Group has been distributing information about mandatory have received a #TwitterAward for its commitment to answering all actions and controls since 2001 in the form of instructions which are queries on Twitter within 30 minutes (2). With over 900 million updated on a regular basis and applicable throughout the Group. connections in 2016 (up 11% year on year), digital has become the (See chapter 4. 9, p. 232 of the Registration Document: “Risks of main point of entry to the Bank for its customers. non-compliance, reputational risks and legal risks”). Lastly, in order to steer the high standards of quality delivered by the bank on a daily basis, monthly monitoring based on around fifteen quality indicators is carried out and feedback is given down to the most granular level (quality of the handling of telephone calls, quality of the advice given, timeframes for processing or for issuing offers, etc.) to enable every branch to act swiftly in the event of any shortcomings in the quality of the service provided. _______________ (1) Study by Colombus Consulting in Q2 2016. The Societe Generale app is the highest rated among the day-to-day banking apps offered by 18 chosen banks available on the Apple Store. With a 9-minute response time for Societe Generale, compared to 7 hours on average for other banks. (2) Societe Generale was awarded a Bronze #TwitterAward in the Customer category on 10 November 2016. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 12 1 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE FINANCING These combined measures underpin a quality certification INTERNATIONAL RETAIL BANKING NETWORKS programme for Societe Generale’s branches, launched in 2013 with the aim of making the Group’s resolutely customer-focused strategic The international Retail Banking networks have been working on a orientation a reality. The percentage of certified branches meeting the cross-business initiative, launched in 2015, for coordinating and criteria of excellence has increased steadily since 2013. measuring customer satisfaction and experience, which they have been gradually rolling out to all Banking and Consumer Credit The customer satisfaction level in each market is one of the key subsidiaries. This programme gives the entities a single robust tool objectives assigned to each director and is a motivating factor down for coordinating customer experience, integrating the customer’s to the most granular level. Each level of the structure (region, group, needs at the very heart of the system and identifying factors that branch) is specifically and objectively analysed, and its performance trigger satisfaction and dissatisfaction as well as our strengths and is an integral part of each performance review. weaknesses compared to our competitors. This tool uses the Net Promoter Score (NPS) together with an analysis of overall and The level of customer satisfaction over time is used to determine specific satisfaction and “instant” satisfaction surveys for experiences employees’ variable remuneration component, it being noted that identified as critical in each country. Fourteen subsidiaries introduced individual sales commissions were done away with several years ago the scheme in 2016, across Africa, Eastern Europe and Russia. (see An attractive and rewarding remuneration policy, p. 48). Another five countries will join the scheme in 2017. To support the work of our teams in the field, and to carry out any At the same time, a number of countries (Poland, Czech Republic, corrective measures that depend on the support functions, the Serbia, Bulgaria) have introduced initiatives developed jointly with Corporate Divisions at Head Office launched a Service Culture customers to incorporate the customers’ opinions when creating programme in 2013. A quantitative indicator was introduced in 2015, new products and services. which established an internal barometer for measuring the (overall and specific) satisfaction level of the front, middle and back office With the aim of improving customer relations, pre-approved credit teams of the network with the services provided by the Head Office products are being rolled out in Central Europe (Poland, Romania, teams. The second year’s results show a significant improvement Czech Republic, Russia) in order to facilitate access to credit. and confirm the success of the actions taken by each of the divisions following analysis of the employee feedback submitted to them from CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING the first survey. The daily management of our customer satisfaction Corporate and Investment Banking also conducts annual surveys programme is the responsibility of the Societe Generale Customer based on the Net Promoter Score (NPS). These surveys focus: Satisfaction and Retail Banking Quality division, which relies on an effective network of service culture officers within each division. ■ major Corporate customers and IFIs, in all regions. Over 300 key clients are selected and a survey is conducted every two years, By way of example, an initiative that is proving hugely successful involving an interview with a director (CEO or CFO) and more should be noted: the implementation of a collaborative platform, specific electronic questionnaires depending on which of Societe #client2020, which connects all the managers in the Network as well Generale’s business lines that particular customer is in contact as the Management and experts at Head Office for the purposes of with. This allows the identification of cross-business issues, which developing real-time exchanges and sharing experiences. can then be resolved by quickly implementing the necessary corrective action; In general the voice of the Network, like the voice of the customers, is regularly heeded by the various central departments to drive the ■ the Private Banking segment, where a questionnaire is sent out every two years (26,000 customers surveyed in June 2016) in range of services and the quality of processes. At employee level this order to measure overall satisfaction and assess the NPS, along voice is listed to internally through analyses or surveys, with “instant” with specific monitoring campaigns at certain key points during acting on feedback. the customer relationship; The Bank’s intranets offer wide-ranging coverage of customer ■ custodian activities (securities): in addition to specific feedback satisfaction issues, in particular with specific pages on this matter for taken from the key client NPS, more targeted surveys are all players involved. regularly conducted in order to measure satisfaction among all counterparties; Furthermore, the satisfaction of French Retail Banking insurance customers has been recognised through the following awards: ■ finally, customer satisfaction with transactions is monitored daily by means of targeted campaigns conducted by the Investment ■ Gold Award for life insurance policies, received from Le Revenu; Banking back offices. ■ 31st Life Insurance Oscars, granted by Gestion de Fortune; ■ The results of these surveys are analysed at the highest level ■ Label Excellence 2016, awarded by Dossier de l’Epargne. within the Bank, by an operational steering committee, in order to ensure that action can be taken in the quarter immediately In 2016, life insurance, accident insurance, pension and health following publication of the summary results from all surveys for insurance policies sold by Societe Generale received a total of 20 the current year. awards from the independent specialist media sector. Since 2015, the Brand Advocacy Index published by the Boston Consulting Group has identified Boursorama as the most recommended bank in France. The online bank has maintained its excellent level of recommendation (91% of customers happy to recommend the Bank to friends and family (1)), a remarkable achievement given the growth in Boursorama’s customer base, which has doubled in just three years (977,350 customers at 31st December 2016, +30% in one year). _____________________ (1) According to OpinionWay, an annual study of the customer base (conducted in June 2016) 13 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| CLAIMS AND OMBUDSMAN ABROAD Each of the Group’s core businesses has its own targeted For entities and subsidiaries abroad, customers have access to a governance, structure, procedures and methods for handling and local ombudsman appointed by the Bank (if required by local following up on complaints. legislation) or to a local mediation tion service endorsed by professional organisations. The Group places particular emphasis on employee training and awareness, particularly within French Retail Banking (Societe For information about the measures taken to protect customers, Generale, Boursorama Banque and Credit du Nord) and the see Chapter 4.9, p. 234 of the Registration Document, Insurance business line (ISO 9001), and this has greatly helped Implementation of compliance policies, and to read about the optimise all processes (recording, quality control and response time proactive measures taken to protect customers in situations of in relation to customer complaints). Customer information processes economic hardship, see Fighting insecurity and protecting have also been improved. vulnerable populations, p. 268 of the Registration Document. Document The Group complaint handling policy includes an escalation procedure as wellll as the possibility of referring the matter to an DIGITAL SECURITY AND DATA internal or external mediator (an independent, third-party third mediator, PROTECTION shared with the Credit du Nord Group, the French Financial Markets Authority and the French Banking Federation). Within the global context of digital transformation, the Group Grou must IN FRANCE find a way to offer customers a digital service that is easy to use, readily available and highly secure. Societe Generale is therefore The Societe Generale Group is committed to finding a quick or even continuously investing its resources to secure transactions and immediate solution to any complaints or problems relating to Retail protect customer data. This is a crucial challenge, challeng given the Banking which are reported to a branch by a customer. However, escalation of cybercrime. The Group guarantees data security and should the Bank and its customer still be in disagreement after the compliance with banking secrecy. The Group’s expertise in the field initial itial remedial action, the customer may file a complaint with of data security and protection makes it a trusted partner in the Customer Relations and, if necessary (i.e. if the dispute is still not eyes of its customers. resolved), refer the matter to the ombudsman, whose services are entirely free of charge. Exceptional circumstances aside, customers As part of the transformation ormation of its relational model, Societe will receive a reply from Societe Generale within 10 days or from the Generale’s French network has announced that it will invest EUR ombudsman within 90 days. 1.5 billion in its information system by 2020, 5% of which will be earmarked for security. Referring the matter to the ombudsman is an amicable and free dispute resolution process which has been used by Societe DIGITAL SECURITY Generale since 1996 and institutionalised utionalised by the legislator in 2001. There is a Group-wide wide system for managing information system The Bank will fully abide by all decisions of the independent security. It is coordinated at Group level by an Operational IT Risk ombudsman. and Information System Security Manager (see Chapter 3.5, p. 142 Under new regulations, Societe Generale has created a mediation of the Registration Document,, Operational Risk, incl. risks related to service, comprising two members who report hierarchically and information systems). This system syst is rolled out in each core functionally to the e ombudsman. This service is available to all entities business, business line and entity. that use the Societe Generale mediation process, via dedicated To fight cybercrime, the Bank offers solutions to protect the assets websites. All Societe Generale Group entities in France are thus and transactions of Societe Generale customers (Individuals and concerned, except for those financial institutions which use the ASF Corporates). For example, three new security systems were ombudsman, dsman, and Boursorama which uses the FBF ombudsman introduced in 2016: (and AFNOR Certification services, depending on the case). ■ Secure Access: a dedicated solution, aimed at companies, for Mr. Yves Gérard has been the ombudsman for Societe Generale securing the order authentication and validation process and the Credit du Nord Group since 1st January 2015. He works (payment and collection orders). Irrespective of the channel used alongside the AMF ombudsman man for any disputes involving financial to initiate the transaction, the validator will receive an alert and products, and the FFSA ombudsman (insurance) for insurance can easily approve it from his/her smartphone, tablet or PC. products. ■ Dynamic crypto card: a card with added security for making In 2016, the ombudsman received 4,226 letters related to Societe online purchases. The three-digit three security code is replaced by a Generale, 3,948 of which were requests for mediation. He issued small, built-in in screen that displays a new code every ev hour, 456 decisions thatt same year; most requests did not require rendering any stolen data unusable and worthless. mediation. For the Credit du Nord Group, the ombudsman received ■ Machine learning: addition to the big data tools that have 1,235 letters, 994 of which were requests for mediation, and 283 of been rolled out for monitoring and protecting customer those were deemed admissible, with 225 decisions being handed transactions, the Bank has implemented machine learning down in 2016. systems to detect unusual behaviour in real time and better anticipate fraud. As forr Boursorama, it is ranked No. 1 among all national financial and economic information websites. In order to ensure the high Societe Generale is also continuing its efforts to prevent phishing quality of service it believes is essential for growth, the online bank and social engineering via: has chosen to undertake the service commitments required for fo ■ a firewall and anti-virus virus software, Trusteer, which offers AFNOR “WebCert” Certification (https://certificats( additional protection specifically for banking transactions, attestations.afnor.org/certification=196861044288 attestations.afnor.org/certification=196861044288). Boursorama available free-of-charge charge to individual and professional customers Banque’s customer service department is therefore committed commit to of Societe Generale and Credit du Nord; handling customer complaints and responding within 15 working days, except under extenuating circumstances. Furthermore, and in ■ a requirement for confidential Remote Banking access codes to be changed every 12 months (applicable to individual customers line with this certification, any customer who is not happy with how since 2015); the complaint has been handled may, pursuant to the abovementioned commitments, directly raise the matter with ■ Security Pass (the Secure Access equivalent for individual and AFNOR Certification in writing. professional customers); ■ a series of conferences on scams entitled “fraud in the name of the CEO” (Fraude au Président), run in partnership with the French police (for corporate customers). Societe Generale constantly strives to adapt its security measures to better suit customer needs. Therefore, an anti-malware anti solution was under review in 2016, designed to protect Societe Generale and Credit du Nord apps on customers’ smartphones and tablets. tabl S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 14 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Internationally, the different online banking services publish best accompanied by specific guarantees (in particular, the signing of the practice recommendations for protecting customer data. European Commission’s standard contractual clauses) and must be approved by the CNIL. PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION In France, the Data Protection department has developed its own The Group is particularly sensitive to personal data protection. intranet site. This site reiterates the individual freedoms applicable, Complying with data protection regulations ions is a major consideration provides branches with the procedure for responding to requests when developing new technologies and IT systems within the for access to information and provides a template for f a standard Societe Generale Group in a controlled manner (see Code of response to such requests. Societe Generale has also established Conduct, p. 11). appropriate procedures to guarantee compliance with clients’ rights As a trusted partner and custodian of its customers’ personal data, to access their personal data. These procedures are described in Societe Generale does not sell customer data to third parties. forms dedicated to personal data collection and in the general and Customer data is used solely to ensure the quality of service and specific terms and conditions for Societe Generale products and product offer that customers expect from the Group. services, including details of the department to contact in order to exercise the right of access. Customers can also access all the Societe Generale decided to reinforce its data protection systems necessary information about the protection prot and use of their personal back in 2007. It therefore created a new “Data Protection” data on the respective websites of the Group’s banks. department within its Legal Department, specialising alising in all matters relating to privacy, and working in conjunction with the French Data With regard to employee data, the Group Human Resources Protection Commission (CNIL). This department assists, advises Department has adopted personal HR data protection rules for both and informs all Societe Generale entities on data protection prospective hires and employees. The Binding Corporate Co Rules requirements, responds to assistance requests uests received from Group (BCR) apply to every Societe Generale Group entity around the subsidiaries and handles relations with the CNIL. This department world and are designed to ensure an adequate and uniform level of must be consulted whenever a new automatic data processing protection for the personal data and privacy of prospective hires method is implemented or changed. It also centrally monitors all and employees who undergo any HR management process. proc declarations to the CNIL. Societe Generale has also appointed a Data Protection Officer to work with the CNIL; this Data Protection Officer will ensure that all In accordance e with local and European regulations, internal personal data is correctly protected within a given range of data instructions describe the rules and procedures in place to guarantee processing operations. In addition, Societe Generale Genera has launched a the protection of customer and employee data. global programme for ensuring compliance with the new European Data Protection Regulation due to come into force on 25th May One of these instructions states that any data processing operation 2018. that involves sending personal rsonal data outside the European Union (EU), including to other Societe Generale Group entities, must be IMPLEMENTING E&S COMMITMENTS IN RELATION TO OUR FINANCING AND INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES In addition to its regulatory obligations, the Group has made many Environmental and Social (E&S) voluntary commitments in this area (see GROUP COMMITMENTS, commitments, initiatives and p. 3). ). All of these obligations and commitments are set out in the E&S General Guidelines and the related cross-business cross and sectorstandards specific policies. Signed by the Chief Executive Officer, they apply throughout the Group. GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL L AND SOCIAL GUIDELINES (ENVIRONMENTAL These guidelines establish the reference framework for the internal E&S assessment procedures, which whi were initially developed AND SOCIAL GENERAL GUIDELINES) UIDELINES) for the Group’s Investment Banking activities and have been gradually rolled out to other divisions. divisions Societe Generale is aware of the environmental, social and economic convergence issues at play within its sphere of influence, The Group’s E&S General Guidelines are available on its website. and is determined to take them into consideration sideration into its business They are regularly revised in order to reflect any changes in E&S practices. Over the last ten years or so, it has been gradually challenges within the economic and social sphere. incorporating the assessment of E&S criteria into its credit and reputational risk management policies and processes. 15 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| SECTOR AND CROSS-SECTORSECTOR E&S In addition, the Group has set itself the target of reducing the coal portion of its financed energy mix (installed MW) to 19% by the end POLICIES of 2020 and cutting its exposure to the coal mining sector by 14% Societe Generale has specific policies for around eleven sectors by the end of 2020, in line with the IEA 2DS (excluding China). which are considered potentially sensitive from an E&S or ethical Lastly, the Group has established special criteria for new relations point of view and in which the Group oup plays an active role. Energy with companies working in the coal sector. and mining are covered by a number of sector--specific policies due to their importance for the economy and for the Group, their EQUATOR PRINCIPLES potentially significant impact in terms of air emissions (including Adopted by the Group in 2007, and revised in 2013, the Equator greenhouse gas emissions) ass well as their impact on the natural Principles (EP)EP) are one of the underlying initiatives of the E&S environment and local communities (dams and hydroelectric energy, General Guidelines. Societe Generale has special internal power plants, coal-fired fired power plants, mines, civil nuclear power, procedures and tools for ensuring they are followed. The EP serve and oil and gas). Several policies are also in place for farming and as a common framework for the financial sector to identify, evaluate forestry sectors (agriculture, fishing and agri-food, food, forestry and palm and manage the E&S risks of projects for which the 87 international oil). Defence and shipping are also covered. financial institutions that have joined the initiative (as of 1st January Since 2012, Societe Generale has also implemented a specific speci 2017)) provide financing and advice. cross-sector sector policy on biodiversity, which applies to all Group Initially dedicated to project finance loans and project finance banking and financial operations ns and involves procedures for advisory services, since e 2014 the EP have applied to a broader set reviewing dedicated transactions and customers. The General E&S of transactions and services ,including certain project-related project Guidelines also list the UNESCO World Heritage Convention as one corporate loans or even bridge loans. of the international conventions signed by the Bank. More generally, particular attention is paid d to any areas identified as “Key In “non-designated” designated” countries (today consisting of “non-high “non income Biodiversity Areas”. The Equator Principles also include specific OECD countries”), the initiative requires that dedicated transactions standards on biodiversity and several of the initiatives described in for which an E&S evaluation is required be examined from the our sector policies also relate to the protection of biodiversity. perspective of the performance standards of the International Societe Generale’s E&S policies also reflect the Bank’s Finance Company (IFC) of the World Bank Group. In particular these commitments to protecting human rights (see RESPECT FOR standards cover human rights through the t evaluation of working HUMAN RIGHTS, p. 31). conditions and workers' rights, population displacements and the impact on indigenous populations. With regard to the environment, business working groups within the Bank, the Developed by cross-business they establish the best practices expected in terms of management E&S policies are approved by the Executive Committee. They detail and control of pollution, industrial industri risks and impact on biodiversity. the main E&S challenges and risks in the sector, identify benchmark international standards for such sector and specify the assessment In 2015, the EP introduced new obligations in order to improve criteria for customers and dedicated transactions. As part of the transparency on transactions financed by members of the Group’s oup’s commitment to ongoing improvement, sector monitoring association. Since then, Societe Generale has published an annual makes it possible to assess the need to update existing policies. report on how it has been applying the initiative. In 2016, it also created a new page on its website dedicated to this reporting The E&S policies are public and accessible on the Group’s website obligation (https://cib.societegenerale.com/en/who https://cib.societegenerale.com/en/who-are/corporate(http://www.societegenerale.com/en/measuring--oursocialresponsibility/equator-principles/ principles/). This page describes the performance/csr/responsible-finance). way in which the principles are implemented and provides a list of In 2016, five sector policies were updated in order to the projects that fall within the scope of the EP and which the Bank implement the operational roll-out out of the Bank’s commitments in has helped fund. terms of climate and energy transition. Each year, the Bank participates in the General Meeting of the EP The coal-fired fired power plant and mining policies have been updated as well as the initiative’s working groups. in order to reflect the Bank’s commitment to reducing its involvement in the coal sector, in line with the 2 °C Scenario (2DS) SOFT COMMODITIES COMPACT COM of the International Energy Agency. In particular, these two policies In 2015, Societe Generale joined the Soft Commodities Compact now integrate the decisions taken by the Group in 2015 and 2016 established by the Banking Environment Initiative and the Consumer to no longer provide finance for coal-fired fired power plants or related Goods Forum.. The Soft Commodities Compact is designed to infrastructures anywhere in the world, and to stop funding projects mobilise the banking industry to help transform soft commodity for the development of coal al mines and related structures. supply chains, thereby helping corporate customers to achieve zero net deforestation by 2020. In order to apply the Soft Commodities Compact, the Group G uses its existing sector-specific specific policies for palm oil, forestry and agriculture, which were updated in 2016 in order to reflect this new commitment. The Group also produced an exhaustive list of all corporate customers from its Investment Banking business bu that work in the sectors and regions targeted by the initiative. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 16 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE FINANCING assessing and understanding the E&S impact of transactions and E&S procedures and tools customers. The Group has adopted various procedures to implement its E&S In 2016, Societe Generale continued to update and reinforce its commitments (General E&S Guidelines and policies and the Equator procedures for guaranteeing its E&S commitments. It launched a Principles). These procedures explain xplain how to handle the E&S major training programme within the CorporateCorpo and Investment challenges associated with transactions or customers to whom the Banking division. Under this programme, training was given to Bank provides banking and financial services. Initially only applicable around 300 employees from the business lines working in sectors to the Investment Banking arm, they are now being developed and covered by E&S policies (energy, mining, export financing) and from gradually rolled out to alll of the Group’s financing and investment the Risk Division. activities. The IT tools have been updated to help assess the E&S impact of In addition to facilitating the identification, assessment and transactions in the Risk Division’s credit decisions. Taking account appropriate handling of potentially negative E&S impacts, these of the E&S assessment of transactions in the Risk Division’s credit procedures also make it possible to identify transactions with a decisions has been improved by the development of IT tools, which positive impact mpact in relation to sustainable development. This dual have been made de available to the sales teams. approach is what underpins positive impact finance (see POSITIVE IMPACT FINANCE, FINANCE The Bank’s procedure for assessing the E&S impact of transactions p. 18). involves an identification stage followed by an E&S evaluation stage and an action stage. In 2016, the Group adopted a new instruction to ensure consistency between all tools and procedures. ■ the initial phase, involves identifying the E&S risk and impact associated with projectss that are the subject of advisory or E&S WATCH LIST financing, categorizing (A for projects where the E&S risk/impact is potentially high, B for projects with limited risk and C for In order to help identify any controversial E&S matters, the Group projects with minimal risk), defining the E&S analysis process has an E&S watch list which is updated quarterly by internal E&S (due diligence) to be put in place and determining the projects’ experts. It lists any projects, companies or business sectors, s potential qualification for positive impact financing. The Bank’s irrespective of whether they are financed by Societe Generale, that E&S experts review and validate all the projects’ proposed categorisations. are the subject of controversy or public campaigns on the part of civil society for E&S reasons. This internal list enables monitoring on ■ the E&S evaluation phase, which aims to analyse the risks and a global scale; it is intended to give the operational teams advance impacts associated with the proposed project and the warning and to establish a more stringent E&S assessment process. transaction’s compatibility with Societe Generale’s E&S commitments. The levels of evaluation and specific E&S E&S EXCLUSION LIST requirements are determined according to the risk/impact category to which the projectect is assigned and the level of income As well as the E&S watch list, there is an exclusion list which is for the country in which it is located. also updated every quarter. It lists companies that are excluded ■ The review of the E&S documentation (due diligence report under the Defence sector policy. where applicable or any other documentation received from the They produce, manufacture, stock or sell anti--personnel mines or customer) is conducted by the front officers, supported by cluster bombs as well as other types of highly controversial internal E&S experts in the case of projects that have been weapons. It is the policy of Societe Generale to not knowingly identified as carrying the highest risk. In connection with these reviews, additional information may be requested from the supply banking or financial services to such companies, their parent customer and/or an independent E&S expert. For category A companies or their subsidiaries. This list was revised in 2016 and and B projects cts the E&S evaluation file forms part of the credit file may include companies from other sectors. that constitutes the basis for the decision by the Bank's Risk Division. In parallel, transactions carrying reputational risk for PROCEDURES FOR E&S EVALUATION VALUATION E&S reasons undergo a more stringent review and validation OF TRANSACTIONS process; The assessment of the E&S risks and impact of transactions ■ finally, in the case of projects for which E&S impacts impact or risk have been identified and evaluated, the action phase; this aims to constitutes the operationalperational implementation of the Equator Principles define an action plan that includes the necessary measures to within the scope covered by this initiative. Societe Generale has minimise such impact or risk. The implementation of this action voluntarily expanded the scope to which it applies the EP to include plan is incorporated into the loan agreement, along with the E&S a range of transactions that are likely to present E&S challenges, standards that the client is obliged to comply with under the such ch as equity capital market transactions, debt capital market requirements of the Equator Principles (EP) and in accordance transactions, mergers and acquisitions, and acquisition financing. with the Group’s E&S General Guidelines. Where customers do Even beyond this scope, any financial transaction entered into by not meett the necessary standards, Societe Generale may the Corporate and Investment Banking division involves an decide to withdraw its financing. identification ntification of any E&S risks relating to the customer, other than Over 2016, a total of 84 dedicated transactions that underwent financial institutions. an E&S review were signed off by the Group. Among these Societe Generale’s E&S assessment procedures and the transactions, 39 project loans, 8 project-related project corporate loans and application of the Equator principles have been verified by the 4 advisory mandates relating to project financing fell within the independent third-party party organisation EY in accordance accor with the scope of the Equator Principles. For the dedicated transactions that draft version of the association’s guidelines with third-party third underwent an E&S review in 2016, total new funding within the EP scope amounted to EUR 3.3 billion, and EUR E 1.7 billion fell outside verification of the implementation of the Equator Principles (1) the scope of the EP (Societe Generale’s voluntarily extended scope). Within the Corporate and Investment Banking division, a dedicated team of E&S experts lends support to the sales managers when __________________________ (1) working draft guidance note on external review of EP implementation 17 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| Equator Principles Scope and Specific Societe Generale Specific Scope company’s practices and its maturity in terms of CSR. The front Geographic breakdown of commitments for transactions signed in 2016 officers are involved in this process. If a high level of E&S risk is identified, Societe Generale may decide not to enter into a Specific Societe Generale Equator relationship with a new customer, or to impose restrictions on the Scope Principles Scope relationship and/or to get a specific undertaking from an existing customer to improve its E&S practices. All corporate clients of the Corporate and Investment Banking division have undergone an E&S risk assessment. Approximately 4% of the customers working in sectors covered by the Group’s E&S policies (over 2,800 groups) have been identified as being at-risk risk and therefore undergo a more in-depth, in annual E&S review. Societe Generale is also gradually introducing introduc an E&S review of Americas Europe Middle East Africa Asia-Pacific clients of the Group’s other core businesses. The shared principles of E&S risk identification, assessment and action are reflected in Equator Principles Scope internal operating procedures. Breakdown by sector of commitments for transactions signed in 2016 Within French Retail Banking, the 2016 E&S assessment covered the 131 1 client groups reviewed by the entity in charge of monitoring the key corporate customers within the French network. For over 80% of these groups, no risk was identified. The remainder underwent a more in-depth depth E&S review to clarify how well their CSR practices ctices and commitments align with those of the Bank. In certain cases, this led to discussions with the client group. The assessment process will continue into 2017, and will be rolled out to major customer portfolios. Within the International Retail BankingBanki networks, a pilot phase of the E&S assessment process for corporate customers is currently underway, before deployment in all of the network’s businesses in 2017. During this pilot phase, in the Mines Infrastructures second half of 2016, around 30 customers identified as presenting pre Oil and gas Chemical Products Energies Non-renewable Energies Renewable an E&S risk were assessed by the dedicated dedic E&S and Compliance teams within IBFS. In some specific cases, this assessment led to During 2016, for signed off transactions falling within the scope of the Equator restrictions being placed on the business relationship, or even some Principles, 24% of the Bank’s commitments were allocated to renewable energy new relationships being declined. When the assessment assessme relates to a development projects, i.e. a 3% increase compared to 2015. transaction, the agreements can be amended to include E&S clauses. CLIENT E&S EVALUATION N PROCEDURES The Group is constantly improving its E&S assessment methods in The Corporate and Investment Banking division has been order to better understand both the negative and positive E&S conducting E&S assessments of its clients since 2010. The aim is to impacts of its customers’ activities. identify any E&S risks derived from its customers’ activities, and then assess them in light of any potential controversies, the POSITIVE IMPACT FINANCE Societe Generale is one of the banks that have pioneered Positive The Group continues to work on its development of Positive Impact Impact Finance (PIF), which involves financing any activity that Finance, and is one of the initiators of the “Positive Impact produces a verifiably positive impact on the he economy, society or the Manifesto” launched in October 2015 by the Banking Commission environment whilst ensuring that any potential negative impact has of the UNEP-FI FI (Financial Initiative of the United Nations been properly identified and managed. Environment Programme). The Group’s Corporate and Investment Banking division has been The Positive Impact Manifesto calls on banks and other players in reporting on new positive impact finance transactions since 2012, 2 the financial sector to develop innovative financial solutions to and the number of cases is rising steadily. Over 2012-2016, 2012 there address the financing needs that are necessary to attain the was a 3.5-fold fold increase in the number of positive impact finance Sustainable Development Objectives of the United Nations. In transactions. accordance cordance with the programme set out in this Manifesto, Societe Generale is now committed to promoting “positive impact” In 2016, positive impact finance transactions amounted to EUR transactions and defining Positive Impact Principles, which were 2,244 million (versus EUR 1,856 million in 2015) (see Innovative launched on 30th January 2017 in Paris. solutions ons to rise to the challenges of energy transition, transition p. 25). S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 18 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE FINANCING SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT (SRI) In November 2016, Corporate and Investment Banking was the ■ Lyxor Asset Management has been gradually increasing the first bank to organise a European cross-sector conference on ESG integration of ESG criteria within its fund ranges. At end-2016, and SRI, bringing together over 200 representatives from its key there were EUR 13 billion in assets being managed in line with corporate customers, institutional investors, market research and the Shareholder Commitment criteria, EUR 759 million involved analysis firms, index providers, private banks and asset managers exclusion lists, EUR 492 million environmental issues, EUR 23 to discuss and highlight the work done by the Bank to boost these million ESG integration and EUR 6 million ESG selection. Lyxor is also a PRI signatory. products and markets. It created an opportunity for around 30 companies to give presentations to the attending institutional investors on the ESG issues most closely related to their field of SRI products for individual investors work. SRI FUNDS SRI/ESG research Societe Generale is committed to meeting investor demand for SRI products by offering several types of investments (equities, bonds Societe Generale offers its customers a targeted research service and money market products), particularly through four investment into Environmental, Social and Governance (or ESG) issues, which funds grouping together the most advanced companies based on won the top award in the SRI & Sustainability Research category of these three ESG criteria. At end-November 2016, Societe Generale the Extel Survey. This four-strong team of analysts belongs to the managed EUR 134 million in SRI assets in these four funds. financial research section of Corporate and Investment Banking. Its role is to help investors and asset managers better integrate ESG Furthermore, at Credit du Nord, Etoile Developpement Durable is criteria into their investment decisions, working closely with sectorthe only SRI certified fund (FR0010502088), with AUM of EUR 9.7 based financial analysts in order to demonstrate the financial million at Etoile Gestion, of which EUR 4.7 million was with Credit materiality of these issues. du Nord at end-November 2016. The CSR research team has three major objectives: All actively managed funds (i.e. excluding index funds and ETFs) ■ To investigate and develop its own resources and tools; developed by Amundi or Etoile Gestion are managed based on extra-financial ESG criteria, particularly an exclusion policy for ■ To co-produce thematic, sectorial and stock market research; securities in poorly rated companies. The management companies’ ■ And, in the longer term, to work with all the research teams to respective websites contain detailed information about the funds offer Investment Banking customers, tailored advice and managed by Amundi and those managed directly by Etoile assistance with their research and investment projects. Gestion. Its bi-annual analysis report, “SRI: Beyond Integration”, is a highly SRI OFFER FOR PRIVATE BANKING valued publication which combines ESG assessments with financial recommendations from financial analysts in order to offer Private Banking is in the process of building up a comprehensive an integrated and practical overview of all companies monitored by SRI offer. It will cover all management services and products the research department. This is in addition to the publication of offered to its customers. It will be based on the ESG research around ten multi-sector reports which have been presented to conducted by the MSCI index (which will allow Societe Generale numerous national and international investors, and several Private Banking and its management companies to comply with conferences and roadshows in Paris and London, among other Article 173 of the French Energy Transition for Green Growth Act, locations, bringing together investors and listed companies to published in the Official Journal on 18th August 2015) and will discuss sustainable development and corporate responsibility. complement the ESG research produced by the various brokers, including the Societe Generale SRI analysts. Lastly, SRI research is used to help monitor several indexes and baskets of listed stocks, resulting in the issue of financial products SRI currently affects discretionary portfolio management, relating to ESG (corporate governance, renewable energies, etc.) structured products, SRI and solidarity funds and all other solidarity and/or sustainable development (a list of products and funds. Managers now pay attention to explaining the make-up of methodologies is available at www.sgbourse.fr). their SRI portfolios, offering tailored ESG integration when managing customer portfolios, and producing SRI reports and/or carbon footprint reports for their portfolios. At end-2016, the SRI products for professional various entities of the Societe Generale Private Banking division investors held around 20 management mandates from customers wishing to incorporate ESG criteria, accounting for EUR 152 million AUM (vs. 2016 saw the development of numerous SRI products within EUR 108 million in 2015). Investment Banking: ■ Late 2016, the portfolio contained EUR 1.5 billion in SRI assets generated by market activities, particularly via the Societe Generale Index (SGI) franchise which offers securities with ESG underlyings. One of the successes of the year involved an index sponsored by FINVEX, which combines an ESG filter with financial filters (EUR 950 million AUM at end-2016). The offer has also been extended to debt securities for which Societe Generale has agreed to retain positive impact assets on its balance sheet for a value equal to all subscriptions to the product, throughout its life span; 19 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| The division is currently setting up p the necessary governance SRI LIFE INSURANCE structure, with a central SRI Management Committee for the whole of Private Banking whose role will be to establish the SRI To meet the needs of savers looking to diversify and invest in a management framework and reporting obligations. This is in socially responsible manner, Sogécap and Oradéa Vie’s addition to a number of structured products for fo which Private investment-backed backed life insurance policies offer money market, Banking has decided to draw on the Group’s expertise in Positive bond or equity SRI vehicles, depending on the customer’s desired Impact Finance (see POSITIVE IMPACT FINANCE, FINANCE p. 18). The investment horizon and appetite for risk. liquidity of the structured product is therefore used to finance or refinance positive impact assets (renewable energy projects, SRI assets under management by Sogécap and Oradéa amounted infrastructures, etc.). These positive impacts are assessed by Vigeo to EUR 59.74 million at 31st December 2016, across 54 vehicles. Eiris. The first issue to use this structure was subscribed in October This represents a nearly 50% growth in AUM compared to endend 2016. By end-2016, 2016, the AUM was EUR 5.1 million mi and the target 2015, with the offer having also been extended to include 13 new for 2017 is much more ambitious. These positive impact products SRI vehicles. represent a real innovation for the structured products segment. SRI-CERTIFIED CERTIFIED SAVINGS FOR FO SOCIETE With regard to SRI funds, SGBP does not manage them directly, GENERALE EMPLOYEES but relies on the expertise of Lyxor to select the external funds offered to customers and also relies on external management Societe Generale offers its employees savings plans with the companies that have decided to incorporate ESG criteria for the opportunity to invest in various company mutual funds (1) (FCPE) whole range of their vehicles. Finally, in mid-2016 2016 SGBP listed the which have been SRI-certifiedcertified by the CIES (French Inter-union Inter “SG solidarité” solidarity funds, which h have been certified by Committee on Employeemployee Savings). Finansol, for Sogecap’s high-end end life insurance policies. As of 31st December 2016, all SRI funds in the Group’s savings The total value of SRI products managed by Private Banking at plans in France (the various Company Savings Plans, Group end-December December 2016 was EUR 495 million (+57% vs. 2015). Savings Plans and Collective Retirement Savings Plans) invested in SRI represented EUR 452 million in assets under management, ma up over 11% on 2015. E&S COMMITMENTS AS PART OF SOCIETE GENERALE’S SOURCING POLICY: THE 2018 POSITIVE SOURCING PROGRAM Pursuing a responsible sourcing policy allows Societe Generale to ■ 2014: Signature of “La Belle Compétition” Charter for fulfil fil its commitments to contributing to economic and social “Communication Agency – Advertiser” calls for tender; development and limiting its environmental impact. ■ Other commitments for particular types of sourcing: the Group The Group’s total purchases amounted to an estimated EUR 6.5 is a founding member of the Charter of Best Practices in billion in 2016, which makes the Sourcing function a key player in Procurement of Private Security Services (security, transportation of funds, remote monitoring), created under the the Group’s CSR strategy. auspices of the French Ministry of the Interior. Responsible sourcing commitments A new responsible sourcing action a made by the Group: plan: the 2018 Positive Sourcing ■ 2007: 1st bank to sign the SME Pact; Program ■ 2010: Signature of the “Responsible Supplier Relations” Charter which sets out ten commitments contributing towards A new 2016-2018 2016 action plan has been the development of a balanced and sustainable sustaina relationship launched to ensure the Group continues to between the major corporate signatories and their suppliers. lead by example in terms of responsible This was followed by the appointment of an internal sourcing. Developed on the basis of feedback ombudsman (the Group Corporate Secretary) and the inclusion from over 700 partners and suppliers, this of a mediation clause in all contracts; fourth urth action plan draws on the Group’s tenten year track record. ■ 2012: Societe Generale SA (France) was awarded the “Responsible Supplier Relations” certification from Médiation Supporting the Group’s values and reflecting its Environmental and Inter-entreprises, entreprises, Médiation des Marchés publics and Social commitments, the 2018 Positive Sourcing Program is based Compagnie des dirigeants et acheteurs de France (CDAF). This on ethical sourcing practices, compliance with which is an certification, awarded following an on-site site audit of practices by essentialtial prerequisite to achieving the targets set for 2018. It is an independent auditor, confirms that the Group’s organisation based on two components: and management practices provide a reasonable assurance of compliance with the objectives and commitments defined in the ■ improving CSR risk management during the sourcing process; certification’s frame of reference. Societe Generale’s certification was renewed for a further three years at the end of ■ diversifying our sourcing practices by helping to improve the 2015; Group’s regional and environmental footprint. ________________________________________ (1) For Societe Generale: SG Obligations ISR, SG Diversifié ISR, Arcancia monétaire, Amundi label actions solidaires; for Crédit du Nord: Amundi Label Équilibre Solidaire, Amundi Label Obligataire et Solidaire, Arcancia Ethique & Solidaire, Étoile Sélection Développement Durable. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 20 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE FINANCING The Positive Sourcing Program will be rolled out first across IMPLEMENTING IMPROVE IMPROVEMENT PLANS WITH France, then internationally. The e plan is a continuation of the SUPPLIERS AND ON-SITE SITE AUDITS work to implement the internal instructions on “Responsible Sourcing Practices”, which was appended to the Global Since 2015, Societe Generale has used targeted on-site on CSR Agreement on Fundamental Rights signed in June 2015 with the audits and a process for managing and monitoring supplier UNI Global Union, demonstrating the Group’s intention inten to apply action plans, in order to help suppliers to improve their CSR it across all its entities (see chapter on Human Rights). performance. Further information on the Group’s sustainable sourcing policy is Seven CSR audits and three action plans were conducted available at https://www.societegenerale.com/en/workinghttps://www.societegenerale.com/en/working in 2016. Together/suppliers/sustainable-sourcing-practices practices These actions all fall within the framework of the Positive Sourcing Program. IMPROVING CSR RISK MANAGEMENT ANAGEMENT IMPROVING PAYMENT TIMES TI FOR SUPPLIERS WITH THE DURING THE SOURCING PROCESS AMBITIOUS “PAYMENT IN N 30 DAYS” PROJECT The Group’s fundamental ethical practices are strengthened and In 2014, Societe Generale took the radical decision to commit to consolidated in the following areas: paying ing all suppliers in less than 30 days, a much stricter rule than ASSESSING THE EXTRA-FINANCIAL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PERFORMANC OF applied by any regulation. In order to meet this ambitious target, SUPPLIERS Societe Generale has drastically simplified its invoice approval procedures and relied on innovative solutions such as paperless pape In addition to the sustainable development clause included in the billing, thereby reducing the time it takes for the invoice to reach Group’s contracts, the Bank requires es every supplier to undergo a the accounts department. The target for 2016 was to pay 75% CSR assessment before each procurement operation. This of invoices within 30 days. At the end of October 2016, the bank assessment, which is carried out by the independent expert had achieved an average payment time for invoices (weighted (weigh by Ecovadis, allows Societe Generale to measure providers’ value) of 42 days and a 62% rate of invoices paid within 30 days. performance in relation to environmental and social issues, iss business ethics and subcontracting. In the interests of efficiency, Societe Generale was awarded the Prix Grand Groupe in the the Group hopes to enhance this system in 2017. The first step payment times category at the third Assises et Prix des Délais de was launched in July 2016, with the introduction of the Know Paiement ceremony, under the patronage of French President Your Supplier (KYS) process. Under the KYS process, Societe François Hollande, and sponsored by Emmanuel Macron, Generale researches every supplier invited to participate in any Minister for the Economy, Industry and Digital Data, in June call for tenders. This analysis includes a reputation risk analysis, 2016. to identify any controversial environmental or social issues, in The objective that has been set for 2017 is to pay 75% of the particular relating to human rights. In addition, for the th most invoices within 30 days. sensitive suppliers (1), an assessment of their performance in relation to environmental and social issues, business ethics and TRAINING THE PROCUREMENT PROCURE TEAM IN THE 2018 subcontracting will be requested. POSITIVE E SOURCING PROGRAM INTEGRATING MANDATORY Y ENVIRONMENTAL AND A special “Responsible Sourcing” module has been added to the SOCIAL CRITERIA INTO CALLS FOR TENDERS in-house house training given to any new member of the procurement team. At the end of 2016, nearly 80% of all buyers in the In 2006, the Group developed an environmental and social (E&S) Procurement Division had received this training. map for each of its purchasing categories. This map is regularly updated and is used to assess the inherent CSR risks of each Furthermore, rmore, all team managers and the majority of buyers category. There are 31 highly sensitive categories in terms of in the Procurement Division have been assigned a personal CSR CSR risk for Societe Generale. In order to minimise and manage target. all risks when sourcing products or services from these sensitive categories, the Group intends to integrate E&S criteria as DIVERSIFYING SOURCING SOURCIN PRACTICES standard in all calls for tenders, whenever relevant. In 2016, all calls for tenders included a minimum of 3% weighting for CSR WHILE HELPING TO IMPROVE IMP THE performance. From 2017, this weighting will be increased based GROUP’S REGIONAL AND on the CSR risk sensitivity of each purchasing category. Tools ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT FOOTPR were developed in 2016 in order to gradually make these practices systematic ic for all the purchases managed by the As part of the 2018 Positive Sourcing Program, and in line with Group’s Purchasing Department. This mapping, which is the Group’s CSR strategy, Societe Generale has identified three updated regularly, will be updated in its entirety during 2017 in priorities: conformity with the legislation on the duty of care. PRIORITY 1: CONTRIBUTING TING TO THE GROWTH OF O VSBS AND SMES SMEs are crucial to the French economy. Societe Generale makes it easier for these companiescompa to access the Group’s contracts and fosters mutual trust with all its suppliers. The target for the end of 2018 is to increase the volume of procurement from VSBs/SMEs by 20% as compared to 2015. ________________________________________ (1) Suppliers identified as having a high level of reputational risk for Societe Generale, either due to their privileged business busines relationships or through their use of the Societe Generale brand in the products and/or and services that they offer. 21 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1| Societe Generale, which was the first bank to sign the SME Pact in Societe Generale, a major partner of the 2nd Salon Handicap, Emploi December 2007, continues to reinforce its commitment to supporting & Achats Responsables innovative small and medium-sized sized businesses. The Group conducts a number of actions, particularly calls for skills (via the SME Pact On 27 March 2017 the Societe Generale Group rallied for the second open innovation platform: http://innovation.pactepme.org), http://innovation.pactepme.org year running to support the Salon Handicap, Emploi et Achats mentoring, beneficial partnerships and the supplier satisfaction Responsables (an employment and responsible sourcing fair for the survey. The supplier satisfaction survey is an annual assessment of disabled), which was held at the Palais des Congrès Congr in Paris. the quality of Societe Generale’s relationships with its SME suppliers. Mobilising 2,848 visitors, 120 adapted enterprises and establishments of Services d’Aide par le Travail (ESAT) along with The VSB/SME satisfaction score in the 2016 Supplier Survey 500 experts, the objective of this fair is to increase the employability was 83% (vs. 76% in 2015), placing the Group above the average for of handicapped individuals as well as recruitment recruitmen from the protected the Banking and Insurance sector. and adapted sector. The renewed success of this event has enabled the Group to raise the awareness of many employees, who have In 2016, 32% of the Group’s procurement expenditure was with formed qualified contacts with enterprises in the protected and French VSBs/SMEs. adapted sector. New way of sourcing from VSBs/SMEs: “Commission PRIORITY 3: SUPPORTING NG THE GROUP’S G CLIMATE 2020 Agent/Brokers” INTITIATIVE For purchasing intellectual and IT services the Purchasing The Group is committed to the energy transition and the circular Department has established shed framework agreements with platforms economy, with the objective of cutting its CO2 emissions per offering a model for sourcing Digital Service Companies in the occupant by 20% between 2014 and 2020, thereby making the fight VSB/SME category wanting to develop among major corporations. In against climate change a cornerstone cornerst of its environmental policy. order to have a frame for this type of role the Purchasing and Legal Within the Procurement Division, this will particularly involve the Departments have created reated a new type of framework agreement: a development of Green IT, improving building energy efficiency and “commission agent/broker” role for increasing the turnover of – improving the environmental performance of the products and specialised and innovative – VSBs/SMEs through purchasing by services purchased by the Group. up. The aim is to systematically seek Societe Generale. In 2016 30 new VSBs/SMEs were identified out innovative products and services with high environmental added covering subjects with high levels of expertise. value, based on a quantitative analysis of their environmental impact (CO2 emissions and environmental performance). PRIORITY 2: CONSOLIDATING ATING ITSELF AS THE PARTNER OF CHOICE IN THE SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY ECONO (SSE) 1,000 tonnes of CO2 saved The aim for the end of 2018 is to double the volume of purchases In the course ourse of renewing the car pool the purchasing teams decided made from SSE structures in 2015, increasing it to EUR 10 million a to incorporate a responsible sourcing policy from the first thoughts on year. the project. In an effort to reduce the impact of transport on the environment an environmental assessment matrix was drawn up and Thanks to close collaboration with the Group's Mission Handicap a CSR weighting of 10% was applied. The maximum emissions team and the Purchasing Department, the Positive Sourcing Program threshold for vehicles was reduced and limited to 120 g CO2/km. hopes to expand its sourcing from the disabled workers sector. It is Electric vehicles have also been included in the catalogue, along with also widening its sourcing to include back--to-work work schemes and strong messages of encouragement pushing electric mobility mobili to our other SSE players. Retail Banking. This initiative will make it possible to save more than In 2016, purchases from SSE structures amounted to EUR 6.88 1,000 tonnes of CO2 over the term of the contract (at ISO kilometres) million, of which EUR 5.96 million was from the protected and and enables Societe Generale to become a customer of ALD adapted sector. Automotive (the leading French and European car rental company) with the most environmentally friendly fleet in terms of the lowest CO2 emissions. This new action plan is part of a process of continuous progress. THE DASHBOARD OF THE POSITIVE SOURCING PROGRAM PR The progress achieved by the Positive Sourcing Program in terms of responsible sourcing is measured using indicators. 2,016 was a year of transition, which was marked by the implementation of the Positive Sourcing Program and the development of new tools. Steering indicators Achieved in 2015 Achieved in 2016 2018 Targets Value of purchases €6.5 billion €6.5 billion N/A Expenditure among companies in the adapted sector €6.85 million €6.88 million €10 million Expenditure among French SMEs/mid caps 62% 61% > 60% Expenditure among French SMEs/mid caps 32% 32% +20%/2015 Number of on-site supplier audits 4 7 10/year Number of supplier progress plans 9 3 10/year Number of purchasers trained in CSR Commissioning 80% 100% Number of KYS alerts (E&S controversies) handled Commissioning 4 N/A Number of cases referred to mediation 0 0 N/A Rating in the SME Pact supplier satisfaction survey 76% 83% ≥ to n-1 % of invoices paid within 30 days 65% 62% 75% at the end of 2017 Average payment time for invoices (weighted by value) 36 days (at the end of Oct.) 42 days (Dec.) N/A S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 22 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE 3. SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE CLIMATE: STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT In the face of climate change and ecological upheaval, the By ranking the macro-sectors in terms of their carbon intensity, the preservation of environmental balances is becoming a real Bank prioritises its climate action by developing a more microscopic challenge. In 2015, ahead of the COP21 climate change conference, analysis of its priority sectors, and develops more focused Societe Generale committed to aligning its financing portfolio to the monitoring. The greenhouse gas emissions relating to the 2016 global warming trajectory laid out by the International Energy Agency balance sheet commitments for the macro-sectors break down as (IEA), which sets out a 2 °C scenario (2DS), by 2020. follows: 39% for the transport sector, 37% for the energy sector, 15% for the manufacturing industry, 7% for the process industry, In 2016, Societe Generale developed its climate strategy, which is 2% other. To date, the Bank has not yet developed an approach for built around two strategic priorities: evaluating greenhouse gas emissions as they relate to financing for ■ implementation of climate risk management; private individuals. ■ development of energy transition financing in order to support its Thus, it can be seen that the transport and energy sectors are the clients in their low-carbon investments. most significant macro-sectors (76%). Actions have already been carried out for the energy sector (sector policy, halting funding for Societe Generale is progressively developing management tools as carbon and coal-fired power plant projects, commitment to part of its climate strategy. These tools provide an overall framework developing funding for renewable energies, etc.). In the electricity for managing the Bank’s impact on both financing (indirect sector, Societe Generale has developed a system for monitoring the emissions) and assets held (proprietary activities). Based on this energy mix of dedicated transactions and corporate lending with the framework, specific actions and procedures are implemented or objective of aligning it with a 2 °C global warming trajectory that is in strengthened. keeping with the IEA’s 2DS. Article 173 of the French Energy Transition for Green Growth Act In the context of its proprietary activities (operating emissions) the requires greenhouse gas emissions generated by the company’s Group carries out an annual campaign to collect all environmental businesses, particularly by the use of the goods and services that it data relating to energy consumption in its buildings and by its IT produces, to be reported via significant balance sheet items. In infrastructure (including hosted data centres), business trips, goods connection with its corporate finance business (indirect emissions), transport (mail, company shop, transport of funds, etc.), paper a Group-wide method for evaluating greenhouse gas emissions consumption (office use and paper for customer communications), relating to the Bank’s balance sheet commitments(1) has been put in waste produced and water consumption. Waste and water place at Societe Generale to make it possible to identify the sectors consumption are not currently taken into account in the Group’s with the highest carbon levels(2). This method takes a global carbon footprint, but are included in its carbon reduction approach using official data from international organisations, such programme for 2014-2020. as the United Nations and the OECD, and enables the Bank to determine, based on the climate challenges facing the macroThe monitoring indicator is greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of sectors (e.g. transport, energy, industry, etc.), the proportion of the CO2 equivalent per occupant. Energy consumption, which emissions corresponding to the commitments undertaken by the accounts for 72% of the Group’s carbon footprint on proprietary Bank. activities, is also monitored in kW/h per occupant or per m². (1) Portfolio of companies broken down by EAD – exposure at default – as In line with its commitments, Societe Generale, together with 25 defined under the Basel 2 model (“Assessment of EAD credit exposure”, other major international financial institutions, has supported the see p. 195, Credit risk exposure). (2) This is the P9XCA method. Societe Generale has updated and adjusted Voluntary Principles for Mainstreaming Climate Action since its variables, notably the geographic and sector breakdown. December 2015 (see p. 3, GROUP COMMITMENTS). The Group is also a signatory to the CDP Climate Change, Water, Forests and Carbon Action programmes, joining more than 822 financial institutions throughout the world and issuing annual reports on its environmental initiatives in these areas. 23 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| ATTENTION TO CLIMATE CHANGE ISSUES ASSOCIATED WITH FINANCING AND OTHER SERVICES The scenarios relating to primary energy production and A system for managing climate change installed capacity for electricity production were used to set the risks Bank’s objectives, based on a conservative approach that does not include lude China, whose energy mix relies heavily on carbon. Risks related to climate change (physical and transition risks) are not a new risk category, but rather an aggravating factor for the types of On this basis, the Bank has set itself the following objectives: risks included in the risk management plan (particularly credit and ■ to reduce outstanding credit (exposure) related to coal mining by operational risks and risk related to insurance activities). The sector 14% between 2016 and 2020; policies forming the environmental and social (E&S) risk management framework—particularly particularly its carbon sector policy— policy ■ to limit the proportion of installed capacity for coal-fired coal power contribute to the management of transition risk. plants in the energy mix financed by the Bank to 19% by 2020. In standard credit risk management, the macro-economic macro and ENERGY MX OF THE ELECTRICAL SECTOR FINANCED BY macro-sector sector analysis, as well as individual credit risk analyses for SOCIETE GENERALE* the countries and sectors with the greatest exposure, take into account physical risks and transition risks. Renewable Energy Coal An in-depthth analysis was carried out in 2016 by the Risk 32% 22.8% Division in collaboration with the CSR Department and presented to the Risk Committee in early 2017. It was decided that the development of sensitivity to these risks should be monitored by the Risk Committee, Committee which wishes to further strengthen consideration of this risk factor through its continuing work and specific actions, such as raising credit analysts’ Natural Gas awareness of the development of these risks. Hydroelectricity 28% 3% The energy sector at the heart of the climate challenge Nuclear 7% In n order to set things in motion, the commitment to the 2 °C global Oil warming trajectory will be gradually implemented across all business 2% sectors that the Bank supports through its financing portfolio and * Data in % installed MW AT 31 December 2016 other services according to priorities that will be identified i by risk *based on the follow-up up of more than 90% of the Bank financing on the Group level management tools and by the Risk Division. for power production activity. This regroups financements afforded to power production facilities as well as those afforded active clients in this sector. The energy sector plays a central role due to its significant production of greenhouse gas emissions and its position at the The Group’s energy mix was arrived at by considering both heart of the economy. Societe Generale focused its initial efforts on transactions that are dedicated to generating electricity from an clarifying and implementing its climate strategy within the coal identified energy source and loans that are not dedicated to sector. Though coal still plays an important part in the global customers active in the electricity generation sector (outstanding economy as an affordable resource, its contribution is declining credit). significantly given its impact in terms of CO2 and fine particles, partic in keeping with the objective of the Paris Agreement of December 2015. Deforestation, a major challenge in the In 2016, Societe Generale announced the end of funding for coalcoal fight against global warming fired power plant projects and associated infrastructures on a global Protecting forests through sustainable management and maintaining scale beginning 1st January 2017. In addition, the Group has not primary forests help p to both mitigate climate change and preserve been involved in project financing for the development of coal mines biodiversity. and associated infrastructures since 2015 (see p. 16, SECTOR AND CROSS-SECTOR E&S POLICIES). At the end of 2015, Societe Generale strengthened its commitment to forest conservation by adopting the Soft Commodities Compact Furthermore, Societe Generale has developed a methodology of the Banking Environment Initiative and the Consumer Goods for monitoring its credit exposure to the coal sector for the purposes Forum,, which aims to achieve zero net deforestation of tropical off implementing its commitment to the IEA’s 2DS plan for 2020. rainforests by 2020 (see p. 3, GROUP COMMITMENTS). COMMITMENTS S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 24 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS IN THEIR LOW-CARBON LOW CARBON INVESTMENTS INVESTMENT Societe Generale is aware of the role played by economic actors in ■ in the United Kingdom, SG Equipment Finance (SGEF) has been the transition to a lower carbon economy and intends to be a key providing financing solutions since 2010 for numerous clean and player in the energy transition. renewable energy systems: solar panels for schools and industrial buildings, LED lighting for warehouses, schools and hospitals, biomass boilers for public institutions and many farm Green funding buildings as well as cogeneration systems for fo major energy Strengthened by its presence in 67 countries, the th Group actively centres in the public and private sectors. In 2016, SGEF UK contributes to the development of the many markets in which it financed photovoltaic systems, biomass boilers and LED lighting operates. It supports governmental and private sector efforts to to the tune of EUR 5.3 million; transition to a low-carbon carbon economy by targeting: ■ in the Czech Republic, SGEF continued to finance the acquisition of buses to improve public transport, lending EUR ■ the diversification of sources of energy generation with increased incre 20.5 million in 2016; funding in the renewable energy sector; ■ Fiditalia (Italy) continued to support the photovoltaic sector ■ the reduction of its clients’ energy consumption; through financing amounting to EUR 23.3 million in loans for ■ the increase of its energy transition and climate change systems and installations related to the production of electricity adaptation efforts in developing countries, particularly in Africa, from solar energy; where Societe Generale has a strong presence, and attracting ■ in Bulgaria, SG Express Bank contributed over EUR 170,000 to investors for these projects. the Desiree Gas programme supported by the Bulgarian Ministry Corporate and Investment Banking has extensive ive experience in the of Energy and the EBRD, enabling subsidies to be granted to environmental and renewable energy sector. With a global presence private individuals who are customers of gas distributors and opt and acknowledged sector expertise (in energy, oil and gas, reserve to o replace diesel oil, coal or wood by natural gas; based finance, etc.) the Bank has continuously supported its ■ Rusfinance, Societe Generale’s consumer credit subsidiary in customers for over ten years in the development lopment of these fields. Russia, provided EUR 46 million in loans for private individuals to buy clean vehicles with a guarantee from the Societe Generale Societe Generale pursues a proactive policy in the renewable Group, all under er the International Finance Corporation’s energy sector (solar, wind and biomass energy, etc.), aiming to both dedicated credit facility. double its funding of projects in the renewable energy sector and to make up to EUR 10 billion of dedicatedicated funding available by 2020. In total over 2016, the green funding supplied by Societe In 2016, the Group granted funding for renewable energy projects Generale to private or public sector undertakings (energy to the tune of EUR 1.26 billion. Moreover, Societe Generale also infrastructures, all forms of renewable energy generation, waste and arranged five major transactions in the offshore wind power sector, recycling, public transport projects, alternative fuels, clean vehicles, including the following: green real estate) amounted to around EUR 3.12 billion (with SOGEPROM making a contribution for the first time to the tune of ■ funding for the biggest offshore wind farm project in Germany, EUR 595 million for green real estate). the “396 MW Merkur” project, owned by a consortium comprising Partners Group, InfraRed Capital Partners, DEME and GE; this project will enable clean energy to be supplied to Innovative solutions ons to rise to the around 500,000 households seholds in return for EUR 1.24 billion in challenges of energy transition financing; In order to satisfy its corporate clients, the Group is keen to ■ funding for the largest wind farm in the world, Dudgeon, located contribute to the development of “green bonds” enabling the off the coast of Norfolk in the United Kingdom. Scheduled for financing of projects and acquisitions in renewable energy and completion by the end of 2017, the project will generate electricity for 410,000 ,000 British households and replace 893,000 energy efficiency, thereby participating in the fight against climate tonnes of CO2 a year. This is the first offshore wind transaction change by bringing the Group’s structuring and bond distribution in which Societe Generale has acted as both advisor and lender, solutions to the table, combined with its longstanding expertise in thereby confirming its role as European leader in financing for ESG management. In 2016, Societe Generale contributed to the wind farms. issue of eight ight green bonds totalling EUR 6 billion and was involved, for example, in the first offshore green bond issue in the Chinese Group subsidiaries abroad are also present in the sector. On an automotive sector for Zhejiang Geely. This issue is intended to international basis, Societe Generale helps local authorities, private finance or refinance design, development and production projects individuals and companies to develop while preserving the local for zero-emission emission vehicles by its British subsidiary, the London Taxi ecosystem. Many of its international financing deals benefit from fr Company. guarantees and advantageous conditions thanks to partnership agreements signed with international financial institutions (IFIs) and The Bank also lends its expertise in terms of financial structuring refinancing lines dedicated to energy efficiency or renewable and distribution to offer innovative solutions that meet the energy energies. transition criteria sought by investors, particularly p through the development of positive impact finance under the auspices of the For example, in 2016: UNEP-FI FI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative) ■ Komerčni Banka (Czech Republic) lic) contributed EUR 8 million to (see p. 18, POSITIVE IMPACT FINANCE).FINANCE In 2016, this approach the financing of infrastructures and plants offering local residents was continued with a second positive impact bond issue for a EUR a better water supply and better wastewater management; 500 million fixed-rate rate senior note with a 5-year 5 maturity. The funds raised will serve to finance renewable energy projects. 25 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| The Bank is a long-standing player in the carbon market, ranked October 2016, just before the COP22 climate change conference, No. 2 by Energy Risk in the European ETS (Emissions Trading Societe Generale Morocco launched the C’BIO bank card, made of System) and No. 1 for its research on the subject in 2016. biodegradable plant-based plastic, and makes a flat-rate donation to Mawarid (“Resources”), a non-profit which works to protect the Environmental banking offer environment. At end-2016, 188 C’BIO cards had been distributed. In its French banking networks, Societe Generale also promotes financing aimed at improving energy efficiency. Since their launch in A range of specific services France, the Group has distributed more than 27,500 interest-free ALD Automotive, the Group’s automotive leasing subsidiary, is eco-loans, sustainable development loans and Expresso sustainable pursuing its strategy to promote low-carbon solutions and new development loans, which together represent more than EUR 435 forms of mobility in the operational leasing sector, where technology million. As at 31st December 2016, the deposits in Sustainable is driving changes in practices. Private car or car sharing, long-term Development Savings Accounts amounted to EUR 8 billion. leasing versus short-term leasing, development of multi-modal As part of its environmental banking offering, the Bank proposes a solutions – ALD is experimenting with these new corporate mobility range of green products and services, including an environmental business models. The Mobility Experience Centre, which has been business credit card for corporate customers in collaboration with set up at its Dutch subsidiary in Amsterdam, is a leading centre for the French Forestry Commission (ONF). Societe Generale has raising awareness and testing in relation to these new practices; reaffirmed its commitment to fund the regeneration of two forest examples of the most recent innovations integrated into the “ALD parks (in the Hautes-Alpes and Loire Atlantique départements) until newmobility” programme are flexible mobility solutions such as the the end of 2017. In 2016, just over EUR 151,261 was paid to the “ALD choice” showroom, the “ALD free” platform, the “My ALD” ONF, up 19% compared to 2015. application, which has been rolled out in more than 20 countries, and the “ALD Community” commuter carpooling solution, in Since September 2012, a preferential “clean vehicle” scale has been partnership with WayzUp. reserved for clients who wish to finance the purchase of new or second-hand electric or hybrid vehicles via an Expresso loan. In With a fleet of 9,132 electric cars under its management as of the 2016, 3,300 Expresso loans totalling EUR 40.9 million were granted end of September 2016 (out of a total fleet of 1.3 million vehicles under this scheme. Since it was put in place, close to 10,000 “clean worldwide), ALD Automotive’s range of electric options is expanding vehicle” Expresso loans have been taken out, totalling EUR 128.4 with new solutions, such as: million. ■ ALD experienze: a discovery day organised at corporate client sites to give employees the chance to find out about electric Sogessur, Societe Generale’s insurance subsidiary, has vehicles; implemented a permanent 5% discount on insurance premiums for policyholders with vehicles emitting less than 120 grams of ■ ALD rent electric: the opportunity for corporate clients to CO2/km, regardless of the package selected (“clean vehicle” policy) evaluate the introduction of electric vehicles to its car fleet in real and a 10% discount on insurance premiums for policyholders who conditions by test driving a varied selection of electric vehicles drive less than 6,000 km/year (“infrequent driver” policy). At the end on a long-term basis and with great flexibility; of 2016, “infrequent driver” policies accounted for 23% of ■ ALD electric: advice and comprehensive support, from Sogessur’s portfolio, up 2 points compared to 2015, and “clean conducting a needs analysis to the servicing and repairs of the vehicle” policies accounted for 18%, up 3 points on 2015. In early vehicles, including setting up infrastructures at the client site 2016, Sogessur launched “Star Drive”, a software application that is designed to encourage the introduction of electric vehicles in both educational and fun, and that enables users to improve their company fleets. driving skills through driving tips and is also environmentally friendly. This range of packages is growing thanks to partnerships formed in To date, 8,000 individuals have downloaded the application and 2016 with specialists in electric recharging infrastructures, enabling beneficial effects on users’ driving performance have been noted. ALD to offer its customers appropriate energy management and Societe Generale’s international network also offers a range of intelligent recharging solutions for their vehicles (Eneco in the environmental banking products and services. For example, in Netherlands and G2 Mobility in France). S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 26 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE PARTNERSHIPS TO SUPPORT LOW-CARBON* LOW CARBON* DEVELOPMENT POLICIES In order to support the Group’s low-carbon carbon financing development This partnership’s key to success is also partly due to raising the policies and to assist its customers in this respect, the Group is awareness of both the Bank’s sales teams (so as to trigger the working to form partnerships with IFIs offering lines or programmes “Sunref reflex”) and companies and professional organisations, dedicated to financing for clean energy or energy efficiency projects. which the AFD invites to information seminars like the one that was These dedicated financing lines are aimed at encouraging banks – held in Abidjan on 17th November 2016. the primary source of corporate finance – to finance the transition of their existing customers to a more sustainable energy model or to The following financing contracts arranging financing facilities for seize the opportunities to finance “green” projects proposed by energy efficiency projects have also been signed between the companies taking an innovative approach in this area. European branches and the EBRD: in Moldavia, for the MoREEFF and MoSEFF programmes, which ich are specific to this country, to the The partnerships that have e been entered into include Sunref tune of EUR 8 million, in Romania, for two credit lines totalling EUR (Sustainable use of natural resources and energy finance), 8.1 million, and in Serbia. concluded in 2015 between the French Development Agency (AFD) and the subsidiaries SGBS in Senegal and SGBCI in Côte d’Ivoire. In France, an agreement is in place with the EIB in connection with In the context of these partnerships, s, the AFD and the local bank the “France Énergies Renewables” programme to promote pro coordinate their efforts via committees set up to monitor the Sunref investment in renewable energies (EUR 750 million) across the refinancing scheme, as well as regular exchanges on the projects country between 2014 and 2016. that have been identified by each of the two parties. They evaluate and subsequently decide on the projects’ eligibility. In Cote d’Ivoire, as of the end of 2016, four out of the eleven projects and companies reviewed had been accepted as eligible for inclusion in the Sunref programme; five other applications are currently being processed. REDUCING THE GROUP’s CARBON FOOTPRINT ■ nearly 11,000 tonnes of CO2 avoided per year (i.e. 3.3% of the The Group’s carbon plan Group’s emissions); The Bank also generates environmental impacts through its ■ 58 GWh of energy saved per year (i.e. 6.8% of the Group’s Grou total business activity. Aware of its responsibility in this respect, Societe energy consumption). Generale continues to apply its environmental policy in terms of its own activities; such policy involves the control and improvement of The Sourcing Department plays a significant role in the Group’s its direct impact on the environment, vironment, in association with its various CSR strategy, and is committed to reducing the environmental stakeholders. footprint of the Bank’s procurement (see p. 21, IMPROVING CSR RISK MANAGEMENT DURING THE SOURCING PROCESS). PROCESS As part of its 2014-2020 2020 carbon reduction programme, Societe Generale has decided to reduce its CO2 emissions by 20% and, This has led to genuine enthusiasm among employees, and the from 2017, to include its waste in the Group’s carbon footprint. Bank is keen to share the programme with its peers and the organisations with which it is involved (EpE, ORSE, Global Compact) In 2016, the e Group’s carbon footprint was 2.13 tonnes of so that the initiative is adopted elsewhere. CO2/occupant, i.e. a reduction of 11.8% compared to 2014, the reference year. Environmental Efficiency Award Yearly savings project rojected on 4 years (2013-2015) The internal carbon tax, a governance tool In order to achieve this objective, the Bank is extending its internal carbon tax incentive ve scheme. This tax is levied on the basis of each Group entity’s emissions (EUR 10/tonne of CO2) and is then redistributed to finance internal environmental efficiency initiatives via Waste the organisation of the Environmental Efficiency Awards. This Paper scheme shows ows that environmental measures also represent valuevalue Real Estate creation and innovation opportunities for the Bank. IT Transport Over four years, the internal carbon tax revenues have been allocated to 185 initiatives in 23 participating countries over 4 continents, achieving the following: a grant of EUR 3.1 million per year on average; recurring savings of EUR 26 million per year in overheads; ___________________ * Relating to the financing of the energy transition. 27 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| At the same time, the use of renewable energy sources increased Measures taken to improve by 19% in 2016 compared to 2015, thanks in particular to the production of renewable energy in our buildings (solar panels and environmental efficiency methanisation in some company cafeterias) and to the acquisition of green certificates. REAL ESTATE Sogeprom, the Group’s property development subsidiary, is REDUCTION IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION developing the future of real estate by placing the user at the heart of its concerns (comfort, air quality, connectivity, biodiversity: With a total floor space of 3.9 million m² in 2016, the Group has garden, etc.) while simultaneously increasing the value of property made a commitment to continually enhance the energy assets. It is redesigning the property development business of the performance of its buildings by implementing an environmental future by taking the overall lifespan of the building into account: from strategy for its building stock. To this end, one of the objectives it the eco-design to end-of-life considerations for the building and its has set is to increase the energy efficiency of its central buildings construction materials. Hence the new Ampère E+ building, (excluding branches and subsidiaries) by 20% by 2020 compared to Sogeprom’s head office, which will soon welcome Sogeprom 2014, which will make a significant contribution to the energy employees, followed by the employees of Societe Generale’s real consumption reduction efforts implemented since 2007. estate division, was constructed through on-site innovation and Several tools have been made available to attain this objective: partnerships with start-ups and innovative companies in order to significantly reduce the project’s ecological footprint (the ■ an environmental diagnostic tool (EDT) has been developed to transmission of data by LiFi technology lighting, an electricity evaluate the building stock’s environmental performance, storage solution using second-life batteries (B4B system), a green facilitating the roll-out of consistent and effective action plans at wall to purify indoor air, an edible wild garden on the roof and fibre country or entity level and the improvement of the energy optic cabling rather than a conventional copper IT network). efficiency of the building stock overall; REDUCTION IN WATER CONSUMPTION ■ a management tool (GREEN) allowing the real-time monitoring of a given building’s energy and water consumption and waste The Group’s water consumption was 1.92 million m3 in 2016, down management has now been rolled out in the main central slightly compared to 2015. buildings in France in order to manage energy efficiency and to monitor energy management in the 19 buildings with ISO 50001 In the Group’s buildings, water management is handled in certification in the Ile-de-France region. This certification is a conjunction with energy management. It is supplemented by clear indication of the Group’s commitment to reducing energy consumption-cutting measures (motion detectors, replacement of consumption in its buildings, and makes Societe Generale the evaporative air-conditioning units, etc.). first bank to be certified in Europe. On an international level, MASS CATERING further to its successful roll-out in the United States (one building in New York), India (Bangalore and Chennai) and Luxembourg, Particular attention is paid to the environment and to combating the GREEN tool has now been implemented in Asia and the food wastage, in collaboration with the caterers at Societe United Kingdom. Generale’s main buildings in Ile-de-France (which serve 11,000 meals per day on average). Hence, most of the catering services are In addition to this objective and as part of the ISO 50001 provided on site on a just-in-time basis, with a growing proportion certification for the 19 central buildings, an “energy policy” has been being offered on a self-service basis, so that consumers can adjust defined and implemented. This policy aims to: portion sizes themselves. Management of use-by dates for pre■ satisfy the legal and regulatory requirements pertaining to prepared products is also optimised. In the majority of cafeterias, buildings; the remaining waste is sorted and methanised (see below). ■ optimise the energy and environmental performance of buildings WASTE MANAGEMENT owned by Societe Generale, as part of the Group’s continuing By recycling waste, Societe Generale strives to minimise its direct efforts to ensure the comfort of its buildings’ occupants; impact on the environment. At Group level, waste production was ■ capitalise on real estate market opportunities and the current estimated at around 18,000 tonnes in 2016. The slight increase in context to occupy buildings best suited to the development of waste production (up 11.4% on 2015) is due to more the company’s core business values (reliability, business comprehensive coverage in 2016. continuity) and to the occupants’ expectations in terms of comfort, health, accessibility and services. To meet the target of the 2014-2020 carbon reduction programme, a range of measures to improve waste management exist within the The result of these efforts in respect of 2016 is a reduction of over Group. Waste collection, recycling and processing efforts involving 4%, compared to 2015, in the energy consumption of the central the disabled workers sector continued in 2016, with nearly 130 buildings. A noteworthy point is that a remote meter system for tonnes of waste processed. Dehydration and sanitisation of food measuring consumption data has been installed in 189 branches in waste is carried out on site (Credit du Nord), thereby reducing the Societe Generale’s French network. environmental impact of its transportation. 2016 also saw the construction of buildings at the cutting edge of energy efficiency, such as DUNES (to the east of Paris, with a floor IT INFRASTRUCTURE area of 89,000 m2 for 5,500 people) and Ampère E+ (at La Défense, Societe Generale’s IT Division has set itself the objective of reducing 15,000 m2 for just under 1,300 people). These buildings have been the energy consumption of its IT stock by 4% a year in line with the awarded the following certifications: HQE Construction and LEED pledge given by the Group. The 2016 initiatives helped save 9.4 for DUNES, and HQE (Excellent) and BREEAM (Very Good) as well GWh/year in energy, i.e. a 4.7% drop in CO2 emissions. as the BBC Effinergie Rénovation label for the Ampère E+ building. In Chad, Societe Generale has built two annexes to its head office, which are exemplary in terms of their environmental qualities (insulation that is compliant with European standards, external double walls, electricity generation by solar panels and LED lighting). Societe Generale’s subsidiary in Burkina Faso has installed 22 solar automatic teller machines (ATMs), mainly in remote areas that are subject to frequent power cuts. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 28 |1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE A system has been put in place whereby a contact person COMMUTING AND TELECOMMUTING dedicated to environmental matters is placed at the centre of the process for each project; in addition, a major campaign of Targeted measures have been deployed to promote alternative awareness-raising in relation to environmental issues has been solutions to the individual use of vehicles. A car-pool platform and a carried out with project holders. car-sharing scheme are in place at the head office. Measures have also been implemented in the subsidiaries: in particular, CGI and In general, particular emphasis has been placed on electricity ALD International have made bicycles and e-bikes available to their consumption, collaboration with the Purchasing Department, and employees, which are used for commuting as well as for certain management of the Green IT criteria for projects and international business trips. At the end of 2016, CGI had a fleet of 24 bicycles, development. which travelled just under 40,000 kilometres in total over the year, and ten parking places were reserved for car-poolers and electric Efforts to reduce the carbon footprint of the Group’s IT stock vehicles. continued in 2016 with the roll-out of cloud solutions, wider use of pull printing, and the replacement of obsolete equipment by more In addition, after three years of trials, Societe Generale is developing efficient and less energy-intensive equipment. telecommuting on a significant scale. At the end of 2016 the Group had 10,000 telecommuters worldwide, representing 520 tonnes of TRANSPORT avoided carbon emissions. Societe Generale SA in France has definitively adopted this new way of working (see p. 45, Developing Societe Generale has long since implemented measures to reduce new ways of working and organisational models). the environmental impact of personal and business travel as well as of the transportation of goods. PAPER BUSINESS TRAVEL Paper, which is the top consumable used by service businesses, Group employees travelled 514 million km by train, aeroplane and represents a significant economic issue and a sensitive car in 2016, representing 3,412 km per occupant. This represented environmental topic (waste management, fight against climate a slight increase (0.5%) in the Group’s travel per occupant change and pollution). compared to 2015, with a reduction in the number of kilometres It is a constant concern for the Group, and an increasing number of driven by car and a slight increase in the distances travelled by initiatives are being implemented to rationalise total consumption, aeroplane and by train. which stood at 13,216 tonnes in 2016 (down 26% on 2015). The For five years, the Group’s Purchasing Division, in collaboration with downward trend in paper consumption that began in 2007 Group entities in France, has been endeavouring to reduce the continued: in 2016, it was 86 kg per occupant, i.e. 25% less than in Group’s carbon footprint by referencing the vehicles with the lowest 2015. emissions on the market. In order to step-up its efforts and achieve More than half of the office paper used (52.4%) now comes from its ambitious CO2 emission reduction target, the “EdisOn” project recycled sources, up 10% on 2015. was launched in 2015, with the aim of offering 5% electric vehicles in the Group’s car pool within three years. As of the end of 2016 the The progress achieved is the result of various measures Group’s fleet comprised 52 electric vehicles, versus 27 in 2015, and implemented Group-wide, such as good use of printers, conversion ten additional recharging stations were installed over the year. of paper materials to digital materials and use of recycled paper. As part of its environmental commitments, Societe Generale has also held a seat on the Board of Directors of Ecofolio, an ecoorganisation that promotes the circular economy, since 2012. 29 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2016 2015 Ref. year 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION Units Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated General environmental policy Total number of Group employees Employees 145,672 145,703 146,793 Total number of occupants covered in the reporting(1) Occupants 154,280 152,020 150,933 Coverage of data collection scope % 100% 100% 99% Total surface area counted m2 3,866,481 3,998,770 4,019,694 Pollution and waste management Waste Tonnes 18,174 16,075 16,345 Coverage(2) % 91% 90% 86% Business travel Millions of km 514 510 506 Coverage(2) % 98% 98% 98% Aeroplane Millions of km 261 239 247 Train Millions of km 54 51 52 Car Millions of km 199 219 206 Business travel per occupant Km 3,412 3,443 3,405 Sustainable use of resources Water consumption Millions of m3 1.92 2.08 1.99 (2) Coverage % 98% 98% 94% Total paper consumption (3) Tonnes 13,216 16,411 17,561 Coverage(2) % 98% 100% 100% Total paper consumption per occupant Kg 86 109 117 Office paper consumption Tonnes 6,984 8,241 8,750 Coverage(2) % 98% 100% 100% o.w. recycled office paper % 52% 48% 38% Total energy consumption GWh 813 848 896 Coverage(2) % 100% 100% 100% Total consumption per occupant KWh 5,289 5,632 5,920 Total electricity consumption GWh 589 610 629 Total electricity consumption per occupant KWh 3,831 4,054 4,153 Electricity generation from renewable sources MWh 1,776 1,432 417 Consumption of energy by data centres (4) GWh 92 99 111 Climate change GHG emissions(5) Tonnes of CO2 e 320,495 322,157 352,543 Coverage(2) % 97% 98% 98% GHG emissions per occupant Tonnes of CO2 e 2.13 2.20 2.40 SCOPE 1 (6) Tonnes of CO2 e 31,805 30,248 32,520 SCOPE 2 (7) Tonnes of CO2 e 196,490 198,602 214,542 SCOPE 3 (8) Tonnes of CO2 e 92,199 93,308 105,481 ____________________________________ (1) The number of occupants represents any person, whether or not they are an employee (including seconded staff, subcontractors, temporary workers, work placement trainees, people on work-study programmes, etc.) of the Societe Generale Group working on site and consuming/using/conducting/producing energy, paper, business trips, waste, etc. owing to their presence and their activity on site (2) Coverage represents entities having contributed to data in proportion to their workforce (FTE – full-time equivalent). (3) Includes office paper, documents for customers, envelopes, account statements and other types of paper. (4) Includes own data centres hosted in France. Only the energy consumption of own data centres is included in total electricity. (5) Greenhouse gases (GHG). (6) Includes direct emissions related to energy consumption and emissions of fluorinated gases. (7) Includes indirect emissions related to energy consumption. (8) Includes GHG emissions related to overall paper consumption, business travel, transport of goods and energy consumption of data centres hosted in France. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 30 |4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT 4. SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS The Group is committed to maintaining and improving the systems and FIGHTING DISCRIMINATION AND processes that enable it to ensure that human rights are respected in its operations and its human resources management, in its supply chain, and PROMOTING DIVERSITY in its products and services. The Group’s diversity policy aims to fight against preconceptions Societe Generale’s commitments to human rights are guided by the and to create a culture of inclusion (see p. 51, Promoting team following conventions, standards and initiatives: diversity). ■ the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant Guarding against discrimination during recruitment, in particular, is on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on one of the points that have been subject to continuous monitoring Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; within the Group since 2013. To this end, sample checks are carried out to verify that job advertisements do not contain any ■ the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization discriminatory terms, that candidates are assessed on the basis of (ILO), which cover, in particular, the elimination of forced labour and child labour, discrimination in employment as well as the freedom of objective criteria that are commensurate with the position to be association and the effective recognition of the right to collective filled and that rejection letters do not contain any discriminatory bargaining; terms. In France, the Ministry of Labour conducted a study in spring 2016 to measure discrimination experienced by candidates ■ the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; of North African origin in the recruitment processes for large ■ OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; companies. In the case of Societe Generale, no significant risk of discrimination was detected based on the observed sample, ■ the United Nations Global Compact. reflecting the efforts undertaken on this issue via communications The Bank is determined to act with integrity and in compliance with the issued to teams, and the training and guidance given to the applicable laws in all its activities. Several policies developed at the Group employees (and the service providers) responsible for resume level include provisions that directly or indirectly uphold human rights. A selection. notable example is the Code of Conduct (see p. 11, Code of Conduct), in Furthermore, the Group’s commitment to non-discrimination was which Societe Generale undertakes to respect human rights and to comply demonstrated in practical terms in 2016 with the signing of two with the rules laid down by the ILO. international charters: The same applies to policies and processes developed by Societe ■ the Women’s Empowerment Principles, under the aegis of the Generale in connection with its obligations to combat money laundering, United Nations Global Compact, promoting gender quality at terrorist financing and corruption. work, both within the company and in its sphere of influence In order to meet its obligations under chapter 54 of the 2015 Modern (see p.51, DIVERSITY AT THE HEART OF BUSINESS LINE CHALLENGES); Slavery Act, Societe Generale publishes a statement on slavery and human trafficking on its website (the document is available at ■ the Global Business and Disability Charter, under the aegis of https://www.societegenerale.com/sites/default/files/documents/ the International Labour Organization, promoting the inclusion Document%20RSE/Modern%20Slavery%20Act.pdf. of persons with disabilities in the world of work (see p. 51, DIVERSITY AT THE HEART OF BUSINESS LINE CHALLENGES). Respect for human rights in human resources management HEALTH, SAFETY AND WORKING CONDITIONS GLOBAL AGREEMENT ON FUNDAMENTAL The Group continually monitors the possibility of any risks liable to RIGHTS (HUMAN RIGHTS AND TRADE UNION affect the health and safety of its staff, throughout the world. It RIGHTS) conducts campaigns and takes action at the hyper-local level to offer practical responses to the needs and concerns of the In June 2015, Societe Generale and the UNI Global Union signed a global populations affected. Particular attention is paid to the prevention agreement on fundamental human rights and the freedom of association, of psychosocial risks (see p. 50, Focus on the prevention of thereby making Societe Generale the first French bank to sign such an psychosocial risks) and, more generally, to working conditions via agreement. This agreement applies to all Group entities. It reinforces the the Life at Work programme (see p. 49, Caring about employees' commitments made in Societe Generale’s Code of Conduct to respect wellbeing at work). human rights and recognise fundamental rights in the workplace by making sure employment and working conditions are fair, adopting a zerodiscrimination policy for work relationships, and complying with all health and safety regulations. With respect to freedom of association, Societe Generale is committed to respecting the right of all employees to establish and join organisations, to unionise and to bargain collectively. Furthermore, it contains provisions allowing unions that are affiliated with the UNI to meet employees at the company site in order to make themselves known to them. The agreement also covers relationships with business partners, by means of the Group instruction on responsible sourcing, which is appended thereto (see p. 20, A new responsible sourcing action plan: the 2018 Positive Sourcing Program). This agreement is regularly monitored with UNI Global Union, which ensures it is implemented effectively, thereby bringing an external, independent perspective (see p. 47, Constructive and structured international social dialogue). 31 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| DISCIPLINARY MEASURES ■ the implementation of a Know Your Supplier (KYS) process, which has been in place since July 2016; Since 2015, the Group’s disciplinary principles have been presented to the ■ the extra-financial financial evaluation of suppliers; members of the various management committees of Societe Generale SA, the Risk Divisions, Global Transaction & Payment Services (GTPS), the ■ the gradual introduction of mandatory E&S criteria in French Retail Banking IT Department, International Retail Banking and specifications for products and services. se Financial Services (IBFS), French Retail Banking and the Global Banking As part of its KYS process, the Bank has undertaken to implement and Investor Solutions (GBIS) entities. These principles pr will be deployed measures to remedy any situation where it has identified or been under the Culture & Conduct Programme (see p. 45, Developing a informed of a potential violation of human rights. relationship nship banking culture based on common values) values and under the new Code of Conduct, which was updated ed in 2016 (see p. 11, Code of The information relating to responsible sourcing is available online onlin Conduct). at: https://www.societegenerale.com/en/measuring https://www.societegenerale.com/en/measuring-ourperformance/csr/responsible--buying Within Global Banking and Investor Solutions, these principles have been disseminated worldwide and an inventory of the current situation in such respect has been een drawn up. In 2016, and still within GBIS, a shadow Respect for human rights in the value reporting exercise was carried out with a view to ultimately being chain incorporated into the Culture & Conduct Programme, which is to be rolled out to all Group entities. Impact on human rights iss an integral part of the E&S impact considered in the commitments to responsible finance (see p. 11, IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBLE FINANCING). FINANCING With regard to Respect for human rights in the supply human rights, the General E&S Guidelines Guidelin list the standards and chain initiatives that Societe Generale undertakes to respect and has identified as being the most important for the E&S evaluation of its In 2015, the Group adopted an instruction on responsible sourcing and a customers. code of ethics relating to sourcing. This instruction is appended to the Global Agreement on fundamental human rights and trade union rights (see The Equator Principles (see p. 16, EQUATOR PRINCIPLES) cover p. 20, A new responsible sourcing action ction plan: the 2018 Positive Sourcing the issue of human rights through the performance standards of Program). the International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group), which address workers’ rights, population displacement and At present, the implementation processes essentially involve sourcing resettlement, the free, prior informed consent of indigenous managed from France and cover: populations, and the management of security personnel. ■ the identification of potential environmental and social risks (including in Many sector-basedbased initiatives referenced in the E&S policies as relation to human rights) for each sourcing category. The E&S E& risk being the framework that is expected of the Group’s corporate mapping results are available on the Group’s website clients also cover human rights issues. (https://www.societegenerale.com/sites/default/files/documents/ https://www.societegenerale.com/sites/default/files/documents/ %20risques%20FR.PDF) ; cartographie%20des%20risques%20FR.PDF FIGHTING INSECURITY AND PROTECTING VULNERABLE POPULATIONS Since 2005, Societe Generale and Credit du Nord have sought to Financial inclusion “make banking easier” for all by offering a range of alternative payment methods (APMs) to cheques for customers without a MEASURES ALLOWING ACCESS AC TO cheque book. The entry into force of the Moscovici Act and its BANKING SERVICES FOR ALL IN FRANCE implementing legislation in 2014 significantly reinforced the commitments undertaken since 2005 in relation to customers in In accordance with Article L. 312-1 of the French Monetary and Financial financially fragile situations for the entire financial sector. Code on the right to hold a bank account, Societe Generale and Credit du Nord provide customers who are entitled to this right with free “basic Accordingly, Societe Generale and Credit du Nord, in keeping with banking services”, as defined by law. The two institutions thereby comply their regulatory obligations as defined by Article Articl R. 312-4-3 of the with the Moscovici Act (French Act no. 2013-672672 of 26th July 2013 on the French Monetary and Financial Code, have implemented a separation and regulation of banking activities), which reinforced the detection and monitoring system, combining internal warning effectiveness of this right (including with respect to shorter account mechanisms and KYC intelligence, for customers fulfilling the opening times and exercise of the right forr social service stakeholders to criteria for financial hardship. hold an account in the beneficiary’s name). This system enables the Bank B to write to these customers As of end-December December 2016, 10,672 individual customers had access to systematically and at the earliest opportunity to propose a meeting basic banking services at Societe Generale and 840 at Credit du Nord. with their advisor in order to present them with a specific offer designed to limit costs in the event of an incident (at least once a year for all customerss in situations of financial hardship as well as any time a new instance of hardship is detected). S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 32 |4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT Généris, which is available for a modest monthly fee, is the everyday This diversification of the points of access to banking, bringing banking package that has been designed to help customers in situations of them as close as possible to local populations, facilitates the financial hardship rdship to manage their accounts, in particular through payment opening of new accounts. methods adapted to their needs and capped costs in the event of an incident. In addition, in Senegal, Manko – a wholly-owned subsidiary of Societe Generale and a supporter of financial inclusion – is As of end-2016, 2016, 44,483 Societe Generale customers had signed up for continuing its roll-out out and since 2013 has been offering banking the Généris service and 1,550 Credit du Nord customers cu had signed up for products and services to populations that are either ei unbanked or the latter’s equivalent service. under-banked, banked, without access to the traditional banking system. Manko’s model is based on a lean structure, a mobile sales force, For its part, Boursorama Banque launched Welcome in September 2016, equipped with scooters and tablets, and processes that are now which is a comprehensive everyday banking package available to any completely digitalised. person over 18 years of age, without any restrictions on the level l of income or minimum deposits. This package from Boursorama Banque frees With three branches, 70 employees and 8,500 active customers from administrative constraints and offers them, amongst other customers, Manko is acclaimed by its customers, who state that things, a current account with no account management fees, free everyday they are very satisfied with the services offered (the simplicity of banking transactions, a Visa Classic ssic debit card for just EUR 1.5 per month, processes, pricing, proximity and the expertise of the staff). In etc. This package bears out the latest rankings carried out by Le Monde / 2016, Manko granted more than tha 5,500 loans totalling EUR 15.9 Choisir-ma-banque.com in February 2016, in which Boursorama Banque million (CFA 10.46 billion). was once again rated the least expensive bank for the four eligible profiles pro (“active population under 25 years of age”, “middle managers”, “senior FOR PEOPLE WITH A SERIOUS SE managers” and “employees”) for online banking. This rating confirms HEALTH RISK OR IN A STATE OF Boursorama’s position as the least expensive bank, which it has held for the past eight years. DEPENDENCY Franfinance, a Group subsidiary specialising in consumer loans, offers a Societe Generale develops products and services that match the loan product that is specifically intended for temporary workers. This needs of each individual. innovative product is combined with a completely free back-toback Under the terms of the AERAS agreement (insurance and loans for employment assistance plan, with a dedicated employment advisor. individuals with an increased health risk) signed by professionals in In 2016, Franfinance financed 111 loan applications of this type for France’s banking and insurance sectors in 2007 and later customers with temporary contracts. amended in 2011, then again in 2015, opening access to insurance and credit for people with a serious health he risk, Societe ABROAD Generale and Credit du Nord make it easier for such people to get a loan (home loans and consumer loans) and provide a scheme Societe Generale has been expanding its range of pan-Africanpan Mobile for sharing some of the costs of additional premiums for Banking and Mobile Payment solutions since 2015, with the objectives of customers in the lowest income brackets. bringing nging traditional banking to its customers and of promoting financial inclusion and access to banking through alternative banking models in In October 2016,16, on the occasion of the French National Carers addition to its traditional banking model (see Chapter 2.4 of the Day, Registration Document,, Significant new products or services). Societe Generale supplemented its range of personal insurance policies with the launch of new dependency solutions, In keeping with this policy and in order to increase the financial inclusion one of which is specifically designed to cover the issues faced by and satisfaction of its customers in Sub-Saharan Saharan Africa, carers. Societe Generale has decided to roll out an Agency Banking model in The Garantie autonomie aidant policy is a package of cover and the region. The aim of this model is to supplement upplement the range of existing support benefits for persons providing daily care for a dependent solutions with an “accessible banking” solution based on an electronic elderly relative. To complement this offering, Societe Generale has purse that can be used to carry out a wide variety of day-to-day day formed a partnership with the non-profitnon organisation La transactions (transfers, payment of bills, salaries, etc.), distributed via a Compagnie nie des aidants, which develops and runs a dedicated network of independent partner agents. online platform for the carer community. Societe Generale has elected to supplement these solutions with an innovative digital The offer, available to both individuals and companies, will be launched in package consisting of a web portal with the Ultralert application Côte d’Ivoire beginning January 2017, then gradually rolled out to the other and Silver Mother, a set of smart monitoring programs. These target countries (Senegal, Ghana, etc.). support solutions have been awarded the Profideo Innovation Proximity is also a factor in improving roving banking inclusion: at the beginning of Trophy. 2016, to meet customer demand for better accessibility, SGBG Guinea Local initiatives are also being developed abroad. In particular: (Société Générale de Banques en Guinée) strengthened its territorial network through the installation – in strategic locations such as service ■ Mobiasbanca, a Societe Generale subsidiary based in stations, shops and business parks – of “money POP” bank branches with Moldova, launched MobiSanté obiSanté in July 2016, which is the first streamlined services and extended opening times. Five concept-store concept programme to be dedicated exclusively to public and private money POP points were opened in 2016, the scheme’s first year (four in medical bodies with a view to supporting the economic Conakry and one in Manéah). development of the medical sector and improving the quality of the country’s medical services; The concept of mobile bile branches travelling the country to reach out to remote populations, which was launched in Burkina Faso in April 2015, is ■ in June ne 2016, Societe Generale Algeria finalised the raising of a EUR 25 million loan for the benefit of Biocare Biotech, which taking root, with the addition in 2016 of a fleet of ten scooters sporting the will be used to finance a human insulin plant. This project bank’s colours, which travel the length and breadth of the city of addresses a major public health challenge in Algeria, where Ouagadougou; the concept of the roving branch has also been replicated more than two million diabetics have been diagnosed. in Côte d’Ivoire since May 2016. 33 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| of 2015, it has extended its action plan to support vulnerable Focus on over-indebtedness customers. They now benefit from a system of monitoring that has been implemented to prevent difficulties at an earlier stage. Since 2004, the Societe Generale France network has had the resources needed to identify over-indebted customers in order to be able to offer In addition, since 2010, Franfinance and CGI have had a them a responsible solution. partnership agreement with Crésus, a network of non-profits founded in 1992 that assists individuals with excessive or poorly The French law governing consumer credit that entered into force in structured debt. Under this agreement, the Group’s two French November 2010 modified the regulatory framework without radically subsidiaries specialising in consumer loans recommend to any affecting the system in place at Societe Generale, which was precursory in customers showing signs of financial vulnerability that they contact this regard. their local Crésus association. Further to the signature (on a voluntary basis) of a support charter between the association and A PROCESS DEDICATED TO MANAGING the customer, a budgetary and social evaluation is performed, OVER-INDEBTEDNESS followed by local support aimed at safeguarding the customer’s financial balance. Societe Generale introduced a dedicated process in 2004 to ensure the responsible management of over-indebted customers. SUPPORT PROGRAMMES It maintains services for bank accounts that receive income, except in In France, Societe Generale and Crésus have jointly launched a special cases, and informs over-indebted customers of alternative payment financial education programme on budget management, methods to cheques. Debtors continue to benefit from any overdrafts conducted as part of a skills sponsorship initiative. In addition, already granted. Management of the customer relationship is based on a many initiatives are being implemented abroad (see p. 55, complementary system: FINANCIAL EDUCATION). ■ account managers ensure the everyday monitoring of the account; ■ back-office operators monitor outstanding credit prior to acceptance of TOOLS TO SUPPORT FINANCIAL applications and manage repayment schedules once approved. This EDUCATION procedure enables the Bank to avoid any increase in loans borne by In the interests of transparency and education, Societe Generale over-indebted customers whilst still enabling day-to-day personalised monitoring. makes a large number of simulation or financial calculation tools available to its customers and partners, either online or via partner Thus, over-indebted individuals who no longer have access to further credit applications. are offered appropriate bank account services and payment methods, enabling them to maintain a social life. They can then subscribe to the In France, Societe Generale has also teamed up with the Playbac tailored offering that is designed to limit costs in the event of an incident Group to offer a financial education website dedicated to (see p. 32, MEASURES ALLOWING ACCESS TO BANKING SERVICES 6-11 year olds. This website, abcbanque.fr, offers educational FOR ALL IN FRANCE). content through games, videos, news and various other tools enabling children to learn while having fun. The site contains a SUPPORT FOR VULNERABLE CUSTOMERS Parents’ Corner with advice and topics for reflection, so that parents can offer their children the best possible support in this TO PREVENT OVER-INDEBTEDNESS learning process. All this is topped off by an educational guide, The support scheme for vulnerable customers, implemented via dedicated together with a commercial guide, that is provided at the platforms, has been operational across the entire network of branches in beginning of a new relationship. France since mid-2013. It is based on: Overseas, programmes launched by subsidiaries in recent years ■ the identification of all customers corresponding to certain vulnerability (“Home budget with EUROBANK” and the Money.pl platform in criteria (exceeding authorised overdrafts or other limits for a prolonged Poland, the banking access and financial education programme in period, overdue loan repayments, etc.); which SG Morocco is involved, the promotion of financial ■ the transfer of these customers to a platform of specialist advisors who education by KB within the scope of its partnership with the temporarily take over the business relationship from the branch; Czech Academy of Sciences and its NEZkreslenâ vëda project, the Rusfinance programme, run on a pro bono basis, aimed at ■ the exploration, together with the customer in question, of solutions for making young adolescents aged between 12 and 16 more aware the progressive discharge of unpaid debts, favouring a path back to a of personal budget management and combating financial healthy financial situation over litigation whenever possible; ignorance, etc.) are continuing and new initiatives are also being ■ resumption of the customer relationship with their branch at the end of developed, such as the programme launched by BRD in the repayment period. partnership with the National Bank of Romania and the Romanian Ministry of National Education aimed at raising the awareness of As at end-December 2016, the platforms for amicable negotiation had lent primary school pupils (in 2016, 220,000 pupils and teachers in support to more than 28,000 customers. 70% of them have returned to a 145 cities benefited from this awareness-raising, thanks to 105 sound financial footing and their banking relationship in their Societe volunteer trainers). Generale branch has resumed. Franfinance, a Group subsidiary specialising in consumer loans, has also introduced various measures to prevent over-indebtedness. Since the end S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 34 |4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT SOLIDARITY BANKING ACTIVITIES CHARITY AND ENTREPRENEUR BANK CARDS Solidarity banking offering for private individuals Societe Generale offers a range of “Charity Collection” bank cards, which are becoming increasingly popular with customers. These cards enable them to support causes that are dear to them, IN FRANCE thanks to the increase in the number of beneficiaries, and to give As one of the first banks to develop a range of solidarity banking products, concrete aid to one of 29 partner associations. associati For each payment Societe Generale forges closer links between customers and social made with one of these cards, Societe Generale donates EUR entrepreneurs, and helps them to support their chosen charities and non0.05 to the charity concerned. A new Charity Collection card was profit associations. In 2016, the Bank continued to increase the number of launched in 2016 for the non--profit Apprentis d’Auteuil. its partner associations and to enhance its range of products and services, available to all its customers – private individuals, professionals and Since the launch of these cards in May 2008, EUR 4,839,894 4,83 has corporates – enabling them to make contributions to a long list of general been donated to the partner charities, of which EUR 882,762 in and public interest associations. Overall, Societe Generale facilitated 2016 (up 4.3% on 2015). donations totalling over EUR 1.8 million (including those made through the FILIGRANE PROGRAMME Environment Business Card) to 49 partner associations ssociations in 2016. Since the beginning of 2014, the Filigrane Loyalty Programme, LIFE INSURANCE: ÉRABLE ESSENTIEL AND SG SOLIDARITÉ part of the JAZZ banking package, has offered customers the opportunity to support the Secours Populaire Français (a Launched in November 2015, Érable Essentiel is a life insurance account humanitarian organisation) and the French Red Cross. that allows holders to save from just EUR 25 per month and to invest in the SG Solidarité fund (106,979 subscriptions tions since its launch), which is a Within the scope of the regulations governing sales with bonuses, vehicle based on solidarity and sharing, certified by Finansol: Societe Generale has decided to donate the EUR 0.25 financial contribution made by customers for fo each bonus gift order to these ■ solidarity-based because 5-10% 10% is invested in solidarity enterprises offering a strong social-utility utility component, and this contributes to the two charities, split equally between them. As a result, they social and economic omic development of the country; received a combined total of EUR 103,470 in 2016. ■ sharing-based based because 50% of the annual revenue is donated to one of Members of this loyalty programme also have the option of four partner associations. The four non-profit non associations thus converting their loyalty points into donations to one of these two supported (Restaurants du cœur, Habitat et Humanisme, Fondation organisations at their discretion, with Societe Generale making a pour la recherche médicale e and CCFD Terre solidaire), which are also matching contribution for each donation. In 2016 the total supported via other Sogécap life insurance accounts, had received contribution to these two charities amounted to EUR 371,981. donations totalling EUR 2.4 million at 31st December 2016. Overall, Filigrane raised EUR 475,451 in 2016, i.e. 13% morem than Several information campaigns have made Societe Generale’s customers in 2015. more aware of this opportunity to give meaning to their savings by helping SPEAR PARTNERSHIP non-profit profit associations and investing in solidarity enterprises. A partnership agreement with SPEAR (Société ( pour une épargne SOLIDARITY SAVINGS SERVICE activement responsable – Company for Actively Responsible Saving), a solidarity crowdfunding platform, was signed in June The solidarity savings service, which has been certified by Finansol since 2012. SPEAR is a cooperative certified certifie by Finansol that allows October 2015, allows customers to o contribute all or part (25, 50, 75 or companies or charities wishing to carry out a solidarity project to 100%) of the interest on their savings passbooks (Livret A, Livret obtain a bank loan thanks to savers who want to give meaning to Développement Durable, Livret Jeune, CSL, Livret Épargne Plus, Livret their savings. Its activity consists of hosting projects addressing BFM Avenir) to one or more charities or foundations supporting a social, environment or cultural cultura issues to allow them to secure humanitarian orr social cause and working in the health and environment financing under advantageous conditions by raising the necessary fields. Societe Generale makes an additional contribution. capital from private individuals who wish to see their money put to The solidarity savings service benefits 38 charity partners. good use. Late 2016, there were 47,639 accounts signed up to the solidarity savings Through its dedicated online platform (www.spear.fr) ( SPEAR service ce (Societe Generale + Banque Française Mutualiste – BFM) positions itself as an easy-access easy tool providing a powerful (representing a 7.6% increase) and interest totalling EUR 282,576 had solution for solidarity savings and ethical investment. Since 2012, been contributed to the partner associations (up 3.5% on 2015), broken Societe Generale has financed five projects with added social and down as follows: environmental value to the tune of EUR 620,000. ■ EUR 234,059 in customer donations (including ding EUR 34,292 from BFM Private Banking incorporated SPEAR into its SRI and customers); philanthropy offering in the second quarter of 2016, generating EUR 430,000 in subscriptions. ■ EUR 23,408 in additional contributions (including EUR 3,432 in additional contributions by BFM); ■ EUR 25,100 in Societe Generale donations. 35 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| INNOVATIVE SHARED EXPERIENCE: PERIENCE: BRANCHES OPEN O FOR NONBurkina Faso, Cameroon, etc.), in the Middle East and North BANKING ACTIVITIES Africa (Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia), in Eastern Europe (Serbia, This experiment, the first of its kind in France, enables anyone who so Moldova and Albania), in the overseas departments and territories wishes, whether a customer or not, to go and work in the offices of Societe (Polynesia, the French West Indies, New Caledonia) and in Asia Generale branches. Since the beginning of December 2016, eleven (India). This development is due in particular to an increase in regional divisions in Nouvelle Aquitaine and one in Midi-Pyrénées Midi have approvals in Sub-Saharan Saharan Africa, where commitments have become involved in the scheme to turn their workplaces into genuine practically doubled in the wake of collaborations collabora with new MFIs collaborative workspaces that are open to all, by offering their offices and and greater support for Advans. meeting rooms via the software application base10. In this way, Synergies are developed with the various partners – for instance, entrepreneurs, itinerant rant employees, teleworkers, trainers, students, in the area of electronic payments, with the development of coco jobseekers and all those with an occasional need for a workspace, be it in branded cards by Societe Generale’s subsidiaries, in partnership Bordeaux or Limoges, can book one in just a few clicks on base10. Two with Advanss MFIs. These cards give MFI customers access to types of workspace will be available on a half-day half basis under a single ATMs (automatic teller machines) and to branches in the networks pricing model: office rate EUR 15 (excl. VAT) and meeting room rate EUR 3 of Societe Generale subsidiaries. This scheme has been in place in (excl. VAT) per available place. Cameroon since the end of September 2013 and in Côte d’Ivoire This experiment, run by Societe Generale employees on a volunteer basis, since the end of 2014. is not intended to generate income for Societe Generale; the funds raised Since June 2015, and for the first time in Côte d’Ivoire’s banking in connection with making its premises available will be donated in full to landscape, an MFI (Advans CI) and a bank (SGBCI, a shareholder the Apprentis d’Auteuil association in Bordeaux. in Advans CI) have been sharing the same branch office. In addition to the objective of serving their respective customers, ABROAD SGBCI and Advans CII regard this innovation as an opportunity to The foreign networks contribute to the process of banking access in build on their complementarity in terms of financial solutions. countries where the level of “financial inclusion” n” is still relatively low. They often introduce innovations in their domestic markets. Acquisition of equity holdings in SOLIDARITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN MOROCCO MORO microfinance institutions Modelled on the cards offered in France, Societe Generale Morocco Through its subsidiaries in Africa, Societe Generale also holds a (SGMA) is continuing to roll out its SOS Villages d’Enfants d’Enfant charity bank stake in five MFIs – via minority but active shareholdings – which card, thereby supporting the association of the same name, which works are subsidiaries of internationally recognised microfinance groups towards funding the schooling of children from disadvantaged (Advans Cameroon, Advans Ghana, Advans Côte d’Ivoire, Accès backgrounds. As of end-2016, 2016, SGMA had 1,820 card sign-ups, sign which had Banque Madagascar and ACEP Burkina). It should be noted that, enabled around EUR 10,000 (MAD 109,200) to be donated to the charity. at the end of 2016, SG Ghana increased its stake in Advans Ghana as part of its strengthened partnership with Advans A solidarity offering was also launched in the Czech Republic in mid-2016. mid International, aimed at offering solutions to cover certain of Advans’s financial needs and at developing new local operational Microfinance synergies. Beyond its impact in terms of jobs and regional development, Societe Generale has for many years developed tools and products that contribute contrib IN FRANCE to the social cohesion of the communities and regions in which it is SUPPORT FOR ADIE(1) present. Societe Generale has been an active supporter of Adie since 2006, providing refinancing lines for its microfinance activity in ABROAD mainland France and the overseas departments and territories, REFINANCING OF MICROFINANCE FINANCE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS IN and contributing to the financing of its support actions. Committed to professional integration and providing entrepreneurs and In 2016, the line of funding granted to Adie amounted to start-ups with all the support they need, Societe ete Generale, via its overseas EUR 9.6 million, which included EUR 2.1 million for New networks, is a major player in microfinance, helping to make banking Caledonia, Polynesia and the French West Indies. available and to develop the local economic fabric. The Bank made it possible for Adie to finance nearly EUR 9 million The Group has chosen to focus its microfinance activities in those in loans in 2016, corresponding onding to 2,326 micro-loans micro and countries in which it has a presence as a universal bank. Since 2003, it has 2,405 jobs created/maintained. The average micro-loan micro amount is been lending its support, via its subsidiaries, to the microfinance sector in EUR 3,178. two ways: granting refinancing lines to MFIs (microfinance institutions) in local currencies and acquiring minority stakes in MFIs. In addition to financing lines, Societe Generale also gives Adie an annual operating grant, thereby reinforcing its actions to help This strategy trategy underpins the economic support given to social and local entrepreneurs. entrepreneurs, and satisfies the MFIs’ need to find local sources of financing, especially in local currency, to ensure their development without In connection with Adie’s “Microcredit Week” Societe Generale being exposed to currency risk. hosted a “company founders’ market” at its premises in La Défense in February 2016. This initiative will be repeated in 2017. The MFI partners ers facilitate access to credit for communities that do not In October 2016, Societe Generale also hosted the Adie have access to banking facilities and, in doing so, feed the local CréaJeunes jury for the Asnières centre’s graduating class of economies. 2017. Launched by Adie in 2007, the Adie CréaJeunes As of end-2016, 2016, Societe Generale had granted EUR 110 million (versus programme offers free training on setting up a business for young EUR 95.8 million in 2015, i.e. an increase of 15% % year-on-year) year to 37 MFIs people aged between 18 and 32. abroad, in Sub-Saharan Saharan Africa (Benin, Ghana, Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, _______________ (1) Adie: Association pour le droit à l’initiative économique French Association for the Right to Economic Initiative. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 36 |4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT SUPPORTING SMES, BUSINESS CREATION AND EMERGING COUNTRIES’ DEVELOPMENT The Bank is a member of the national Initiative France association and Support for start-ups ups and SMEs a partner of 106 of its local platforms. These platforms have enabled the start-upup or takeover of 8,446 companies, which themselves IN FRANCE created or maintained 21,071 direct jobs during their first year. Societe Generale is a key player for corporates, very small businesses and entrepreneurs. Its customer base is made up of more than 85,000 In addition to loans on trust (interest-free, (interest unsecured loans) granted large and mid-cap companies and 240,000 0 very small businesses and by the 227 Initiative France platforms, the Bank awarded 857 loans in professional clients. The Group is committed to providing regional 2015 amounting to EUR 57.3 million to entrepreneurs that had ha been support to artisans, entrepreneurs and enterprises of every size approved by the association (figures reported by Initiative France in throughout their life and their business cycle. 2016 in its activity report). LOCAL PRESENCE Through the renewal of partnerships with credit guarantee institutions, for example with SIAGI (3) in March 2014 and with Bpifrance in June The Bank has significantly boosted its support for companies in terms 2015, Societe iete Generale also facilitates access to credit for of local networks and access to business expertise. In 2016, the entrepreneurs creating or taking over companies. overall level of satisfaction with Societe Generale among SMEs confirms the momentum generated over the past few years. These In view of its commitments to professionals, artisans and traders, positive results emphasise sise the relevance of the Bank’s programme, Societe Generale has joined forces with Bulb in Town (4), a based on the proximity of a national network with strong local roots crowdfunding platform, with the shared goal of facilitating the combined with the power and expertise of a universal bank. By way of emergence of new projects and supporting innovation and the local proof, almost nine out of ten corporate clients rate Societe Generale’s economy. Challenges are launched to generate financial backing for teams as “proficient and knowledgeable” (1) and the same number feel projects on a “reward-based”based” (gift-for-a-gift), (gift “close to home” basis, in they enjoy a personalised relationship (2) order to encourage urage and develop entrepreneurship in the region. COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE E PACKAGE FOR ENTREPRENEURS ENTREP Lastly, in January 2016, Societe Generale and France Active, the Driven by the desire to combine proximity and expertise, all the leading financer of solidarity-based based companies, signed an agreement divisions that deal with SMEs and mid-caps caps have joined forces to on facilitating access to bank financing for very small businesses and create the new “Societe Generale Entrepreneurs” sales strategy, with solidarity-based enterprises. the objective of making Societe Generale THE reference bank for Thanks to the support of the 42 regional funds of the France Active entrepreneurs. With this offering, the Bank provides owner-managers owner network, which are distributed across metropolitan France, with a range of services es and solutions specifically geared to addressing entrepreneurs optimise their chances of success in their projects. strategic issues, by pooling expertise from Retail Banking, Corporate From emergence of the project through thr to its development, the and Investment Banking, Private Banking and the Real Estate Division Societe Generale and France Active teams help entrepreneurs with and making it available under one roof in regional centres of excellence exce their financial problems and provide them with the most suitable (1,000 experts in 200 business centres). This comprehensive and financing for their needs. integrated package enables entrepreneurs to receive better support at every key stage of the development and transfer of ownership of their SUPPORT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT LOPMENT OF BUSINESSES BUSINESSE business. The Group reaffirmed its commitment mitment to supporting the development SUPPORT FOR START-UPS of businesses and its mobilisation of resources to back collective At end-November ber 2016, Societe Generale had entered into efforts to stimulate the French and European economies by relationships with 19,341 companies set up in France within the maintaining the special credit offer (launched in September 2014) previous 12 months, an increase of 9% on November 2015, whereas available exclusively to SMEs, Es, very small businesses and professionals start-ups ups in France overall increased by just 6% in 2016 (source: Insee in France in order to promote investment in the country, through its Première). Itt has granted them around 1,430 medium/long-term medium/long loans Societe Generale and Credit du Nord networks. This offer benefits to the tune of EUR 101 million. The addition of these new relationships from the various economic support measures initiated by the European means that Societe Generale is now supporting a total of 56,938 new Central Bank. companies (less than three years old), 20,533 of which have been b operating for less than one year. _______________ (1) Competitive satisfaction survey 2016. Survey carried out among 3,000 banking relationship managers within SMEs by the CSA Institute. (2) Societe Generale satisfaction survey 2016. Survey carried among over 5,000 corporate clients of Societe Generale (including 102 large caps) by GN Research. (3) Established in 1966 by the Chambers of Trades and Crafts, SIAGI is involved in the crafts and local activities activities sectors. It guarantees the credit facilities granted by all the banking institutions in the marketplace. (4) Bulb in Town is a crowdfunding platform that supports projects by raising donations, backing in exchange for products or services, serv and investment. 37 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| Committed to financing and supporting businesses on an As an example, SGEF Norway and the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) international basis, Societe Generale draws on its expertise, its launched a EUR 150 million credit facility dedicated to financing international network and its network of correspondent banks to leasing equipment for Norwegian SMEs. This offering applies to support its corporate clients in more than 100 countries. projects relating to the environment, renewable energies, investments in new machinery, manufacturing or service facilities, information and For its part, Franfinance, a Group subsidiary specialising in consumer communication technologies, and R&D. loans, plays a key role in the economic development of its corporate client base, which consists mainly of very small businesses, SUPPORT FOR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND professionals and SMEs. This role was reinforced in 2016 with the DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF launch of the COSME programme (1), in partnership with the EIF (2). THEIR DEVELOPMENT POLICY The objective of this agreement is to facilitate access to financing for micro-enterprises, very small businesses and SMEs, enabling them to In keeping with its global strategy, in the other countries in which it make their investment projects a reality. With this programme, operates the Group strives to forge and maintain partnerships with Franfinance undertakes to significantly increase its exposure to IFIs in order to offer joint financing solutions and development aid categories of business that are deemed to be riskier and that have solutions that meet the needs of the local enterprises and economic more restricted access to the usual sources of financing. In return, players (co-financing, guarantees, risk sharing, etc.). the EIF gives it a guarantee that partially covers the risks it has In 2016, 21 new partnership agreements worth EUR 1.32 billion were assumed vis-à-vis these clients. Since April 2016, this agreement has signed with IFIs, mostly with SG Equipment Finance subsidiaries, but enabled Franfinance to provide 1,450 cases of funding coupled with a in some cases also with our banks overseas. Under these COSME guarantee, amounting to EUR 50 million, and to thereby partnerships, the IFIs offer programmes and financing lines position itself as a key partner in financing sales by proposing new specifically dedicated to and used for the development of SMEs or to solutions for a client base that was traditionally more difficult to support energy transition and renewable energies (see p. 23, finance. SOCIETE GENERALE ACTS FOR THE CLIMATE). Societe Generale also helps its professional clients to expand beyond Relations with the EIB (European Investment Bank) were further their national borders; international expansion constituting a critical strengthened in 2016 with the signing of 11 contracts for financing, time in the life of this type of customer in general, and for artisans and totalling EUR 733 million, mostly dedicated to SMEs and midcaps. very small businesses in particular. In France, 30%(3) of exporters are craft businesses, representing 10% of all French exports, i.e. EUR 4 As a major player in Africa, Societe Generale is supporting the billion a year(3). development of this fast-growing continent. The Group is present in 18 countries and is one of the most established international banks ABROAD on the continent, with 3.4 million customers, including 50,000 businesses. The partnerships between Societe Generale, the IFIs SUPPORT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESSES and, in particular, the French Development Agency (AFD) highlight the In Morocco, within the scope of the option available to commercial shared commitment to back the economic development of the banks to register “autoentrepreneurs” (sole-member businesses African continent. In 2016, Societe Generale and Proparco, a subject to a specific legal regime), on 16th March 2016 Societe subsidiary of the AFD, signed new agreements in favour of economic Generale Morocco signed a framework partnership agreement with development in Africa, for credit lines in the amount of EUR 15 million Barid Al Maghrib, the Moroccan postal service, for the benefit of granted to Societe Generale Benin, EUR 20 million granted to Societe autoentrepreneurs; this agreement will facilitate the procedures for Generale Cameroon and EUR 15 million granted to Societe Generale registration in the national autoentrepreneur register by making Burkina Faso. These lines are intended to support the financing of the Societe Generale Morocco’s network of branches available to investment and development programmes of local SMEs. autoentrepreneurs, and will enable tax advantages to be offered to In parallel, the agreement on ARIZ’s risk-sharing scheme, with this new category of customers. Societe Generale Equipment Finance individual guarantees being provided by the AFD, which was (SGEF) is deeply committed to the SME market. This entrenched concluded between Societe Generale and the AFD in 2009, rounds philosophy, recognised for the fifth year running by the SME off the range of solutions to facilitate the granting of investment loans Champion of the Year award (presented at the Leasing Life to very small, small and medium-sized companies. With the recent Conference 2016), is also reflected in the business line’s results. At extension of the agreement to include Guinea Conakry, Congo, end-September 2016, more than 68% of the financing granted by Mozambique and Tunisia, 13 Group subsidiaries in Africa now benefit SGEF was for SMEs/SMIs. This dynamic is also fostered through the from these ARIZ guarantees, making Societe Generale the leading collaboration of SGEF subsidiaries with international financial partner of the ARIZ scheme. institutions (IFIs), which enables local SME/SMI clients to benefit from attractive conditions for financing their leasing equipment; the new Another example of Societe Generale’s commitment to fostering financing lines set up with IFIs in 2016 for SGEF’s business amounted Africa’s economic development is its subscription, alongside Orange to a total of EUR 1 billion. and Proparco, to the EUR 77 million French-African Fund (FAF) initiative, launched by Bpifrance and AfricInvest on the occasion of The EIB has been supporting SGEF’s strategy to diversify its external the Africa-France Summit in Bamako in November 2016. sources of financing since 2012. 2016 was an exceptionally productive year, the subsidiary having signed off on new financing facilities amounting to more than EUR 560 million. _______________ (1) COSME: Programme for the Competitiveness of Entreprises and SMEs 2014-2020. (2) EIF: European Investment Fund, a subsidiary of the European Investment Bank. (3) Source: French Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Trades and Crafts (APCMA). S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 38 |4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE STANDS FOR SOLIDARITY AND COMMITMENT Financing for states and local Financing of the non-profit sector in authorities France For more than 30 years now, Societe Generale has been providing Non-profit associations are key players in the French economy loans to the public and para-public sectors, thereby financing due to the services rendered in certain sectors (catering to the public interest investments, particularly among Public Economy needs of people with disabilities, back-to-work programmes and players (local authorities, social housing, public institutions, urban education initiatives) and the jobs that these services generate. planning). As of 31st December 2016, the Group’s short-, mediumand long-term outstanding loans across these markets For many years, Societe Generale has cultivated close amounted to EUR 16.5 billion. relationships with the non-profit sector across the country. With an overall market share of 10% and more than 100,000 non-profit In 2016, Societe Generale developed its business with social customers, the Bank puts its know-how at their service to allow housing and urban planning operators, a trend that is expected to them to achieve their objectives, by financing their projects, continue in 2017. helping them to manage their assets and supporting them in their day-to-day management. In France, as abroad, the Group respects the principles of the Gissler Charter (a charter on good conduct between banking Alongside these commitments, Societe Generale, in partnership institutions and local authorities) in its dealings with public with the law firm Fidal, has organised approximately fifty authorities. information meetings on current legal and tax-related subjects in order to give an expert opinion on issues faced by non-profits and to thereby help to inform volunteer and salaried managers. 39 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| 5. SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Societe Generale aims to set the standard for relationship banking, an ■ Develop a relationship banking culture based on common values. ambition that shapes the Group’s Human Resources policy. In order Societe Generale’s corporate culture is based on the values it to gain the best possible understanding of the business lines’ promotes to best serve its customers (team spirit, innovation, challenges and changes in the environment, the HR strategic responsibility and commitment), the behaviour and skills they priorities are to: inspire and the conduct to be followed by those who work in these businesses. It has been shaped by serving its customers for ■ Support the Group’s rapidly changing businesses. The banking more than 150 years. The focus is on the customer, and all landscape is undergoing profound change, including evolving employees are guided by the Group’s core values. It is this customer and stakeholder expectations, the emergence of new corporate culture that makes the Societe Generale Group unique technologies and the regulatory framework, which are and enables it to properly meet the expectations of all its transforming Societe Generale’s businesses and the skills stakeholders. required to work in them. The Group must anticipate the skills that its businesses will require in the medium and long term and ■ Foster employee commitment. The Human Resources Division pays particularly close attention to employee commitment, which identify the businesses that are no longer as important. It must improves team performance. Recognising each individual’s also allow employees to develop their employability through contribution to the Group’s long-term performance, ensuring training and the formulation of clear career paths, while recruiting wellbeing at work and drawing on the teams’ diversity are all the best profiles for its growing or emerging businesses. Lastly, essential to maintaining employees’ ties to the company and the digital transition is opening the door to new ways of working improving efficiency. and new interactions both internally and with customers. For Societe Generale, this means seizing this opportunity to grow and develop its employees. Their ability to adapt their skills and ways of working is critical to the sustainability of the businesses. The Societe Generale Group’s teams at the end of 2016 Societe Generale employed 145,672 people (1), at the end of 2016 for a stable headcount compared with 2015 This corresponds to 130,727 full-time equivalents (FTEs) (2). 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Group headcount (at end of period, excluding temporary staff): 145,672 145,703 148,322 147,682 154,009 159,616 GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN Societe Generale’s 145,672 employees are located in 65 countries, including: Mainland France (40.1% or 58,415 people, of which 43,432 at Societe Generale SA); Russia (13.7%); Central and Eastern Europe Americas Western Europe Czech Republic (6.7%); Asia and Romania (6.4%). Africa and Middle East Oceania Mix of countries in which Societe Generale has operations: 11.6% of the workforce in low-income or lower-middleincome countries (3); 24.7% in upper-middle-income countries (4). 1 Total number of employees on a permanent contract or a fixed-term contract, including work-study contracts, regardless of whether they are present or absent. 2 As detailed in chapter 2, page xx 3 As defined by the World Bank, in particular Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, India, Madagascar, Morocco and Senegal. 4 As defined by the World Bank, in particular Algeria, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Tunisia. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 40 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS BREAKDOWN BY CORE BUSINESS BREAKDOWN OF STAFF BY CORE BUSINESS* The most significant changes in headcount in 2016 reflected the Group’s restructurings and adaptations to the environment. They affected each core business differently: ■ for International Retail Banking and Financial Services, the ongoing adjustments to different environments and markets led to a slight 1% decrease in headcount. The most significant development was the sale of Bank Republic in Georgia (approximately 1,000 employees); ■ for Global Banking and Investor Solutions, the 5.5% decline in headcount was due to the various restructuring plans (including the transfer of support functions to the corporate divisions) and minor adjustments to headcount in several businesses and countries, partially offset in the United Kingdom by the acquisition of the private bank Kleinwort Benson (nearly 400 additional staff)(1); ■ for French Retail Banking, the 1.3% decline in headcount can be ■ Global Banking and Investor ■ French Retail Banking attributed to departing employees (including internal mobility) who Solutions (38,758 people) were not replaced in the Societe Generale network as part of the restructuring plan announced in early 2016 and the transfer of the (20,512 people) support functions to the Corporate Divisions; ■ International Retail Banking and ■ Corporate Divisions ■ for the Group’s Corporate Divisions, the 20.7% increase in Financial Services (13,852 people) headcount was due to the centralisation of the communications (72,550 people) and finance functions that had previously been housed in the divisions, and the ramp-up of the IT and compliance teams to support the Group’s adaptation to technological developments and regulatory requirements. * Breakdown of workforce by status BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY STATUS 2016 2015 Overall headcount on permanent contracts at 31st December 135,511 135,050 Overall headcount on fixed-term contracts (including work-study participants) at 31st December 10,161 10,653 Temporary staff 11,338 10,891 Outside contractors 7,535 6,850 _____________________ * Monthly average in 2016 for Societe Generale SA in France. The use of outside contractors principally concerns the sub-contracting of specialised activities such as IT and consulting. Supporting changing professions ANTICIPATING AND SUPPORTING CHANGES IN THE BUSINESSES Today, the banking profession is going through profound economic, regulatory and technological changes. The Group’s STRATEGIC WORKFORCE PLANNING, A KEY TOOL Human Resources policy is supporting this transformation so that It corresponds to a strategic approach that gives the Group the each of the Group’s businesses has the skills required to serve the skills its business lines will need in the medium and long term. needs of its customers, while enabling its employees to develop their employability over the long term. __________ (1) At 31st December 2016, about 150 employees had been included in the headcount within the new Kleinwort Hambros entity, which is included in the reporting scope. The integration will continue until the second quarter of 2017. 41 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| The three-year forward-looking looking macro vision is based on the Group’s FOCUS ON THE #MONJOB2020 2020 INITIATIVE strategic plan and the market environment, and aims to anticipate major qualitative trends in changing professions. This vision enables The #MonJob2020 initiative was introduced in 2016 as part of the the Group to draw up mobility and recruitment plans for the full year, y French Retail Banking transformation programme announced at the as well as a development plan for each employee that relates back to end of 2015 (see page 10). It aims to define the jobs and skills that the individual management process. It also involves identifying key willill be needed to meet customers’ expectations in the future. This competencies and the connections between the Bank’s professions. collective effort brings together network managers and employees, This approach is based on implementation of the right r HR policies, business lines, HR and trade unions for workshops held across particularly with respect to training and filling vacant positions. It gives France. The project’s first challenge was to understand customers’custom employees the resources to examine their motivations and ambitions changing expectations as well as trends (regulatory, competition, in light of the organisation’s new requirements. Moreover, through the digitisation, etc.) to identify impacts on how business is conducted job trends observatory established in 2013, Societe Generale has (interactions between the different participants in the customer been involved in a number of studies with the branch observatory, the experience, tools, behavioural and interpersonal approachesap to be Association Française des Banques (AFB – the French banking taken). association), including an examination of the impact of the digital In total, more than 300 people participated in this initiative in transition on banking professions. 2016. Starting in 2017, field testing will be conducted on the tools and methods conceived throughout the workshops. AN EMPLOYMENT DYNAMIC C THAT RESPONDS TO THE T GROUP’S CHANGES TURNOVER: ARRIVALS AND ND DEPARTURES 2016 2015 New hires on permanent contracts 16,283 15,155 New hires on fixed-term term contracts (including work-study work 10,458 9,627 participants) Departures of employees on permanent contracts 16,714 19,402 Recruitment: attracting the talent that the Group needs Overall, 16,714 employees on permanent contracts left the Group, due to the resignations mentioned above, retirements (1,601) and In the 2016 financial year, the Group’s recruitment broke down as redundancies (4,657, of which 2,097 for economic reasons). follows: BREAKDOWN OF STAFF BY Y LENGTH OF SERVICE(1) ■ 16,283 permanent contracts, including 56.9% women; ■ 10,458 fixed-termterm contracts, including 68.7% women. ■ In France, Societe Generale recruited: Years of service: ■ 4,151 permanent contracts (of which 2,831 for Societe Generale SA in France); 35 ■ 4,656 fixed-term contracts (including work-study study contracts). 25 to 35 The recruitment and talent attraction policy is adapted to the characteristics of each business line and activity and to the specific 20 to 25 regional environment. 15 to 20 The careers.societegenerale.com site, the primary interface with 10 to 15 candidates, offers a unified recruitment process for the Group in 20 countries. In 2016, approximately 300,000 applications were sent 5 to 10 via ia the Careers site, which had close to 3.4 million hits. 2 to 5 Departures and turnover 1 to 2 The voluntary turnover rate for employees on permanent contracts (due to resignations only) was 7.3%. -1 This rate was 5.5% excluding the Russian entities (where, in addition to significant structural adjustments, turnover rates are traditionally Thousands Men: Women: high), with rates particularly subdued in key countries such as France (3.5%) and the Czech Republic (4.9%). Nevertheless, voluntary ____________ turnover varied by business and geographical area. Highly (1) Data at 31st December 2016, for 97% of the Group. competitive financial markets (especially in Asia) and countries with a dynamic labour market have higher voluntary turnover rates than most of the Group’s entities. Specific, targeted actions have been undertaken to retain the best talent. The average length of service within the Group is 9.5 years. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 42 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS Specific focus on inducting young people changes in the economic, regulatory and technological environment, while reiterating its social commitment by developing employability. em One of Societe Generale’s HR challenges is attracting, recruiting and By offering internal opportunities for advancement, this mobility policy retaining the best talent. The Group continues to prioritise the also promotes loyalty among employees, who become deeply recruitment of young graduates whose ose skills meet its needs. The attached to the Group: the 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey Bank is therefore committed to a proactive approach to the measured the level of pride in belonging to the Societe Soci Generale professional integration of young people. In 2016, across all entities, Group at 84% (up six points from 2013). A number of measures have the Group added to its workforce: been put in place to encourage internal mobility: ■ 5,188 work-study study participants (2,150 were posted within Societe Soci ■ Job@SG: a new tool rolled out in 2016 for both internal mobility Generale SA in France at the end of 2016, in line with the legal and external recruitment. It lists open positions in 22 countries requirement); and allows all employees on permanent or fixed-term fixed contracts, ■ 10,471 interns. France alone (including subsidiaries) accounted for work-study study participants, interns and VIEs to apply. They can 3,951 interns. These internships, most of which are mandatory for streamline their application process by completing their profile in graduation, allow students to be immersed ed in the business world, advance; while benefiting from the support and supervision of their training ■ mapping and “jobs” intranet: the mapping, performed per since 2013 supervisor. across all businesses and regularly expanded and updated, has Societe Generale’s former interns, VIEs (volunteers for international helped identify possible connections between different experience) and work-study study participants represent a priority recruiting professions. A “jobs” intranet allows employees to simulate ground for or recent graduates. To attract the best candidates and various possible careers depending on their experience; retain the loyalty of the recent graduates who make up this talent ■ monitoring: oring: in France, driven in particular by the “Campus Métiers pool, Societe Generale has, for example: partnered with a number of Mobilité™”(1) (Job Mobility Campus), nearly 9,200 employees schools and institutes of higher education worldwide. In France and a were transferred internally at Societe Generale SA in 2016 Europe, for example, the Group has partnered with close to (compared with 8,700 in 2015) for a mobility rate of 23%. 40 schools and institutes of higher education; International mobility ility is also encouraged to support the company’s ■ funded educational programmes and research through 11 chairs, intercultural dimension. At the end of 2016, the Group had with a total commitment of more than EUR 6 million (e.g. Energy & approximately 1,000 international mobility employees (all origins and Finance Chair with HEC, Financial Risk Chair with the École destination countries combined). Meanwhile, the Bank has developed Polytechnique, UPMC and the École Nationale des Ponts et short-term international assignments, lasting a few months, for Chaussées); employees on international teams. These assignments are more ■ established Global Banking and Investor Solutions’ GeneratioNext flexible than an expatriation contract and can increase synergies and (interns, VIEs and apprentices) and Junior Programme (recent facilitate relationships within multicultural teams. More than 200 such graduates) support and nd development programmes, which serve assignments were undertaken in 2016. as in-house house launching pads (development of the professional network, mentoring, in-depth depth introduction to the businesses, DEVELOPING THE SKILLS SKILL AND training seminars, etc.). These programmes each have more than EMPLOYABILITY OF EMPLOYEES EMP 1,500 members worldwide. ADAPTING THE TRAINING G POLICY TO MEET CURRENT CUR These initiatives itiatives demonstrate the Group’s determination to attract BUSINESS AND CUSTOMER R NEEDS and recruit talent by raising their awareness of the challenges and responsibilities of the banking sector and its professional realities from Training in 2016 their very first contact with the company. In 2016, 84% of the Group’s employees were able to finish at least one training ining programme, for over 3.8 million hours, Internal mobility, bility, a vector for of which 26% were completed remotely (e-learning, (e virtual classes, transformation etc.). This represents an average of 26.2 hours of training per In 2016, Group internal mobility was as follows: employee, compared with 25.2 in 2015. A total of EUR 92.3 million was earmarked for training expenses (1.2% more than in 2015(2)). ■ Group internal mobility rate: 17%; These controlled budgetary efforts enabled the Group to continue the ■ 22,711 moves worldwide; digitisation of the educational tools, while completing the necessary investment to comply with regulatory requirements. Most of the ■ 58% of permanent positions filled through internal mobility (76% training aining provided related to business-specific business expertise, with a focus for Societe Generale SA in France). on technical skills; the remainder involved the Group's cross-business cross Societe Generale develops an active, effective internal mobility policy modules, including the risk management, regulatory, managerial, that promotes the ongoing adaptation of employee skills to the rapid behavioural and personal development components. ______________ (1) The Campus Métiers Mobilité (Job Mobility Campus) centralises the positions to be filled for the Corporate Divisions and core businesses except for internal moves within the French Retail Banking managed in a decentralised way on account of its structure and geographic breakdown. break (2) Figure restated relative to data published in the 2016 Registration Document 43 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| Skills needed to meet the business line challenges businesses, including development of relations and interactions with current and prospective customers, transformation of products and Training is key to helping employees develop their employability, services and transformation of operational models and the working taking into account the needs of customers and their future environment for employees. development. In 2016, business-line issues primarily concerned the changing customer relationship, the challenges posed by the digital In 2016, the Societe Generale Group was ranked third as a company transition, and increased regulatory constraints. and first as a bank for its digital maturity at the 2016 eCAC40 awards organised by Les Échos Business and Gilles Babinet. This ranking Strategic training initiatives have been analysed accordingly by the acknowledges the in-depth transformation Societe Generale has Learning Board, composed of members of the Executive Committee undergone in the last two years, with: and Management Committee. In 2016, the emphasis was therefore on: ■ an accelerating digital transformation that involves the entire company, in all its businesses and regions; ■ customer focus, whether from the standpoint of sales know-how or customer relations and satisfaction; ■ an original open-innovation strategy with worldwide ecosystems (see Experimenting with new working methods, p. 45); ■ improvement in all employees’ expertise in digital issues, targeting more specifically the impact of digital technology on each ■ digital awareness for all employees at all levels of the Group. business and support function; Digital awareness ■ stronger risk management and awareness of compliance issues, mainly through 17 cross-functional regulatory training courses In 2014, Societe Generale launched its “Digital for All” programme (including a core curriculum of five courses that are mandatory for with the aim of involving all employees in accelerating the Bank’s all) and about 100 regulatory training courses adapted to the digital transition by encouraging everyone to adopt digital tools and Group’s different businesses; develop an awareness of the challenges of this transition. Through this programme, most employees now have access to digital tools ■ managerial approach, as the management training courses have and are gradually changing how they work by adopting tablets, all been completely overhauled to better embody the Leadership collaborative tools and work communities on the corporate social Model (see page 45), foster discussion among peers and measure network, as well as applications accessible through BYOD(1) on the subsequent impact of these training courses. personal devices (smartphones or tablets) for employees who would In addition, the Training division supports the Group’s digital like that option. transformation by changing its learning methods (see Digitisation of training, on the right). Digitisation of training Professional training for the functions and learning processes Societe Generale is pursuing an ambitious strategy to rethink training in the digital age. New learning methods are giving employees the In addition to the individual training sessions, the Bank has spent opportunity to grow in areas of their choosing, at their own pace and several years developing learning communities and modules that at the location that suits them best (using mobile tools or from a target specific populations. virtual office, for example). Employees now have access to: Accordingly, the development programmes are grouped into ■ 7 MOOCs(2), which help them delve deeper into the different “academies” specific to each business or function within the Group topics available through self-tests, videos and interactions with (e.g. large corporate advisory, retail banking salespeople, human learning communities. Launched in 2015, the digital MOOC resources, audit, etc.). These academies offer enhanced support and (“Make me digital”) had close to 3,000 participants worldwide by help align practices abroad, regardless of entity. the end of 2016; In France, the training programmes known as “Cursus Cadre” (to ■ more than 300 Rapid Learning modules(3) designed strategically and in response to specific needs by Societe Generale experts in obtain “cadre” status) and Passerell’E (to achieve France's banking France and abroad, using a solution implemented throughout the classification Level E) also remain long-established vectors for Group since 2012; employability and internal promotion. In 2016, 462 employees of Societe Generale SA in France successfully completed these ■ 450 microlearning modules less than three minutes long, with programmes. summary content that helps build targeted expertise through a variety of complementary media sources, including more than 200 SUPPORTING THE DIGITAL TRANSITION self-study videos on the intranet (general economic and banking culture, data protection, employee savings, management control, Technological developments have shifted practices towards greater etc.). Many of these modules were developed directly by agility and created new ways to interact. These trends, supported by employees. specific efforts to recruit IT staff, have a direct impact on the Group’s _________________ (1) BYOD: Bring Your Own Device (2) Massive Open Online Course (3) 15-20-minute long e-learning modules designed internally by business line experts. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 44 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS DEVELOPING NEW WAYS OF WORKING AND ORGANISATIONAL MODELS Developing a relationship banking Telecommuting and redefining the workspace culture based on common values Telecommuting serves a dual purpose: (i) to develop innovative INVOLVING TEAMS IN THE GROUP’S operating procedures in the digital age, and (ii) to help employees VALUES achieve a better work-life balance. It is therefore a motivating factor, a source of empowerment and a performance lever. In April 2016, in Societe Generale aims to set the standard for relationship banking, to France, 96% of Societe Generale’s managers considered that be close to its customers and to be chosen for the quality and performance levels had improved or been maintained after commitment of its teams. To make this ambition a reality, employees telecommuting was introduced in their department. A growing must work together, regardless of their job within the Group, with one number of Group entities are experimenting with telecommuting shared objective: the customer. through mechanisms that are appropriate to the local environment. At To achieve this goal, in 2014 Societe Generale redefined its core the end of 2016, the number of teleworkers had doubled from 2015 values (commitment and responsibility were added to the longto nearly 10,000 people worldwide. The countries with the most standing values of innovation and team spirit) and then emphasised teleworkers were France (nearly 5,600), the United Kingdom (nearly the behaviour and skills through which these values will be expressed 1,600), the Czech Republic (nearly 900), and Romania (more than by all employees to improve customer service. Discussions about 400). For Societe Generale SA in France, the testing phase that Societe Generale’s new Leadership Model were held among Group began in 2014 has given way to the agreement reached in 2016 to senior management (Executive Committee and Management perpetuate telecommuting. Within the central departments, which are Committee) and nearly 300 managers. They helped strengthen the eligible for telecommuting, nearly 27% of employees on permanent corporate culture which combines the ambition to grow the business contracts now work from a home office, which ranks Societe (innovation/customer) with a desire for individual and collective Generale among the most advanced CAC 40 companies in this area. excellence (commitment and team spirit, respectively), as well as The Group is also experimenting with new approaches to the attention to ethics and compliance with rules (responsibility). workspace that encourage mobility, interaction and cooperation, in These values strengthen the corporate culture, with a client focus. workspaces that are more open, more modular and less formal, and Specific governance has been established at the highest level of the that use new digital tools. That is the case, for example, in company through the Culture & Conduct programme introduced in Luxembourg, Hong Kong, London and New York, as well as in 2016 (see COMMITMENTS, CHALLENGES AND AMBITION, p. 3). France, at the new Boursorama headquarters and new eastern Paris real estate complex “Les Dunes”. Involving employees in the design process for Les Dunes was key to making it easier for the 5,000 TRANSLATING VALUES INTO BEHAVIOUR people who have moved there since the autumn of 2016 to make the Societe Generale’s Leadership Model translates the customer focus space their own. The design allows for a more horizontal and each of the company’s four values into the required skills. These management style, more teamwork and improved wellbeing at work. are categorised for the three main levels of responsibility within the Taken together, this creates a pro-innovation work environment. The company – senior management, managers and employees – thereby FlexWork approach implemented at Les Dunes means employees introducing a common language that provides everyone with the keys can choose where to sit for the day, based on the colleagues with to their success within the Group. For example, for employees, the whom they need to collaborate. The satisfaction rate of employees five focus areas are reflected in the following behavioural skills: who have moved into this eastern Paris technology park was as high as 88% at the end of 2016. Experimenting with new working methods The open innovation initiative undertaken by the Group since 2015 TEAM SPIRIT RESPONSIBILITY gives the teams the chance to collaborate with the external innovation I place my energy and I act ethically ecosystem (start-ups, FinTech and experts) to increase the creativity, skills and with agility and speed of their project development process. In addition to courage promoting alternative working methods (“pizza teams”, continuous improvement through the Test & Learn method or user experience), the Group encourages teams to immerse themselves in innovative communities so they can bounce their ideas off experts in this I DEVELOP OUR ecosystem. In France, as well as in India, Dakar and London, the aim CUSTOMER of the partnerships is to open up the business line challenges to the IMPACT local ecosystems and boost innovation at all Group entities. These initiatives enabled the Group to open Le Plateau in the autumn of 2016, located at the heart of the new Les Dunes real-estate complex. INNOVATION COMMITMENT Its purpose is to house external and internal start-ups working on I put forward new ideas I am committed and and play a role show sensitivity disruptive innovative projects and to promote collaboration among in the different stakeholders in order to foster serendipity. change process to others 45 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| The competency guide resulting from the Leadership Model then The Corporate University is responsible for developing the leadership provides concrete and practical examples of the behaviours that stem qualities of the most senior managers and the Group’s senior leaders. from each of these skills and that are observable — and therefore The modules it offers focus on the development of behavioural skills, measurable. through programmes that incorporate the Leadership Model as adapted for senior managers. In 2016, nearly 650 Group employees In conjunction with this guide, a self-assessment intranet tool allows attended its programmes. respondents, after answering 20 questions, to locate themselves in relation to the behaviour that is expected. They can then use the Succession plans development tools provided to improve in any areas that may be necessary. Societe Generale is paving the way for the next generation of managers with the succession plans in place for the Group’s various After raising the awareness of all Group teams and businesses in scopes, both in France and abroad. The plans for 300 key Group 2015, the Leadership Model has gradually been integrated into all HR positions are monitored by General Management. The plans for processes, including evaluation, development, the promotion 1,500 strategic Group positions are approved and monitored by the procedure and management training. Examples can be found below. core businesses and Corporate Divisions. The behaviour and See also Policy governing remuneration of Chief Executive Officers, interpersonal skills of the people identified as potential successors are subject to shareholder approval, p. 96 of the Registration Document. analysed in relation to the Group’s Leadership Model based on a matrix similar to that used when hiring new employees (see Evaluation EVALUATING BEHAVIOUR at recruitment, on the left). One of the criteria used to identify potential successors for a key Group position is whether this behaviour is EVALUATION AT RECRUITMENT consistent with the Leadership Model. The tasks assigned to each new employee require specific behavioural skills that have been identified and are consistent with the MEASURING BEHAVIOURAL CHANGE Leadership Model. These skills are clearly detailed and are identified EMPLOYEES' PERCEPTION OF THE COMPANY in candidates using a common matrix during recruitment interviews. After a test phase in 2015, this approach is now used for each The Employee Satisfaction Survey is a comprehensive and position to be filled in the company. Recruiters have therefore been a anonymous internal survey conducted every two years throughout the priority target for training in the Leadership Model, since hiring Group. The results of each survey are used to develop improvement candidates evaluated according to the Leadership Model is one of the action plans. In 2015, the survey questions were revised with the keys to changing the corporate culture over the long term. Leadership Model in mind and a more streamlined questionnaire was developed to ensure that each question could be linked to one of the PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT Group’s four values. The results of the survey show how employees’ To ensure that this Leadership Model is firmly rooted in the daily feelings and experiences compare with the practices and behaviours professional work of every employee, it has now been incorporated associated with the corporate values. They will also be used to into the performance management process. Aligning the annual measure forward movement and change in the corporate culture over appraisal with the Leadership Model is considered a key component time, based on future surveys. of the transformation. This process assesses not only the The results of the 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey, which achievement of operational results, but also the manner in which achieved a 68% response rate, highlighted a strong commitment to these results are obtained. One to two development objectives have the values of Responsibility (79%) and Team Spirit (76%). They to relate to the areas of focus of the Leadership Model, drawing on showed a significant improvement in Commitment (70%, five points the concrete and measurable examples provided in the new Group higher than in 2013), while there appeared to be room for progress skills guide (see Translating values into behaviour, p. 45). on the “Innovation” value (72%). More than 1,600 improvement In 2016, a total of nearly 116,700 Group employees had an appraisal, actions have been developed jointly by teams from the different i.e. 93% of the workforce on permanent contracts. scopes, managers and HR. They cover all of the Group’s values and were implemented throughout 2016. EVALUATION WHEN IDENTIFYING THE NEXT GENERATION OF MANAGERS 360° PERCEPTION OF TOP MANAGERS The first people who have to embody Societe Generale’s Leadership Since 2015, a 360° questionnaire based on the Leadership Model Model are the Group’s current and future senior managers. has been used to evaluate the Group’s 300 senior managers around Accordingly, this mode is now central to several key initiatives to the world (members of the Executive Committee and the identify, train and promote the leaders of tomorrow. Management Committee, and holders of key Group positions) and nearly 1,000 managing directors in Global Banking and Investor Detection and support Solutions. This annual evaluation is used to analyse how the daily actions and behaviour of key managers are perceived by their The aim of the Strategic Talent approach is to detect, develop and employees, peers and superiors. It also gives the subjects of the build the loyalty of high-potential employees to prepare the next questionnaire an idea of their impact on their colleagues and shows generation of managers. A Strategic Talent is defined as an employee them where they stand in relation to the expectations of the who embodies the Group’s values (and therefore the Leadership Leadership Model. Individually, the results of these assessments shed Model), performs well over the long term and has strong potential for additional light on the performance management process, while the advancement. With its systematic approach, the Strategic Talent consolidated results will provide a way to measure changes in policy identifies individuals around the world on an objective basis managerial practices over time. defined by the Leadership Model, gives them the same chances to bring out their potential and enables them to advance within the Group. The talent pool created represents 2.6% of the Group’s workforce. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 46 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CUSTOMERS’ PERCEPTION N OF THE COMPANY ■ two meetings with the Chief Executive Officer or his representatives at the European Group Works Council meeting; Societe Generale’s Leadership Model puts the focus on the customer. Customer satisfaction is the top priority and is therefore ■ five meetings of the dialogue and consultation body, attended by regularly analysed for each of the Bank’s businesses. This is generally Executive Committee members, to discuss strategy and the basis done through the net promoter score (rolled out gradually since for any projects under consideration; 2015), an approach used at the highest level of the Group. See also ■ five meetings with the Chief Executive Officer or his CUSTOMER SATISFACTION, p. 12. representatives at the meetings of the Central Works Council; ■ four joint workshops between managers, HR, employees and INTEGRATING THE RELATIONSHIP TIONSHIP union representatives tatives as part of the “#MonJob2020” initiative (see BANKING CULTURE INTO EMPLOYEES’ page 42)) and on the IT function’s strategic workforce planning initiative. DAILY LIFE Group-wide, wide, Societe Generale is implementing i an agreement on CLOSER TEAM RELATIONSHIPS fundamental human rights and freedom of association, signed with The rationale for the cultural transformation is first and foremost to UNI Global Union federation in 2015 (see RESPECT FOR HUMAN build closer relationships with customers and further Societe RIGHTS, p. 31). Generale’s stated “Relationship Banking” ambition. However, to After a global communication and awareness campaign aimed at achieve excellence in customer satisfaction, the same attention must senior managers and HR, as well as wide internal dissemination of be paid to the relationship with and among employees. Developing the agreement among employees, targeted initiatives were relationships of trust within a team and with one’s manager is vital to conducted in 2016 to promote social dialogue internationally. In developing this same relationship with one’s customers. particular, a management seminar for International Retail Banking’s That is why the “attention symmetry” initiative, which was launched in Africa and Middle East region led to specific workshops on building 2012, has gradually been expanded to cover the entire Group. This and facilitatingting social dialogue. In addition, Societe Generale programme, in which the quality of employee relations mirrors participated in international conferences organised by the customer satisfaction, seeks to encourage manager accessibility, International Labour Organization (ILO) on the development of social direct contact and employee empowerment, as well as a to foster a dialogue and corporate practices regarding respect for fundamental listening culture at every level of the organisation. rights in the supply chain. Initiatives rolled out to that end in 2016 included the creation of The first meeting to follow up on the agreement was held in forums for dialogue, in particular within the teams in the Societe September 2016 between representatives of UNI Global Union, Generale network in France, which cover job content and a the several Societe Generale union representatives abroad, and the conditions under which the work is performed. More than 200 ideas Group’s Human Resources Division. An analysis of social socia dialogue in and solutions have been put forward, some of which have been Europe and Africa was presented at that time. This meeting showed presented to the Management Committee. This gives employees the that social dialogue is a reality in France and internationally, and that opportunity to have a direct impact on the company's operatingopera the Bank is honouring its commitment to fundamental rights at work. procedures and customers’ perception. Overview and impact of collective bargaining PROMOTING A QUALITY SOCIAL DIALOGUE In 2016, 217 agreements were signed within the Group (including 14 Constructive and structured international social dialogue for Societe Generale SA in France). Nearly half of those agreements covered compensation and employee benefits. The main themes All the structural and cultural transformations underway at the Group identified also included working conditions, social socia dialogue require a high-quality, constructive Group-wide social dialogue. procedures and diversity. 15 agreements focused specifically on health and safety. In addition to its legal obligations, Societe Generale has set up dialogue and consultation bodies since 2013 to address the The expected impact of the 14 agreements signed in 2016 for corporate strategy. In 2016, union leaders were given visibility over Societe Generale SA in France is detailed hereafter: the strategic and economic directions of the company and the business lines through: 47 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| AGREEMENTS SIGNED IMPACTS ON ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND WORKING CONDITIONS Employment and job support The three-year framework agreement on employment provides a structure for the social dialogue policy on strategy, strategic workforce planning, mobility, intergenerationality and framework measures Framework agreement on changing professions, for employment protection plans. skills and employment. Four agreements on supporting the transformation These measures are defined in four specific agreements that call for concrete actions to develop in various Bank scopes. employability and guide employees through the transformation of the businesses, which is critical to the company's sustainability. This demonstrates the Group’s commitment to ongoing support for its employees, in accordance with its commitments as a socially responsible employer. These agreements also provide visibility and security for employees on the level and content of the social support measures for which they are eligible. Social issues, diversity, working conditions and These agreements improve employees’ working conditions (home office and disability), address social employee benefits and solidarity challenges within the company (days off donation, disability) and allow employees to share in the company’s financial performance (retirement savings). Home office agreement. By implementing measures to maintain the work-life balance and promote diversity and equal Agreement on donating days of paid leave to employees with a seriously ill child (and opportunity within the company, these agreements are vehicles for employee engagement and amendment to the “RTT” (reduced work time) resilience, while promoting the Group’s values of responsibility and innovation. These elements are agreement). necessary for the company’s operational performance. Agreement on the employment of persons with disabilities. Two technical amendments on retirement savings. Organisation of the Staff Representative Bodies These agreements facilitate the organisation and operation of social dialogue, which is necessary for the company’s economic performance. Three agreements on the staff representative bodies in the central departments. Fostering employee commitment RECOGNISING EACH PERSON'S since 2014, the individual commission system for the French Retail Banking and Private Banking sales forces in France has been CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMPANY'S eliminated and replaced with gross global annual remuneration PERFORMANCE and the variable component. AN ATTRACTIVE AND REWARDING REMUNERATION The Group’s monetary remuneration policy is based on GroupPOLICY wide principles applied in all the countries and is adjusted to the economic, social and competitive environment of the local Monetary remuneration includes a fixed salary, which rewards the markets as well as to the legal and regulatory obligations in force. ability to satisfactorily hold a position using the requisite skills and Where possible, a cross-business review between functions and is determined in a manner consistent with market practices. It also business lines is carried out to ensure consistent, objective includes, where applicable, variable remuneration which aims to remuneration levels between the Group’s different activities and recognise collective and individual performance. Variable facilitate cross-business cooperation. remuneration is dependent on operational and behavioural goals set at the beginning of the year based on the environment, results For the 2016 financial year, personnel expenses for the Group and how those results were achieved (see Performance evaluation totalled EUR 9,455 million (see note 5.1 on page 384 of the and management, p. 46). In particular, since 2016, the results of Registration Document). For Societe Generale SA in France, the 360° evaluation of key Group positions (see page 46) and their average gross annual remuneration (1) amounted to EUR 54,068, alignment with the Leadership Model have been taken into an increase of 1.30% compared with 2015, showing moderate consideration when calculating the variable component. Lastly, growth in remuneration. _________________ (1) Average overall remuneration includes fixed and variable components as well as bonuses, excluding financial remuneration (employer contribution and profitsharing) and employer matching contributions. The average is calculated for all employees excluding those that are regulated (whose professional activities are liable to have a significant impact on the Group’s risk profile), who are also subject to monitoring and disclosure (see transparency and communication, p. 49). S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 48 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS TRANSPARENCY AND COMMUNICATION The company savings plan proposes mediumand long-term savings, offering employees the opportunity to build up assets under The principles governing the Group’s remuneration policy, in preferential financial conditions (2) and tax rates through tailored particular for the categories of staff whose professional activities are management of a diversified portfolio of investment securities. It liable to have a significant impact on the Group’s risk profile, as per comprises a diversified range of seven funds, including the employee the European Capital Requirements Directive no. 2013/36/EU share ownership fund (Fonds E). Financial remuneration (consisting of (CRD4), are detailed in the compensation policy and principles report. the employer contribution and profit sharing (3)) may be invested in the It will be published, as it is every year, prior to the General Meeting company savings plan. See also SRI-CERTIFIED SAVINGS FOR and transmitted to the ACPR in accordance with the provisions of EU SOCIETE GENERALE EMPLOYEES, page 20. Regulation no. 575/2013 (1). Detailed quantitative information on those persons likely to have a significant impact on the Group’s risk profile Information about the Societe Generale employee share is also sent to the ACPR. ownership fund named “Société Générale Actionnariat (Fonds E)” For the employees themselves, an interactive Total Reward Statement is sent electronically every year to staff on permanent Under the terms of the rules governing the Societe Generale mutual contracts and to work-study participants at Societe Generale SA in fund, the voting rights attached to the Societe Generale shares France. This personalised HR information document provides included in the Fund’s assets belong individually to the holders of employees with a complete view of the components of their overall fund units in proportion to the respective shares they hold. The remuneration for the previous year and gives them a better Fund’s Supervisory Board, which is composed of an equal number of understanding of those components. Other Group entities have also unit-holding employee representatives and representatives of provided their teams with a similar document, including Credit du Management, exercises voting rights for fractional shares and voting Nord and some Societe Generale branches abroad. rights not exercised by unit holders. EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP In the event of a public purchase or exchange offer, the Supervisory Board decides whether or not to tender shares to the offer, based on At the end of 2016, current and former employees of the relative majority of the votes cast. If there is no relative majority, Societe Generale, representing approximately 90,000 people, held a the decision is put to the vote of the unit-holders, who decide total of 6.61 % of the share capital and 11.98% of the voting rights according to the relative majority of the votes cast. under the Company and Group Savings Plans. This high employee share ownership demonstrates the ongoing commitment of the CARING ABOUT EMPLOYEES' workforce. WELLBEING AT WORK Free share plan PROMOTION OF WELLBEING AT WORK To involve each employee closely in the Group's earnings and future, a “free share plan granted to all employees” was implemented in Societe Generale considers employees’ health and, more broadly, 2010. All employees were awarded 40 shares subject to their wellbeing to be a long-term driver of performance and critical to its continued employment within the Group, performance conditions and attractiveness, effectiveness and sustainability. The Group is an increase in customer satisfaction. Those shares were delivered in convinced there is a very strong link between wellbeing at work and two instalments for employees who are French residents for tax quality of work. It therefore formalised an ambitious corporate project purposes (in 2013 and 2014). For non-residents of France for tax on wellbeing at work and in 2015 launched the “Life at Work” purposes, the first instalment was delivered at the end of March 2015 programme, which focuses on six specific themes: and the second at the end of March 2016. ■ individual and collective efficiency (promotion of efficient working Mandatory employer contributions, voluntary profit-sharing methods); and company savings plan ■ health and prevention (relating to the risks inherent in the Group’s businesses); In France, employees are involved in the long-term development of the Group via profit-sharing and/or employer contribution schemes. ■ teleworking and new organisational models (see page 45); These schemes enable employees to finance projects or earn ■ working environment (see page 45); additional income. They are linked to the company’s overall performance (financial and extra-financial) and regulated by Societe ■ support during key life events (services that facilitate the work-life Generale agreements signed with the trade unions every three years. balance); For Societe Generale SA in France, the total amount of mandatory ■ change in managerial culture (training and awareness initiatives in employer contributions and voluntary profit-sharing for the financial connection with the Leadership Model). year 2015 was EUR 95 million, a 21.8% increase from the previous year. This amount breaks down into EUR 76 million for financial performance, up 11%; EUR 16 million for the dividend distribution component, up 69%; and EUR 3 million for the share relating to CSR (corporate social responsibility) objectives. ________________ (1) The report on the Group’s compensation policy and principles in 2015 was sent to the ACPR in April 2016 and published on the Societe Generale website. (2) Employer matching contribution and discount on the Societe Generale share in the event of a reserved capital increase. (3) (In addition to Societe Generale SA in France, for which the amounts of financial remuneration paid in 2016 are detailed in Note 4.1 (page 461), most French subsidiaries belonging to the Company Savings Plans are subject to an employer contribution and/or profit-sharing agreement. 49 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| For Societe Generale SA in France, this programme was launched in As compulsory benefit plans vary according to the legislation and conjunction with discussions with employees and their regulations which apply in each country, each Group entity is representatives. An agreement on working conditions signed in 2015 responsible for defining the degree of local additional cover needed, defined a framework for rethinking operating procedures. It also in accordance with the objective defined by the Group to offer a promoted the expansion of best practices by encouraging new minimum level of cover at least comparable to local market practices. initiatives on the ground as well as ways to share and test them (see Working alongside their regulatory authorities (and potentially with Closer team relationships, p. 47). This agreement also required that other Societe Generale entities in the same country), Group entities wellbeing at work be integrated into organisation or reorganisation must also factor in their development strategy, remuneration policies projects that have a high impact on the teams, as was the case in and financial position when defining employee cover. 2016 with the IT teams’ move to eastern Paris (see Telecommuting and redefining the workspace, p. 45). It is monitored regularly by the International Retail Banking pays particularly close attention to the Wellbeing at Work Observatory (joint discussion forum, composed of social protection schemes at its subsidiaries, including in Africa. representatives from management and from the trade unions), chiefly Consequently, all African subsidiaries offer health cover to employees by means of quantitative and qualitative indicators identified through and their beneficiaries, in most cases personal protection insurance an annual survey of working conditions (see Focus on the prevention for beneficiaries should the employee die and, in certain cases, of psychosocial risks, on the right). complementary pension plans. At the end of 2016, all employees in the Mediterranean Basin and Sub-Saharan Africa had easier access INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE EFFICIENCY to care and benefited from the company's contribution to their healthcare expenses. At the end of 2014, Societe Generale’s Executive Committee signed the “15 Commitments for Work-Life Balance” Charter. This charter, In France, the Societe Generale group health plan covered nearly introduced by the French Ministry of Social Affairs, Health and 120,500 people (participating members and beneficiaries). Women’s Rights and the French Work-Life Balance and Corporate Parenthood Observatory, proposes that signatory companies work to Focus on the prevention of psychosocial risks improve their employees’ work-life balance. Initiatives implemented Stress prevention initiatives are conducted in 85 Group subsidiaries under this Charter include heightened awareness of meeting and branches in France and abroad, covering 76% of the Group's schedules and the use of email outside working hours and initiatives workforce in total. They seek to inform, train and support employees to support employees on a daily basis (conferences, access to likely to encounter situations that are factors in psychosocial risks. personal services, dedicated intranet, etc.). This is reflected differently in various countries: This charter also resonates outside France with the following ■ free assistance programmes established in partnership with initiatives: healthcare or insurance sector specialists, which allow employees to speak freely with an outside expert (Germany, France, United ■ a flexi-time policy at several Group entities (Germany, Belgium, Kingdom, Switzerland, Romania, Australia, Korea, India, Spain, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, United Kingdom, Scandinavia, Singapore and United States); Czech Republic, Serbia, Hong Kong, India, Taiwan and Canada); ■ training on psychosocial risks and/or awareness-raising by the ■ a requirement that managers pay greater attention to employees’ occupational health office or external experts (Spain, France, Italy, workload, in particular through initiatives on individual coaching in Luxembourg, United Kingdom, Poland, Czech Republic, work-life balance (in several Asia-Pacific entities and in the United Romania, Russia, Serbia, China, Korea, Hong Kong, Burkina States). Faso, Ghana, Morocco, Tunisia and Turkey); HEALTH AND PREVENTION ■ stress surveys and evaluations (Germany, Austria, Denmark, Social protection Spain, France, Italy, Monaco, United Kingdom, Scandinavia and Japan); Societe Generale fulfils its social responsibility by actively contributing ■ leisure and relaxation activities (France, Montenegro, Romania, to the social protection of all its employees, particularly in terms of Russia, Serbia, Hong Kong, India, Singapore, Taiwan and healthcare, pension, death, invalidity and incapacity benefits. Morocco). S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 50 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS In France, Societe Generale continued the efforts made since 2008 Health and safety indicators with all corporate actors and with the support of external stakeholders specialised in the prevention and management of ■ Number of workplace accidents: 821 (945 in 2015); psychosocial risks. Two priorities were set: preventing internal risks ■ Accident frequency rate (5): 3.5 (4.0 in 2015); (stress, harassment) and external risks (aggression, armed assault). ■ Overall rate of absenteeism (6): 3.5% (3.5% in 2015); ■ Stress and harassment: the training and awareness modules ■ Rate of absenteeism due to sick leave: 1.9% (1.9% in 2015); rolled out since 2009 (and updated in 2015 and 2016) have been used to train more than 8,000 employees (including HR, ■ Rate of absenteeism due to maternity leave: 1.3% (1.3% in 2015); managers and senior management) in psychosocial risk management. Since 2016, a working conditions survey has PROMOTING TEAM DIVERSITY replaced the Stress Observatory. The first survey was carried out among more than 37,000 employees on permanent contracts, DIVERSITY AT THE HEART OF BUSINESS LINE CHALLENGES achieving a response rate of 62%. This survey was used to In addition to the ethical responsibility, the diversity of Societe identify psychosocial risk factors for each scope, as well as Generale’s employees and its inclusive culture address a sources of satisfaction. The results will help define targeted action plans to improve the working conditions of the teams surveyed. performance challenge. The diversity of profiles and skills Lastly, a sexual and psychological harassment prevention initiative combinations can generate a variety of ideas and help the Bank and a dedicated procedure (listening, mediation, investigation and better understand and serve its customers in all its markets. discipline, if necessary) have been in place since 2005. In terms of diversity, the Group has made it a priority to promote ■ Prevention and management of aggression: under the company women and international profiles to positions of responsibility and agreement signed in 2008, mandatory training on conflict seats within the Bank’s management bodies. This strategy has been situations (taken by all network employees) and specific adapted for the different entities, with each one implementing psychological support programmes for employees who have been appropriate action plans to help the Group achieve its goals. A victims of armed assault or aggression (through the Institut Diversity Board, composed of Executive Committee and National d’Aide aux Victimes et de Médiation National Institute Management Committee members, monitors progress on this issue. for Victim Support and Mediation, INAVEM) have been implemented. Some HR processes are key drivers of progress in gender balance and internationalisation, including: Organisation of working hours ■ succession plans (see page 46) that include women and The organisation of working hours depends on the regulations international profiles; applicable in each country where the Group operates and the employee’s function. As a result, practices vary significantly (working ■ diverse Strategic Talent profiles (see page 46): currently 40% are time and hours, organisation, etc.): women and 40% international (non-French). ■ average annual working hours (1): 1,738 hours; In addition to these priorities, Societe Generale is committed to other aspects of diversity, such as intergenerationality, social inclusion and ■ number of part-time employees: 8,789 (or 6% of the workforce), disability. A variety of initiatives are implemented locally, depending on of which 6,287 in France; the challenges and regulations in the different countries and core ■ Total overtime hours (2): 83,851 hours (or 1.4 hours on average businesses (see also Fighting discrimination and promoting diversity, per employee). p. 266 of the Registration Document). ■ For Societe Generale SA in France: ■ full time for hourly-paid staff (technical employees and executives): 1,607 hours/year (3); ■ full time for salaried executives: 209 days (or 206 days depending on the length of service and age of employees in 2000, when the agreement took effect) (3); ■ part time: employees may qualify for schemes that reduce the number of working hours to 90%, 80%, 70%, 60% or 50% (4). _______________ (1) Time weighted based on the size of the entities' workforce. (2) The definition of overtime s taken from French law, which means that the reporting scope for this indicator is therefore limited to France (Societe Generale SA and subsidiaries). (3) In accordance with the agreement on the organisation of working hours of 12th October 2000 and its amendments. (4) In accordance with the agreement of 2nd June 2004 and its amendment. (5) See note on methodology on page 292. The rate of accident severity is not an indicator that is monitored, given the nature of the Group's activities. (6) Number of days absent/total number of days paid, as a percentage. 51 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| GENDER BALANCE Share of women 2016 2015 Group 59.1% 59.1% Managers 44.2% 43.3% Senior management (top 1,000) 22.2% 21.2% (1) Management Committee (61 members) 21.3% 20.0% Executive Committee (13 members) 23.1% 15.4% (2) Board of Directors (13 members) 53.8% 50.0% Executives (for Societe Generale SA in France) 45.7% 45.2% _________ (1) The Management Committee includes the members of the Executive Committee. At 16th January, in includes 13 women (compared with 11 at the beginning of 2014, eight at the beginning of 2011 and six at the beginning of 2010). (2) Board of Directors: seven women (including two staff-elected directors). Gender balance reflects the company’s ability to appoint and and work-life balance. It defines concrete and measurable promote the person whose skills best match a given position without objectives, such as the target of 46% women executives by the bias or cultural filters. Societe Generale encourages all of its end of 2018 (it was 45.7% at the end of 2016), measures that managers to promote this balance within their teams and adopts this allow female employees on maternity, adoption or parental leave approach at the highest level of the company. to keep up with the transformations under way in the businesses, the methodology for eliminating pay gaps, etc. Since 2008, EUR Accordingly, in 2016 Frédéric Oudéa signed the UN Global 12.7 million has been earmarked to eliminate unjustified pay gaps Compact’s Women’s Empowerment Principles, applicable Groupbetween men and women doing equivalent jobs or at equivalent wide. These principles commit their signatories to make progress on managerial or seniority levels within the company. These funds promoting gender balance in the workplace, in the economic have been used to correct nearly 7,500 individual situations. ecosystem and within the community. This charter was also signed Another EUR 1.7 million will be allocated for the same purpose in by Societe Generale Dubai in order to cement this Group 2017; commitment among its local partners. ■ in the Czech Republic, the Group’s subsidiaries are focused on establishing measures to smooth the return to work after Numerous Group-wide initiatives have been undertaken in this area, maternity leave (by maintaining contact with the company, including the examples listed below. returning gradually and starting back with part-time work, Training, development and support benefiting from skills upgrades, etc.). The “Maternity Programme” at Komerčni Banka has helped to increase the rate of women who Development initiatives are under way in various Group scopes, such return after maternity leave from 45% (in 2008) to 65% (in 2016); as the Women in Leadership (WILL) development course designed for ■ in Luxembourg, the “Opportunités égales pour hommes et female Strategic Talent, participation in inter-company events (JUMP femmes” (Equal Opportunities for Men and Women) project forum, EVE programme), awareness initiatives and training and approved and supported by the Luxembourg Ministry for Equal mentoring programmes at various subsidiaries and branches (e.g. in Opportunities focuses on three topics: equal treatment between Germany, Italy, Czech Republic, United States, India and Dubai). men and women, gender equality in decision-making processes and reconciling the work-life balance. The Group supports the women’s and mixed networks formed within the company that actively and independently help promote gender GEOGRAPHICAL ORIGINS balance. These networks have more than 2,400 members worldwide, Employees’ diverse geographical origins reflect as closely as possible including France, United States, Singapore, India, Luxembourg, the diversity of the businesses, customers, countries and societies in Czech Republic, Senegal, Tunisia, Cameroon, United Kingdom, which the Group operates. Korea, China, etc. The Group has: Gender equality in the workplace ■ 123 different nationalities; The Group’s gender balance policy is adapted locally through specific measures and collective agreements. For example: ■ 58% non-French employees. ■ Societe Generale SA in France: the 2015 agreement on equality in Within the Management Committee, 10 nationalities are represented, the workplace pursues the commitments made in four priority and 23% of members are not French. action areas, namely training, career development, remuneration S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 52 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS GENERATION BALANCE INTEGRATION OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES Societe Generale is committed to promoting the employment of (1) persons with disabilities. In 2016, Frédéric Oudéa signed the BREAKDOWN OF STAFF BY AGE BRACKET International Labour Organization’s Business and Disability Charter and gave this commitment an international dimension. This makes Age (years) Societe Generale a member of a network that aims to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and best practices on the inclusion of persons + than 70 with disabilities in the workplace. At the end of 2016, Societe 55 to 70 Generale employed 2,365 disabled staff (as defined locally) around 50 to 55 the world (mainly in France, Italy and Germany), accounting for 1.6% 45 to 50 of the overall headcount, including 1,684 persons in France. The main achievements of Societe Generale SA in France in 2016 were: 40 to 45 35 to 40 ■ 520 long-term employment initiatives (a total of nearly 3,000 30 to 35 adjustments have been made to workstations since 2007); 25 to 30 ■ recruitment of 40 employees with disabilities; 18 to 25 ■ stronger initiatives to raise awareness among employees, than 18 managers and social partners (first Salon Handicap, Emploi & Achats Responsables (an employment and responsible-sourcing Thousands fair for the disabled) in Paris, local events in conjunction with the Men: Women: European Disability Employment Week, workshops and training); ■ specific mechanisms for skills improvement to promote the ________________ integration of the disabled into the workplace (e.g. the (1) Data at 31st December 2016, for 97% of the Group. HandiFormaBanques work-study programme); ■ the development of the protected and adapted sector, with a reinforced approach to professionalising the sector Within the Group: (DIVERSIFYING SOURCING PRACTICES WHILE HELPING TO IMPROVE THE GROUP’S REGIONAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ■ 23% of employees are under the age of 30; FOOTPRINT, p. 21); ■ 26% of employees are over the age of 45; ■ the signature of a new three-year (2017-2019) agreement, ■ the average age is 37.7. strengthening the resources of “Mission Handicap” and support for employees. Intergenerational cooperation In Serbia, the “Inclusive Academy” programme, led by employee The Group is working to improve cooperation among the different volunteers from Societe Generale Srbija, helps young disabled people generations, mainly through: enter the job market. The programme has assisted 60 young people since 2011. Half of them have transformed their experience into long■ the inter-company OCTAVE programme, in which it is a partner; term employment either at the Bank or externally. ■ the digital transformation, which offers opportunities for junior employees to transmit knowledge to senior employees (e.g. In Romania, the Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, Algeria, Equatorial reverse mentoring). Guinea and Japan, recruitment, awareness-raising, induction and support programmes have been implemented to promote the It is also focusing its efforts on the professional integration of young employment of the disabled. people, while overseeing the continued employment of its older employees and accompanying them towards retirement. In France, Societe Generale also makes sure its services are accessible to as part of the effort to adapt the “generation contract”, all Group disabled customers. For example, in France: subsidiaries have established specific agreements and/or dedicated ■ almost all of Societe Generale’s and Credit du Nord’s automated action plans to reflect these objectives, for example: teller machines (ATMs) are equipped with voice synthesis and ■ Societe Generale SA set an annual target for the recruitment of tactile sensors and new facilities comply with accessibility young people on permanent contracts. In 2016, this target was standards for people with disabilities or reduced mobility; 500 (a target that was met and exceeded: 921 young people ■ Societe Generale’s mobile application is accessible to the visually under the age of 26 were recruited during the year). The impaired; generation contract and the employment agreement signed in 2016 (see page 48) introduced concrete measures to support ■ a reduced-rate phone number puts visually impaired customers in senior employees in areas such as training, health and prevention, direct contact with a customer call centre and nearly adjustments to working hours and end-of-career skills 700 customers received their bank statements in Braille in 2016; transmission (for example, solidarity half-time compensated at ■ at the end of 2016, 70% of Societe Generale branches and 75% 70%, carried out through an association/charity); of Credit du Nord Group branches were declared accessible to ■ Credit du Nord set a 5% recruitment target for people over the persons with disabilities. The goal is to achieve full coverage by age of 45 over the course of the Senior action plans (November 2021 (excluding historical heritage buildings). 2013 to November 2016 — by the end of this period, the rate was 7.5%) in order to ensure a balanced age and experience pyramid, including at the time of recruitment. 53 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| SOCIAL INCLUSION promoting the professions within retail banking and ALD Automotive; Over and above the initiatives implemented by the Societe Generale ■ the promotion of equal opportunities at the Group’s target Foundation (see below), Societe Generale SA in France pursues a schools and through support and financing for specific inclusive social inclusion policy for the underprivileged neighbourhoods in programmes (Institut Villebon Georges-Charpak, etc.), which which it is located. In 2013, the Bank was one of the first companies provides access to certificate-granting training and, ultimately, the to sign the “Entreprises et Quartiers” (Businesses and possibility of a job at the Bank; Neighbourhoods) Charter with France’s Ministry for Urban Affairs. This framework built on an older policy that aimed to continue and ■ nearly EUR 200,000 to fund subsidised contracts within local associations. promote a number of initiatives covering the employment, training and professional integration of young people from underprivileged Moreover, in 2016, Societe Generale became a founding member of neighbourhoods of the city. For example: the Public Interest Group of the Grande École du Numérique (umbrella organisation for training in the digital transition). This ■ the “Coup de Pouce” (Helping Hand) programme, which helped certification label for short, qualifying training courses allows the 200 young people with little or no academic qualifications join the general public (young people having difficulty finding a job, employees retail banking network on apprenticeship contracts since 2008 (with nearly 70% converted to permanent contracts); with career development plans, etc.) to quickly gain the skills companies will need in the future to address the digital ■ the inclusive “Nouvelle Chance” (Second Chance) programme, transformation. introduced in 2015 in Hauts-de-Seine, which improves employability at every stage of the screening process and provides personalised support throughout the job search by COMMITMENT: SPONSORSHIP AND PARTNERSHIPS Societe Generale is committed to civil society and pursues a The Foundation is also directly involved in initiatives in both France corporate commitment policy that is built around three strategic and the other countries in which the Group is present. In a difficult priorities: citizenship, sport and culture, via three separate entities. economic environment, now more than ever, the Foundation Whether in the teams, among customers or with third-party supports a hundred or so projects each year by means of an annual beneficiaries, every day these priority areas drive the four core values endowment of EUR 3 million. The Societe Generale Foundation also promoted by the Group: Team spirit, Innovation, Responsibility and regularly reinforces the solidarity actions of its establishments by Commitment. relying on locally created solidarity structures (of the foundation variety). Citizenship Since 2006, 867 non-profit projects in 29 countries have been supported through the Societe Generale Corporate Foundation for The Group’s solidarity policy is in particular demonstrated by the Solidarity, to the tune of over EUR 21.2 million. actions of the Societe Generale Corporate Foundation for Solidarity, established in 2006, and the implementation of civic engagement The tenth anniversary of the Foundation in 2016 was the occasion to initiatives for employees, which reflect the Group’s four core values. celebrate and publicise the solidarity commitment of Societe Generale The Societe Generale Group is particularly proactive in the areas of and its employees through initiatives, events and talks organised vocational integration and social inclusion through sport and cultural throughout the year, notably: the solidarity actions and events activities. organised by Societe Generale subsidiaries with employees, the design and publication of a pamphlet entitled “10 years of The employee involvement programmes are social action drivers that commitment for inclusion”, a concert at the Philharmonie de Paris for complement and follow on from the company’s actions in community the associations and a breakfast organised for employees. life and respond to a growing demand from employees. They are also powerful drivers for mobilisation and commitment centred around the Bank’s core values and social responsibility, strengthening its image FOUNDATIONS ABROAD as an employer and consolidating internal cohesion by fostering In the countries in which it is based, the Group supports civic actions relations between employees and bringing added value to the teams. to actively promote the social inclusion of people in difficulty. In order to be closer to the needs of the beneficiaries, Societe Generale Societe Generale Corporate Foundation solidarity-based structures also support non-profit organisations for social inclusion locally by seeking to involve their employees on a for Solidarity voluntary basis as well as their customers. The purpose of the Societe Generale Corporate Foundation for The Societe Generale Corporate Foundation for Solidarity regularly Solidarity is to conduct and to support actions that are in the public boosts the financial contributions of the Group’s solidarity-based interest, aimed at fostering the development of solidarity in society. structures to the non-profit organisations supported. It thus seeks to Since its creation in 2006, it has been working to promote vocational both create synergies and identify opportunities to strengthen the integration, notably by supporting projects to help young people get links between Societe Generale’s solidarity-based structures and the into work and to fight illiteracy. Since 2015, the Foundation has Foundation. Examples include the foundations in Brazil and Morocco, extended its scope of intervention to include education, electing to solidarity-driven actions in the United Kingdom, Talents & Partage (an support non-profit projects using sport or cultural activities as a association of employees and retirees of the Group) and Fondation means of promoting education and/or social inclusion for people in 29 Haussmann (a foundation for Private Banking customers). difficulty. In 2016, Societe Generale contributed over EUR 10 million to These actions can take many forms, adapted to the needs of the solidarity sponsorship. beneficiaries: use of the practice of a sport, for example one offered by Sport dans la Ville, as a driver of motivation to help them define their professional project and also daily support for members of the public who are very isolated from the world of work provided by the teams of the Arès group. The Societe Generale Foundation has decided to expand its long-term relationships with five major partners: ARÈS, CARE France, Sport dans la Ville, Emmaüs Défi and Apprentis d'Auteuil. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 54 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS Employee involvement FINANCIAL EDUCATION In parallel with the financial support given by the Foundation, one of the objectives of the Group Citizenship Policy is to promote the civic Convinced that the sensible use of banking products and services commitment of Societe Generale employees by offering them the hinges on financial education, Societe Generale, drawing on the opportunity to put their skills to use for the benefit of the Group’s skills of its employees, rolls out tools to help young people and partner associations, during their working hours. These schemes people in difficulty to manage their budget more effectively. are not only social action drivers, but also drivers of mobilisation and commitment, which respond to a growing demand from employees In France, Societe Generale and the non-profit Crésus have devised to get involved in solidarity-based and skills sponsorship initiatives. and implemented a budget education programme, which is In 2016, more than 15,000 employees throughout the Group were delivered within the framework of skills sponsorship. Since 2013, involved in a solidarity action proposed by the company. As a result, the financial education project has been seeking to raise awareness these employees devoted more than 5,000 days to such solidarity amongst young people aged 16-25 and people in difficulty of the actions. issues surrounding good budget management, through joint actions within French Apprentice Training Centres (CFA) and communities CITIZEN COMMITMENT (the Second Chance Schools (E2C), Capital Filles, Chantiers d’Insertion, etc.). Since the programme was launched, some 3,500 A highlight of the Societe Generale Group’s citizenship programme CFA apprentices and beneficiaries of non-profit services have is the Citizen Commitment Time, organised every year to foster and benefited from the course, thanks to the commitment of over 250 promote the benefits of employee commitment worldwide. Under employees. this scheme, employees can take part in sports challenges to raise money, dedicate a day to skills sponsorship, mentoring or voluntary Societe Generale also gives its employees the opportunity to work in order to support partner associations of the Foundation showcase their professional skills through the development of working to promote education and social inclusion through sport financial education programmes on an international scale (including and/or cultural activities. in Poland, Morocco, Albania, the Czech Republic, Spain, the United States, Benin, Senegal, etc.). In 2016, nearly 12,000 employees from 43 countries in which Societe Generale is present (including from Paris and all the French In Poland, for example, a financial education programme has been regions) took part in a wide variety of solidarity-related actions as developed since 2015. This programme, which is run in partnership part of the Citizen Commitment Time initiative. Thanks to their with a community and secondary schools, aims to give secondary efforts, the company contributed nearly EUR 600,000 to non-profit school pupils a better understanding and instil good habits in terms projects related to social inclusion through sport and cultural of budget management. activities. Since the programme was launched in 2013 18,500 young people have taken part in the workshops in 115 schools in Poland. SKILLS SPONSORSHIP DISABLED SPORTS Skills sponsorship is one way of making employees available on an ad hoc basis and free of charge during their working hours to nonSociete Generale strives, on a daily basis, to promote the inclusion profit associations that are partners of the Foundation or supported of people with disabilities among its employees, getting involved in by Societe Generale. local and international events, committees and clubs. The Group has been working with the Paralympic movement since 2003 and PRO BONO DAYS shares its values with the French Disabled Sports Federation The objective of these Pro Bono initiatives is to offer a day’s support (Fédération Française d’Handisport – FFH) and the French Adaptive to a non-profit association chosen in keeping with the Group’s Sports Federation (Fédération Française du Sport Adapté – FFSA), citizenship strategy. Employees thus apply their high value-added two French federations dedicated to sport for people with expertise to addressing a clearly defined need on the part of the disabilities. association (communications, marketing, HR, finance, IT, etc.). This This partnership also resonates abroad, through the commitment of skills sponsorship also serves to highlight the expertise of the Group subsidiaries, for instance in Algeria, Benin, the Czech employees involved. Since 2012, 49 Pro Bono Days have been Republic, the United Kingdom, Singapore, etc. Societe Generale organised, involving 346 employees and representing more than Algeria (SGA) has been a partner of the Algerian Disabled Sports 2,600 Pro Bono hours for the benefit of 39 communities. Federation for the past 11 years and renewed its support in 2016. Overseas, skills sponsorship takes the form of Societe Generale The same subsidiary also financed the financial awards given to the employees helping non-profits or schools during their working gold, silver and bronze medal winners at the Rio 2016 Paralympics. hours. This is the case, for instance, in Romania, where employees The Group ran an exceptional communication campaign around the commit to two involvement programmes: firstly, working with 2016 Paralympics on the theme of “Societe Generale, supporting schools to prevent and fight against instances of children and the 2016 Paralympic Team of France as closely as possible”, youths dropping out of school, and secondly, the personal making three advertising films, which were distributed via the development of secondary school pupils. Internet, on three French paralympic athletes, a 360° MENTORING communication plan on internal and external media (example: a special eight-page feature on Societe Generale’s ten years of Mentoring involves an employee of the company providing support commitment to disabled sports in the supplement to the L’Equipe to a person who is socially marginalised or far removed from the newspaper on the occasion of the Paralympic Games. This labour market in the context of his or her schooling, orientation or campaign was a great success on social media, with record results job search by sharing experience and advice. In 2016, nearly 300 on Facebook and Twitter. In fact the videos were viewed more than Societe Generale employees in France acted as mentors within six eight million times in three weeks, there were more than 18.6 million of the Foundation’s partner associations (Proxité, Nos Quartiers ont impressions of the hashtag #auplusprès on Twitter and one of the des Talents, Solidarités Nouvelles face au Chômage, Frateli, Mozaïk Facebook posts generated 15,000 likes, which is a record. RH and Capital Filles). Thanks to the support of Societe Generale, a group of young people Aware of its role in civil society and the importance of strengthening from the favelas of Rio, supported by the Gol de Letra Association, the ties between the company and young people, the Group attended international competitive events in Brazil and met encourages its employees to get involved in a wide variety of Paralympians with Societe Generale employees in Brazil. actions to mentor and support young people worldwide In the United Kingdom, for example, Societe Generale involves its employees to a significant extent in initiatives to boost educational aspirations and prospects of employment for young people. In 2016 over 750 volunteers devoted more than 3,800 hours to helping young people prepare for the business world. 55 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| music for young people by supporting musical practice and Culture, a commitment that echoes the mediation activities. To this end, the association is the founding company’s values patron of the Démos Project (a musical and orchestral education initiative with a social aspect), which ran throughout France in 2016 Societe Generale’s commitment to contemporary art and classical with 26 orchestras, and of Concerts de Poche, a non-profit music goes back over several decades. These are long-term association which organised 5,000 musical workshops and commitments and are implemented either centrally or locally by the concerts. In addition to its policy of giving financial support to Group subsidiaries. organisations in the world of classical music, Mecenat Musical also continued to organise concerts (on 43 occasions), thereby enabling MODERN AND CONTEMPORARY ART young musicians and ensembles to perform on a regular basis. IN FRANCE Mecenat Musical Societe Generale will celebrate its 30th anniversary in 2017. In France, Societe Generale’s contemporary art collection currently comprises more than 1,000 works, exhibited at the Group’s PRESTIGIOUS PARTNERS IN FRANCE AND ABROAD premises in La Défense, on boulevard Haussmann in the centre of In France, the Group is the partner of several major institutions, such Paris and in Val de Fontenay. Projects based around the collection as the Opéra Royal du Château de Versailles, the Grand Théâtre de involve both employees and the general public, particularly on social Bordeaux, the Dominicains de Haute Alsace, the Volcan au Havre networks. and the Opéra Grand Avignon, and also supports renowned The Societe Generale Collection is taking its mediation activities festivals, such as the Flâneries Musicales de Reims and the Festival among young people and the wider general public a step further; in Pablo Casals de Prades. In addition, the Group is also partner to particular, it extended its programme of visits and projects with several top-level orchestras, such as the Orchestre National de Lille, students in 2016. Since 2013, patronage of the arts has included the Orchestre des Pays de Savoie and the Orchestre de la Suisse working with the students of Paris I-Panthéon Sorbonne, and the Romande. current project involves an exhibition at the Sorbonne university itself Societe Generale continues to support prestigious venues, such as on the theme of commitment. Glyndebourne and the Royal Albert Hall (Great Britain), the The arts patronage commitment of the Group towards cultural Philharmonie de Luxembourg and the Prague National Theatre organisations is maintained, through the lending of works in France (Czech Republic). and abroad (Museum of the City of Lisbon) and support for art PLAYING FOR PHILHARMONIE PARIS, A UNIQUE INITIATIVE projects for a wider audience, such as those of the Van Gogh IN THE BUSINESS WORLD Foundation in Arles, LAAC in Dunkirk and the city of Le Havre for its 500th anniversary. Following on from the success of the “Playing for Salle Pleyel” events in 2013 and 2014 and the “Playing for Philharmonie de ABROAD Paris” event in 2016 (a choir and symphony orchestra made up of Overseas, Societe Generale also supports contemporary creation Societe Generale employees performing with the Les Siècles directly, particularly in North Africa through its historical collection of orchestra), Societe Generale has decided to export this initiative, more than 1,000 works in Morocco, as well as more recent which is unique in the business world, to London. collections in Tunisia and Algeria, but also in Romania and Bulgaria. Hence, the nearly 300 employees who performed at the In addition, it sponsors the Artagon project, an annual art event and Philharmonie de Paris in November 2016, including around 50 from competition open to art school students. Cameroon and Morocco, joined by 30 or so London-based The Group is also the main partner of the Victoria & Albert Museum employees, will come together under the baton of François-Xavier for its landmark exhibitions In 2016 and 2017 (Botticelli Reimagined Roth for the “Playing for London” concert at the Royal Festival Hall, and Opera), as well as of the Pushkin Museum in Moscow and the Southbank Centre, on Saturday 22nd April 2017. National Gallery in Prague. It has also supported the French May in Hong Kong for many years. SPORT, EVER CLOSER CLASSICAL MUSIC Societe Generale pursues a policy of forging sports partnerships to support the development of its activities around the world. Whether The Societe Generale Group has become one of the key actors in sponsoring champions during international competitions or reaching classical music, particularly through the patronage of its Mecenat out to younger athletes, Societe Generale is the preferred partner of Musical Societe Generale association, created in 1987. national leagues and federations and local clubs alike, focusing its support chiefly on rugby and golf. MECENAT MUSICAL SOCIETE GENERALE ASSOCIATION RUGBY: SOCIETE GENERALE RENEWED ITS COMMITMENT The number of musical ensembles supported by the Mecenat TO THE FRENCH RUGBY FEDERATION IN 2016 FOR SIX Musical Societe Generale reached 23 in 2016. The association YEARS continues to lend its support to prestigious concert halls, such as the Philharmonie de Paris, and is pursuing its collaboration with the Societe Generale has been a devoted partner of local and national Paris Autumn Festival, the concert seasons of the Théâtre des rugby in France, from the amateur level right up to the top, since Bouffes du Nord and the Collège des Bernardins in Paris, and of the 1987. Involved in more than 450 clubs, Societe Generale is a major Museum of Grenoble. partner of professional rugby and of France’s national team. The renewal of its partnership with the French Rugby Federation in 2016 Particularly focused on meeting the needs of talented young for six years confirms Societe Generale’s commitment to rugby, at musicians starting out in their careers, the association awards every level and on a long-term basis. grants to students of the national conservatories of Paris and Lyon each year – there were 42 such grants for 2016-2017. Mecenat Musical Societe Generale also strives to facilitate access to classical S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 56 |2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS Through its subsidiaries and establishments, the Group also children and students. Since 2014, Societe Generale has organised supports rugby in many countries around the world, including the SG Sevens, the French university rugby sevens championship Luxembourg, China, Senegal and Serbia. 2016 marked the final. beginning of Societe Generale’s commitment in India, to both women’s and men’s national teams and also at the local level GOLF: AN INSTRUMENT FOR BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS through its commitment to World Rugby’s “Get into Rugby” Societe Generale has been a partner of the French Golf Federation programme, which is working to make rugby more widely available since 2001. In keeping with its conviction that sports activities must in schools. At the international level, Societe Generale is a key be accessible to as many people as possible, Societe Generale also partner of the Rugby World Cup, which it has supported every four supports Handigolf, a non-profit association promoting golf for years since 2007. people with disabilities. Rugby sevens, which has been supported by Societe Generale In line with the growing international interest, the Group has since since 2001 and has been an Olympic sport since 2016, is another 2008 been a partner of the only major ladies’ tournament held in way in which the Group brings rugby to new populations of school continental Europe – the Evian Championship. 57 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP SOCIETE GENERALE SUPPORTS ITS EMPLOYEES ON A DAILY BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2| 6. APPENDICES NOTE ON METHODOLOGY The purpose of this note is to explain the reporting methodology used by Societe Generale for matters relating to corporate social Data collection responsibility (CSR). This methodology is set out in detail in the The following data collection methods are used for the scope Group's reporting protocol, available on request. defined above: ■ for social, environmental, business and corporate sponsorship Reporting protocol data, most of the quantitative indicators are collected by each Group entity via the “Planethic Reporting” tool by collectors who The information included in the Registration Document, on the CSR enter the data at the level of their subsidiary, which is validated website, in other communication media of Societe Generale, as well by validators who review the input data at the level of their entity as in the Group’s activity and sustainable development report, before approving it, administrators who check and validate the whether pertaining to the 2016 financial year or to previous years, data at the level of the core businesses, and central was prepared on the basis of contributions from the Group’s administrators (Group CSR and Sustainable Development internal network of CSR officers and in accordance with the Group’s Department) at the Group level, who carry out the final checks CSR reporting protocol and CSR initiatives programme. It is also prior to consolidation; prepared on the basis of data from the “Planethic Reporting” tool, ■ other data is collected directly from the core businesses’ CSR used for the standardised collection of the indicators used to keep officers or from the relevant departments (Purchasing track of the various initiatives. All reporting is coordinated by the Department, Risk Division, Human Resources Department) by Group CSR and Sustainable Development Department, which the Group CSR and Sustainable Development Department. reports to the Group Corporate Secretary (see p. 5, Organisation & governance). Indicators Regular efforts are made to bring contributors and managers on board and familiarise them with the reporting protocol and the tool During a formal communication campaign, all contributors were in the interest of increasing data reliability. informed of the data collection schedule, a Group Instruction and a protocol for each category of indicators. The protocol serves as a This reporting protocol is updated on a regular basis. reminder of indicator definitions and application criteria. The 2016 indicators were chosen particularly in respect of Reporting periods information requirements under the “Grenelle II” Law (in accordance with Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code) as well SOCIAL, SPONSORSHIP AND BUSINESS as in light of the Group CSR strategy and the determination to align DATA a core ambition as closely as possible with the GRI-G4. Quantitative indicators are calculated for the period running from 1st The indicators are generally reported for a global scope. Some January 2016 to 31st December 2016 (12 months), with data taken indicators, however, cannot be consistently applied to a global as at 31st December 2016. scope. In such cases, the indicators were analysed for the scope of France or Societe Generale SA in France (excluding subsidiaries). ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Quantitative indicators are calculated for the period running from 1st Scope and rules for the calculation of October 2015 to 30th September 2016 (12 months), with data social indicators taken as at 30th September 2016. The workforce taken into account in all the social indicators (unless CSR consolidation scope explicitly stated otherwise) corresponds to the total number of employees on a permanent contract or a fixed-term contract, Entities included in the reporting scope meet at least one of the including work-study contracts, regardless of whether they are following criteria: present or absent. ■ entities in which the parent company, Societe Generale SA The frequency rate of accidents in the workplace is the ratio of the (SGSA), directly or indirectly holds a controlling interest of over number of accidents in the workplace (as defined by local 50%. The branches are by definition wholly owned, since there regulations) to the total number of hours worked (workforce present are no shareholders; on a permanent or fixed-term contract multiplied by the number of ■ entities that are fully consolidated in the Societe Generale Group annual working hours in the entity) multiplied by 1,000,000. and have more than 50 employees. The CSR consolidation includes 150 companies within the Group’s financial consolidation scope at 31st December 2016. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 58 |6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPENDICES The rate of absenteeism is the ratio of the number of reported days ■ energy consumption (electricity, steam, chilled water, oil, gas) is of absence paid to the total number of days paid, as a percentage. also expressed in relation to the surface area (per m2) ; It is counted in calendar days and is calculated on the basis of the ■ in the interest of continually improving the reliability of data, total number of employees (workforce present multiplied by 365). qualitative questions (answers expected via written comments) The scope of the charts “Breakdown of staff by age bracket” (page are used to identify different scopes of data and best practices, 53) and “Breakdown of staff by length of service” (page 42) is the and to understand year-to-year variations. CSR consolidation scope as defined above, excluding the headcount of entities in Germany (GEFA, PEMA GmbH, On Vista, Wherever possible, the number of occupants covered corresponds SGSS GmbH), Morocco (Sogelease) and Tunisia (UIB), for which to the average number of Societe Generale employees or this information is not consolidated. subcontractors working on-site during the reporting period or, failing that, the number of occupants as at 30th September 2016. Scope and main management rules for Coverage of the data collection scope for each indicator is the ratio of the headcount of all entities having completed the indicator to the environmental indicators total headcount of Societe Generale. The scope corresponds to the CSR consolidation scope as defined New indicators were incorporated or modified in 2016: above. Coverage of the total data collection scope corresponds to the ratio of the headcount of all entities that participated in the data ■ new indicators for waste were added in order to meet the collection campaign to the total headcount of Societe Generale. requirements of French Decree no. 2016-288 of 10th March With data having been collected on 145,672 employees, Societe 2016 which sets out various provisions adapting and simplifying Generale estimates that the total data collection scope – i.e. regulations on waste prevention and management. Indicators for glass, metal, plastic and wood were also added; accounting for at least the data on occupants and surface area – covers approximately 97% of the workforce. ■ with the exception of the Societe Generale France network, most subsidiaries consolidate their data in the Group’s reporting tool. Transport and paper consumption data for France is Restatement of historical data reported centrally by the Sustainable Development Department To ensure the transparency of communication and the comparability on the basis of data received from the Purchasing Department. of data, the emissions for the reference years and for 2014-2016 are presented in the emissions table. Calculation of CO2 emissions Similarly, the new indicators that have been incorporated into the Calculation of the Group’s CO2 emissions is broken down into three calculation of CO2 emissions have also been incorporated into the categories: historical data. ■ Scope 1 covers direct emissions related to energy consumption These restatements do not correct variations related to the growth and fugitive emissions of fluorinated gases by the central or reduction of the activity within the entities themselves. departments; ■ Scope 2 covers indirect emissions related to energy Environmental data: general rules consumption (external electricity, steam and chilled water); Environmental data is calculated on the basis of invoices, direct ■ Scope 3 covers GHG emissions from office paper consumption readings, information received from suppliers and estimates. The and business travel, since 2012. The scope has been widened to include the overall paper consumption, transport of goods following checks and ratios are used to manage the reported data: and energy consumption of data centres hosted in France. . ■ checks on variation compared to the previous year were CO2 emissions are calculated according to the GHG Protocol performed for all environmental indicators. Contributors received method. alerts asking them to check the data recorded if the variation was greater than 30%; ■ data collected on energy, office paper and transport is expressed in relation to the number of occupants declared by the entity; 59 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP APPENDICES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 6| INDEPENDENT VERIFIER’S REPORT ON CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION PRESENTED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT Assurance on CSR Information, in accordance with the international Societe Generale Financial Year standard ISAE 3000(2). ended 31st December 2016 To the Shareholders, 1. Attestation of presence of CSR In our quality as an independent verifier accredited by the Information COFRAC(1) under number 3-1050, and as a member of the network of one of the statutory auditors of Societe Generale, we NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE WORK present our report on the consolidated social, environmental and We obtained an understanding of the company’s CSR issues, societal information established for the financial year ended on 31st based on interviews with the management of relevant departments, December 2016, presented in chapter 5 of the management report, a presentation of the company’s strategy on sustainable hereafter referred to as the “CSR Information” pursuant to the development based on the social and environmental consequences provisions of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code linked to the activities of the company and its societal commitments, (Code de commerce). as well as, where appropriate, resulting actions or programmes. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMPANY We have compared the information presented in the management report with the list as provided for in the Article R. 225-105-1 of the It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to draw up a French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). management report including the CSR Information referred to in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, in In the absence of certain consolidated information, we have verified accordance with the protocols used by the company (hereafter that the explanations were provided in accordance with the referred to as the “Criteria”), a summary of which is included in this provisions in Article R. 225-105-1, paragraph 3, of the French Reference Document and available on request from the company’s Commercial Code (Code de commerce). head office. We verified that the CSR Information covers the consolidated INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY perimeter, namely the entity and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Article L. 233-1 of the French Commercial Code and the entities CONTROL that it controls within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the same code with the limitations specified in the Note on methodology in Our independence is defined by regulatory requirements, the Code Chapter 5 of this Registration Document. of Ethics of our profession as well as the provisions in the article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). In addition, we have implemented a quality control system, which CONCLUSION includes documented policies and procedures to ensure Based on this work, and given the limitations mentioned above, we compliance with ethical standards, professional standards and confirm the presence in the management report of the required CSR applicable laws and regulations. Information. . RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INDEPENDENT 2. Limited Assurance on CSR VERIFIER Information It is our role, based on our work: ■ to attest to whether the required CSR Information is present in NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE WORK the management report or, in the case of its omission, that an We conducted about 30 interviews with the people responsible for appropriate explanation has been provided, in accordance with the preparation of the CSR Information in the departments in charge the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French of the data collection process and, where applicable, the people Commercial Code (Attestation of Presence of CSR Information); responsible for internal control processes and risk management, in ■ to express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR order to: Information, overall, is fairly presented in all material aspects in accordance with the Criteria (Limited Assurance on CSR ■ assess the suitability of the Criteria for reporting, in relation to Information). their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, taking into consideration, if relevant, industry Our verification work was undertaken by a team of six people standards; between September 2016 and February 2017 for an estimated duration of fifteen weeks. ■ verify the implementation of the process for the collection, compilation, processing and control in respect of the We conducted the work described below in accordance with the completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and professional standards applicable in France and the Order of 13th identify the procedures for internal control and risk management May 2013 determining the conditions under which an independent related to the preparation of the CSR Information. third-party verifier conducts its mission, and in relation to the Limited ________________ (1) The scope of the accreditation is available at www.cofrac.fr (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. S O C I E T E G E N E R A L E G R O U P I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I 60 |6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPENDICES We determined the nature and extent of our tests and inspections us to express a limited assurance conclusion; an assurance of a based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information in higher level would have required more extensive verification work. relation to the characteristics of the Company, its social and Due to the necessary use of sampling techniques and other environmental issues, and its strategy in relation to sustainable limitations inherent in the functioning of any information and internal development and industry best practices. control system, the risk of non-detection of a significant anomaly in the CSR Information cannot be totally eliminated. For the CSR Information that we considered the most important (1): ■ at the level of the consolidated entity and the business lines we CONCLUSION consulted documentary sources and conducted interviews to Based on our work, we have not identified any significant corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions, etc.), we implemented analytical procedures on the misstatement that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, quantitative information and verified, on a random basis, the taken as a whole, has not been fairly presented, in compliance with calculations and the consolidation of the data, and also verified the Criteria. its coherence and consistency with the other information presented in the management report; OBSERVATION ■ at the level of the representative sample of entities that we Without qualifying our conclusion above, we draw your attention to selected(2), based on their activity, their contribution to the the following points: consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify the correct application of the Sectoral policies and environmental and social assessment of procedures and carried out detailed tests on the basis of clients, which are voluntary commitments from Societe Generale, samples, consisting of verifying the calculations made and are not sufficiently implemented within certain Group business lines linking them with supporting documentation. The sample of and geographical locations. entities thus selected represents 25% of the total workforce for the social data, 26% of energy consumption for the Paris La Défense, 7th March 2017 environmental data and 16% of the consolidated net banking Independent Verifier income for the business lines data. ERNST & YOUNG et Associés For the other consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency in relation to our knowledge of the company. Caroline Delerable Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations in light of, Partner, Sustainable Development France where appropriate, the partial or total absence of certain Hassan Baaj information. Partner We consider that the sampling methods and sizes of the samples that we considered by exercising our professional judgement allow ________________ (1) Societal and business information: Indicators (quantitative information): the number and amount of dedicated transactions signed by the Group in 2016 and reviewed under E&S assessment (under the Equator Principles scope as well as the voluntary extended scope of Societe Generale), amounts of new positive impact financing, green financing to corporate clients, financial authorisations granted to microfinance institutions. Qualitative information: territorial, economic and social impacts (support for SMEs, the range of solidarity products and services in France and internationally, financial inclusion in France, the Positive Impact Finance initiative), measures undertaken in favour of consumers’ health and safety (digital security and data protection), the implementation of the group’s environmental and social commitments when conducting its business (integration of ESG issues in risk management topics, sector policies, Equator Principles, E&S evaluations of transactions and clients), taking into account social and environmental issues in the sourcing policy. Environmental information: Indicators (quantitative information): emissions of CO2 per occupant. Qualitative information: the general environmental policy, management tools for climate strategy including the methodology for monitoring outstandings in the coal sector in order to implement the bank's commitment to align with scenario 2DS of IEA by 2020. Social information: Indicators (quantitative information): total headcount, new hires, departures including dismissals, training policies, total number of hours of training and average number per employee. Qualitative information: General Policy implemented in management and skills (#MonJob2020) and implementation of the agreement of fundamental rights and union rights signed with UNI Global Union. (2) The entities selected are: − For societal / business, environmental and social data: Credit du Nord Group (France), Rosbank (Russia), Komerčni Banka (Czech Republic), − For societal / business and social data: Rusfinance (Russia), − For societal / business data Société Générale Hong Kong (China). 61 I 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT I S O C I E T E GENERALE GROUP |6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPENDICES Societe Generale, a founding member of Ecofolio, participate in the recycling of paper and produced this document with care to ensure minimal impact on the ’environment. SOCIETE GENERALE TOWERS 75886 PARIS CEDEX 18 TÉL. +33 (0)1 42 14 20 00 SOCIETEGENERALE.COM SOCIETE GENERALE PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY WITH CAPITAL OF 1 009 641 917.50 EUR 552 120 222 RCS PARIS CSR@socgen With Ecofolio, all paper is recyclable. paper SOCIETE GENERALE GROUP I 60
