Everything begins with measurement Everything begins with measurement Automotive Test Systems Sustainable growth in society is established through technological innovation. Engineers’ dreams, passions, and persistent efforts are intertwined with the conditions that enable them, including investment opportunities and social demand. “Measurement Technologies” that resolve unknown materials and phenomena help accelerate innovation by engineers. Everything begins with measurement. HORIBA’s “Measurement Technologies” and analysis solutions are always at the frontlines of innovation. Scientific 01 Medical-Diagnostic Process & Environmental Semiconductor HORIBA Report 2016 | 02 Results over the long term, and global expansion Global growth through acquisitions HORIBA, has achieved continuous growth since its foundation, by specializing in “Measurement Technologies” and entering new markets. We intend to continue to grow by globally promoting HORIBA’s corporate culture, expressed in the corporate motto “Joy and Fun.” Sales outside of Japan Sales in Japan Operating income Results up to 1977 are on a nonconsolidated basis and results from 1978 are on a consolidated. Sales are divided into overseas sales and domestic sales from 1991. 1970 1975 1950 OLSON-HORIBA, INCORPORATED, Emission gas analyzers were HORIBA pioneers the first made-ina joint venture company, was delivered to the United States Japan glass electrode established in the U.S. Environmental Protection pH meters. HORIBA begins overseas expansion. Agency (EPA). Net sales exceeded ¥10 billion 1945 HORIBA RADIO LABORATORY was established. 1953 HORIBA, Ltd. was established. 1945 1950 1955 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 03 Net sales ¥170 billion 1988 2005 2015 HORIBA Korea Ltd. was MCT (Mechatronics) MIRA, Ltd. (now HORIBA established in South Korea. business of Carl Schenck AG MIRA, Ltd.) was acquired in Sales outside of Japan was acquired in Germany. the U.K. ¥113.5 billion 1996 ABX S.A. (now HORIBA ABX S.A.S.) was acquired in France. Net sales exceeded ¥150 billion 2014 2016 The reagent plant for HORIBA India hematology analysis, the first Technical Center was in India, began operation. opened. 1997 Jobin Yvon S.A. (now HORIBA France S.A.S.) was acquired in France. Operating income ¥18.4 billion Net sales exceeded ¥100 billion Net sales exceeded ¥50 billion Sales in Sales outside of Japan Japan ¥56.5 billion Sales in Japan 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2016 HORIBA Report 2016 | 04 HORIBA’s value-creating spiral HORIBA’s value-creating Automotive Test Systems Process & Environmental Medical-Diagnostic Semiconductor Scientific 05 spiral Creation of social value (Outcome) 1 Customers HORIBA helps improve the quality of life in a sustainable society by providing products and services to customers. We think it is important to provide solutions in Partner in creating addition to supplying hardware (instruments). In order to achieve this goal, we collaborate with suppliers and group companies in Japan and overseas to improve innovations the quality of our products and services. All technological innovations begin Organizational structures with “Measurement” By making the unseen visible, to help HORIBA operates five business segments in 27 countries. We believe it is important realize productivity gains and that each business is promoted from the local region. With that aim, we are extending contribute to global economic our “Joy and Fun” corporate motto throughout our global operations while promoting development balanced management, matrix organization, and the HORIBA Stained Glass Project to build a Super Dream Team. 2 * See HORIBA’s thoughts on each project and management on pages 35 and 36. Talents Global environment At HORIBA, employees are our most important assets. In order for all employees to achieve “Joy HORIBA’s five “Omoi” preservation and and Fun,” we work to realize HORIBA’s five 1 To be a part of a collaborative community, at the forefront of new ideas and creations. improvement “Omoi” shown below. HORIBA’s organizational 2 To achieve goals and make life memorable by fostering the highest intellectual potential. success is due to our highly diversified 3 To reach across the globe to expand learning employees’ practice of HORIBA’s five “Omoi.” that captures key business developments, wherever they occur. To contribute to building a sustainable 4 To be proud of sharing what I do and what HORIBA delivers. society and the improvement of the 5 To be helpful to the world and its people. global environment Technologies 3 Technological development is one of the most important drivers for value creation and the lifeline of a manufacturer such as HORIBA. To make an analogy, technical capability is a form of basic physical fitness, which cannot be maintained without continual training and exercise. Using this analogy, HORIBA always needs to keep Contribution to human training in order to maintain the power to sprint forward whenever necessary. happiness Brand To promote diversity and HORIBA works on growing “Invisible Values,” such as talents, technologies, and its “Decent Work”* corporate culture. “Invisible Values” are essential in generating future earnings and enabling enterprise continuity, while achieving numerical targets for net sales, profits, and other indicators. We believe that our persistent and continuous efforts on increasing the other four invisible assets, namely “Customers,” “Organizational Structure,” “Talents” and * The concept of “Decent Work” was introduced at “Technologies” have greatly helped us to establish our brands, representing trust in the International Labour Conference (ILO) meeting HORIBA placed by our customers. in 1999, as its target for the 21st century. Promotion of decent work is included as a part of sustainable economic growth in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). HORIBA Report 2016 | 06 HORIBA’s three unique points 1 Corporate culture Corporate motto “Joy and Fun” The motto originates from the belief that if we take interest and pride in the work that occupies most of the active time in our lives, in the place where we spend the large part of each day, then as a result our satisfaction with life will increase, and we will be able to enjoy our lives even more. Taking interest and pride in our work leads us to “Joy and Fun.” HORIBA’s three unique points 07 2 HORIBA style global management 3 High shares in niche markets Launched products in various niche markets of Spreading the culture of Kyoto to global scale analysis and measurement HORIBA got its start in Kyoto. We have achieved business HORIBA does business in many different markets, providing growth based on our corporate culture of success and we over 1,000 products in five business segments. have grown to become one of Kyoto’s most successful companies. Growth driven by global M&A activities Indispensable products in each field Since the late 1990’s, HORIBA has expanded its business HORIBA’s emission analyzers are indispensable in the scale and geographic scope through acquisitions. At development of fuel efficient vehicles and provide the base for present, over 60% of sales and employees are based emission regulations. outside of Japan. Our business in Japan has also grown HORIBA’s mass flow controllers are also indispensable in the through acquisitions. production of flash memory, semiconductor production. * HORIBA has had its fiscal year-end as December 31 since fiscal 2006. See details on page 9. Emission measurement systems 170.0 Process & Net sales (Billions of yen) 16.7 Environmental 25.7 Scientific 118.5 38.8 Semiconductor 32.6 67.5 26.5 Medical-Diagnostic Global market shares of major products (Estimated by HORIBA) 27.6 Emission Mass flow measurement pH meters Gratings 26.0 systems controllers 40.6 22.5 10.2 Automotive Test Analytical 62.2 27.7 8.1 Systems 80% 50% 35% 57% 35.7 (Japan) 23.1 12.9 1995 1998 2010 2016 Gratings Before After After After acquisitions acquisitions acquisition acquisition of ABX and of ABX and of MCT of MIRA Jobin Yvon Jobin Yvon business Operating Income to Net Sales 10.9% 10.4% 6.6% 9.7% 10.0% 4.3% ROE 2.0% 1.5% Overseas employee ratio Mass flow pH meters controllers 23% 49% 56% 62% HORIBA Report 2016 | 08 INDEX Editorial policy HORIBA believes in achieving business growth by providing industrial and institutional equipments in the private and public sectors with “Measurement Technologies” as the essence of HORIBA’s Corporate Social Responsibility. In this integrated “HORIBA Report 2016” we have presented related activities (see the ESG mark) on each business segment page, to help you better understand how HORIBA’s investments in “Invisible Assets” are contributing in actual business growth. Through editing this report, we have also recognized that HORIBA’s every activity has been inseparably tied to its corporate growth. Notation of owners (shareholders): HORIBA fully recognizes the importance of its shareholders and frequently calls them owners. Notation of HORIBA and HORIBA, Ltd. to December 31, 2006; and fiscal 2006 for HORIBA STEC, Co., Ltd. comprised the 9 months In this HORIBA Report, the HORIBA Group of companies is described as “HORIBA” and the from April 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006. The fiscal year end of other consolidated HORIBA parent company as “HORIBA, Ltd.” subsidiaries was December 31. Their 2006 fiscal periods remained unchanged at 12 months. Please note that when comparing results by fiscal year. Disclaimer Regarding Future Plans and Forecasts Prior to the fiscal year-end change, the fiscal year ended March 20, 2006 was described as This HORIBA Report contains certain statements describing future plans, strategies, and 2005, the fiscal year ended March 20, 2005 as 2004, the fiscal year ended March 20, 2004 as performance forecasts of HORIBA, Ltd. and its affiliated companies. These statements reflect 2003. forecasts based on management’s assumptions and beliefs based on the available information as of February 14, 2017 when business results were announced. Actual Change in revenue recognition standard performance may differ due to unforeseen circumstances in the operating environment. The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries had formerly recognized revenue mainly on a shipping basis. However, starting from the year ended December 31, 2016, the Change of Fiscal Year-End Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries have changed to a revenue recognition HORIBA unified its fiscal year-end as December 31, effective from fiscal 2006. As a result of this method using the completion date of installation or a delivery date basis under the terms and change, the following irregular fiscal periods were recorded: Fiscal 2006 for HORIBA, Ltd. and conditions of contracts. HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd. comprised the 9 months and 11 days from March 21, 2006 HORIBA’s overseas consolidated subsidiaries, pursuant to IFRS or US GAAP, had recognized 09 Index P01 Everything begins with measurement P03 Results over the long term and global expansion P05 HORIBA’s value-creating spiral P07 HORIBA’s three unique points P11 Message from the CEO P15 Progress of the Mid-Long Term Management Plan [MLMAP2020] P17 Message from the CFO P19 Business outline P33 Value creation based on “Invisible Values” P39 Corporate governance P45 Financial data P84 Corporate data P85 Corporate philosophy revenue on an installation completion date or a delivery date basis under the terms and conditions of contracts. In addition, sales of products that require a long time for installation have been increasing. Consequently, HORIBA made a change to more adequately reflecting revenue status, upon introduction of the Enterprise Resource Planning System. This change in accounting policy has been retrospectively applied to the consolidated financial statements for full-year period of fiscal year 2015. As a result, net sales for fiscal year 2015 increased by ¥1,017 million, and operating income increased by ¥769 million, ordinary income and income before income taxes increased by ¥790 million, respectively, as compared with the figures prior to the retrospective application. The net assets at the beginning of the previous fiscal year have reflected the cumulative effects, which resulted in a decrease by ¥3,223 million in retained earnings at the beginning of the previous fiscal year. This HORIBA Report 2016, however, uses fiscal 2015 financial results as disclosed in February 2016, rather than the retrospectively-revised results, unless otherwise noted. Market shares stated in this report are HORIBA’s estimates for fiscal 2016. HORIBA Report 2016 | 10 Message from the CEO HORIBA will keep investing in technologies and talents and refining “Invisible Values” with the spirit of “Joy and Fun” Chairman, President & CEO Since its foundation 72 years ago, trust from our business partners around the world and to ensure growing prominence of the HORIBA brand globally. HORIBA has been working on solving social issues through its core business of Proactively facing the changing trends in the “Measurement Technologies”. automotive industry with our “Measurement Technologies” We are now moving “ONE STEP AHEAD” The automotive industry is anticipated to make significant to new business areas, new regions, and evolution over the coming years resulting from integration new stages under the Mid-Long Term with IT enabling autonomous driving and an energy Management Plan MLMAP2020. revolution involving use of fuel cells and other factors. Accordingly, the subjects of immediate and high concern in Continuous investment to accelerate growth automotive development will change. Being a car enthusiast HORIBA has been making investment in the hiring and I am personally finding the recent evolution of electric cars development of talents, R&D, facilities and equipment very exciting. during economic ups and downs. I am thinking that it is In 2015 we acquired HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. (U.K.), a provider increasingly important to keep investing to respond to of engineering services for autonomous driving vehicle significant changes which are witnessed nowadays in the development and many different performance tests. I am technology trend of various industries. While companies confident that HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. can become a driving specializing in one industry or one small region find it force to change HORIBA’s business model, which has so far difficult to make investments during downturns, HORIBA had emission measurement systems as a core business, can afford to keep investing from a long-term perspective, with an 80% global market share. I am pleased that we as we adhere to balanced management and matrix welcomed HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. in our group just as the organization (see page 35) in different regions and business automotive industry is going through fundamental changes. areas with different cycles. This has also enabled us to earn Despite short-term concerns over the issue of Brexit, our 11 continual investment in the U.K. demand growth potential, I am convinced that HORIBA can and responding to diversification of capture a higher market share as we are always capable of the needs of customers are supplying products equipped with cutting-edge indispensable for HORIBA’s midto technologies. long-term competitiveness. We are committed to accelerating growth Accelerating growth in the water measurement area in development of next-generation In MLMAP2020 we are also making significant new mobility such as autonomous investments in business fields and markets with great growth driving vehicles. potential, including fuel cells and other alternative energy sources, the bio-life science field, and the water analytical Investing to respond to an and measurement field. In water measurement we have increase in demand in the consolidated our management resources in HORIBA semiconductor industry Advanced Techno Co., Ltd. Now we have integrated We have also decided to expand HORIBA’s first product, the pH meter, and other products, as the Aso Factory of HORIBA STEC well as our development, production, and sales resources. Co., Ltd., a main production facility Our target is to expand sales from approximately ¥12 billion of mass flow controllers for in 2016 to ¥20 billion by 2020. HORIBA Advanced Techno semiconductor production Co., Ltd., thriving in full swing, reminds me of HORIBA equipment. This investment is STEC Co., Ltd., which has rapidly grown by being based on our belief that specialized in business for the semiconductor industry. I am establishing a stable supply looking forward to HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd.’s network of products in a long-term future growth. growth market can give a sense of reassurance to our customers and Adopting a new indicator for realizing the enhance the HORIBA brand. Stable enhancement of capital efficiency supply capacity is critically We intend to raise the awareness of our people to the important for long-lasting importance of capital efficiency, so as to enable us to relationships with customers. continue aggressive investments and make prompt Although the factory was greatly damaged by the decisions when they are needed. We have decided to adopt Kumamoto Earthquakes in April 2016, it quickly resumed a new indicator that incorporates the weighted average cost supply of mass flow controllers, with the cooperation of of capital (WACC) to gauge management of each business various stakeholders, including local people, customers, segment and each group company. During 2017 we are and subcontractors. This episode was also highly regarded studying how effectively the indicator can be adopted and by our customers. Continual technology innovation, talents utilized as a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) by each Group investment, and capital expenditures have enabled us to company. We then plan to introduce it in 2018 and beyond. out-do our competitors, resulting in an increase in our global The adoption of the benchmark is not to restrict investment market share of mass flow controllers from less than 25% in to realize a high goal; rather, we are hoping to earn the early 2000’s to 57% in 2016. appropriate return on investment by each business for our We are, however, not satisfied with the current level. We still further growth. (See our detailed discussion on this initiative have big business fields where our market share can rise. In to raise capital efficiency, in the CFO Message, pages 17 LEDs, photovoltaics, and other new areas with long-term and 18.) · We regard all HORIBA employees as one family and as our HORIBA’s precious talents. idea on · We continuously invest in our valuable assets, namely talents value and technologies, to enhance our competitiveness. creation · Together with owners (shareholders) and all other stakeholders, we raise corporate value. HORIBA Report 2016 | 12 Message from the CEO 1 Renewing record-high earnings in 2017 In 2016 (ended December 31, 2016), HORIBA recorded consolidated net sales of ¥170.0 billion (down 1% year-onyear) and operating income of ¥18.4 billion (down 8% year-on-year). This was mainly due to a 32% decline from the previous year in the Automotive Test Systems segment, due to the yen’s appreciation and an increase in expenses related to the start-up of the HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR, Biwako Factory. In contrast, the Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment achieved record-high operating income, 3 thanks to robust capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers and an increase in global share for mass flow controllers for semiconductor production equipment. For 2017, we are targeting to achieve record-high sales, at ¥177.0 billion (up 4% year-on-year), and record-high operating income, at ¥20.0 billion (up 8% year-on-year)*, assuming the exchange rates of ¥110 against the U.S. dollar and ¥120 against the euro. The Automotive Test Systems segment is expected to significantly increase sales and operating income due to strong demand in emission 5 measurement systems on the back of stricter emission gas regulations in many countries, and a recovery in demand in the MCT (Mechatronics) business. The Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment is also looking forward to an increase in sales and operating income as demand is anticipated to remain at a high level. While the MedicalDiagnostic Instruments & Systems segment is forecasting a decrease in operating income due to forward-looking investments, the Scientific as well as the Process & 7 Environmental Instruments & Systems segments are projecting an increase in operating income. Finally, our targets for MLMAP2020 are sales of ¥250.0 billion and operating income of ¥30.0 billion in 2020 (see details and updates on pages 15 and 16). Enhancing our “Invisible Values” to raise corporate value HORIBA regards employees as important “Invisible Values.” In 2014 we launched the “HORIBA Stained Glass Project.” 9 With the mission of making HORIBA stronger by the continual creation of new value through HORIBARIANs’ diverse talents and skillsets, we are promoting more diversity in our workforce as a basis for management and workstyle innovation (see page 36). 1 Atsushi Horiba Chairman, President & CEO * The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries had formerly 3 Dr. Masayuki Adachi Senior Managing Director General Manager of Research &Development Division recognized revenue mainly on a shipping basis. However, starting from the Chairman of supervisory board of HORIBA France S.A.S. year ended December 31, 2016, the Company and its domestic consolidated 5 Dr. Jai Hakhu Executive Corporate Officer subsidiaries have changed to a revenue recognition method using the completion Chairman, President & CEO of HORIBA International date of installation or a delivery date basis under the terms and conditions of Corporation(U.S.) Chairman of HORIBA Instruments Inc. (U.S.) contracts. The forecasts for fiscal 2017, announced on February 14, 2017, the day President of HORIBA ABX S.A.S. (France) of announcement of financial results, would not be record-highs when compared Senior Corporate Officer to the retrospectively-revised results for fiscal 2015. In the CEO message, 7 Hideyuki Koishi President of HORIBA STEC Co., Ltd. (Japan) comparison is made using the reported results, before retrospectively applying Senior Corporate Officer the change in revenue recognition. 9 Dr. George Gillespie CEO of HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. (U.K.) 13 2 In 2011 we signed the United Nations Global Compact, a set of universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We ensure that when we conduct business we are rooted in each country and region, together with local employees, and understand the relevant diverse cultures, customs and values to ensure that we make a positive social contribution wherever we do business. In keeping with the corporate philosophy of “Open and Fair,” HORIBA has, since its establishment in 1953, always 4 appointed at least one director and one corporate auditor from outside the company. In 2016 we added two outside directors to have three in total for the enhancement of the board (four in the number of independent directors and auditors). Outside directors have diverse experience and unique insights, actively participate in the board meetings and contribute to enhance HORIBA’s corporate value. HORIBA has regarded shareholders as one of its most important stakeholders and has frequently called them 6 owners. Since our founded, we have also been unique as a Japanese company to allocate profit and pay shareholder dividends based on a payout ratio. Today, our basic policy on returning profits to owners (shareholders) is to target total returns to shareholders at 30% of HORIBA’s consolidated net income (the combination of dividend payments and share buybacks), balancing this with other targets for maintaining financial position standards to enable continuous investment regardless of economic ups and downs, and enable ROE of 10%. In fiscal 2016, we paid a 8 record-high annual dividend per share of ¥85. For fiscal 2017, we are currently forecasting an increase of annual dividend per share to ¥90. We are committed to contributing to society by providing our “Measurement Technologies” for the benefit of our global customers while working with a sense of challenge and the “Joy and Fun” spirit. I sincerely hope that you will continue to support HORIBA for many years to come, as we 10 are aiming at steadily raising sustainable corporate value. April 2017 Chairman, President & CEO Atsushi Horiba 2 Juichi Saito Executive Vice President General Manager of Corporate & Segment Strategy Division 4 Takashi Nagano Director General Manager of Sales Division Chairman of HORIBA Korea Ltd. (South Korea) 6 Sunao Kikkawa Senior Corporate Officer General Manager of Finance & Control Division 8 Yuichi Muroga Senior Corporate Officer President of HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd. (Japan) 10 Masao Okawa Senior Corporate Officer General Manager of General Administration Division HORIBA Report 2016 | 14 Progress of the Mid-Long Term Management Plan [MLMAP2020] Progress of the Mid-Long Term Management Plan MLMAP2020 M i d Lo n g Te r m M a n a g e m e n t Pl a n After completing the Mid-Long Term Management Plan [2011-2015], HORIBA formulated a new plan, MLMAP2020, for the five-year period from fiscal 2016 to fiscal 2020. Here we report the progress made in the first year, fiscal 2016. Business Portfolio Target The business portfolio target for 2020, under MLMAP 2020, envisions well-balanced growth and profitability in all business segments. In addition to seeking business growth of each segment, we will promote the cross-segment use of technology and sales networks, which also means providing new applications. The operating income to net sales of 10% or more in all business segments is also a part of the new plan’s targets. What we aspire to be in MLMAP2020 2006 2010 2010 2015 2015 2020 35% 35% 35% Operating Income to Net Sales in the final year 30% 30% 30% Semiconductor Process & Semiconductor Environmental Medical-Diagnostic 25% 25% 25% Automotive 20% 20% 20% Scientific Medical-Diagnostic Semiconductor 15% 15% Process & 15% Scientific Environmental Medical-Diagnostic 10% 10% 10% Process & Environmental Scientific 5% 5% 5% Automotive Automotive 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% Compound Average Growth Rate in sales Vertical Operating Income to Net Horizontal Compound Average Growth Size of The size of the bubbles represents axis Sales in the final year axis Rate in sales circle sales proportionately Automotive Process & Environmental Medical-Diagnostic Semiconductor Scientific 15 MLMAP2020 Outline Measures Numerical target 250billion yen Applying HORIBA Technology in new business fields and new markets to move Net sales “ONE STEP AHEAD” 1 Priority measures Applying HORIBA technology in new business fields and markets and Operating income 30billion yen 10%or more becoming a true partner in analysis and measurement 2 Accelerating corporate growth through forming Super Dream Team in balanced ROE management, matrix organization and the HORIBA Stained Glass Project 3 Raising capital efficiency to maximize corporate value * Assumed exchange rates for 2020: 115 yen per U.S. dollar; 125 yen per euro Main Emphases in 2016 1 Accelerated growth in the water measurement 2 Achieving MLMAP2020 targets by business Super Dream Team HORIBA aims to expand the water measurement business by eliminating HORIBA is engaged in global business in niche markets of analysis barriers between three business segments that are engaged in water and measurement. Regarding continuous business expansion, we will analysis and measurement (the Process & Environmental, Semiconductor, realize sustainable business growth and high market shares by and Scientific Instruments & Systems segments) and by promoting the concurrently holding several ¥50 billion scale businesses. Adding our shared use of their technology and sales networks. Resources in Japan business segments to 6th or 7th will lead to company scale growth and were integrated in HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd., an acknowledged realization of sustainable growth while maintaining high share in each leader in water and liquid measurement. This subsidiary will respond to all area. Such strategy can be realized by our diverse Super Dream water-related customer demand, from domestic-use water to industrial-use Team. precision water and pollution testing. Upon completion of business integration of two companies, HORIBA, Ltd., and HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd., in the water measurement area in January 2017, central offices of HORIBA’s associates who are specialized in water measurement have all joined together at the Kyoto Head Office of HORIBA Ltd., to improve interaction and accelerate development. Consolidation of resources in water measurement in HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd. Process & Environmental 20.0 Super Dream Team Integration at all phases of development, Semiconductor production, and sales for products and Scientific technologies held by HORIBA Group companies and three business segments (Process & Billions of yen 10.0 Environmental, Semiconductor, and Scientific Instruments & Systems segments) 11.5 12.0 Balanced Matrix HORIBA’s unique value creation management HORIBA Stained organization + + 6.0 Aim at doubling sales in the water Flexibly utilize Glass Project/ Manage business by measurement area management Blackjack Project business segment and Wide coverage, from ultra-pure water to resources by region Realize HORIBA style Promote shared discharged wastewater 4.0 Select and focus on diversity services Precise responses to market requirements the target business for investment Creation of a water measurement network by 2015 2016 2020 use of Internet of Things. (Plan) 3-1 Adoption of a new indicator for improving 3-2 Established finance subsidiaries capital efficiency in the U.K. and the U.S. To achieve MLMAP2020 targets, we adopted the indicator. It will be Finance subsidiaries were established in the U.K. and the U.S. in used to measure two important factors, namely operating income and December 2016 and January 2017, respectively. HORIBA intends to capital efficiency. enhance group finance capacity in each region and use funds more efficiently. See details on pages 17 and 18. See details on pages 17 and 18. Schedule for adoption of a benchmark Feb. 2017 Adoption of a benchmark was decided. Spring to summer 2017 Briefings to group companies in Japan and overseas and to each business segment Autumn 2017 Start 2018 budgeting work Winter 2017 Set up as 2018 budget HORIBA Report 2016 | 16 Message from the CFO HORIBA is taking new initiatives to raise asset efficiency, with the aim of maximizing corporate value over the long-term Sunao Kikkawa Senior Corporate Officer General Manager of Finance & Control Division Sunao Kikkawa Senior Corporate Officer and General Manager of Finance & Control Division Sunao Kikkawa joined HORIBA, Ltd. in 1974. He was assigned to HORIBA Instruments Incorporated (U.S.) in 1982 and returned to HORIBA, Ltd. in 1988. He was appointed General Manager of the Accounting Department in 1996 and Senior Corporate Officer in 2007. He has been a key person in globalizing HORIBA’s accounting operations along with the Group’s globalization and maintaining compliance with international accounting standards. At present he is engaged in raising efficiency in capital strategy and group administrative operations as Senior Corporate Officer and General Manager of the Finance & Control Division. target total returns (the combined amount of dividend Aggressive investments with a long-term payments and share buybacks) to owners (shareholders) at perspective 30% of consolidated net income. Accordingly, we increased HORIBA has invested in production facilities, R&D activities, the dividend per share by ¥15 from the previous year to ¥85 and talents from a long-term perspective. In 2015 we in fiscal 2016 and are projecting an increase of ¥5 to pay a invested approximately ¥10 billion, the highest amount in dividend per share of ¥90 in fiscal 2017. We intend to our history for one production base, in building HORIBA continually increase rewards to owners (shareholders) in line BIWAKO E-HARBOR, Shiga prefecture in Japan, and the with growth in earnings, driven by business growth. highest amount for an acquisition, U.K.-based MIRA, Ltd., now HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. In 2016 we did not make any major Dividend payments and total return ratio acquisitions but continued capital spending of more than Dividend per share (right) ¥10 billion for HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. and others. In 2017 we Total return ratio (left) Change in dividend policy % [including commemorative yen will continue a high level of investment. Our plan is to 90 dividends and share buybacks] Fiscal 2013 and after 90 continue investment in HORIBA MIRA, Ltd., and to make additional investment in the HORIBA STEC Aso Factory in Target 30% in total return ratio the Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment. We will 60 60 also actively consider any promising M&A opportunity which helps further HORIBA’s growth. 30 30 Shareholder return target of 30% of consolidated net income 0 0 Since fiscal 2013, HORIBA’s shareholder return policy is to 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 17 Basic capital policy 1 Achieve higher ROE As stated in our MLMAP2020 HORIBA aims to achieve 2 Link shareholder return to earnings growth We target total returns (the combination of dividend 3 Improve capital efficiency to maximize corporate value Each Group company and each business segment are ROE of 10% or more by 2020. ROE is one of our most payments and share buybacks) to shareholders as to set their own capital efficiency target and manage important management metrics. 30% of consolidated net income. This target reflects efficiently in order to maximize HORIBA’s corporate due consideration given to ensuring a stable value. management and retaining earnings as a capital for aggressive business development. indicator can be adopted and utilized by each Group Introduction of a new indicator for realizing the company. We then plan to implement it in 2018 and beyond. enhancement of capital efficiency We will set a guideline for return a few years ahead for each In MLMAP2020 we have set numerical targets for 2020: investment project, with due consideration of asset turnover, sales of ¥250 billion, operating income of ¥30 billion, and cash flow, and other factors. Importantly, the adoption of ROE of 10% or more. One of the plan’s priority measures is the new indicator is not to restrict investment but to to raise capital efficiency to maximize corporate value. maximize return. We hope a thorough understanding of this We have recently decided to adopt a new management indicator, from top management and through the regional indicator for realizing this objective. Up to the present, we level, will help create an effective implementation. have explicitly identified the ROE target and operating income margin of each business segment (20% for the Established finance subsidiaries in the U.K. and the Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment and 10% U.S. for other segments) but have not had any common yardstick We have established two fully-owned subsidiaries for to evaluate balance sheets, investments, and returns on expertizing in finance: HORIBA U.K. Finance Limited in invested capital. As we considered a series of large December 2016 and HORIBA Americas Holding investments, including the construction of HORIBA BIWAKO Incorporated in January 2017. One of the reasons for this E-HARBOR and the acquisition of HORIBA MIRA, Ltd., we is to locally manage financial matters and flexibly use focus on the importance of raising capital efficiency, while cash in local currency, as our overseas Group companies maintaining business growth. We are considering creating are growing. Until now, when overseas group companies an indicator composed of the weighted average cost of have capital demands, HORIBA Ltd. funded them. Going capital (WACC) and operating income. The new indicator will forward, these finance subsidiaries will lend to Group be a message to each business segment to be aware of the business companies, based on the investment plan, with critical importance of realizing a certain return when making emphasis on investment return. The introduction of a a big investment. In the case of HORIBA MIRA, Ltd., we group finance scheme is ultimately aimed at raising realized the need for a new indicator to measure return on capital efficiency of the Group, while encouraging capital investment. overseas Group companies to autonomously maintain During fiscal 2017 we are discussing how effectively the discipline in management of capital and assets. Total assets and return on assets Approach for the enhancement of capital efficiency Examples of activity Total Assets (left) Return on Assets (right) Value drivers targets by segment Millions of yen % 250,000 10.0 New sales channels development Net sales 200,000 8.0 New products launch Operating Cost of Sales income 150,000 6.1 5.9 6.1 5.9 6.0 Selling, 5.2 5.0 5.2 5.5 general and 5.3 administrative 100,000 4.2 4.0 expenses Inventory optimization 50,000 2.4 2.0 Working capital Lead time reduction Invested capital Fixed assets Early collection of 0 129,236 154,367 133,279 129,580 137,290 144,649 153,836 189,269 207,335 231,032 239,657 0 accounts receivable 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 HORIBA Report 2016 | 18 Business outline Business segments to expand globally Automotive Test Systems Principal products Major risk factors HORIBA’s automotive EMS (Emission Measurement Emission measurement systems The global automotive Systems) are adopted as the primary standard by national Automotive emission analyzers industry’s shifting R&D Onboard emission measurement systems investments certification bodies in many countries and have an 80%* Driveline test systems global market share. HORIBA provides the EMS and other Engine test systems measurement systems for automotive development and Brake test systems vehicle development engineering, enhancing the R&D Drive recorders efforts and quality control of automotive manufacturers and Vehicle development engineering Testing engineering automotive component manufacturers around the world. Lease and management of R&D facilities * HORIBA’s estimate Process & Environmental Instruments & Systems HORIBA provides environmental measurement solution Stack gas analyzers Demand fluctuation technologies associated with environmental regulations Water quality analysis following changes and examination systems in environmental throughout the world. Together with providing process Air pollution analyzers regulations measurement technologies, which fulfill analytical needs Environmental radiation in manufacturing development, we ensure better public monitors safety, security, and health. Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems HORIBA medical products are primarily blood testing Hematology analyzers Changes in medical instruments and reagents for the in-vitro diagnostics Immunology analyzers insurance systems in Clinical chemistry analyzers different countries market, with over ¥5 trillion in global annual sales. We have Blood glucose analyzers strength in small-sized blood testing instruments are used Coagulation analyzers near the site where patients are located such as a surgery ward, a hospital ward, or a clinic for outpatients. Semiconductor Instruments & Systems HORIBA contributes to the semiconductor industry Mass flow controllers Significant fluctuation in by supplying mass flow controllers, which are devices Chemical concentration monitors demand caused by the Reticle/mask particle detection systems “Silicon Cycle” in the that control gas and liquid flows in the semiconductor, Residual gas analyzers semiconductor industry photovoltaics, and LED (light-emitted diode) manufacturing and investments related processes, and other monitoring systems. to photovoltaics, LEDs, and other energy sources Scientific Instruments & Systems HORIBA provides over 500 types of instruments for use at pH meters Investment trend of the leading edge of scientific technology and commands Particle-size distribution analyzers national government X-ray fluorescence analyzers agencies and leading market shares in niche markets. The Scientific Spectrometers other institutions Instruments & Systems segment develops basic analytical Raman spectrometers Demand fluctuation and measurement technologies, which play key roles in Gratings following changes providing new technologies to HORIBA’s other business in environmental segments. regulations 19 Sales by region Sales by business segment Major customers Product applications Sales by region Automotive manufacturers, Development of new Europe 31% Japan 31% automotive component gasoline, diesel and manufacturers, hybrid powertrains, multipurpose motor vehicle certification and manufacturers, quality control, in-use government regulatory vehicle inspections agencies, oil companies, automotive maintenance and repair centers Japan Americas 15% Asia 23% 36% 33% Yen Manufacturers, government Measurement of gaseous Europe 12% Japan 54% agencies, electric power emissions, wastewater companies and water supplies, environmental pollution monitoring, environmental radiation measurement equipment Americas 18% Asia 16% 10% Asia Medical testing centers, Health and diagnostic Europe 35% Japan 22% 26% small to medium-sized testing, disease diagnosis hospitals, medical practitioners 16% U.S. dollars Americas 25% Asia 18% Semiconductor production Flow control of Europe 5% Japan 38% Americas equipment manufacturers, semiconductor device makers gases and liquids, monitoring of cleaning fluid concentrations 18% 23% in semiconductor manufacturing processes, semiconductor and LCD quality control inspections Americas 13% Asia 44% Manufacturers, research R&D, product quality Europe 22% Japan 29% institutions, universities, testing, criminal forensics Europe 23% government agencies, Euro electric power companies 15% Americas 25% Asia 24% HORIBA Report 2016 | 20 Business outline Automotive Test Systems ITS business 3% ECT business 12% EMS business 64% 2016 Net sales Sales breakdown 62.2 Billions of yen MCT business 21% Providing powerful support to the automotive development industry HORIBA’s automotive EMS (Emission Measurement Systems) are used by national certification bodies throughout the world and hold a global market share of 80%*. HORIBA provides complete test and measurement solutions to the world’s leading automotive manufacturers, including test systems for chassis, engines, power trains, catalysts and brakes. In July 2015 HORIBA acquired HORIBA MIRA, Ltd., a U.K. registered vehicle engineering consultancy and testing services provider. With the addition of HORIBA MIRA, Ltd., the company has expanded beyond analysis and measurement to include the Engineering Consultancy & Testing (ECT) business. It is now well positioned to respond to diverse customer demands as future mobility requirements expand to include advanced vehicle performance, autonomous vehicle development, and general vehicle R&D challenges. * Estimate by HORIBA 2016 results: Decrease in sales and operating income due to stagnant MCT business, despite full-year contribution of the ECT business. Robust sales and operating income of emission measurement systems 2017 forecasts: Expecting solid demand, triggered by new emission gas regulations. A recovery in the MCT business is also anticipated, as well as profitability improvement In 2016, on top of increased sales of emission measurement systems driven by tighter global automotive emission regulations, sales of the ECT business contributed to the overall sales on a full-year basis. On the other hand, there was a decrease in overseas sales due to the yen’s appreciation. There was also a decrease in overall MCT (Mechatronics) sales as customers Net sales and operating income temporarily became cautious regarding investment decisions. Overall operating income Billions of yen Billions of yen decreased year-on-year due to expenses associated with the move to HORIBA BIWAKO 120 15 E-HARBOR, which started full operation in May 2016, and to a sales decrease in the MCT business. In 2017 sales and operating income are expected to increase year-on-year. Sales of emission Net sales (left) Operating income (right) measurement systems are likely to be firm due to tighter automotive emission regulations, while Operating income plan for 2020 (right) sales in the MCT business are also projected to increase significantly following an anticipated demand recovery. 80 10 Mid-long term strategy: To have a larger role as a development partner with engineering capability, and a smaller role as just a product provider for automotive developers. 40 5 HORIBA will expand its business competencies by capitalizing on the cross-over technologies in its new ECT business and the existing automotive testing operations in the EMS, MCT, and Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) businesses. In Europe, the Real Driving Emissions (RDE) regulation, on-road emissions testing of light vehicles with mandatory limits, will start in September 2017 and a similar regulation will be enforced in Japan in 2022. HORIBA will leverage 0 0 its strong branding position and 80% global share in emission measurement systems for 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 laboratory testing to achieve a high market share in the RDE regulation business. (Plan) Automotive 21 Automotive Test Systems: Market size and HORIBA’s Automotive Test Systems segment growth areas sales and major automakers’ R&D spending HORIBA’s automotive segment sales (left: Billions of yen) Aggregate R&D spending by 3 German automakers (right: Million Euro) HORIBA business Electric and fuel Market size Aggregate R&D spending by 2 U.S. automakers (right: Million US$) divisions Gasoline & diesel Hybrid (Billions of yen) cells HORIBA’s estimate Aggregate R&D spending by 3 Japanese automakers (right; 100 Million yen) 80 28,000 EMS Emissions measurement 50~60 business 60 21,000 Engine performance testing 100~120 MCT Vehicle body, wind tunnel balance, brake testing 15~20 business Driveline testing 30~40 40 14,000 ITS business Safety and ITS 10~15 20 7,000 Vehicle design development, ECT vehicle performance testing 2,000~ business Lease of R&D facilities 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: HORIBA’s survey based on companies’ disclosed materials Trend of automobile-related regulations 1. Development of the Worldwide harmonized Light 2. Progression of emission standards duty vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) and the Real by region/country Region/country standard Testing method Driving Emissions (RDE) regulation Begin the Real Driving Euro 5 Emissions (RDE) regulation In 2014 the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Adopt the WLTP (UNECE) introduced the WLTP to provide a common technical Europe Euro 6b regulation for measurement of exhaust emissions and fuel Euro 6d RDE regulation consumption for light duty vehicles. This will replace the current Adopt the WLTP test methods used in Europe (September 2017), Japan (October Post new long-term regulations 2018), and potentially other countries or regions. Japan Next regulation Moreover, the decision to adopt the Real Driving Emissions (RDE), which uses on-board gas measurement systems for emissions testing of light vehicles in Europe and Japan, has Tier 2 CFR1066 required automotive manufactures to prepare for change. U.S. Federal Tier 3 California LEV III China IV China China V China VI Bharat Stage IV India Bharat Stage VI 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Present Sources: HORIBA’s survey based on materials of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry; Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism; Japan Automotive Manufacturers Association Inc.; and others Major products and market shares Note: Market shares quoted are estimates by HORIBA Emission measurement systems Driveline test systems These systems continuously and simultaneously measure a wide range of gaseous The driveline is an extremely important part of the overall powertrain that and particle components in emission gases over a broad range of concentrations. transmits energy from engines or motors to the vehicles’ tires. HORIBA’s driveline They are widely used in R&D and engine/vehicle certification in the automotive test systems use the latest simulation technology for a wide range of powertrain industry. The systems include large-scale systems installed inside a laboratory, in and driveline testing applications. which HORIBA holds an 80% global share, and on-board configurations for road HORIBA’s strength is demonstrated by providing flexible systems based on tests. custom and open solutions. Test Systems World market Segment sales World market Segment sales share share share share 80% 48% 15% 4% HORIBA Report 2016 | 22 Business outline Evolution of vehicle technologies and HORIBA’s growth strategy in the automotive test system business The number of light vehicles in the world is expected to continue increasing given the growth rate of the population. While conventional gasoline and diesel vehicles are likely to increase in the future, the number of hybrid and plug-in hybrid vehicles will increase at a higher rate. In addition, fuel efficiency and emission regulations continue to become more stringent, resulting in continuing need to improve engines and power trains. In addition, the development of electric vehicles will accelerate and the development of technologies related to autonomous driving vehicles will become increasingly important. HORIBA has a high market share in the EMS business and has expanded its business field to the entire vehicle power train areas by acquiring the MCT business. The acquisition of the ECT business in 2015 has led to entry into the engineering business for automotive development in general. HORIBA aims to contribute to development and testing of autonomous driving technology, which has a very high growth potential. Growth forecasts of light duty vehicles by the power train method (source: IEA Energy Technology Perspectives 2012) 200 Market for light vehicles (million units) HORIBA Automotive Test Systems segment’s target market size over ¥2 trillion 2017 ECT Development of vehicles with Fuel cells new power sources 150 Electric Diffusion of Autonomous driving vehicles MCT Increase in the Diversification in ratio of electric vehicle 100 EMS vehicles development Plug-in Hybrid (Diesel) Increase in Plug-in Hybrid (Gasoline) Increase in demand for testing vehicles with Development of Hybrid (Diesel) engines electric vehicles Hybrid (Gasoline) 50 Ratio of vehicles with engines: Tighter fuel CNG/LPG efficiency over 70 % (2040) Diesel regulations Gasoline Increase in need to improve engines 0 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Enhanced efficiency of engines Development of electric vehicles HORIBA’s Testing environment in order to cope with advanced HORIBA’s Power Train Testing, Simulation of Batteries and service emission regulations service Electric Motors, Testing of Output of Motors, Evaluation of Charge and Discharge of Batteries by Many countries across the world are introducing tighter emission fuel efficiency Use of a Simulator regulations and at the same time are making stricter requirements for testing equipment and procedure for real world emissions. Vehicle development is Development of vehicles has become increasingly complex, due to the variety of becoming more diversified, encompassing gasoline, diesel, hybrid, and plug-in applicable power sources and transmissions, such as hybrid and electric hybrid vehicles, and industry must respond to prescribed regulations for each vehicles. Consequently the testing and measurement of power trains has become type. In such a complex environment, HORIBA will be providing measurement increasingly important, in addition to the traditional emission and fuel economy equipment that matches those requirements. testing. HORIBA is able to provide flexible testing systems, which can be used equally for a system evaluation of power trains as well as for evaluation of electric motors. The electric motor testing facility The emission gas testing lab and the centralized control room of HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR in HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR Development of Autonomous vehicles HORIBA’s Development of autonomous driving service technology; providing of testing environment In the ECT business, acquired in 2015, HORIBA is engaged in the development of Autonomous vehicles that use autonomous driving and remote control technology. An autonomous driving testing environment is available at HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. proving ground. Panoramic view of HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. Demonstration of Autonomous driving technology at HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. 23 Emerging market strategy: “HORIBA India Technical Center” opened HORIBA India Private Limited opened the Technical Center in November 2016 in Pune in the western part of India. The city is known for hosting various automotive related companies. The Technical Center comprises test facilities equipped with HORIBA’s emission measurement systems and engine testing systems. The center also provides a place for live product demonstrations with real-time monitoring to HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR. It also offers engineering services in response to current and future customer needs. HORIBA will enhance the capacity to respond locally as air pollution challenges are expected to increase and the need for developing high-efficiency and low emission vehicles increase in India. HORIBA India Technical Center Blackjack The “Blackjack Project” supported “Technology Translocation (Sengu)” See details of the Blackjack Project on page 35. In May 2016, HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR started full operation. Relocation to the new facility went smoothly due to Blackjack Project Examples of Blackjack Project themes concerning kaizen initiatives and helped break-down department boundaries the move to HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR “Technology Translocation (Sengu)” was spearheaded by young members. 1. Make smooth-flowing connecting lines 2. Aging without stagnation “Technology Translocation (Sengu)” 3. Realize constant material injection We intend to transfer our core technologies, accumulated in Kyoto over a period of 70 years, into the hands of a new generation of engineers that will lead to new development capabilities and the expansion of production capacity. We named it “Technology Translocation,” making it a driver toward technological Other themes also contributed to the smooth innovation. The Japanese word “Sengu” translated as “Translocation” refers to the tradition of passing process of this large-scale relocation. on of skills to build a shrine from one generation of carpenters to the next. Example of the Blackjack Project Outcome of the activities Let’s set up! One Team MCT! HORIBA 1 Reduction in the number of in-house processes Proactive initiatives to reduce the lead time 2 Smoother communication among departments, less stressful work environment Specifications of some MCT products sold in Japan are determined based on coordination among customers, HORIBA’s sales department, and system design department. After the move to HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR, the departments, which were located on different floors in the Kyoto Head Office, have all been gathered on the Customers 1 Shorter delivery time same floor. This move created more communication and increased cooperation. As a result, coordination times were reduced and the specification sheet was standardized, resulting in a 50% reduction in the lead time from preparation at the sales department to specification decision. Such successful example will be shared with other departments within HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR, so as to further enhance customer satisfaction. Theme leader Satoshi Okada HORIBA, Ltd. Production Division decision accep Inquiry procure install trial money specifi design ment production ment tance operation inspection received cation 50% reduction in lead time Panoramic view of the office in HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR HORIBA Report 2016 | 24 Business outline Process & Environmental Instruments & Systems Other 18% Stack gas analysis 37% 2016 Net sales Sales breakdown Air pollution analysis 13% 16.7 Billions of yen Water quality analysis 32% HORIBA helps develop measurement technology for global environmental preservation and production and quality management processes We supply a broad range of analysis and measurement instruments for analyzing air pollution, water quality, and soil quality. We play an important role in gas measurement and monitoring of industrial liquid waste in the energy and heavy chemical industries, including the electric power, steel, and chemical industries; purified water management for medical and semiconductor use; and constant monitoring and control of water quality in the pharmaceutical, food, and cosmetics fields. In essence, HORIBA’s contribution supports public safety, security, and health in addition to global environmental preservation. 2016 results: Robust sales of stack gas analyzers in Japan and process measurement systems in the Americas. 2017 forecasts: Expect robust sales of stack gas analyzers and focus on expanding waterrelated businesses. Net sales and operating income In 2016, sales of stack gas analyzers for thermal power plants and factories were robust in Billions of yen Billions of yen Japan. In addition, the process measurement systems business in the Americas was firm. 30 3 However, deteriorated profitability in overseas projects resulted in a year-on-year decrease in segment operating income, despite a sales gain. Net sales (left) Operating income (right) In 2017 we aim at recording year-on-year increase in sales and operating income, by achieving Operating income plan for 2020 (right) continued firm sales of stack gas analyzers and by expanding the water-related business, mainly in Japan and Asia, as one of the priority measures of the MLMAP2020. See details of HORIBA’s water business on page 16, featuring MLMAP2020. 20 2 Mid-long term strategy: Value creation in the context of environmental regulations and process measurement equipment 10 1 In the environmental and analytical instrument markets in emerging nations, HORIBA will develop business by utilizing its accumulated know-how and experience in Japan, Europe, and the Americas. We also aim to increase market share in the global water quality measurement business, by collaborating with the water-related business of our other business segments. As to our process measurement equipment business, we aim to expand business in the petroleum 0 0 refining and petrochemical industries, and intend to increase the recognition given to the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 HORIBA brand in Japan and overseas. (Plan) Process & En 25 ENVIRONMENT Major products and targeted markets HORIBA’s water quality measuring instruments are being applied to the wastewater treatment facilities in Stack gas analyzers Myanmar, as a part of a model project supported by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan HORIBA is the leading market share* in Japan for continuous emission In Myanmar, specific regulations, standards, or penalties for industrial monitoring systems used in plants and waste have not yet been established, and most factories are not other facilities that generate gaseous equipped with wastewater treatment facilities. Having conducted an emissions and soot. Our instruments environmental survey in Myanmar, HORIBA made a proposal and have established a widely recognized introduced its water quality measuring instruments in the “Model Project credibility for robust and reliable for Improvement of Water Environment in Asia,” which is promoted by the sampling systems, which are essential Ministry of the Environment of Japan, jointly with Hitachi Zosen in continuous measurement of a Corporation. HORIBA will continue to contribute to the promotion of variety of gases. The analyzers are environmental preservation in emerging countries and focus on used in applications for power enhancing the HORIBA brand. generation, petrochemicals, steel, paper, foods, and pharmaceuticals. * HORIBA’s estimate Maintenance work of Air pollution analyzers measurement instruments in HORIBA’s air pollution analyzers have Myanmar won high acclaim in the field as highly reliable analyzers that demonstrate excellent precision and long-term stability at ppb* concentrations. They are used in over 50 countries to monitor air quality by municipal North American process measurement system governments and private industries. business is steadily growing. Demand has been expanding for The process measurement equipment business we acquired from the U.S. PM2.5-related monitoring. corporation Cameron in 2013 generated about ¥1.8 billion in sales and recorded operating income for the second consecutive year in 2016. We have established a structure that enables us to provide collectively, the equipment needed in the * ppb: parts per billion. One part per billion denotes one part per 1,000,000,000 parts. This notation is mainly process of petrochemical refining, dissolution, and processing. used for describing low concentration measurements. In March 2017, we relocated to a new expanded office in Houston, a U.S. center of the petrochemical industry, to accelerate business expansion in the process measurement field. Water quality analyzers HORIBA‘s products are used for monitoring and control in water treatment processes. We have a wide-ranging water quality product line to measure pH, the basic water quality indicator, as well as chemical oxygen demand (COD), total nitrogen, and total phosphorous. Our products have been highly evaluated in the water quality analysis field by companies in the electric power, gas, petrochemical, steel, paper, food, and pharmaceutical industries. Analyzer house Houston office Major products and market shares Note: Market shares quoted are estimates by HORIBA. Stack gas analyzers H-1 series of industrial water quality analyzers These analyzers provide highly sensitive and precise These industrial water quality analyzers perform in a wide range of applications from pure water measurements of NOx, SO 2, CO, CO 2, and O 2 constituents in for semiconductor and food to water treatment to sewage and industrial wastewater. They gases emitted by boilers and furnaces in thermal power stations confirm progress in wastewater treatment processes and control water treatment equipment. and refuse incineration facilities. A single unit can Moreover, we have developed pH electrodes that resist damage in harsh environment by simultaneously and continuously measure all five gases. strengthening their toughness, thereby reducing the frequency of electrode replacement and HORIBA has the top market share in this competitive market in maintenance operations. By responding to expanding worldwide needs for remote monitoring Japan and seeks sales growth in the global market. services in water and sewage quality management and process monitoring, HORIBA pursues sales growth in the global market. vironmental Japan Segment Japan Segment market share sales share market share sales share (Total of water (Total of water 50% 36% quality analyzers) quality analyzers) 20% 32% HORIBA Report 2016 | 26 Business outline Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems Coagulation 4% Immunology 5% Clinical chemistry, Blood glucose 16% 2016 Net sales Sales breakdown 26.5 Hematology 75% Billions of yen Contributing to a healthy life through in-vitro testing equipment In the global market of in-vitro diagnostic; HORIBA provides instruments and reagents for blood sample testing throughout the world. The segment’s business model is based on recurring revenues generated from sales of reagents. We aim to ensure stable earnings by expanding our installed base of medical diagnostic instruments. In particular, HORIBA’s strength is in small and medium-sized hematology analyzers in the diagnostic market for Point of Care Testing (POCT), including small to medium-sized hospitals, clinics, test centers and surgery centers. 2016 results: Robust sales of new products in Japan 2017 forecasts: Launch new products in Europe Net sales and operating income Billions of yen Billions of yen In 2016 sales of the hematology and C-Reactive Protein (CRP) analyzers, which were launched 40 8 in 2015 in Japan, were favorable. However, the yen’s appreciation against the euro resulted in a decrease in the value of European sales expressed in yen. As a result, segment operating income increased year-on-year despite sales decreased. Net sales (left) Operating income (right) In 2017 we will continue to focus on expanding sales of hematology and CRP analyzers in Operating income plan for 2020 (right) Japan. In addition, we plan to launch new medium and large-sized hematology analyzers in 30 6 Europe. However, anticipating stagnant demand conditions in Europe and the Americas, segment sales and operating income are expected to decrease year-on-year. 20 4 Mid-long term strategy: Increase sales by launching new products and expanding into new areas At present, HORIBA’s strengths reside in having development bases in Japan and France and a 10 2 local supply infrastructure of testing reagents in China, India, and Brazil, with their high expected demand for reagents. We aim to globally introduce small and medium-size hematology and CRP analyzers, which are highly regarded in Japan, and to launch at an early date new mediumto large-sized products. Moreover, we are interested in cooperating with 0 0 other companies through M&A and OEM arrangements, so as to expand into new areas in the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 in-vitro testing market. (Plan) Medical-Dia27 SOCIAL Business development by test category HORIBA aims to be acknowledged as a clinical solution partner by strengthening the data management and automation areas and expanding product development either by ourselves or through collaboration with other companies. HORIBA participated in the 6th TICAD VI HORIBA participated in the 6th Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD VI) in August 2016. HORIBA ABX S.A.S. in France has had a presence in North Africa, mostly in Francophone countries, for Clinical Test category Hematology Immunology Coagulation about 30 years. In Africa, electricity supply tends to be unstable due to chemistry planned interruptions and other reasons, and purified water is hard to procure, resulting in adoption of expendables that do not need cleaning. Market size ¥2 trillion ¥0.35 trillion ¥2 trillion ¥0.2 trillion In order to reduce the problems caused by various diseases, including malaria and other infectious diseases, HORIBA contributes to improving Field in which HORIBA the living of African people through provision of its in-vitro diagnostic Large hospitals Hematology Testing centers analyzer systems exhibits strength instruments. Hospitals Clinical chemistry Small and analyzers medium-sized hospitals Small and medium-sized Coagulation Private practitioners CRP analysis hematology reagents analyzers Blood glucose measurement Hospital units and systems surgery rooms (POCT) HORIBA’s hematology instrument used in Africa Launch of new products in the medium and largeExpanding in emerging countries, by use of the 1 size hematology analyzers 2 global network “HELO Solution,” a brand new product in the medium and Global strategy and emerging market development large-sized hematology analyzers France In 2017 HORIBA will launch new medium and large-sized hematology analyzers with Product development and production base the HORIBA Evolutive Laboratory Organization (HELO) Solution, a hematology (instruments and reagents) automation solution which maximizes the performance in the laboratory under all Development types of operating conditions, including urgent testing and special testing, in addition technology of medium Brazil and large-sized to routine testing. products Production base HELO Solution provides an automation conveyance system with flexible number of (Reagents) analytical modules and flexible modular configurations, depending on the customer’s Japan work flow needs. It provides comprehensive optimal solutions to the laboratory, Product development and production base through support functions, providing useful statistical data for enhancing efficiency of India China (instruments and reagents) the laboratory, in addition to collective management of test data. Development Production base Production base technology of (Reagents) (instruments small-sized products and reagents) The Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems HORIBA’s strengths in emerging segment’s sales in emerging countries countries Developed countries Emerging countries Global network established by 1 HORIBA ABX S.A.S. Products that enable high2 precision and stable measurement in various environments A stable supply network of 37% 3 reagents (consumables), produced 24% in the volume-consumption regions 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Major products and market shares Note: Market shares quoted are estimates by HORIBA. Hematology analyzers Hematology and CRP analyzers Blood tests are essential for diagnosis and health This is the first analyzer in the world to simultaneously assessment of people and animals. These analyzers measure blood cell counts and C-Reactive Protein (CRP), check red and white blood cell counts as well as which the body produces in response to internal hemoglobin and platelet counts. inflammation, thus facilitating faster and more accurate diagnosis. World Segment Japan Segment gnostic market share sales share market share sales share 7% 75% 100% 12% HORIBA Report 2016 | 28 Business outline Semiconductor Instruments & Systems Dry process monitors 2% Other 1% Wet process monitors 11% 2016 Net sales Sales 38.8 Mass flow controllers breakdown 86% Billions of yen Contributing to yield enhancement and technology innovation in semiconductor manufacturing processes with HORIBA’s flow control and measurement technologies HORIBA’s main products are mass flow controllers, which are devices that control gas and liquid flows in the semiconductor manufacturing process (front-end). They have a leading global market share*, largely on the strength of their flow control technology that enables yield enhancement and miniaturization in the semiconductor manufacturing process. HORIBA, which also provides chemical concentration monitors, aims to contribute to the semiconductor industry by providing customers with high-level solutions that support technical advances in process technology. * HORIBA’s estimate 2016 results: Robust investment demand by semiconductor manufacturers 2017 forecasts: Net sales and operating income Maintain market shares in the favorable semiconductor market Billions of yen Billions of yen In 2016 on the back of high-level capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers, sales of 50 15 mass flow controllers to semiconductor production equipment (SPE) manufacturers in Japan and Asia increased significantly, despite some impacts from the yen’s appreciation. As a result, Net sales (left) Operating income (right) segment sales and operating income recorded all-time highs. 40 Operating income plan for 2020 (right) 12 While capital spending by the semiconductor industry is expected to remain at a high level in the first half of 2017, we believe we have to cautiously monitor their capital spending outlook in the second half of the fiscal year and respond promptly to the needs of our customers, so as to maintain our market shares in the favorable semiconductor market. 30 9 Mid-long term strategy: 20 6 Enhance market positioning of mainstay products We will further enhance our flow control technology, which has been accumulated primarily in mass flow controllers. We also aim to grow sales of chemical concentration monitors, used in 10 3 semiconductor wafer cleaning processes. In addition, we will combine our flow control technology and analysis and measurement technology so as to enhance development of new products that satisfy customer needs. 0 0 Meanwhile, we intend to apply our flow control technology to other industries by promoting 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 product development for energy, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, food and other markets. (Plan) Semiconduc 29 SOCIAL HORIBA’s Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment sales compared to worldwide sales of semiconductor manufacturing equipment Enhancing semiconductor-related production Billions of yen Trillions of yen capability and responding to customer needs 40 8 HORIBA’s Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment sales (left) In July 2016 HORIBA decided to expand the HORIBA STEC Aso Factory Worldwide sales of semiconductor manufacturing equipment (right) in Nishihara Village, Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan. This factory, a driving force of growth in the segment, will be expanded in total floor area by about 50% so as to build a more stable supply capacity of mass flow controllers to satisfy further increases in demand. This factory, since its 30 6 start in 1988, has been accepted as a community member by the people in Kumamoto Prefecture. Although the factory was struck by the Kumamoto Earthquakes of April 2016, it resumed operation in two weeks, with water supply and electricity recovery facilitated by local people including local employees. This has led to our decision to expand the Aso Factory in order to increase use of its strength in growing 20 4 together with the community and to contribute to segment growth. 10 2 Expansion area 0 0 On July 30 2016, the expansion Planned completion in November 2017 site agreement was concluded 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 at the Kumamoto Prefectural Government Office. HORIBA’s market share for mass flow controllers HORIBA’s global market share for mass flow 60 % controllers HORIBA has maintained a share of more than 40% of the global mass flow 50 controller market since 2009. This has been achieved because we successfully met our customers’ needs through new product introductions and expanded production capacity even during the semiconductor industry’s downturn in investment in 2009, and through to its recovery stage in 2010. More recently, our 57% 40 market share has risen as we launched products that responded to changes in production technologies caused by miniaturization and more multi-layer semiconductor production processes. Noteworthy are our differential pressure type mass flow controllers, which are fully capable for use by the next-generation 30 of semiconductor production processes. In our view, this is due to the success of our balanced management, which enabled us to supply the needed funding for new product development and production capacity even during a downturn in demand. At the same time, we elevated our technical capability to better satisfy 20 demand from semiconductor manufacturers. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Major products and market shares Note: Market shares quoted are estimates by HORIBA. Mass flow controllers Chemical concentration monitors These high-precision gas and liquid controllers regulate flow rates in semiconductor These compact units are used in semiconductor manufacturing to monitor concentrations manufacturing processes, typically in thin-film formation processes. They are of chemical cleaning agents. They ensure cleaning fluids are precisely delivered and indispensable components for high quality semiconductor and LED production. properly used, thereby optimizing the cleaning process and boosting production yields. tor World Segment World Segment market share sales share market share sales share 57% 86% 80% 11% HORIBA Report 2016 | 30 Business outline Scientific Instruments & Systems Other 4% Water quality analysis 9% Particle characterization 10% 2016 Net sales Molecular & Sales 25.7 microanalysis 38% breakdown Billions of yen Optical components 20% Elemental analysis 19% HORIBA provides over 500 types of instruments for use at the leading edge of scientific technology HORIBA began its history from the R&D function leading to Japan’s first glass electrode pH meter. HORIBA’s analyzers use gas analysis by infrared rays, X-ray solid analysis, and dispersion technologies such as Raman or fluorescence spectroscopy. HORIBA’s analyzers provide solutions for data acquisition and analysis in niche markets to support advanced research in pursuit of innovative products and processes that will enhance our lives and the world that surrounds us. HORIBA’s analyzers are widely used in basic research, foreign-object examination and defect analysis for pharmaceuticals, food and electronic components, forensic science, archaeological surveys, and others. Additionally, the Scientific Instruments & Systems segment develops basic analytical methods and core measurement technologies, which play key roles in providing new technologies to the four other business segments of HORIBA. 2016 results: Robust sales of spectrometers for R&D applications to universities in Japan and China 2017 forecasts: The demand in Asia is high and sales will continue to increase by launching new products that combine the Group’s technologies In 2016 sales of instruments and systems for R&D applications to universities and other Net sales and operating income institutions in Japan and China were robust. The yen’s appreciation against the euro resulted in Billions of yen Billions of yen a decrease in sales in Europe in yen terms. Consequently, segment sales and operating income 40 4 decreased year-on-year. In 2017 we anticipate solid demand in Asia and will continue to promote sales of products that satisfy needs of customers. Net sales (left) Operating income (right) Operating income plan for 2020 (right) 30 3 Mid-long term strategy: Incorporate customers’ views in product development and hence market creation 20 2 It is our challenge to create new value in the analysis and measurement business, including energy, automobile, biotechnology, and drug discovery areas. In addition to continuing to actively increase sales in niche markets, we will work to expand applications of our products. In order to increase the understanding of the issues our customers face, we will endeavor to 10 1 undertake joint projects with them. Working together will enable our research and development teams to anticipate the needs of the customer as those needs arise, as we have already done by creating a custom made instrument for a manufacturer of precious metal products and a special device for a university laboratory engaged in advanced research. 0 0 In addition to providing analysis and measurement technologies to the other four business 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 segments, the Scientific Instrument & Systems segment will improve profitability. (Plan) Scientific31 Global expansion of use of technology in and emanating from three bases, Japan, France, and the U.S., for achieving sustainable growth Historically, segment growth was driven by product development utilizing the strengths of our operations in Japan, France, and the U.S. and our products play a role in the frontline of a wide range of corporate and university research institutions which provide cutting-edge technologies. Having a diverse product line-up that covers both highend products and components, HORIBA utilizes technologies and brand power to meet a wide range of customer requirements which allows for re-investment with the aim of long-term sustainable growth. Business model of the Scientific Instruments & Systems segment High-end products General-use products Niche products Components Technology in France Technology in France HORIBA’s and the U.S. Technology in Japan and the U.S. technology X-ray fluorescence sulfur analyzers Raman spectrometers Particle-size distribution analyzers Infrared ray measurement Spectrometers Main products Fluorescence analyzers Water quality measurement equipment Gratings Gratings equipment Metal analyzers Technical strength to meet Specification line-up and own Technical strength and Distinctive Technical strength to demand from academia and sales channels to meet demand manufacturing capability to meet points meet demand in niche markets research institutes from a wide range of customers demand in specific markets Expected Enhanced brand power Increase in business impacts New technology creation volume More investment SOCIAL Co-sponsored a Hackathon* by the leading science and technology French institute École Polytechnique and the University of Tokyo HORIBA sponsored a ‘Hackathon’ that brought together students from the University of Tokyo and the École Polytechnique to focus on computer programming and prototyping. The event, which took place in February 2017, had a theme of developing tools for research centers and manufacturing. Innovative prototypes such as a wearable necklace-style information terminal were presented. HORIBA France S.A.S. constructed HORIBA Europe Research Center in a site adjacent to the École Polytechnique and has promoted industry-academy cooperation through internship and other activities. HORIBA will continue to contribute to the development of science and technology by growing its Scientific Instruments & Systems segment, using its global network. * Hackathon is a portmanteau of the words “Hack” and “Marathon,” where “Hack” is used in the sense of exploratory programming. This term originated in the U.S. information technology industry. A hackathon is a sprint-like event in which teams of computer programmers and designers compete on ideas and develop solutions within a given number of hours or days. Major products and market shares Note: Market shares quoted are estimates by HORIBA. Raman spectrometers pH meters Raman spectroscopy is a spectroscopic technique that provides information about the molecular HORIBA is recognized as one of the top pH meter brands structure of molecules by measuring their vibrational modes. These vibrational modes act as a beginning with our development of Japan’s first glass molecular fingerprint offering quantitative measurements which can be used to identify the electrode pH meter in the 1950’s. HORIBA offers a full pH chemical under analysis. In recent years, Raman spectroscopy has attracted attention for new product line to satisfy diverse customer needs ranging from applications in material research. Raman has a very weak light scattering mechanism, so a desktop models to support laboratory research, to rugged highly-sensitive and optimal optical design is necessary. HORIBA’s outstanding know-how in and portable instruments for field applications measuring optics-related technology, largely from its acquisition of Jobin Yvon, has been successfully river water, groundwater, and wastewater. applied in the core development of our extremely high performance Raman spectrometers. World Segment Japan Segment market share sales share market share sales share 30% 22% 50% 9% HORIBA Report 2016 | 32 Value creation based on “Invisible Values” HORIBA’s thoughts on CSR Promote CSR through business activities HORIBA’s framework for the HORIBA’s materiality creation of corporate value Since its foundation in 1945, HORIBA has Expressed through Design Sugoroku worked to grow with the mission of contributing to the progress of science and technology, through the provision of analysis and measurement technologies. In anticipation of risks and opportunities presented by the social impact of rapid globalization and IoT, HORIBA is making efforts to identify key topics in the area of science and technology and areas for contribution to achieving the mid-long term management plan MLMAP2020 and serving company interests from a longterm perspective. Super Dream Team Participation in society and Unique products growth of and services individuals Contribution to realize a happy future society, by using cutting-edge “Measurement Technologies” Communication with internal/ Sustainable external supply chain stakeholders Governance structure, slim and solid internal control Open and Fair Applying HORIBA’s various activities are summarized, with its Design Sugoroku! framework being determined by its three backbone Design Sugoroku is a modification of a very old Japanese board game that values: the Corporate motto relates all major items to be considered in making a design. This is a framework that enables all related things that need to be considered to be “Joy and Fun,” obvious at a glance. For example, if you change the size of your business “Open and Fair,” card, you have to consider its impact on your card case or a pocket of a business suit. HORIBA is using this to summarize the relationship among all and “Ownership and Challenging Spirit.” activities that form invisible values, in addition to business activities, as these activities influence each other. 33 Super Dream Team Governance structure, ● The mission of the “HORIBA Stained Glass Project” is slim and solid internal control to explore HORIBA’s diverse talents and skillsets, regardless of the employees’ gender, nationality, age, ● Appointment of outside officers since our foundation P39 disability *1 , or other differences, and to promote organizational growth. Web Link ● Enhancement of a stable business base, assisted by the IMS*2 Web Link ● “Balanced Management” and “Matrix Organization” to enhance the operational base P35 ● Global adoption of the ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system to integrate management of operation ● Internal education system that promotes quality Web Link information Web Link ● Adoption of an indicator for improving capital efficiency P16 Unique products and services Communication with internal/ ● Global provision of environmental measurement external stakeholders Web Link ● instruments Expansion of applications by sharing technologies ● Identification of important information; investor relations (IR) activities and proactive disclosure based on Open between business segments and through product and Fair development; integration and growth of the water related business P16 ● Promotion of global dialogue with business partners ● and customers; continual meetings with sales Promotion of global projects in cooperation with companies and subcontractors; Technical Olympics, universities and research institutions P32 technology seminars for customers, etc. ● Enhancement of corporate value by seizing global M&A opportunities P3 ● Signatory to the UNGC *3 ; dialogue with outside institutions, such as CDP*4 ● Internal communication with employees and executives at product launch meetings, etc. Sustainable supply chain Participation in society and ● Efficiency enhancement at HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR growth of individuals ● via production process reform P24 Obtaining ISO22301 accreditation in the Semiconductor ● Use of the Blackjack Project and HORIBA COLLEGE for growth of individuals and the organization P35 and Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems segments deploying lessons learned from the response to the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake Web Link ● Workstyle innovation to support designing “Decent Work” and a prosperous lifestyle Web Link ● Corruption prevention; rejection of forced labor and child labor Web Link ● Living in good harmony with nature and revitalizing communities through use of HORIBA Blueberry Farm, “Joy & Fun” and others P36 Web Link http://www.horiba.com/to-our-stakeholders/ *1 HORIBA is a member of general incorporated association Accessibility Consortium of Enterprises (ACE) and promotes employment of people with disabilities. See details on HORIBA’s website: http://www.horiba.com/about-horiba/diversity/human-resources/ *2 IMS (Integrated Management System) is an integrated management system of more than one ISO and OHSAS. *3 UNGC: the United Nations Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ *4 The CDP (formerly the “Carbon Disclosure Project”), a non-profit organization based in London, works with institutional shareholders to disclose the environmental strategy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of major selected corporations in the FTSE Index. The CDP sends questionnaire to major companies across the world, analyzes and evaluates the companies’ self-reported data, and discloses the results to investors. See https://www.cdp.net/en Process of identifying material topics What to do next The ESG Workshop, which is comprised of the Junior Corporate 1 Officer in charge of CSR at HORIBA, Ltd. and core members of each segment, was launched (September 2016). Identify top material issues from a stakeholder/social 1 perspective and MLMAP2020. Extract more priority issues and set up an action plan. Ownership and Decide on the global CSR framework and material Challenging 2 HORIBA’s various activities (around 100) were screened by using guidelines on SDGs* and ESG investments for reference. 2 issues of MLMAP2020, with approval of the Board of Spirit Directors of HORIBA Ltd. HORIBA’s corporate philosophy and strength were confirmed and 3 Understand the status of activities on a global basis 3 areas and frameworks where HORIBA can or should contribute in solving social issues or do so in relation to stakeholders were According to the action plan linked to the core studied. business, set up specific goals, prioritize issues, and 4 decide key performance indicators (KPI) to 4 The current initiatives were categorized in a framework and were approved by the HORIBA CSR Promotion Committee (page 40). accelerate the activities. *The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), officially known as “Transforming our world: The HORIBA CSR Promotion Committee will the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,” is a set of 17 “Global Goals” with 169 5 regularly update the situation or modify the plan, and targets between them. The United Nations General Assembly adopted the agenda in report to the Board of Directors. September 2015. See https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/?menu=1300 HORIBA Report 2016 | 34 Value creation based on “Invisible Values” Blackjack Project 1. What is the Blackjack Project? The Blackjack Project, which began in 1997 with the objective of changing the awareness and activities of employees, resulted in the submission of 819 suggestions and proposals for change in 2016. In addition to improvement in operational efficiency and cost reduction, personnel development and enhancement of organizational strength are among popular proposals, demonstrating one aspect of HORIBA’s corporate culture: organizational reform by employees. We hold an internal World Cup competition among candidate proposals from each country where we Organizational structure and operate. This competition also provides an opportunity to talents demonstrate to management and employees how we make our belief a reality. The Blackjack Project has the important Organizing a Super Dream Team function of sharing corporate culture, experience and Under the slogan of “HORIBA Group is One Company” since knowledge and is one of our important initiatives to realize a 2004, HORIBA has promoted “Balanced Management” and Super Dream Team. “Matrix Organization” to manage the Group companies as a The relocation to HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR, which single integrated entity. With the aim of further developing this started full operation in May 2016, was accomplished by system, we are using the “HORIBA Stained Glass Project” to executing a cross-organizational project, “Technology promote diversity, organize a Super Dream Team of people Translocation (Sengu).” The specific example is presented with diverse abilities and characteristics, and accelerate the on page 24 for the Automotive Test Systems segment in this reinvention of our existing businesses and the creation of new HORIBA Report 2016. businesses in keeping with the new mid long term management plan MLMAP2020. 2. Number of activity themes Balanced management Proposals submitted in 2016 e.g. HORIBA, Ltd. Time saving, efficiency, cost reduction We aim for a well-balanced management as a single, 39% Other 8% integrated entity, without excessive dependence on any one segment or region, in order to achieve sustainable growth of Sales promotion and marketing 10% our five business segments. Even if the business Ideas for talents Quality 11% and organization environment of one business segment becomes stagnant, we are able to achieve sustainable growth by flexibly 32% utilizing our management resources and ensuring a good balance in business investment. Number of proposals Matrix organization 1,000 Japan Outside of Japan HORIBA uses matrix management across its five business 819 segments and three operating regions. This is a global 800 themes organizational framework for executive decisions on strategies and plans by business segment that removes 600 barriers such as separation of countries, regions, or group companies. This framework has enabled a globally-integrated 400 business operation. We will continue to exploit the benefits of 200 the multiplier effect from successful examples and strengths in one segment or one region to others and improve 0 HORIBA’s corporate values. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 35 SOCIAL Use of idled fields for revitalizing the HORIBA Stained Glass Project community and enhanced education and In January 2014, we launched the Stained Glass Project. Its benefit programs mission is to make HORIBA stronger by the continual HORIBA Blueberry Farm “Joy & Fun” opened in April 2012 by creation of new value through HORIBARIANs’ diverse our renting fallow fields in Takashima City, Shiga Prefecture. talents and skillsets, regardless of their gender, age, Our newly-joined employees do agricultural work and other nationality, disability, or other differences. We have employees and their family members also participate in the harvesting of blueberries and vegetables. It is an important promoted activities aimed at more engagement of women in undertaking for HORIBA, along with our Biwako Factory and the workplace, workstyle innovation, and global the training center “Fun House.” It is noteworthy that effective use of fallow fields not only benefits employees but also communication in which HORIBARIANs shine, and the contributes to revitalize the community. Stained Glass Project became to have a promotion office as a corporate division since 2017. Ms. Maki Moriguchi, Leader of the Stained Glass Project (Department Interview Manager of Stained Glass Project Office since January 2017), discussed issues such as the key points of the Project activities and its goals. I have been involved as a leader of this initiative since the project launch in 2014. Actually, for about 20 years, President Mr. Horiba has been thinking that HORIBA’s strength lies in the diversity of its workforce, just like a stained glass windows, talents assembled of various colored pieces. The project division will continue to make efforts to help employees realize this strong point of HORIBA, and make a scheme to accelerate diversity management by using various programs of personnel affairs and through global communication. In Japan, Workstyle Innovation is a big social movement. Such a concept has been becoming better recognized in our factories and offices partly due to this project, which began in 2014. Going forward, I am hoping to create a catalyst or a scheme to help our employees have a sense of being an important member of a Super Dream Team. Concerning the issues in workplaces from the perspective of the Stained Glass Project, we are coordinating with the Blackjack Project so that efforts for improvement continue as a team effort and contribute to the business. I have also learned a lot from successful examples of the Blackjack Project to infiltrate its thoughts and establishment of original scheme. The biggest challenge for me is to make this activity better known globally. While the activity has mainly been centered in Japan, the concept of the Stained Glass should be shared by the entire HORIBA organization. In 2016, I attended a global-level meeting of those in charge of personnel affairs. A talents manager from Europe suggested to me that “With regard to engagement of women at workplace, being Open and Fair and emphasizing process evaluations are a better way rather than focusing numerical targets for managers.” I was encouraged by learning of her own experience. 1 Advance HORIBA’s strength so as to promote Three pillars of the Stained diversity Glass Project 2 Make more flexible choices in workstyle 3 Raising productivity Maki Moriguchi Maki Moriguchi joined HORIBA, Ltd. in 1996. From 1998 she worked as secretary to the President. After taking maternity leaves twice, she was appointed as a manager of the secretariat in 2014. In the same year, she launched the HORIBA Stained Glass Project and became its project leader. At present she is engaged in promoting diversity as Department Manager of the Stained Glass Project Office. HORIBA Report 2016 | 36 Value creation based on “Invisible Values” Accelerating investments in basic analytical and Technologies measurement technologies and application development Investment in core technologies The development of analytical technology and engineering technology is vital to HORIBA as an analytical and measurement equipment manufacturer. We have maintained R&D investment at the level of 7-8% of sales, even during economic downturns when our competitors reduced their investments. This strategy has helped to boost our market share during subsequent upturn phases. In 2009, during the global economic recession triggered by the financial crisis, the Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment recorded losses. However, supported by stable earnings of the Medical-Diagnostic and Scientific Instruments & Systems segments, we were able to maintain the same level of overall R&D investment in the Semiconductor segment, which has resulted in the segment’s favorable operating performance today. We firmly believe this investment policy will contribute to our future growth and profitability improvement. HORIBA aims to improve the efficiency of our R&D investments and realize a higher operating income. Investment in new technologies and new services In the Automotive Test Systems segment, HORIBA acquired its Mechatronics (MCT) business in 2005 and Engineering Consultancy & Testing (ECT) business in 2015 to expand HORIBA’s scope of technologies to the engineering area of next-generation automotive development. Using IoT technology, HORIBA will further advance in remote monitoring and data management of analytical and measurement systems to provide new added value, and achieve business growth by contributing to customers’ energy saving and enhancement of efficiency. Technology Summit R&D expenditure and ratio of R&D expenditure to net sales Billions of yen % 15.0 12.5 R&D expenditure (left) 12.9 Ratio of R&D expenditure to net sales (right) 12.0 10.0 9.0 7.5 7.6 6.0 5.0 3.0 2.5 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 37 HORIBA’s major analysis and control technologies Automotive Process & Scientific MedicalSemiconductor Test Systems Environmental diagnostic (by scale of sales) From core technology to product development Infrared measurement Technology for real-time analysis of elements in gases HORIBA strives to effectively allocate its R&D resources to Gas flow control Technology to measure and instantly control the flow of gases specific analytical technologies, apply them to product Particle-size distribution analysis Technology to measure particle diameter and particle distribution development in five different business segments, and achieve Spectroscopic analysis product releases efficiently. Technology for analysis of visible light Liquid ion analysis Technology to measure pH, sodium, potassium, and other ions HORIBA Group IP (Intellectual Property) World Cup 2016 & Technology Summit Our first in-house IP World Cup competition was held in 2011, with the aim of encouraging creation of HORIBA technology which can initiate the next growth phase of HORIBA. HORIBA’s numerous unique technology and intellectual property have propelled growth of businesses. In the Sixth World Cup, in 2016, out of 19 applications, including 11 from overseas, three applicants from various parts of the world were invited Technology Summit to the award ceremony and the in-house seminar held at the headquarters in Kyoto. The Technology Summit was concurrently held, to encourage technical exchange across different business segments, so as to realize development by the united group, through the effective use of HORIBA’s core technology and engineering technology. Poster IP World Cup 2016 sessions were performed on 37 themes, including some from Group companies, creating a scene for engineers to exchange opinions. The total number of applications in the six years since the inception of the HORIBA Group IP World Cup Toward achieving MLMAP2020, the Technical Super Dream Team is making concerted efforts to create 104 themes (from 15 global locations outside of Japan) technology synergies only HORIBA can produce. — Details of other technology/quality-related topics are presented on the website. — Integrated Management System that helps realize sustainability http://www.horiba.com/about-horiba/integrated-management-system/ “Eco-Friendly Products” that help realize longer usable lives and minimization of energy consumption http://www.horiba.com/about-horiba/environmental-activities/environmental-compliance/ HORIBA Report 2016 | 38 Corporate governance Basic Policy on Corporate Governance Based on the corporate philosophy of “Open and Fair,” HORIBA has pledged to (1) establish an organizational structure that promptly responds to changes in the business environment, (2) improve its managerial monitoring of performance and (3)enhance compliance-related arrangements. These objectives have the aim of establishing a world-class governance structure. At the same time, we are committed to establishing good relationships with all stakeholders, including owners (shareholders), customers, employees, and local communities. In addition to proper information disclosure, we seek to promote constructive dialogue with our owners (shareholders), contributing to our sustainable growth and mid-long term improvement in corporate value. under the supervision and guidance of directors. At present Corporate Governance System (May 2017), 21 corporate officers, including one woman and HORIBA has adopted the type of organization defined as a five non-Japanese, play an active role in Japan and “Corporation with Board of Corporate Auditors,” in the overseas. Companies Act. As of May 2017, the Board of Corporate Auditors is As of May 2017, the Board of Directors is comprised of comprised of three corporate auditors, including one seven members, including three independent outside independent outside auditor. The Board of Corporate directors, including one woman. In fiscal 2016, the Board Auditors held 14 meetings in fiscal 2016. It performs met 12 times in order to make decisions more promptly than objective and appropriate auditing and monitoring of the in the past and to augment managerial capability. To avoid work of the Board of Directors, in cooperation with managing with an introverted approach, HORIBA has, since independent auditors and internal auditing (Group Internal the company’s origin in 1953, always appointed at least one Audit Office, which is positioned directly under the director and one corporate auditor from outside the President). (See the list of directors, corporate auditors and company. corporate officers on page 41). In addition, HORIBA introduced a corporate officer system in 1998 to make smooth and agile execution of operations Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness We distributed to all directors a questionnaire concerning the Board of Directors’ effectiveness and received response from all of them during November and December of 2016. The results showed that the directors valued that the effectiveness of the Board was confirmed with the current way. This was 2015 Directors: 6 reported and discussed at the board meeting. including one outside director Corporate Officers: 17 (including one non-Japanese and one woman) Relationship with owners (shareholders) Open general meeting of shareholders Since its initial stock listing in the Second Section of the Osaka Securities Exchange in 1971, HORIBA has encouraged all shareholders to attend the annual general 2017 shareholders meeting. This annual meeting is held on a Directors: 7 (including three outside directors and one woman) Saturday to facilitate public attendance. An informal getCorporate Officers: 21 together event is held afterwards to enable shareholders to (including five non-Japanese and one woman) talk directly with management. 39 Corporate governance structure chart General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment, Appointment, Appointment, Dismissal Dismissal Dismissal Supervising, Monitoring Board of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors Independent Auditor (Directors) (Corporate Auditors) Coordination Selection, Dismissal Reporting Supervising, Monitoring Financial Audit Business Execution Instructions Supervision Internal controls Business Execution Reporting Monitoring President Reporting Litigation, Exports, Legal Affairs, Fixed assets, Discussed Items Public-Sector Grants, Subsidiary Audits Supervising Supervision Directors and Corporate Officers’Meeting/ Internal Auditing Entrusting Operations Committee/ Reporting (Group Internal Audit Office) Business Management Committee Execution Coordination Direction and Orders, Integrated Management System (IMS) Reporting (Quality, Environmental, Safety & health, Quality of Corporate Officers/ medical equipment, Business continuity management, Committees, etc.* Division Managers and Road traffic safety management) Supervising Promotion Advisory, Internal Control Promotion Committee Reporting Principles Proposals HORIBA Risk Control Committee Coordination HORIBA, Ltd. Risk Control Committee*2 Coordination Compliance Committee HORIBA CSR Promotion Committee HORIBA, Ltd. CSR Promotion Committee Joy and Fun, Open and Fair HORIBA Corporate Philosophy, Ethical Guidelines *1 Committees, etc. refer to committees and conferences that are established and registered based on the “Regulations Concerning Conferences and Committees,” such as the Group Promotion Committee for Management of Public Subsidies and the Safety and Health Committee. *2 The HORIBA, Ltd. Risk Control Committee discusses and approves issues and measures concerning risk control. financial condition, and corporate culture to our owners, and Implementing shareholder return linked to earnings ask for their understanding and continued support. growth http://www.horiba.com/jp/investor-relations/ir-policy/ HORIBA was the first listed Japanese company to start (Japanese only) paying shareholder dividends based on a predetermined payout ratio in 1974. Since fiscal 2013, HORIBA has Directors’ compensation changed the base amount of profit returns to shareholders Compensation for directors consists of base compensation (the combined amount of dividend payments and share (regular fixed-amount salary), earnings-based salary (bonus) buybacks) from 30% of HORIBA, Ltd. nonconsolidated net linked to the earnings results of each fiscal year, and stock income to 30% of HORIBA, Ltd. consolidated net income, options (retirement allowance) linked to medium to long-term so that shareholder returns are more directly linked to earnings performance. Compensation for outside directors, consolidated performance. In fiscal 2015, we bought back however, consists strictly of base compensation (fixed218,400 shares worth ¥999 million and in fiscal 2016, we amount salary), excluding compensation linked to earnings paid an annual dividend per share of ¥85. performance, given the nature of their assignment. The limits for compensation for directors and for outside directors are Anti-takeover measures approved as a separate matter at the annual general HORIBA has not adopted anti-takeover measures. HORIBA shareholders meeting. The directors (not including outside reviewed the “Basic Policy on the Persons to Control Decision directors) compensation of 2016 was ¥680 million in total. making over the Financial and Business Policies of HORIBA”, which was announced on our website. http://www.horiba.com/jp/investor-relations/ir-news/article/40961/ (Japanese only) Breakdown of directors’ compensation (excluding outside directors) Constructive dialogue with owners(shareholders) Base Earnings-based compensation compensation Stock option HORIBA abides by the “Basic Policy for Constructive 20% 74% 6% Dialogue with Shareholders” as announced on our website (see below). We make efforts to explain our corporate policy, HORIBA Report 2016 | 40 Corporate governance Board of directors and corporate auditors (as of May 1, 2017) Chairman, President and CEO Atsushi Horiba Director (Outside), Independent Director Jiko Higashifushimi 1971 Joined Olson Horiba Inc. (U.S.) 1988 Appointed as Higashi-Kurume Branch Manager of Saitama Bank (now Resona 1972 Joined HORIBA, Ltd. then held positions such as General Manager of Overseas Bank, Limited) Technology Department and General Manager of Overseas Headquarters 1993 Entered Shorenin Religious Corporation then held a position as its Head Deacon 1982 Appointed as HORIBA’s Director 2003 Appointed as the Representative Presiding Director and Head Priest of the 1992 Appointed as President and CEO Shorenin Religious Corporation up to the present 2005 Appointed as Chairman, President and CEO up to the present 2016 Appointed as HORIBA’s Director (Outside) up to the present Executive Vice President General Manager of Corporate & Segment Strategy Division Juichi Saito Director (Outside), Independent Director Dr. Sawako Takeuchi 1982 Joined HORIBA, Ltd. then held positions such as General Manager of Engine 1988 Appointed as Deputy Director, Master of International Business (MIB) Measurement Planning & Development Department and President of HORIBA Graduate Program, Ecole Nationale des Ponts et Chaussées, France Instruments Inc. (U.S.) 1998 Appointed as Assistant Professor, School of Engineering, University of Tokyo 2005 Appointed as HORIBA’s Director Graduate School 2008 Appointed as Vice President of HORIBA STEC Co., Ltd. (Japan) 2004 Appointed as Urban Development Sector (China Manager), Asia-Pacific 2013 Appointed as HORIBA’s Executive Vice President Division, World Bank 2016 Appointed as HORIBA’s Executive Vice President and Representative Director 2005 Appointed as Special Assistant to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan, up to the present and as Visiting Professor, Graduate School of Engineering, Kyoto University 2011 Appointed as Director, Japan Cultural Institute in Paris (Japan Foundation) 2016 Appointed as HORIBA’s Director (Outside) up to the present Appointed as Senior Advisor of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Senior Managing Director Science and Technology General Manager of Research & Development Division Dr. Masayuki Adachi 1985 Joined HORIBA, Ltd. then held positions such as General Manager of Emission Analysis, Research & Development Division and General Manager of Engine Corporate Auditor Toshihiko Uno 2006 Measurement System Management Division 2007 Appointed as HORIBA’s Corporate Officer 1974 Joined HORIBA, Ltd. then held positions such as General Manager of Hardware 2014 Appointed as President of HORIBA International Corporation (U.S.) Development and General Manager of Production Center Appointed as HORIBA’s Director 2002 Appointed as HORIBA’s Corporate Officer Appointed as President of HORIBA Jobin Yvon S.A.S. (now HORIBA France 2004 Appointed as HORIBA’s Senior Corporate Officer 2016 S.A.S.) 2011 Resigned as HORIBA’s Senior Corporate Officer Appointed as Chairman of supervisory board of HORIBA Jobin Yvon S.A.S. 2012 Appointed as HORIBA’s Corporate Auditor up to the present (now HORIBA France S.A.S.) up to the present Appointed as HORIBA’s Senior Managing Director up to the present Director, Corporate Auditor (Outside) Kanji Ishizumi General Manager of Sales Division Takashi Nagano 1971 Joined the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (now the Ministry of 1985 Joined HORIBA, Ltd. then held positions such as General Manager of Engine Economy, Trade and Industry) Measurement Planning & Development Department, General Manager of 1975 Registered as Attorney at Law Engine Measurement System Management Division and President of HORIBA 1981 Appointed as representative partner of the Chiyoda Kokusai Law Offices up Europe GmbH (Germany) to the present 2005 Appointed as HORIBA’s Corporate Officer 1995 Appointed as HORIBA’s Corporate Auditor (Outside) up to the present 2013 Appointed as CEO of HORIBA Europe GmbH (Germany) 2014 Appointed as President of HORIBA KOREA Ltd. (South Korea) 2016 Appointed as HORIBA’s Director up to the present Appointed as Chairman of HORIBA KOREA Ltd. (South Korea) up to the present Corporate Auditor (Outside), Independent Auditor Keisuke Ishida 1978 Appointed as Representative Director and CEO, SHASHIN KAGAKU CO., LTD. 2000 Appointed as Representative Director, Chairman of the Board, CEO, SHASHIN Director (Outside), Independent Director Masahiro Sugita KAGAKU CO., LTD. up to the present 2001 Appointed as Chairman of the Board, SK-Electronics Co., Ltd. 1967 Joined the Bank of Japan then held positions such as Matsumoto Branch 2005 Appointed as HORIBA’s Corporate Auditor (Outside) up to the present Manager and Director-General of the International Department 2016 Appointed as Advisor, SK-Electronics Co., Ltd. up to the present 1998 Appointed as Director of Overseas Investment Research Institute, the ExportImport Bank of Japan 1999 Appointed as Auditor of the Bank of Japan 2003 Appointed as Outside Auditor (full-time) of Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (now MSD K.K.) 2006 Appointed as HORIBA’s Outside Director up to the present 2013 Appointed as Outside Director of 77 Bank Ltd. up to the present 41 Corporate officers (as of May 1, 2017) Executive Corporate Officer Dr. Jai Hakhu Chairman, President & CEO of HORIBA International Corporation (U.S.) Chairman of HORIBA Instruments Inc. (U.S.) President of HORIBA ABX S.A.S. (France) Senior Corporate Officer Sunao Kikkawa General Manager of Finance & Control Division Hideyuki Koishi President of HORIBA STEC Co., Ltd. (Japan) Yuichi Muroga President of HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd. (Japan) Dr. George Gillespie CEO of HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. (U.K.) Masao Okawa General Manager of General Administration Division and Tokyo Branch Manager Corporate Officer Hiroshi Kawamura President of HORIBA Europe Holding S.A.S. (France) CEO of HORIBA Europe GmbH (Germany) Atsushi Nakamine Division Manager of IT & BPR Center James Thepot President of HORIBA France S.A.S. Christian Dubuc Senior Director of HORIBA ABX S.A.S. (France) Ken Mitera Executive Vice President of HORIBA Instruments Inc. (U.S.) Junior Corporate Officer Hiroo Chihara General Manager of Production Division Narihiro Oku Deputy General Manager of Research & Development Division (Medical) Tadao Nakamura President of HORIBA Instruments (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. President of HORIBA (China) Trading Co., Ltd. Tsukasa Satake Division Manager of Quality Management Center Yasuo Yamashita Deputy General Manager of General Administration Division Kenichi Obori Liaison for Academia and Government of Research & Development Division Hideyuki Nishibun Deputy General Manager of Sales Division Haruko Nozaki Principal of HORIBA COLLEGE, CSR Toshiya Higashino President of HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd. (Japan) Hitoshi Motokawa Deputy General Manager of Sales Division HORIBA Report 2016 | 42 Corporate governance Message from an Outside Director Outside Director’s Views on HORIBA’s management and board meetings I was appointed as outside director at the General Meeting of Shareholders in March 2016. However, about a year before that, I had opportunities to better understand HORIBA’s business and corporate culture. What impressed me most was how deeply rooted HORIBA’s corporate philosophy, such as its motto “Joy and Fun”, is. HORIBA’s employees make innovative and creative efforts in tackling their assignments. They also talk freely even with their superiors, without the usual addressing of them by their titles. These are examples of HORIBA’s corporate culture. The same is true with board meetings. Directors and Officers thoroughly analyze their areas of responsibility from various aspects, perform their role, and also speak out on important subjects beyond their area of responsibility and in view of the entire company’s corporate value. Representative Presiding Director and Head Priest of the Shorenin Religious Corporation Jiko Higashifushimi 43 GOVERNANCE HORIBA’s Corporate Governance My role My expectation for HORIBA for its sustainable My main role as outside director is to oversee the growth execution of management from the aspect of corporate Sustainable growth is the biggest theme for HORIBA governance. Moreover, I intend to contribute to adding and is frequently on the agenda of board meetings. As diversity in the perspective of management. I am a provider of measuring solutions, HORIBA is expected currently running a religious corporation as its to play a role in the areas directly linked to the global representative. Prior to that, I worked at a bank, environment and in growth industries such as bio and accumulating experience in a business which required medical, in addition to the present business areas. decision making in an ever-changing market, as well as I am also counting on HORIBA to use the uniqueness of in the retail business, serving individual customers and the Kyoto culture of not imitating others but growing managing an organization as a branch manager. As a through provision of services needed by customers and person of religion, I will keep asking how corporations society. I firmly believe such growth can be realized as and individuals should be connected to society. It is my long as HORIBA values the attitude of creative and hope to contribute to nurturing the uniqueness of outside-the-box thinking. HORIBA. Reasons of appointment of outside directors Masahiro Sugita Jiko Higashifushimi Dr. Sawako Takeuchi HORIBA expects Sugita’s vast HORIBA looks forward to HORIBA appreciates Takeuchi’s experience in international finance Higashifushimi’s advice from an ethical insights as a holder of a doctor’s and economy, and experience and perspective, based on his far-reaching degree in engineering, and her insights accumulated as director and ideas as Representative Presiding international experience in France, auditor of other companies will Director and Head Priest of the where HORIBA has a major base, contribute to HORIBA’s management. Shorenin Religious Corporation, as and other countries, and believes well as his work experience at a that her academic cooperation and financial institution that can contribute experience will contribute to to HORIBA’s management. HORIBA’s management. HORIBA Report 2016 | 44 Financial data Financial Data 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 For the Year: Net sales ¥116,099 ¥144,283 ¥134,248 ¥104,538 ¥118,556 ¥123,456 Operating costs and expenses 104,392 127,753 123,290 99,394 106,256 108,549 Operating income 11,707 16,530 10,958 5,144 12,299 14,906 Net income attributable to owners of parent 6,510 8,691 6,039 3,161 7,927 8,664 Capital expenditures 5,059 9,336 6,645 4,534 4,033 4,670 Depreciation and amortization 3,246 4,161 4,955 4,573 4,523 4,146 Research and development expenses 6,136 9,474 10,662 9,831 9,480 10,060 At Year-End: Total assets ¥129,236 ¥154,367 ¥133,279 ¥129,580 ¥137,290 ¥144,649 Cash and cash equivalents 15,673 20,565 22,660 27,590 34,459 35,767 Trade notes and Affiliated companies 63 6 1 126 accounts receivable Other 42,485 45,873 37,330 34,505 36,425 39,249 Inventories 30,947 33,734 29,802 23,363 24,843 26,288 Property, plant and equipment, net 21,700 24,071 23,115 23,602 22,516 22,924 Trade notes and Affiliated companies 44 53 40 52 60 0 accounts payable Other 14,917 16,792 11,063 10,515 13,423 13,196 Liabilities with interest 16,224 25,177 20,984 18,348 17,128 18,358 Shareholders’ equity 72,371 80,377 76,829 79,906 84,019 90,232 Share price at end of fiscal period(¥) 4,400 4,100 1,237 2,250 2,303 2,320 Number of employees (consolidated) 4,697 4,976 5,146 5,133 5,202 5,448 Per Share Information: Net income basic ¥154.23 ¥205.01 ¥142.76 ¥74.77 ¥187.46 ¥204.88 Net income diluted 153.70 204.39 142.71 74.68 187.11 204.41 Net assets 1,710.75 1,892.64 1,816.96 1,889.58 1,986.77 2,133.44 Cash dividends 26.00 39.00 44.00 13.00 17.00 40.00 Financial Ratios: Operating income to net sales (%) 10.1 11.5 8.2 4.9 10.4 12.1 Return on assets (%) 5.2 6.1 4.2 2.4 5.9 6.1 Return on equity (%) 9.4 11.4 7.7 4.0 9.7 9.9 Shareholders' equity ratio (%) 56.0 52.1 57.6 61.7 61.2 62.4 Consolidated dividend payout ratio (%) 16.9 19.0 30.8 17.4 9.1 19.5 Nonconsolidated dividend payout ratio (%) 30.0 30.1 30.0 30.0 30.3 30.5 Notes: The stated amounts are rounded down to the nearest million yen from the year, ended December 31, 2009, but are rounded (up or down) to the nearest million yen prior to that year. 1.The U.S. dollar amounts are provided solely for convenience at the rate of ¥116.49 to US$1.00, the rate prevailing on December 31, 2016 in Tokyo foreign exchange market. 2.For the year ended December 31, 2006, the accounting term for HORIBA, Ltd. and HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd. was only 9 months and 11 days and that for HORIBA STEC Co., Ltd. was only 9 months as a result of a change in the fiscal year-end to December 31. 3.The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries had formerly recognized revenue mainly on a shipping basis. However, starting from the fiscal 2016, the Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries have changed to revenue recognition method on a completion date of installation or a delivery date basis under the terms and conditions of contracts. Accordingly, amounts for the fiscal 2015 have been stated based on the previous and new accounting standards on these pages. 45 HORIBA, Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2015.12 2016.12 2016.12 (Restated) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars ¥117,609 ¥138,136 ¥153,065 ¥170,898 ¥171,916 ¥170,093 $1,460,151 105,857 124,402 135,851 151,526 151,774 151,593 1,301,339 11,751 13,733 17,214 19,372 20,142 18,499 158,803 7,396 8,999 10,589 12,882 13,282 12,962 111,271 7,882 7,680 11,001 16,309 16,309 13,796 118,430 3,743 4,279 4,905 6,110 6,110 6,816 58,511 10,092 10,774 11,986 12,341 12,341 12,933 111,022 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars ¥153,836 ¥189,269 ¥207,335 ¥231,032 ¥232,121 ¥239,657 $2,057,318 38,858 49,246 51,109 47,859 47,859 51,940 445,875 4 25 149 2 2 7 60 37,516 47,386 52,097 54,769 50,126 53,717 461,129 28,101 33,085 34,838 35,717 40,190 40,289 345,858 28,179 33,326 39,441 56,978 56,978 61,977 532,037 20 77 661 11,829 16,409 15,385 17,638 17,675 19,935 171,130 18,083 24,577 28,412 45,227 45,227 47,153 404,781 99,248 114,209 123,924 129,581 126,774 132,654 1,138,758 2,489 3,590 4,015 4,695 4,695 5,410 U.S. dollars 46.44 5,530 5,787 5,965 6,831 6,831 7,149 Yen U.S. dollars ¥174.87 ¥212.76 ¥250.28 ¥305.73 ¥315.23 ¥307.74 $2.64 174.37 212.01 249.28 304.36 313.81 306.38 2.63 2,346.45 2,699.88 2,928.82 3,078.40 3,011.71 3,148.70 27.02 50.00 60.00 67.00 70.00 70.00 85.00 0.72 10.0 9.9 11.2 11.3 11.7 10.9 5.0 5.2 5.3 5.9 6.0 5.5 7.8 8.4 8.9 10.2 10.7 10.0 64.5 60.3 59.8 56.1 54.6 55.4 28.6 28.2 26.8 22.9 27.6 37.5 48.9 38.5 35.1 46.7 Computations: Shareholders’ equity = net assets subscription rights to shares non-controlling interests Net income per share (¥) = net income attributable to owners of parent / (average number of shares issued and outstanding in the fiscal period, corrected for treasury stock) Net assets per share (¥) = shareholders’ equity / (number of shares issued and outstanding, corrected for treasury stock) Operating income to net sales (%) = 100 x operating income / net sales Return on assets (ROA, %) = 100 x net income attributable to owners of parent / average total assets in prior fiscal period Return on equity (ROE, %) = 100 x net income attributable to owners of parent / average shareholders’ equity in prior fiscal period Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) = 100 x shareholders’ equity / total assets Consolidated dividend payout ratio (%) = 100 x dividends paid / net income attributable to owners of parent Nonconsolidated dividend payout ratio (%) = 100 x dividends paid / net income (nonconsolidated) HORIBA Report 2016 | 46 Financial data Eleven-Year Summary Net sales by segment Millions of yen In fiscal 2016, the Semiconductor 200,000 Instruments & Systems segment renewed its record high for sales, 170,898 170,093 160,000 153,065 Process & Environmental thanks to an increase in investment 16,754 16,753 144,283 by semiconductor manufacturers, but 134,248 138,136 16,465 Scientific 14,290 27,059 25,738 the overall net sales decreased 118,556 123,456 117,609 14,711 120,000 116,099 13,721 25,627 25,748 14,558 year-on-year due to the yen’s 9,753 24,810 104,538 11,787 13,709 22,913 35,386 38,828 12,022 22,040 28,934 Semiconductor appreciation and other factors. 25,300 20,825 20,406 26,934 80,000 16,762 20,503 24,153 Net sales in fiscal 2016 were the 24,694 17,861 27,447 26,564 Medical-Diagnostic 20,111 25,836 24,722 12,483 27,676 26,832 27,037 second highest for HORIBA, after 22,989 22,337 23,485 22,400 those of fiscal 2015. 40,000 22,514 64,251 62,207 Automotive 51,475 54,232 49,524 55,001 37,945 37,192 38,678 43,230 Test Systems 35,751 0 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 Net income attributable to owners of parent and ROE Millions of yen Net income attributable to owners of parent (left) Return on Equity (ROE) (right) % HORIBA posted a year-on-year 15,000 15.0 decrease in operating income but a one-off drop in the statutory effective 12,882 12,962 12,000 12.0 tax rate contributed to a record high 11.4 10,589 net income attributable to owners of 9.7 9.9 10.2 10.0 parent. * ROE of 10.0% means that 9,000 9.4 8,691 8,664 8,999 9.0 8.9 HORIBA achieved MLMAP2020 target 7,927 7.8 8.4 7.7 7,396 of 10% or more in ROE for the 6,510 6,000 6,039 6.0 second consecutive year. * Due to change in the revenue recognition 4.0 standard in fiscal 2016, net income in 3,000 3,161 3.0 fiscal 2015, when the new standard was retrospectively applied, would have been 0 0 the record high. 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 Cash flow Millions of yen Operating cash flow Investing cash flow Free cash flow In 2015 HORIBA recorded 20,000 significantly negative free cash flow, 15,076 15,871 13,581 13,711 13,395 14,770 due to many investments, including 11,964 11,455 10,000 7,521 those for HORIBA BIWAKO 9,143 9,520 6,954 6,965 8,011 3,769 5,504 5,443 E-HARBOR and the acquisition of 809 0 490 1,580 HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. -750 -2,863 -2,821 In 2016, HORIBA recorded positive -4,519 -4,191 -10,000 -6,145 -7,891 -8,111 free cash flow of ¥5.4 billion due to an -9,875 -10,427 increase in operating cash flow that -15,872 -20,000 -16,444 stemmed from an increase in earnings of the Semiconductor -30,000 Instruments & Systems segment, -30,642 which more than offset continued -40,000 aggressive investment for HORIBA 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 MIRA, Ltd. and other projects. 47 Operating Income and Operating Income to Net Sales Inventories and Inventory Turnover (Days) Millions of yen Operating Income Ratio of Operating Income to Net Sales % Millions of yen Inventories (left) Inventory Turnover (right) Days 22,000 16.0 48,000 120 19,372 18,499 40,000 40,289 100 14,906 17,214 93 16,500 16,530 12.1 12.0 92 33,734 35,717 85 34,838 11.2 82 33,085 86 11.5 10.9 32,000 30,947 86 81 80 10.4 11.3 10.1 10.0 13,733 29,802 74 76 81 9.9 28,101 75 12,299 11,707 10,958 11,751 26,288 11,000 8.2 8.0 24,000 23,363 24,843 60 16,000 40 4.9 5,500 5,144 4.0 8,000 20 0 0 0 0 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 Net Income per Share and Net Assets per Share R&D Expenditures and R&D Expenditures to Net Sales Yen Net Income per Share (left) Net Assets per Share (right) Yen Millions of yen R&D Expeditures (left) R&D Expeditures to Net Sales (right) % 350 3,500 15,000 10.0 9.4 3,149 3,078 8.6 12,933 2,929 306 308 12,341 280 2,800 12,000 7.9 8.0 8.1 7.8 11,986 8.0 2,700 10,774 7.6 10,662 7.8 2,346 250 10,060 10,092 7.2 6.6 9,831 9,480 210 205 2,133 2,100 9,000 9,474 6.0 1,987 213 1,890 1,711 187 205 1,893 1,817 5.3 175 140 154 143 1,400 6,000 6,136 4.0 70 75 700 3,000 2.0 0 0 0 0 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 Cash Dividends per Share Capital Expenditures and Depreciation and Amortization Yen Millions of yen Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization 100 20,000 85 80 16,309 15,000 70 67 13,796 60 60 11,001 50 10,000 9,336 44 40 39 40 7,882 6,645 7,680 6,816 6,110 26 5,000 4,534 4,523 20 17 5,059 4,955 4,670 4,905 4,573 4,146 4,279 4,161 4,033 3,743 13 3,246 0 0 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 2006.12 2007.12 2008.12 2009.12 2010.12 2011.12 2012.12 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 HORIBA Report 2016 | 48 Financial data Consolidated Financial Review 49 会社：連結財務概要 2016Ltd. HORIBA, 年度and HORIBA 英語Report Subsidiaries Consolidated 原稿 | Consolidated Financial Review 米国では With regard to the global economy in the fiscal year ended implemented several measures to strengthen each segment から、景 December 31, 2016, the United States continued its economic in current fiscal year. 復が続き recovery, driven by an increase in consumption supported by 自動車計測システム機器部門では、インドにおける自動車計 In the Automotive Test Systems segment, we opened 減速した an improvement in the employment environment and other 測機器のビジネス拡大を実現するため、自動車開発・デモン automotive development and demonstration laboratory 果などか factors. In Europe, a modest economic recovery was ストレーション施設「ホリバ・インド社テクニカルセンター」 “HORIBA India Technical Center” in India in order to expand sustained. In emerging countries, 27 を稼働させました。また、平成 the年に英国の overall economy MIRA 社より the automotive measurement instrument business in that recovered 買収した ECT※（自動車開発全般に関するエンジニアリン moderately, partly due to economic stimulus market. We also invested aggressively in the ECT measures, but some countries experienced an economic グ・試験）事業においては、自動運転を含む次世代モビリテ (Engineering Consultancy & Testing) business, which we slowdown. ィの開発などの領域へ事業拡大をめざし、積極的な投資を実 acquired from MIRA Ltd.(U.K.) in 2015, with the aim of に加え、 In Japan, 施しました。 on top of a mild increase in capital spending, expanding into business fields that include the development of く推移し consumer spending was ※ECT:Engineering Consultancy modest, &supported Testing by an next-generation mobility, including automatic driving improvement in the employment and wage environment. technology. These環境・プロセスシステム機器部門では、アジアでの事業拡大 factors allowed the moderate economic recovery trend In the Process & Environmental Instruments & Systems to continue. を実現するため、各地域における環境規制強化や地域環境の segment, HORIBA, jointly with local universities and other 均為替レ The annual average exchange rates for 2016 were 108.78 改善に繋がる分析計測ソリューションの提案を、現地大学や institutions, proposed analytical and measurement solutions 、前年と yen against the U.S. dollar and また、 協力企業等と進めました。 120.26 平成yen25against the euro, （米 年にキャメロン社 that contribute to the tightening of local environmental 高になり representing year-on-year appreciation of 11.3% against the 国）より買収したプロセス計測設備事業では、石油精製市場 regulations and the improvement of the local environment, in U.S. dollar and appreciation of 11.7% against the euro. での積極的な活動を実施しました。 order to expand business in Asia. Furthermore, in the process 、データ In the analytical and measurement equipment industry, analytical product line, which HORIBA acquired from the U.S. 能化を背 demand for semiconductors and electronic devices increased corporation Cameron in 2013, HORIBA was active in the oil により、 due to demand for servers used in data centers and the refining market. 投資が続 increased functionality of smartphones. Consequently, 医用システム機器部門では、フランスで自社開発による血球 In the Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems segment, 連では、 semiconductor-related investment remained at a high level 計数分野の新製品投入を加速させると同時に、生化学分析装 we accelerated the development of new products which are 投資には throughout the year, and demand for semiconductor 置の販売提携などを進め、製品ラインアップの拡充を進めま developed in France in the hematology sector. At the same での排ガ production した。equipment expanded. In the automotive industry, time, our product line-up has been expanded for prospective されるこ domestic and overseas automakers were temporarily cautious launch through sales alliances of biochemical testing 要は拡大 regarding capital and R&D investment. On the other hand, equipment. において following the introduction of new emission gas regulations in 半導体システム機器部門では、半導体製造装置需要の高まり In the Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment, the ものの、 Europe, as Japan has decided to introduce new regulations in に対応するため、株式会社堀場エステック阿蘇工場の増設拡 Aso Factory of HORIBA STEC began construction to expand 2018, 張工事に着手しました。 demand for emission measurement systems has capacity, in order to respond to an increase in demand for increased. In the scientific analysis equipment industry, semiconductor production equipment. demand for leading-edge scientific analysis equipment was at 科学システム機器部門では、中国において研究開発目的での In the Scientific Instruments & Systems segment, we a highラマン分光分析装置などの販売体制を強化したほか、新市場 level in China but sluggish in other areas. strengthened the sales organization for products such as 、当連結 Under such business environment, HORIBA, Ltd. (“the への事業展開を実現するため、各事業部門における技術リソ Raman spectrometers used in R&D in China. The segment しまして Company”) and its consolidated subsidiaries (together “the ースや顧客ネットワークの相互活用を図り、顧客層の拡大に also sought to mutually utilize technology resources and HORIBA Group” or “HORIBA” as a consolidated group), 注力しました。 customer networks with other business segments and focused on growing its customer base, with the aim of /8 developing business in new markets. この他、日本では、自動車計測システム機器部門と環境・プ Furthermore, in Japan, HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR, the 2/8 HORIBA Report 2016 | 50 Financial data 2016 年度 HORIBA Report 原稿 開発・生産 new Biwako factory in Japan, began 前期比 full-fledged 事業の売上減などにより、 0.9 ポイント悪化の 59.0と operation. sales decrease of the MCT business, despite some impacts 「HORIBA This なりました。なお、売上原価は前年度比 newly-constructed factory aims to cater 497 百万円増加して for the from the yen’s appreciation against foreign currency and sales また、中長 reinforcement いますが、為替により売上原価が 7,574 百万円減少している of development and production capabilities in to semiconductor production equipment manufacturers に掲げる水 the gas measurement field for the Automotive ため、為替の影響を除いた場合、8,071 Test Systems 百万円の増加となりま surged. 株式会社堀 segmentす。and the Process & Environmental Instruments & Excluding ¥7,574 million from fluctuations in foreign exchange 連の開発・ Systems segment. Moreover, we have been strengthening the rates, however, the actual increase in cost of sales was ドテクノに water measurement-related business, which has been ¥8,071 million rather than the nominal increase of ¥497 水質計測関 promoted as one of the priority initiatives in the Company’s million. を実現しま Mid-Long また、 Term 販売費及び一般管理費は、Management 前期比 Plan 677 百万円減の 51,254 “MLMAP2020”. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses 加速させる Specifically, development and production resources which 百万円となりました。販売費及び一般管理費率は、研究開発 decreased by ¥677 million from the previous year to ¥51,254 に導入し、 have been dispersed in the Company and HORIBA Advanced0.1 ポ 費が増加したものの、円高の影響などにより、前期比 million. The ratio to net sales improved by 0.1 percentage す。 Techno, were decided イント改善の 30.1％となりました。なお、販売費及び一般管 to be integrated in HORIBA Advanced points to 30.1%, due mainly to some impacts from the yen’s Techno, in order to grow 理費は前年度比 677 百万円減少していますが、この内 the business and strengthen its 3,484 appreciation against foreign currency, despite an increase in brand百万円の減少は為替による影響であり、為替の影響を除いた power globally. In addition, with the aim at improving R&D expenses. Excluding ¥3,484 million from fluctuations in asset 場合、2,806 efficiency and百万円の増加となります。 accelerating business growth at the same foreign exchange rates, however, the actual increase in SG&A time, HORIBA’s management indices to measure asset expenses was ¥2,806 million rather than the nominal efficiency were introduced and have been thoroughly decrease of ¥677 million. implemented by all Group companies. これらの結果、当連結会計年度の営業利益は、18,499 百万円 As a result, consolidated operating income decreased by たが、円高 Despite と前期比 those1,642 measures and sales efforts, due to some 百万円、8.2％の減益となり、営業利益率は、 ¥1,642 million, or 8.2%, year-on-year to ¥18,499 million. The 、売上高・ impacts from the 前年度の 11.7％から 0.8 ポイント悪化し、10.9％となりまし yen’s appreciation against foreign currency, operating income ratio was 10.9%, down 0.8 percentage both ofた。 consolidated net sales and profits decreased from a points from 11.7% for the previous year. year ago. 事業セグメント Business Segments Net Sales セグメント別の状況は、次のとおりであります。 The operating results of each business segment are 年度に比べ In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, consolidated net summarized as follows. 当社が決算 sales decreased by ¥1,823 million, or 1.1%, year-on-year to Ｓドルでは ¥170,093 million. The average foreign exchange rate applied ―自動車計測システム機器部門― (Automotive Test Systems) 4 円 31 銭か in book closings was ¥108.78 to the U.S. dollar, compared 世界的な自動車排ガス規制強化を背景に、エンジン排ガス測 On top of increased sales of emission measurement systems レートで換 with ¥121.10 定装置の売上が増加したことに加え、 平成 27 for the previous year, and ¥120.26 the euro, to年７月に英国の supported by tighter automotive emission gas regulations 、円高の影 MIRAwith compared ¥134.31 for ECT 社より買収した the previous year. Using the 事業が通年で売上に寄与しまし across the world, sales of HORIBA MIRA, Ltd. (U.K.), which います。 exchange rates for the previous year, consolidated sales for た。一方で、円高の影響により海外での売上高が円換算で減 was acquired in July 2015, contributed to sales gain on a fiscal 少したほか、MCT（自動車計測機器）事業においては、顧客 2016 would have been ¥184,343 million. Thus, ¥14,250 full-year basis. On the other hand, due to the impacts of the millionの投資姿勢が一時的に慎重となったことなどから売上高が減 in decreased sales can be attributed to the appreciation of the yen, which decreased overseas sales in appreciation 少しました。 of the これらの結果、 yen. 売上高は前期比 4.9％減の 62,207 yen terms, and the MCT (Mechatronics) sales decreased, as 百万円となりました。利益面では、平成 28 年５月に稼働した customers temporarily became cautious regarding Cost ofHORIBA Sales, SG&ABIWAKO E-HARBOR Expenses, and Operating Income への移転に伴う費用や、 investments. As a result, segment sales decreased by 4.9% 増の 100,339 MCT 事業の売上減などにより、営業利益は同 Consolidated cost of sales increased by ¥497 million 32.1％減の to year-on-year to ¥62,207 million. Operating income decreased や、半導体 3,529million. ¥100,339 The cost of sales ratio increased by 0.9 百万円となりました。 by 32.1% to ¥3,529 million, which was attributable to のの、MCT percentage points from a year ago to 59.0%, due mainly to increased costs that are related to the full-scale operation of 3/8 4/8 51 2016 年度 HORIBA Report 原稿 HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR, the new factory in Japan from その他収益（費用）は、熊本地震やフランスの洪水被災に伴 by ¥918 million from fiscal 2015 mainly due to loss on disaster May 2016, and sales decrease of the MCT business. 前期比で 918 う災害による損失の計上があったことなどから、 related to the damage caused by the Kumamoto Earthquakes 百万円悪化しました。当連結会計年度においては、その他収 and the flood in France. In fiscal 2016, other income (Process & Environmental Instruments & Systems) 益（費用）は、関係会社株式売却益を計上したものの、災害 (expenses) resulted in loss of ¥1,256 million. This result was 、アジア sales of stack gas analyzers for 1,256 Whileによる損失を計上したことなどから、 power百万円の損失とな plants and mainly because HORIBA posted loss on disaster, despite 推移しま factories りました。in Asia and Europe were sluggish, sales were posting of gain on sales of subsidiaries and affiliates' stocks. modest in Japan. Sales were also firm in the Americas, as a 油安によ 営業減益の影響もあり、税金等調整前当期純利益は 17,243 百 Because of the decrease in operating income, income before decline in oil prices led to an increase in demand in the 上高は前 万円と前期比 2,561 百万円、12.9%の減益、親会社株主に帰属 income taxes decreased by ¥2,561 million, or 12.9%, to process measurement equipment business. As a result, では、海 sales increased12,962 する当期純利益は、 segment by 0.3% year-on-year320 百万円と前期比 ¥16,753 2.4％ to 百万円、 ¥17,243 million, and net Income attributable to owners of 利益は同 million. Operating income, however, decreased by 12.3% to の減益となりました。 parent decreased by ¥320 million, or 2.4%, to ¥12,962 million. ¥1,540 million due to lower profitability of overseas projects. 財政状態 Financial Position (Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems) 当連結会計年度末の総資産は前連結会計年度末に比べ 7,535 As of December 31, 2016, total consolidated assets were Sales of the hematology and C-Reactive Protein (CRP) 数 CRP 百万円増加し、239,657 百万円となりました。為替レートが ¥239,657 million, up ¥7,535 million from December 31, 2015. analyzers, which were launched in March 2015 in Japan, were ユーロ安 円高に推移したことにより日本円換算後の資産金額が圧縮さ The main factors contributing to the increase were an at a high level, but sales in Europe in yen terms decreased, となどに れたものの、新規投資により有形固定資産が増加したことや increase in property, plant and equipment due to new stemming from the yen’s appreciation against the euro. ました。 第４四半期における半導体システム機器部門の売上増加に伴 investments, and an increase in trade notes and accounts Consequently, segment sales decreased by 4.0% 業利益は い売上債権が増加したことなどによります。 receivable driven by higher sales in the Semiconductor year-on-year to ¥26,564 million. Operating income increased Instruments & Systems segment in the 4th quarter, despite by 9.7% to ¥2,806 million thanks to high level sales in Japan the amount of assets was compressed in yen terms due to the and other factors. appreciation of the yen. (Semiconductor Instruments & Systems) 当 連結会 計年度 末の 負債総額 は前連 結会計 年度 末 に比べ Total consolidated liabilities increased by ¥1,588 million from Despite some impacts from the yen’s appreciation against 1,588 百万円増加し、106,466 百万円となりました。総資産と the previous year to ¥106,466 million. While the amount of 準の設備 foreign currency, due to high level of capital investment by 同じく円高により負債金額が圧縮されたものの、海外におい liabilities was compressed in yen terms due to the が大幅に semiconductor manufacturers, sales to semiconductor 38,828 て新規投資に伴い借入金が増加したことや第４四半期におけ appreciation of the yen, as in the case of total assets, an production equipment manufacturers surged. As a result, る半導体システム機器部門の売上増加に伴い買入債務が増加 increase in borrowings due to new overseas investments and となりま segment sales increased by 9.8% year-on-year to ¥38,828 したことなどによります。 an increase in trade notes and accounts payable driven by million and operating income was up 2.6% to ¥9,678 million. higher sales in the Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment in the 4th quarter were the main factors behind the (Scientific Instruments & Systems) increase in total liabilities. Sales of instruments and systems to universities and other 中国にお customers for R&D were solid in Japan and China but ました。 当連結会計年度末の純資産合計は前連結会計年度末に比べ Total consolidated net assets amounted to ¥133,191 million, sluggish in Europe and the Americas. Sales in Europe in yen 円換算で 5,947 百万円増加し、133,191 百万円となりました。為替換算 up ¥5,947 million from a year ago, due mainly to an increase terms were also depressed by the yen’s appreciation against 25,738 調整勘定が円高により the euro. 4,150 sales Consequently, segment 百万円減少したものの、利益剰 decreased by 3.8% of ¥9,871 million in retained earnings, despite a decrease of となりま 余金が 9,871 year-on-year to ¥25,738 million and operating income 百万円増加したことなどによります。 ¥4,150 million in foreign currency translation adjustments due decreased by 21.1% to ¥944 million. mainly to the appreciation of the yen against foreign currency. Net Income Attributable to Owners of Parent キャッシュ・フロー Cash Flows Other income (expenses) resulted in increasing its expenses 8 6/8 HORIBA Report 2016 | 52 Financial data (Cash Flow from Operating Activities) 㻹㼍㼖㼛㼞㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌 㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵 整前当期純 Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to 㻝㻚㻌㻮㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌 㻌 㻔㻝㻕㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌㻭㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㻵㼚㼠㼑㼞㼚㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼍㼘㻌㻮㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㻭㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌 㻔㻠㻕㻌㻾㼕㼟 円のプラス ¥15,871 million, compared to ¥14,770 million provided in the 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼙㼍㼚㼥㻌㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼞㼕㼑㼟㻌㼍㼞㼛㼡㼚㼐㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵 なりました。 previous year. Factors contributing to this amount included 㼠㼔㼑㻌㼣㼛㼞㼘㼐㻘㻌㼕㼚㼏㼘㼡㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼞㼕㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㻱㼡㼞㼛㼜㼑㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌 㻭㼟㼕㼍㻚㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼛 posting of income before income taxes and depreciation and 㻹㼍㼖㼛㼞㻌 㼞㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌 㼍㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼑㼚㼠㼞㼥㻌 㼕㼚㼠㼛㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌 㼛㼢㼑㼞㼟㼑㼍㼟㻌 㼎㼍㼟㼑㼐 amortization expense. 㼙㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼠㼔㼑㼞㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼘㼡㼐㼑㻌㼟㼡㼐㼐㼑㼚㻌㼟㼔㼕㼒㼠㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㼏㼘㼍㼕㼙㼟 㼑㼏㼛㼚㼛㼙㼕㼏㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼛㼞㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㻌 㼟㼡㼜㼜㼘㼥㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼐㼑㼙㼍㼚㼐㻘㻌 㼟㼡㼐㼐㼑㼚㻌 㼐㼕㼒㼒㼑㼞㼑 㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼞㼑㼠㼍㼕㼘㻌 㼜㼞㼕㼏㼑㼟㻌 㼐㼡㼑㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼏㼛㼙㼜㼑㼠㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻘㻌 㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼘㼍㼣㼟㻘㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎 (Cash Flow from Investing Activities) 㼞㼑㼓㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼍㼤㻌 㼟㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌 㼐㼕㼟㼞㼡㼜㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼟㼡㼏㼔㻌 㼍㼟㻌 㼍㻌㼏㼘㼍㼕 MIRA 社の Net cash used in investing activities amounted to ¥10,427 㼠㼑㼞㼞㼛㼞㼕㼟㼙㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌war. These risks could affect HORIBA’s financial 㻌 カルセンタ million, compared to ¥30,642 million used in the previous 㼜㼛㼟㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼞㼑㼟㼡㼘㼠㼟㻚㻌 㻔㻡㻕㻌㻻㼠 取得による year, due mainly to payments for purchases of property, plant 㼀㼛㻌㼜㼞㼛㼠㼑㼏㼠㻌㼍㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㼠㻌㼒㼘㼡㼏㼠㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㼒㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼏㼥㻌㼑㼤㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌 㻵㼚㻌 㼍㼐㼐 期は 30,642 and equipment, such as MIRA Technology Park(U.K.), 㼞㼍㼠㼑㼟㻘㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼙㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌 㼘㼛㼏㼍㼘㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼟㼡㼜㼜㼘㼥㻚㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼞㼕㼟㼗㻌㼛㼒 㼍㼘㼟㼛㻌㼑㼙㼜㼘㼛㼥㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼑㼤㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㼣㼍㼞㼐㻌㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼍㼏㼠㼟㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼘㼕㼙㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼑 HORIBA India Technical Center and Kyoto factory of the 㼛㼒㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼠㼞㼍㼚㼟㼍㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼍㼙㼛㼡㼚㼠㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼒㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌 㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼏㼥㻌 㼐㼑㼚㼛㼙㼕㼚㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼞㼑㼓㼡㼘㼍 Company,. 㼞㼑㼏㼑㼕㼢㼍㼎㼘㼑㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼜㼍㼥㼍㼎㼘㼑㼟㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼕㼙㼜㼛㼞㼠㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼑㼤㼜㼛㼞㼠㻌 㼠㼞㼍㼚㼟㼍㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡 㼙㼕㼚㼕㼙㼕㼦㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼑㼤㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌㼞㼕㼟㼗㼟㻚㻌 㻴㼛㼣㼑㼢㼑㼞㻘㻌㼒㼘㼡㼏㼠㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼒㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌 㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏 (Cash Flow from Financing Activities) 㼑㼤㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌 㼞㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼟㼠㼕㼘㼘㻌 㼔㼍㼢㼑㻌 㼍㼚㻌 㼕㼙㼜㼍㼏㼠㻌 㼣㼔㼑㼚㻌 㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌 㻌 れによる収 Net cash used in financing activities amounted to ¥451 million, 㼟㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌 㼜㼞㼑㼜㼍㼞㼑㼐㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼘㼛㼏㼍㼘㻌 㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼏㼕㼑㼟㻌 㼍㼞㼑㻌 㼠㼞㼍㼚㼟㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼕㼚㼠㼛㻌 㻞㻚㻌㻾㼕㼟 㻶㼍㼜㼍㼚㼑㼟㼑㻌 㼥㼑㼚㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌 㼟㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻘㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼍㻌 㻔㻝㻕㻌㻯㼛 済などによ compared to ¥12,843 million provided in the previous year. 㼙㼍㼖㼛㼞㻌 㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼒㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌 㼑㼤㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌 㼞㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌 㼎㼑㼥㼛㼚㼐㻌 㼛㼡㼞㻌 㼑㼟㼠㼕㼙㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵 のプラス） This was mainly attributable to payments for dividends and a 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻌㼛㼡㼞㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼏㼛㼚㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻌 㼟㼑㼞㼢㼕㼏 decrease of long-term debt, despite an increase of long-term 㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕 debt. 㻔㻞㻕㻌 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㻼㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌 㼛㼞㻌 㻲㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌 㻼㼛㼟㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㻭㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼛㼞㻌 㼘㼕㼠㼕 㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㻭㼏㼝㼡㼕㼟㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻭㼘㼘㼕㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼚㼟㼡㼞㼍 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼔㼍㼟㻌 㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼑㼘㼥㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼙㼛㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼏㼛㼞㼜㼛㼞㼍㼠㼑㻌 㼍㼏㼝㼡㼕㼟㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼕㼟㻌 㼕㼚 物の増加額 As a result, there was a net increase of ¥4,081 million in cash 㼍㼘㼘㼕㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼑㼚㼔㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼑㼒㼒㼕㼏㼕㼑㼚㼏㼥㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼑㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼕㼢㼑㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼐㼍㼙㼍㼓 高は 51,940 and cash equivalents to ¥51,940 million as of December 31, 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻚㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼙㼜㼘㼑㼠㼑㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼐㼕㼘㼕㼓㼑㼚㼠㻌 HORI 2016. 㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼕㼓㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼣㼔㼑㼚㻌㼙㼍㼗㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼏㼝㼡㼕㼟㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼒㼛㼞㼙㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼘㼘㼕㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㻌 㼛㼞㼐㼑㼞㻌㼠㼛㻌㼍㼢㼛㼕㼐㻌㼍㼚㼥㻌㼚㼑㼓㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼙㼜㼍㼏㼠㻌㼛㼚㻌㼑㼍㼞㼚㼕㼚㼓㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼒㼘㼛㼣㼟㻚㻌 㻌 㻔㻞㻕㻌㻰㼑 Dividend Policy 㻴㼛㼣㼑㼢㼑㼞㻘㻌 㼕㼠㻌 㼕s possible that HORIBA’s financial condition and 㼀㼔㼑㻌㼙 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼕㼒㻌 㼍㼚㻌 㼍㼏㼝㼡㼕㼟㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼛㼞㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼑㼤㼠 基盤の確保 The Company believes that the distribution of profits to 㼍㼘㼘㼕㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼐㼕㼐㻌㼚㼛㼠㻌㼜㼞㼛㼏㼑㼑㼐㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼞㼐㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㼕㼚㼕㼠㼕㼍㼘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟㻚㻌 㼏㼍㼜㼍㼎 株主の皆様 shareholders is one of its priority issues while giving due 㻌 㼐㼑㼢㼑㼘㼛 当金と自社 consideration to ensuring a stable management base and 㻔㻟㻕㻌 㻾㼑㼜㼍㼕㼞㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㻲㼍㼏㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌 㻲㼛㼘㼘㼛㼣㼕㼚㼓㻌 㻺㼍㼠㼡㼞㼍㼘㻌 㻰㼕㼟㼍㼟㼠㼑㼞㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼕㼟㻌 㼕 0％を目処と internal reserves for business expansion. The basic policy 㻭㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼘㼍㼥㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㻰㼑㼘㼕㼢㼑㼞㼥㻘㻌㼑㼠㼏㻚㻌 㼏㼕㼞㼏㼡㼙 留保資金に regarding profit returns to shareholders is to maintain a total 㼀㼔㼑㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㻳㼞㼛㼡㼜㻓㼟㻌㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼎㼍㼟㼑㼟㻌㼍㼞㼑㻌㼘㼛㼏㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼕㼚㻌㼐㼕㼢㼑㼞㼟㼑㻌 㻌 㼍㼞㼑㼍㼟㻘㻌㼕㼚㼏㼘㼡㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌㻶㼍㼜㼍㼚㻌㻔㻷㼥㼛㼠㼛㻘㻌㻿㼔㼕㼓㼍㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻷㼡㼙㼍㼙㼛㼠㼛㻌㻼㼞㼑㼒㼑㼏㼠㼡㼞㼑㼟㻕㻘㻌 㻔㻟㻕㻌㻾㼕㼟 及び研究開 shareholder return ratio of around 30% of consolidated net 㻱㼡㼞㼛㼜㼑㻌 㻔㻲㼞㼍㼚㼏㼑㻘㻌 㻳㼑㼞㼙㼍㼚㼥㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㻯㼦㼑㼏㼔㻌 㻾㼑㼜㼡㼎㼘㼕㼏㻕㻘㻌 㻭㼙㼑㼞㼕㼏㼍㼟 㻴㻻㻾㻵 当し、将来 income attributable to owners of parent, combined with the （㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌㻮㼞㼍㼦㼕㼘）㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㻭㼟㼕㼍㻌㻔㻯㼔㼕㼚㼍㻘㻌㻿㼛㼡㼠㼔㻌 㻷㼛㼞㼑㼍㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌 㻵㼚㼐㼕㼍㻕㻚㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼑 ものといた amount of dividend payments and the amount of share However, it is possible that HORIBA’s financial condition and 㼠㼞㼍㼐㼑 buyback. In addition, the Company will appropriate internal 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌㼎㼑㻌㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼍㻌㼙㼍㼖㼛㼞㻌 㼏㼛㼙㼜㼑 reserves as basic funds for working capital for business 㼑㼍㼞㼠㼔㼝㼡㼍㼗㼑㻌 㼛㼞㻌 㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌 㼚㼍㼠㼡㼞㼍㼘㻌 㼐㼕㼟㼍㼟㼠㼑㼞㼟㻘㻌 㼍㼟㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭’㼟㻌 㼞㼑㼓㼍㼞㼐 㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼒㼍㼏㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌㼎㼑㻌㼐㼍㼙㼍㼓㼑㼐㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼞㼑㼝㼡㼕㼞㼑㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑 expansion, capital expenditure, investment in research and 㼞㼑㼜㼍㼕㼞㼟㻌㼛㼞㻌㼍㼚㻌㼕㼚㼠㼑㼞㼞㼡㼜㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼠㼛㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭’㼟㻌㼟㼡㼜㼜㼘㼥㻌㼏㼔㼍㼕㼚㻌㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻌 㼜㼍㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌 development, and the reinforcement of the financial strength, making returns to shareholders through the development of 7/8 businesses for the future. 53 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭’㼟㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻛㼛㼞㻌㼐㼕㼟㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻚㻌 㻌 㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼑㼍㼞㼚㼕㼚㼓㼟㻚㻌 㼀㼔㼑㼞㼑㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼍㼘㼟㼛㻌 㼍㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼐㼕㼟㼜㼡㼠㼑㼟㻌 㼛㼢㼑㼞㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠 㻌 㼕㼚㼠㼑㼘㼘㼑㼏㼠㼡㼍㼘㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻌 㼞㼕㼓㼔㼠㼟㻌 㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌 㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌 㼏㼛㼙㼜㼍㼚㼕㼑㼟㻚㻌 㻌 㻿㼡㼏㼔㻌 㻶㼍㼜㼍㼚㼑㼟㼑㻌 㻌 㻔㻠㻕㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌㻭㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㻯㼛㼚㼠㼞㼍㼏㼠㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼀㼞㼍㼚㼟㼍㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼐㼕㼟㼜㼡㼠㼑㼟㻌㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌significantly affect HORIBA’s financial condition 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼞㼑㼜㼞㼑 㼞㼛㼡㼚㼐㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼑㼚㼠㼑㼞㼟㻌㼕㼚㼠㼛㻌㼢㼍㼞㼕㼛㼡㼟㻌㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼍㼏㼠㼟㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㼏㼡㼟㼠㼛㼙㼑㼞㼟㻘㻌㼟㼡㼜㼜㼘㼕㼑㼞㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻌 㼑㼟㼠㼕㼙㼍㼠㼑㼐 㻌 㻭㼟㼕㼍㻚㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌 㼟㼠㼍㼗㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌 㻌 for loss on 㼞㼟㼑㼍㼟㻌 㼎㼍㼟㼑㼐㻌㼛㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼍㼏㼠㼟㻚㻌㻺㼑㼢㼑㼞㼠㼔㼑㼘㼑㼟㼟㻘㻌㼠㼔㼑㼞㼑㻌㼕㼟㻌㼍㻌㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌㼛㼒㻌 㻔㻠㻕㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌㻭㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㻲㼘㼡㼏㼠㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㻾㼍㼣㻌㻹㼍㼠㼑㼞㼕㼍㼘㻌㻼㼞㼕㼏㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼠㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼟 㼕㼒㼠㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㼏㼘㼍㼕㼙㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼐㼍㼙㼍㼓㼑㼟㻌㼍㼞㼕㼟㼕㼚㼓㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼐㼕㼒㼒㼑㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼢㼕㼑㼣㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼛㼞㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼠㼍㼗㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㼠㼛㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼞㼕㼟㼗㻌㼛㼒㻌㼒㼘㼡㼏㼠㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼜㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠 㼡㼐㼐㼑㼚㻌 㼐㼕㼒㼒㼑㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼡㼚㼐㼑㼞㼟㼠㼍㼚㼐㼕㼚㼓㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼠㼑㼞㼙㼟㻌㼎㼑㼠㼣㼑㼑㼚㻌㼜㼍㼞㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻌㻵㼠㻌㼕㼟㻌 㼜㼞㼕㼏㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼙㼍㼗㼑㼟㻌㼍㼞㼞㼍㼚㼓㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼟㼡㼏㼔㻌㼍㼟㻌㼍㼐㼢㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼜㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼛㻌 㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌 㻌 㼘㼍㼣㼟㻘㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌㼟㼡㼏㼔㻌㼏㼕㼞㼏㼡㼙㼟㼠㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻌㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌㼞㼑㼟㼡㼘㼠㻌㼕㼚㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼒㼍㼏㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼙㼍㼚㼍㼓㼑㻌㼠㼔㼕㼟㻌㼞㼕㼟㼗㻌㼣㼔㼑㼚㻌㼕㼠㻌㼕㼟㻌㼐㼑㼑㼙㼑㼐㻌㼚㼑㼏㼑㼟㼟㼍㼞㼥㻚㻌㻴㼛㼣㼑㼢㼑㼞㻘㻌㼕㼠㻌㼙㼍㼥㻌 㼢㼛㼘㼡㼚㼠㼍㼞㼥㻌 㼏㼔㻌 㼍㼟㻌 㼍㻌㼏㼘㼍㼕㼙㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼑㼚㼟㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻚㻌 㼞㼑㼝㼡㼕㼞㼑㻌 㼟㼛㼙㼑㻌 㼠㼕㼙㼑㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼍㼚㻌 㼕㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼜㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼜㼞㼕㼏㼑㼟㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼙㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㼟㻌 ancial 㻌 㼜㼍㼟㼟㼑㼐㻌 㼛㼚㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼞㼑㼒㼘㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼟㼑㼘㼘㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼜㼞㼕㼏㼑㼟㻚㻌 㻿㼡㼏㼔㻌 㼏㼕㼞㼏㼡㼙㼟㼠㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻌 㻌 㻔㻡㻕㻌㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㻮㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼟㼕㼓㼚㼕㼒㼕㼏㼍㼚㼠㼘㼥㻌 㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭’s financial condition and 㻠㻚㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌㼎 㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌 㻵㼚㻌 㼍㼐㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼍㼎㼛㼢㼑㻙㼙㼑㼚㼠㼕㼛㼚㼑㼐㻌 㼞㼕㼟㼗㼟㻘㻌 㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌 㼞㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌 㼕㼚㼏㼘㼡㼐㼑㻌 㼍㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼞㼕㼟㼗㻌㼛㼒㻌㼎㼞㼑㼍㼗㼐㼛㼣㼚㻌㼛㼞㻌㼙㼍㼘㼒㼡㼚㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼕㼚㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼟㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻘㻌㼠㼔㼞㼑㼍㼠㼟㻌 㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻘㻌 㻌㼘㼕㼙㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼠㼛㻌㼕㼚㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼥㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼞㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌㼍㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㼘㼍㼣㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌 㻟㻚㻌㻲㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌 㻹㼑㼐㼕㼏㼍㼘㻙㻰 㼕㼚㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼞㼑㼓㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼕㼙㼜㼛㼟㼑㼐㻌㼛㼚㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㼑㼟㻚㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼕㼟㻌㼠㼍㼗㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼞㼑㼢㼑㼚㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌 㻔㻝㻕㻌㻵㼙㼜㼍㼕㼞㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㻿㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌 㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚 㼚㼟㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼑㼟㻌 㼍㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㼠㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌 㼞㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌 㼎㼡㼠㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼥㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭’㼟㻌 㻮㼍㼟㼑㼐㻌 㼛㼚㻌 㼍㼚㻌 㼛㼢㼑㼞㼍㼘㼘㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼟㼕㼐㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼟㼠㼞㼍㼠㼑㼓㼥㻘㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌 㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼜㼛㼟㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼞㼑㼟㼡㼘㼠㼟㻚㻌 㼑㼚㼔㼍㼚㼏㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼜㼍㼞㼠㼚㼑㼞㼟㻘㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 segment’ 㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌 㻌 㼙㼍㼕㼚㼠㼑㼚㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼓㼛㼛㼐㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㼔㼕㼜㻌 㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌 㼏㼛㼙㼙㼡㼚㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻘㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚 㻌 㼕㼚㼠㼛㻌 㻞㻚㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌㻭㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㻰㼑㼢㼑㼘㼛㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻼㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼔㼛㼘㼐㼟㻌 㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼛㼞㼐㼑㼞㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼞㼍㼕㼟㼑㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼙㼑㼐㼕㼡㼙㻙㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼘㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌 㼏㼍㼞㼞㼕㼑㼟㻌 㼞㼕 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼍㻌 㻔㻝㻕㻌㻯㼛㼙㼜㼑㼚㼟㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㻼㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㻌㻸㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌 corporate value. Each year, HORIBA’s Board of Directors 㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟 㼙㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌㼛㼜㼠㼕㼙㼡㼙㻌㼝㼡㼍㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼛㼘㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼕㼠㼟㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼞㼑㼢㼕㼑㼣㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼢㼍㼘㼡㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌㼕㼠㼟㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼎㼥㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㼘㼥㻌㼠㼍㼗㼕㼚㼓㻌 㻔㻝㻕㻌㻭㼡㼠㼛㼙 㼏㼑㻚㻌 㼟㼑㼞㼢㼕㼏㼑㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼟㼠㼞㼕㼢㼑㼟㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼙㼍㼕㼚㼠㼍㼕㼚㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼔㼕㼓㼔㼑㼟㼠㻌 㼟㼠㼍㼚㼐㼍㼞㼐㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼕㼚㼠㼛㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼙㼛㼡㼚㼠㻘㻌㼜㼛㼠㼑㼚㼠㼕㼍㼘㻌㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻌㼍㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㻱㼙㼕㼟㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻚㻌 㻌 㻺㼑㼢㼑㼞㼠㼔㼑㼘㼑㼟㼟㻘㻌㼠㼔㼑㼞㼑㻌㼕㼟㻌㼍㼘㼣㼍㼥㼟㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌㼛㼒㻌㼞㼑㼏㼍㼘㼘㼟㻌 㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼔㼛㼘㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻘㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌 㼒㼍㼏㼠㼛㼞㼟㻚㻌 㻵㼒㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼙㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㻌 㻭㼡㼠㼛㼙㼛㼠㼕㼢 㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼛㼞㻌 㼘㼕㼠㼕㼓㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼍㼞㼕㼟㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌 㼡㼚㼒㼛㼞㼑㼟㼑㼑㼚㻌 㼐㼑㼒㼑㼏㼠㼟㻚㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼏㼍㼞㼞㼕㼑㼟㻌 㼢㼍㼘㼡㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㼔㼑㼘㼐㻌㼎㼥㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼐㼑㼏㼘㼕㼚㼑㼟㻘㻌㼠㼔㼑㼞㼑㻌㼕㼟㻌㼍㻌㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌 㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡 㼕㼚㼟㼡㼞㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻘㻌㼎㼡㼠㻌㼠㼔㼑㼞㼑㻌㼏㼍㼚㻌㼎㼑㻌㼚㼛㻌㼓㼡㼍㼞㼍㼚㼠㼑㼑㻌㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㼍㼚㻌 㼕㼙㼜㼍㼕㼞㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌 㼛㼚㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼑㼢㼍㼚㼠㻌 㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌 㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼓㼛㼢㼑㼞㼚㼙㼑 㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼕㼟㻌 㼕㼚㼟㼡㼞㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌 㼣㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼏㼛㼢㼑㼞㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼒㼡㼘㼘㻌 㼍㼙㼛㼡㼚㼠㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼍㼚㼥㻌 㼡㼚㼒㼛㼞㼑㼟㼑㼑㼚㻌 recorded and that HORIBA’s financial condition and 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼑㼙㼕㼟㼟㼕㼛㼚㼟 㼛㼒㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼐㼍㼙㼍㼓㼑㼟㻚㻌 㻿㼡㼏㼔㻌 㼏㼕㼞㼏㼡㼙㼟㼠㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼔㼍㼢㼑㻌 㼍㼚㻌 㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻌 㼛㼚㻌 㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌㼎㼑㻌㼚㼑㼓㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㼘㼥㻌㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻚㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘 㼕㼘㼕㼓㼑㼚㼠㻌 HORIBA’s㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼏㼛㼚㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻌 㻌 㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚 㼏㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㻌 㻔㻞㻕㻌㻵㼙㼜㼍㼕㼞㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㻲㼕㼤㼑㼐㻌㻭㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌 㼞㼑㼓㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚 㼒㼘㼛㼣㼟㻚㻌 㻌 㻔㻞㻕㻌㻰㼑㼘㼍㼥㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㻰㼑㼢㼑㼘㼛㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼛㼒㻌㻺㼑㼣㻌㻼㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㻵㼒㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼙㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㻌 㼢㼍㼘㼡㼑㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼘㼍㼚㼐㻘㻌 㼎㼡㼕㼘㼐㼕㼚㼓㼟㻘㻌 㼛㼞㻌 㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌 㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌 㼔㼑㼘㼐㻌 㼎㼥㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼍㼡㼠㼛 n and 㼀㼔㼑㻌㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼕㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼣㼔㼕㼏㼔㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼐㼑㼏㼘㼕㼚㼑㼟㻌㼟㼕㼓㼚㼕㼒㼕㼏㼍㼚㼠㼘㼥㻌㼛㼞㻌㼟㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻌㼣㼑㼞㼑㻌㼓㼑㼚㼑㼞㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 significant 㼛㼚㻌 㼛㼞㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼑㼤㼠㼞㼑㼙㼑㼘㼥㻌 㼟㼜㼑㼏㼕㼍㼘㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼞㼑㼝㼡㼕㼞㼑㼟㻌 㼔㼕㼓㼔㻌 㼘㼑㼢㼑㼘㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼠㼑㼏㼔㼚㼕㼏㼍㼘㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼠㼣㼛㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼟㼑㼏㼡㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌 㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼒㼡㼠㼡㼞㼑㻘㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼞㼑㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼍㻌 㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚 㼏㼍㼜㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻚㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻘㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼞㼑㼒㼛㼞㼑㻘㻌 㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼟㻌 㼘㼍㼞㼓㼑㻌 㼟㼡㼙㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌 㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㼍㼚㻌 㼕㼙㼜㼍㼕㼞㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌 㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼞㼑㼏㼛㼞㼐㼑㼐㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㼐㼑㼢㼑㼘㼛㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻌 㻴㼛㼣㼑㼢㼑㼞㻘㻌 㼕㼠㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘㼑㻌 㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼞㼑㼠㼡㼞㼚㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 HORIBA’s financial condition and 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌㼎㼑㻌 㼒㼕㼤㼑㼐㻌 㼍㼟㼟㼑 㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼕㼟㻌 㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌 㼚㼛㼠㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼞㼑㼍㼘㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌 㼐㼡㼑㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼡㼚㼒㼛㼞㼑㼟㼑㼑㼚㻌 㼚㼑㼓㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㼘㼥㻌㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻚㻌 㼠㼞㼑㼚㼐㼟㻌㼍㼚 㼏㼕㼞㼏㼡㼙㼟㼠㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻚㻌 㻌 HORIBA’ 㼕㼢㼑㼞㼟㼑㻌 㻌 㻔㻟㻕㻌㻾㼑㼢㼑㼞㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼀㼍㼤㻌㻭㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㻾㼑㼟㼡㼘㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㻲㼞㼛㼙㻌㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㻌 㼡㼞㼑㼟㻕㻘㻌 㻔㻟㻕㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌㻯㼛㼚㼏㼑㼞㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㻵㼚㼠㼑㼘㼘㼑㼏㼠㼡㼍㼘㻌㻼㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻌㻾㼕㼓㼔㼠㼟㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼞㻌㻭㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㻼㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻌 㻔㻞㻕㻌㻼㼞㼛㼏㼑 㼑㼞㼕㼏㼍㼟 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼜㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㼟㼑㼟㻌㼍㻌㼣㼕㼐㼑㻌 㼞㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌 㼕㼚㼠㼑㼘㼘㼑㼏㼠㼡㼍㼘㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻌 㼞㼕㼓㼔㼠㼟㻌 㻵㼠㻌㼕㼟㻌㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼟㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼞㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㼑㻚㼓㻚㻘㻌 㻰㼑㼙㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼒 㻵㼚㼐㼕㼍㻕㻚㻌 㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼕㼠㻌 㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡㼞㼑㼟㻘㻌 㼕㼚㼏㼘㼡㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼜㼍㼠㼑㼚㼠㼟㻘㻌 㼞㼑㼐㼡㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼠㼍㼤㻌 㼞㼍㼠㼑㼟㻕㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼞㼑㼝㼡㼕㼞㼑㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼞㼑㼢㼑㼞㼟㼑㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌㼍㼕㼞㻌㼜㼛㼘 n and 㼠㼞㼍㼐㼑㼙㼍㼞㼗㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼑㼤㼜㼑㼞㼠㼕㼟㼑㻘㻌 㼣㼔㼕㼏㼔㻌 㼓㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼕㼠㻌 㼟㼡㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼞㼕㼠㼥㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼠㼑㼞㼙㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼐㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼠㼍㼤㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㼍㼠㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻌 㻌 㼑㼚㼢㼕㼞㼛㼚㼙㼑 㼙㼍㼖㼛㼞㻌 㼏㼛㼙㼜㼑㼠㼕㼠㼕㼢㼑㼚㼑㼟㼟㻚㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼑㼤㼑㼞㼏㼕㼟㼑㼟㻌 㼍㼘㼘㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘㼑㻌 㼏㼍㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㻵㻮㻭’㼟㻌 㼞㼑㼓㼍㼞㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼙㼍㼚㼍㼓㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼠㼑㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌 㼕㼚㼠㼑㼘㼘㼑㼏㼠㼡㼍㼘㻌 㻔㻠) Dissolution of Employees’ Pension Fund㻌 㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼏 㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻌㼞㼕㼓㼔㼠㼟㻚㻌㻴㼛㼣㼑㼢㼑㼞㻘㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼕㼚㼒㼞㼕㼚㼓㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼎㼥㻌㼍㻌㼠㼔㼕㼞㼐㻌 The Kyoto Machinery and Metal Employees’ Pension Fund 㻌 㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻌 㼜㼍㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌 㼕㼠㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘㼑㻌 㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼡㼚㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼍㼠㼠㼍㼕㼚㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㻔㼓㼑㼚㼑㼞㼍㼘㻌 㼠㼥㼜㼑㻕㻘㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼣㼔㼕㼏㼔㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㻯㼛㼙㼜㼍㼚㼥㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼍㻌 㼐㼛㼙㼑㼟㼠㼕㼏㻌 㻌 HORIBA Report 2016 | 54 Financial data 㼡㼠㼑㼟㻌 㼛㼢㼑㼞㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼟㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼥㻌 㼍㼞㼑㻌 㼙㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㼟㻘㻌 㼞㼑㼟㼛㼘㼢㼑㼐㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼍㼐㼛㼜㼠㻌 㻔㻟㻕㻌㻹㼑㼐㼕㼏㼍㼘㻙㻰㼕㼍㼓㼚㼛㼟㼠㼕㼏㻌㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㻒㻌㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㻚㻌 㻌 㻿㼡㼏㼔㻌 㻶㼍㼜㼍㼚㼑㼟㼑㻌㼓㼛㼢㼑㼞㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼥㻌㼠㼛㻌㼏㼍㼞㼞㼥㻌㼛㼡㼠㻌㼍㻌㼟㼜㼑㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼐㼕㼟㼟㼛㼘㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼠㻌 㼀㼔㼑㻌 㼙㼍㼕㼚㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㻹㼑㼐㼕㼏㼍㼘㻙㻰㼕㼍㼓㼚㼛㼟㼠㼕㼏㻌 㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌 㻒㻌 condition 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼞㼑㼜㼞㼑㼟㼑㼚㼠㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼍㼟㼟㼑㼙㼎㼘㼥㻚㻌 㻭㼏㼏㼛㼞㼐㼕㼚㼓㼘㼥㻘㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼍㼚㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㼟㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼍㼞㼑㻌 㼔㼑㼙㼍㼠㼛㼘㼛㼓㼥㻌 㼍㼚㼍㼘㼥㼦㼑㼞㼟㻘㻌 㼣㼔㼕㼏㼔㻌 㼍㼞㼑㻌 㼟㼙㼍㼘㼘㻙㻌 㼑㼟㼠㼕㼙㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼐㼕㼟㼟㼛㼘㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌as “Provision 㼍㼚㼐㻌㼙㼑㼐㼕㼡㼙㻙㼟㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼡㼟㼑㼐㻌㼎㼥㻌㼟㼙㼍㼘㼘㻙㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼙㼑㼐㼕㼡㼙㻙㼟㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌 for loss on dissolution of the employees’ pension fund”㻚㻌㻴㼛㼣㼑㼢㼑㼞㻘㻌 㼔㼛㼟㼜㼕㼠㼍㼘㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼙㼑㼐㼕㼏㼍㼘㻌 㼜㼞㼍㼏㼠㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㼑㼞㼟㻘㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼠㼍㼞㼓㼑㼠㻌 㼙㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㻚㻌 㻼㼞㼕㼏㼑㻌 㻌㻼㼞㼕㼏㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼠㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼎㼑㻌㼍㼜㼜㼞㼛㼢㼑㼐㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼐㼕㼟㼟㼛㼘㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼕㼚㻌㻞㻜㻝㻣㻘㻌㻿㼑㼜㼠㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻚㻌㻵㼠㻌㼕㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼙㼜㼑㼠㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌㼕㼟㻌㼎㼑㼥㼛㼚㼐㻌㼛㼡㼞㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌㼍㼚㻌㼑㼟㼠㼕㼙㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻘㻌㼐㼡㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌 could have a significant impact on HORIBA’s fin㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼏㼛㼚㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼔㼍㼟㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼛㻌 㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼑㼚㼢㼕㼞㼛㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㻲㼡㼚㼐㻘㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼏㼍㼟㼑㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼟㼡㼏㼔㻌 㼍㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻌 㼑㼞㻘㻌㼕㼠㻌㼙㼍㼥㻌 㼢㼛㼘㼡㼚㼠㼍㼞㼥㻌 㼣㼕㼠㼔㼐㼞㼍㼣㼍㼘㼟㻘㻌 㼏㼘㼛㼟㼡㼞㼑㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼎㼍㼚㼗㼞㼡㼜㼠㼏㼕㼑㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㻲㼡㼚㼐㻌 㻌 㼑㼟㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼙㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻚㻌 㻌 㻌 㻌 㻌 㻌 㻔㻠㻕㻌㻿㼑㼙㼕㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼛㼞㻌㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㻒㻌㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㼙㼟㼠㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻌 㻌 㼀㼔㼑㻌㼙㼍㼕㼚㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼕㼟㻌㼟㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼞㼑㻌㼒㼘㼡㼕㼐㻌㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼛㼘㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌 ition and 㻠㻚㻌㻾㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌㼎㼥㻌㻮㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㻿㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼟㼑㼙㼕㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼛㼞㻌 㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼏㼑㼟㼟㼑㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼒㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼟㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻦㻌 㻭㼡㼠㼛㼙㼛㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼀㼑㼟㼠㻌 㼟㼡㼜㼜㼛㼞㼠㻌㻾㻒㻰㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼝㼡㼍㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌㼠㼑㼟㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼎㼥㻌㼟㼑㼙㼕㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼛㼞㻌㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡㼞㼑㼞㼟㻚㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻘㻌 㻼㼞㼛㼏㼑㼟㼟㻌 㻒㻌 㻱㼚㼢㼕㼞㼛㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㼍㼘㻌 㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌 㻒㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻘㻌 㼀㼛㻌㼙㼕㼚㼕㼙㼕㼦㼑㻌㼒㼘㼡㼏㼠㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼟㼑㼙㼕㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼛㼞㻌㼙㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㻘㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㻹㼑㼐㼕㼏㼍㼘㻙㻰㼕㼍㼓㼚㼛㼟㼠㼕㼏㻌 㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌 㻒㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻘㻌 㻿㼑㼙㼕㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼛㼞㻌 㼙㼍㼗㼑㼟㻌㼑㼒㼒㼛㼞㼠㼟㻌 㼠㼛㻌㼟㼔㼛㼞㼠㼑㼚㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌㼘㼑㼍㼐㻌 㼠㼕㼙㼑㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌 㻒㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㻿㼏㼕㼑㼚㼠㼕㼒㼕㼏㻌 㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌 㻒㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻚㻌 quickly respond to customers’ needs. Nevertheless, sharp㻌 㼟㼠㼞㼍㼠㼑㼓㼥㻘㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼏㼍㼚㻌 㼍㼏㼔㼕㼑㼢㼑㻌 㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㼐㻌 㼓㼞㼛㼣㼠㼔㻌 㼎㼥㻌 㼛㼢㼑㼞㼏㼛㼙㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼑㼍㼏㼔㻌 㼒㼘㼡㼏㼠㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼐㼑㼙㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼟㼑㼙㼕㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼛㼞㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼑㼞㼟㻘㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 segment’s weakness with complementary strengths among all 㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼟㼑㼙㼕㼏㼛㼚㼐㼡㼏㼠㼛㼞㻌 㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡㼞㼑㼞㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼟㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻌 㻺㼑㼢㼑㼞㼠㼔㼑㼘㼑㼟㼟㻘㻌 㼑㼍㼏㼔㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼟㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼏㼛㼚㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻚㻌 㼘㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌 㼏㼍㼞㼞㼕㼑㼟㻌 㼞㼕㼟㼗㼟㻌 㼍㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼣㼕㼠㼔㻌 㼒㼘㼡㼏㼠㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼞㼑㼟㼜㼑㼏㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌 㻌 Directors 㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻚㻌 㻔㻡㻕㻌㻿㼏㼕㼑㼚㼠㼕㼒㼕㼏㻌㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㻒㻌㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㼑㼘㼥㻌㼠㼍㼗㼕㼚㼓㻌 㻔㻝㻕㻌㻭㼡㼠㼛㼙㼛㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌㼀㼑㼟㼠㻌㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㻿㼏㼕㼑㼚㼠㼕㼒㼕㼏㻌 㼍㼚㼍㼘㼥㼟㼕㼟㻌 㼕㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌 㼍㼞㼑㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼙㼍㼕㼚㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼟㼟㼛㼏㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㻱㼙㼕㼟㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼟㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻘㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼙㼍㼕㼚㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㻿㼏㼕㼑㼚㼠㼕㼒㼕㼏㻌㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㻒㻌㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼟㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼞㼑㻌㼡㼟㼑㼐㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㻾㻒㻰㻌 㼑㻌 㼙㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㻌 㻭㼡㼠㼛㼙㼛㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼀㼑㼟㼠㻌 㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㼟㼑㼓㼙㼑㼚㼠㻘㻌 㼍㼞㼑㻌 㼡㼟㼑㼐㻌 㼎㼥㻌 㼍㼡㼠㼛㼙㼛㼎㼕㼘㼑㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㻌㼝㼡㼍㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌㼠㼑㼟㼠㼕㼚㼓㻚㻌㼀㼔㼑㼞㼑㻌㼕㼟㻌㼍㻌㼞㼕㼟㼗㻌㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼐㼑㼙㼍㼚㼐㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌 㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡㼞㼑㼞㼟㻘㻌 㼍㼡㼠㼛㼙㼛㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼏㼛㼙㼜㼛㼚㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼙㼍㼚㼡㼒㼍㼏㼠㼡㼞㼑㼞㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼎㼥㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㻾㻒㻰㻌 㼎㼡㼐㼓㼑㼠㼟㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼟㻌 㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼓㼛㼢㼑㼞㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌 㼍㼓㼑㼚㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻌 㼀㼔㼑㻌 㼟㼑㼠㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼘㼑㼓㼍㼘㻌 㼘㼕㼙㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼛㼚㻌 㼑㼤㼔㼍㼡㼟㼠㻌 㼓㼛㼢㼑㼞㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼓㼑㼚㼏㼕㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㻾㻒㻰㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 㼑㼙㼕㼟㼟㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼟㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼐㼑㼙㼍㼚㼐㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼟㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻚㻌㻵㼠㻌 㼜㼞㼕㼢㼍㼠㼑㻌 㼑㼚㼠㼑㼞㼜㼞㼕㼟㼑㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼔㼍㼢㼑㻌 㼍㻌 㼟㼕㼓㼚㼕㼒㼕㼏㼍㼚㼠㻌 㼕㼙㼜㼍㼏㼠㻌 㼛㼚㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼜㼛㼟㼟㼕㼎㼘㼑㻘㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼞㼑㼒㼛㼞㼑㻘㻌 㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌 㼏㼛㼚㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌 Group’s financial condition and business performance.㻌 㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌 㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌 㼎㼑㻌 㼟㼕㼓㼚㼕㼒㼕㼏㼍㼚㼠㼘㼥㻌 㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼎㼥㻌 㼒㼡㼠㼡㼞㼑㻌 㻌 㼞㼑㼓㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻚㻌㻲㼡㼞㼠㼔㼑㼞㼙㼛㼞㼑㻘㻌㼏㼍㼜㼕㼠㼍㼘㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼐㼕㼠㼡㼞㼑㼟㻌㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼠㼛㻌㼟㼔㼕㼒㼠㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㼟㻌 㼔㼑㼘㼐㻌 㼎㼥㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼍㼡㼠㼛㼙㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌 㼛㼒㻌 㼍㼡㼠㼛㼙㼛㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌 㼠㼑㼟㼠㻌 㼟㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 㼔㼍㼢㼑㻌 㼍㻌 㼓㼑㼚㼑㼞㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 significant impact on HORIBA’s financial condition and business 㼑㼞㼑㻌 㼕㼟㻌 㼍㻌 㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻌㻵㼚㻌㼍㼐㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻘㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼔㼛㼘㼐㼟㻌㼍㻌㼘㼍㼞㼓㼑㻌㼍㼙㼛㼡㼚㼠㻌㼛㼒㻌㼒㼕㼤㼑㼐㻌 㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌 㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㻱㻯㼀㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻚㻌㻵㼒㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼍㼜㼍㼏㼕㼠㼥㻌㼡㼠㼕㼘㼕㼦㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼞㼍㼠㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼏㼑㻌㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌㼎㼑㻌 㼒㼕㼤㼑㼐㻌 㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌 㼐㼑㼏㼘㼕㼚㼑㼟㻘㻌 㼐㼡㼑㻌 㼠㼛㻌 㼍㼡㼠㼛㼙㼛㼎㼕㼘e manufacturers’ R&D 㼠㼞㼑㼚㼐㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼒㼍㼏㼠㼛㼞㼟㻘㻌㼠㼔㼕㼟㻌㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌㼔㼍㼢㼑㻌㼍㻌㼟㼕㼓㼚㼕㼒㼕㼏㼍㼚㼠㻌㼕㼙㼜㼍㼏㼠㻌㼛㼚㻌 HORIBA’s financial cond㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻌 㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㻌 㻔㻞㻕㻌㻼㼞㼛㼏㼑㼟㼟㻌㻒㻌㻱㼚㼢㼕㼞㼛㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㼍㼘㻌㻵㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㻒㻌㻿㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌 㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㼑㻚㼓㻚㻘㻌 㻰㼑㼙㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼑㼚㼢㼕㼞㼛㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㼍㼘㻙㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼟㼡㼏㼔㻌 㼍㼟㻌 㼍㼚㼍㼘㼥㼦㼑㼞㼟㻌 㼢㼑㼞㼟㼑㻌 㼕㼠㼟㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌㼍㼕㼞㻌㼜㼛㼘㼘㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼣㼍㼠㼑㼞㻌㼝㼡㼍㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌㼙㼍㼥㻌㼎㼑㻌㼍㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌㼎㼥㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌 㼑㼚㼢㼕㼞㼛㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㼍㼘㻌 㼞㼑㼓㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻚㻌 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌 㼕㼚㻌 㼠㼔㼑㻌 㼐㼑㼙㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼒㼛㼞㻌 㼠㼔㼑㼟㼑㻌 㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㼟㻌 㼏㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌 have a significant impact on HORIBA Group’s 㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼏㼛㼚㼐㼕㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼜㼑㼞㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻌 ion Fund 㻌 㼐㼛㼙㼑㼟㼠㼕㼏㻌 㻌 55 Consolidated Balance Sheets 㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㻿㼔㼑㼑㼠㼟 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻘㻌㻸㼠㼐㻚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼕㼑㼟 㼀㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㼟㻌㼛㼒 㻲㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻌㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌㼐㼛㼘㼘㼍㼞㼟 㻹㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼚 㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻕 㻭㻿㻿㻱㼀㻿 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻯㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻦 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼢㼍㼘㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥47,859 ¥51,940 㻐㻠㻠㻡㻘㻤㻣㻡 㼀㼞㼍㼐㼑㻌㼚㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼟㻌㼞㼑㼏㼑㼕㼢㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻘㻣㻕 㻭㼒㼒㼕㼘㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼍㼚㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞 㻣 㻢㻜 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻜㻘㻝㻞㻢 㻡㻟㻘㻣㻝㻣 㻠㻢㻝㻘㻝㻞㻥 㻭㼘㼘㼛㼣㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼐㼛㼡㼎㼠㼒㼡㼘㻌㼞㼑㼏㼑㼕㼢㼍㼎㼘㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻣㻤㻥㻕 㻔㻤㻠㻞㻕 㻔㻣㻘㻞㻞㻤㻕 㻹㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻘㻡㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻘㻠㻝㻝 㻞㻜㻜 㻝㻘㻣㻝㻢 㻵㼚㼢㼑㼚㼠㼛㼞㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻢㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻜㻘㻝㻥㻜 㻠㻜㻘㻞㻤㻥 㻟㻠㻡㻘㻤㻡㻤 㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼠㼍㼤㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻡㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻘㻝㻠㻜 㻠㻘㻝㻢㻜 㻟㻡㻘㻣㻝㻝 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻤㻘㻝㻢㻟 㻣㻘㻟㻟㻥 㻢㻟㻘㻜㻜㻝 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻡㻞㻘㻝㻜㻠 㻝㻡㻢㻘㻤㻝㻞 㻝㻘㻟㻠㻢㻘㻝㻠㻝 㻼㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻤㻕㻦 㻸㼍㼚㼐㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻜㻘㻢㻠㻣 㻝㻟㻘㻜㻢㻡 㻝㻝㻞㻘㻝㻡㻡 㻮㼡㼕㼘㼐㼕㼚㼓㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼟㼠㼞㼡㼏㼠㼡㼞㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻢㻘㻟㻞㻝 㻠㻤㻘㻤㻡㻜 㻠㻝㻥㻘㻟㻠㻥 㻹㼍㼏㼔㼕㼚㼑㼞㼥㻘㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼢㼑㼔㼕㼏㼘㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻣㻘㻥㻟㻥 㻞㻜㻘㻟㻜㻣 㻝㻣㻠㻘㻟㻞㻟 㻯㼛㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼕㼚㻌㼜㼞㼛㼓㼞㼑㼟㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻘㻣㻟㻥 㻟㻘㻠㻡㻟 㻞㻥㻘㻢㻠㻞 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻢㻘㻤㻞㻤 㻝㻡㻘㻣㻢㻤 㻝㻟㻡㻘㻟㻡㻥 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻥㻢㻘㻠㻣㻢 㻝㻜㻝㻘㻠㻠㻡 㻤㻣㻜㻘㻤㻠㻣 㻭㼏㼏㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼐㼑㼜㼞㼑㼏㼕㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻥㻘㻠㻥㻣㻕 㻔㻟㻥㻘㻠㻢㻤㻕 㻔㻟㻟㻤㻘㻤㻝㻜㻕 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻢㻘㻥㻣㻤 㻢㻝㻘㻥㻣㻣 㻡㻟㻞㻘㻜㻟㻣 㻵㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼚㼛㼚㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻦 㻵㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻘㻡㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻤㻘㻞㻢㻡 㻤㻘㻠㻣㻞 㻣㻞㻘㻣㻞㻣 㻵㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼚㼛㼚㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼟㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼕㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼒㼒㼕㼘㼕㼍㼠㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻢㻥 㻠㻢 㻟㻥㻠 㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼠㼍㼤㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻡㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻘㻢㻣㻝 㻝㻘㻣㻞㻢 㻝㻠㻘㻤㻝㻢 㻭㼘㼘㼛㼣㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼐㼛㼡㼎㼠㼒㼡㼘㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻡㻜㻕 㻔㻢㻢㻕 㻔㻡㻢㻢㻕 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻘㻣㻤㻟 㻞㻘㻣㻢㻠 㻞㻟㻘㻣㻞㻣 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼚㼛㼚㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻦㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻞㻘㻣㻟㻥 㻝㻞㻘㻥㻠㻟 㻝㻝㻝㻘㻝㻜㻤 㻵㼚㼠㼍㼚㼓㼕㼎㼘㼑㼟㻦 㻳㼛㼛㼐㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻣㻢 㻟㻤㻣 㻟㻘㻟㻞㻞 㻿㼛㼒㼠㼣㼍㼞㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻘㻤㻡㻝 㻠㻘㻜㻤㻞 㻟㻡㻘㻜㻠㻝 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼕㼚㼠㼍㼚㼓㼕㼎㼘㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻘㻤㻣㻜 㻟㻘㻠㻡㻟 㻞㻥㻘㻢㻠㻞 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼕㼚㼠㼍㼚㼓㼕㼎㼘㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻜㻘㻞㻥㻤 㻣㻘㻥㻞㻟 㻢㻤㻘㻜㻝㻠 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥232,121 ¥239,657 㻐㻞㻘㻜㻡㻣㻘㻟㻝㻤 㻸㻵㻭㻮㻵㻸㻵㼀㻵㻱㻿㻌㻭㻺㻰㻌㻺㻱㼀㻌㻭㻿㻿㻱㼀㻿 㻯㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻦 㻿㼔㼛㼞㼠㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼘㼛㼍㼚㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻘㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥12,225 ¥11,449 㻐㻥㻤㻘㻞㻤㻟 㻯㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼜㼛㼞㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼘㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼐㼑㼎㼠㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻘㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻤㻠㻤 㻝㻘㻝㻡㻤 㻥㻘㻥㻠㻜 㼀㼞㼍㼐㼑㻌㼚㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼟㻌㼜㼍㼥㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻕 㻭㼒㼒㼕㼘㼕㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼍㼚㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻣㻣 㻢㻢㻝 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻣㻘㻢㻣㻡 㻝㻥㻘㻥㻟㻡 㻝㻣㻝㻘㻝㻟㻜 㻭㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼟㻌㼜㼍㼥㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㻙㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻠㻘㻣㻡㻥 㻝㻠㻘㻜㻠㻝 㻝㻞㻜㻘㻡㻟㻟 㻭㼏㼏㼞㼡㼑㼐㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼠㼍㼤㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻟㻘㻣㻥㻢 㻝㻘㻤㻟㻤 㻝㻡㻘㻣㻣㻤 㻭㼐㼢㼍㼚㼏㼑㼟㻌㼞㼑㼏㼑㼕㼢㼑㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻜㻘㻤㻟㻝 㻝㻜㻘㻝㻢㻞 㻤㻣㻘㻞㻟㻠 㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼠㼍㼤㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻡㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻥㻝 㻣㻢 㻢㻡㻞 㻭㼏㼏㼞㼡㼑㼐㻌㼎㼛㼚㼡㼟㼑㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼑㼙㼜㼘㼛㼥㼑㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻥㻠㻤 㻥㻝㻠 㻣㻘㻤㻠㻢 㻭㼏㼏㼞㼡㼑㼐㻌㼎㼛㼚㼡㼟㼑㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼐㼕㼞㼑㼏㼠㼛㼞㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼛㼞㼜㼛㼞㼍㼠㼑㻌㼍㼡㼐㼕㼠㼛㼞㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻢㻟 㻡㻤 㻠㻥㻣 㻾㼑㼟㼑㼞㼢㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼜㼞㼛㼐㼡㼏㼠㻌㼣㼍㼞㼞㼍㼚㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻘㻢㻡㻝 㻝㻘㻢㻣㻞 㻝㻠㻘㻟㻡㻟 㻼㼞㼛㼢㼕㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼐㼕㼟㼍㼟㼠㼑㼞㻌㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻞㻞㻣 㻝㻘㻥㻠㻤 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻟㻘㻠㻟㻟 㻠㻘㻠㻢㻞 㻟㻤㻘㻟㻜㻟 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻢㻢㻘㻟㻞㻡 㻢㻢㻘㻜㻣㻢 㻡㻢㻣㻘㻞㻞㻠 㻸㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻦 㻸㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼐㼑㼎㼠㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻘㻤㻕㻌㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻟㻞㻘㻝㻡㻟 㻟㻠㻘㻡㻠㻡 㻞㻥㻢㻘㻡㻠㻥 㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼠㼍㼤㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻡㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻘㻝㻤㻝 㻥㻟㻝 㻣㻘㻥㻥㻞 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼐㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼎㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻥㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻘㻥㻠㻣 㻞㻘㻝㻥㻝 㻝㻤㻘㻤㻜㻤 Provision for loss on dissolution of the employees’pension fund (Note 9)................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 㻝㻘㻞㻢㻣 㻝㻘㻞㻠㻣 㻝㻜㻘㻣㻜㻠 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼚㼛㼚㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻘㻜㻜㻞 㻝㻘㻠㻣㻠 㻝㻞㻘㻢㻡㻟 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼘㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻟㻤㻘㻡㻡㻞 㻠㻜㻘㻟㻤㻥 㻟㻠㻢㻘㻣㻝㻢 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻜㻠㻘㻤㻣㻤 㻝㻜㻢㻘㻠㻢㻢 㻥㻝㻟㻘㻥㻠㻥 㻯㼛㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㼑㼚㼠㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻟㻕 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻜㻕㻦 㻿㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻦 㻯㼛㼙㼙㼛㼚㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻞㻘㻜㻝㻝 㻝㻞㻘㻜㻝㻝 㻝㻜㻟㻘㻝㻜㻣 㻭㼡㼠㼔㼛㼞㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌㻙㻌㻝㻜㻜㻘㻜㻜㻜㻘㻜㻜㻜㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼟 㻵㼟㼟㼡㼑㼐㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼛㼡㼠㼟㼠㼍㼚㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌㻙㻌㻠㻞㻘㻜㻥㻟㻘㻣㻟㻝㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼟㻌㻔㼑㼤㼏㼘㼡㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻕㻌㼍㼠㻌㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻵㼟㼟㼡㼑㼐㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼛㼡㼠㼟㼠㼍㼚㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌㻙㻌㻠㻞㻘㻝㻞㻥㻘㻣㻢㻢㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼟㻌㻔㼑㼤㼏㼘㼡㼐㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻕㻌㼍㼠㻌㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻯㼍㼜㼕㼠㼍㼘㻌㼟㼡㼞㼜㼘㼡㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻤㻘㻣㻝㻣 㻝㻤㻘㻣㻝㻣 㻝㻢㻜㻘㻢㻣㻠 㻾㼑㼠㼍㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼑㼍㼞㼚㼕㼚㼓㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻥㻟㻘㻞㻟㻞 㻝㻜㻟㻘㻝㻜㻠 㻤㻤㻡㻘㻜㻤㻤 㼀㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻌㻙㻌㻠㻟㻥㻘㻜㻞㻝㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼟㻌㼍㼠㻌㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻌㻠㻜㻞㻘㻥㻤㻢㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼟㻌㼍㼠㻌㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻘㻣㻟㻜㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻡㻤㻤㻕 㻔㻝㻟㻘㻢㻟㻞㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻞㻞㻘㻞㻟㻜 㻝㻟㻞㻘㻞㻠㻠 㻝㻘㻝㻟㻡㻘㻞㻟㻥 㻭㼏㼏㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻦 㼁㼚㼞㼑㼍㼘㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻌㻔㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻕㻌㼛㼚㻌㼍㼢㼍㼕㼘㼍㼎㼘㼑㻙㼒㼛㼞㻙㼟㼍㼘㼑㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻘㻢㻞㻠 㻞㻘㻥㻞㻤 㻞㻡㻘㻝㻟㻡 㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻌㼛㼞㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼔㼑㼐㼓㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻠㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻜㻕 㻙 㻙 㻲㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼏㼥㻌㼠㼞㼍㼚㼟㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼐㼖㼡㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻘㻤㻡㻞 㻔㻞㻘㻞㻥㻣㻕 㻔㻝㻥㻘㻣㻝㻤㻕 㻾㼑㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼐㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼎㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻥㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻢㻢 㻔㻞㻞㻝㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻤㻥㻣㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼍㼏㼏㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻘㻡㻠㻟 㻠㻜㻥 㻟㻘㻡㻝㻝 㻿㼡㼎㼟㼏㼞㼕㼜㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼞㼕㼓㼔㼠㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻝㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻢㻥 㻠㻢㻢 㻠㻘㻜㻜㻜 㻺㼛㼚㻙㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼛㼘㼘㼕㼚㼓㻌㼕㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻜 㻣㻝 㻢㻜㻥 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼚㼑㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻞㻣㻘㻞㻠㻟 㻝㻟㻟㻘㻝㻥㻝 㻝㻘㻝㻠㻟㻘㻟㻢㻤 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼚㼑㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥232,121 ¥239,657 㻐㻞㻘㻜㻡㻣㻘㻟㻝㻤 㻿㼑㼑㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼚㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼟㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚 HORIBA Report 2016 | 56 Financial data Consolidated Statements of Income 㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㻵㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻘㻌㻸㼠㼐㻚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼕㼑㼟 㼀㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㼟㻌㼛㼒 㻲㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻌㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌㼐㼛㼘㼘㼍㼞㼟 㻹㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼚 㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻕 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥171,916 ¥170,093 㻐㻝㻘㻠㻢㻜㻘㻝㻡㻝 㻻㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼏㼛㼟㼠㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻤㻕㻦 㻯㼛㼟㼠㻌㼛㼒㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻥㻥㻘㻤㻠㻞 㻝㻜㻜㻘㻟㻟㻥 㻤㻢㻝㻘㻟㻡㻞 㻿㼑㼘㼘㼕㼚㼓㻘㻌㼓㼑㼚㼑㼞㼍㼘㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼐㼙㼕㼚㼕㼟㼠㼞㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻝㻘㻥㻟㻞 㻡㻝㻘㻞㻡㻠 㻠㻟㻥㻘㻥㻤㻢 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼏㼛㼟㼠㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻡㻝㻘㻣㻣㻠 㻝㻡㻝㻘㻡㻥㻟 㻝㻘㻟㻜㻝㻘㻟㻟㻥 㻻㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻜㻘㻝㻠㻞 㻝㻤㻘㻠㻥㻥 㻝㻡㻤㻘㻤㻜㻟 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㻔㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㼟㻕㻦 㻵㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼐㼕㼢㼕㼐㼑㼚㼐㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻞㻜 㻞㻥㻠 㻞㻘㻡㻞㻟 㻵㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻤㻝㻢㻕 㻔㻡㻣㻠㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻥㻞㻣㻕 㻲㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼑㼤㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻌㻔㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻕㻘㻌㼚㼑㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻜㻤㻕 㻔㻞㻜㻢㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻣㻢㻤㻕 㻳㼍㼕㼚㻌㼛㼚㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻤 㻟㻟 㻞㻤㻟 㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻟㻕 㻜 㻜 㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼐㼕㼟㼜㼛㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻜㻕 㻔㻞㻝㻥㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻤㻣㻥㻕 㻵㼙㼜㼍㼕㼞㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻢㻘㻝㻤㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻣㻜㻕 㻙 㻙 㻳㼍㼕㼚㻌㼛㼚㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻡㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻠 㻜 㻜 㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼢㼍㼘㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻡㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻔㻢㻤㻕 㻔㻡㻤㻟㻕 㻳㼍㼕㼚㻌㼛㼚㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼟㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼕㼑㼟㻓㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼒㼒㼕㼘㼕㼍㼠㼑㼟㻓㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻞㻠㻜 㻞㻘㻜㻢㻜 㻿㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼥㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻢㻜 㻝㻠㻥 㻝㻘㻞㻣㻥 㻾㼑㼢㼑㼞㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼢㼕㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼑㼚㼟㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞 㻙 㻙 Provision for loss on dissolution of the employees’pension fund........................................................................................................ 㻙 㻔㻝㻣㻣㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻡㻝㻥㻕 㻾㼑㼢㼑㼞㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼢㼕㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼐㼕㼟㼟㼛㼘㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼑㼙㼜㼘㼛㼥㼑㼑㼟㻓㻌㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼒㼡㼚㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻟㻥 㻙 㻙 㻮㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻌㼟㼠㼞㼡㼏㼠㼡㼞㼑㻌㼕㼙㼜㼞㼛㼢㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻟㻡㻕 㻙 㻙 㻵㼚㼟㼡㼞㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻝㻟㻥 㻝㻘㻝㻥㻟 㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼐㼕㼟㼍㼟㼠㼑㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻔㻝㻘㻜㻥㻤㻕 㻔㻥㻘㻠㻞㻡㻕 㻾㼑㼢㼑㼞㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼒㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼏㼥㻌㼠㼞㼍㼚㼟㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼐㼖㼡㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻝㻝㻟 㻥㻣㻜 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻘㻌㼚㼑㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻝 㻝㻝㻢 㻥㻥㻡 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㼟㻘㻌㼚㼑㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻟㻣㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻞㻡㻢㻕 㻔㻝㻜㻘㻣㻤㻞㻕 㻵㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼎㼑㼒㼛㼞㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼠㼍㼤㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻥㻘㻤㻜㻠 㻝㻣㻘㻞㻠㻟 㻝㻠㻤㻘㻜㻞㻝 㻵㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼠㼍㼤㼑㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻡㻕㻦 㻯㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻢㻘㻜㻝㻟 㻟㻘㻟㻣㻞 㻞㻤㻘㻥㻠㻢 㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻜㻤 㻥㻜㻢 㻣㻘㻣㻣㻣 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼠㼍㼤㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻢㻘㻡㻞㻞 㻠㻘㻞㻣㻤 㻟㻢㻘㻣㻞㻠 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻟㻘㻞㻤㻞 㻝㻞㻘㻥㻢㻠 㻝㻝㻝㻘㻞㻤㻤 㻼㼞㼛㼒㼕㼠㻌㼍㼠㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼚㼛㼚㻙㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼛㼘㼘㼕㼚㼓㻌㼕㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻝 㻤 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼍㼠㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼛㼣㼚㼑㼞㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼍㼞㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥13,282 ¥12,962 㻐㻝㻝㻝㻘㻞㻣㻝 㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌㼐㼛㼘㼘㼍㼞㼟 㼅㼑㼚 㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻕 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻼㼑㼞㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㻌㼕㼚㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㻙㻌㼎㼍㼟㼕㼏㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥315.23 ¥307.74 㻐㻞㻚㻢㻠 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㻙㻌㼐㼕㼘㼡㼠㼑㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻟㻝㻟㻚㻤㻝 㻟㻜㻢㻚㻟㻤 㻞㻚㻢㻟 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼐㼕㼢㼕㼐㼑㼚㼐㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻣㻜㻚㻜㻜 㻤㻡㻚㻜㻜 㻜㻚㻣㻞 㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㻯㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㻵㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻘㻌㻸㼠㼐㻚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼕㼑㼟 㻲㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢 㼀㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㼟㻌㼛㼒 㻌㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌㼐㼛㼘㼘㼍㼞㼟 㻹㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼚 㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻕 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥13,282 ¥12,964 㻐㻝㻝㻝㻘㻞㻤㻤 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻣㻕 㼁㼚㼞㼑㼍㼘㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻌㻔㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻕㻌㼛㼚㻌㼍㼢㼍㼕㼘㼍㼎㼘㼑㻙㼒㼛㼞㻙㼟㼍㼘㼑㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻤㻞 㻟㻜㻠 㻞㻘㻢㻜㻥 㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻌㼛㼞㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼔㼑㼐㼓㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻥㻕 㻜 㻜 㻲㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼏㼥㻌㼠㼞㼍㼚㼟㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼐㼖㼡㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻣㻥㻟㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻝㻡㻟㻕 㻔㻟㻡㻘㻢㻡㻝㻕 㻾㼑㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼐㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼎㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻜 㻔㻞㻤㻤㻕 㻔㻞㻘㻠㻣㻞㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻝㻤㻜㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻝㻟㻣㻕 㻔㻟㻡㻘㻡㻝㻟㻕 㻯㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥10,102 ¥8,826 㻐㻣㻡㻘㻣㻢㻢 㻔㻮㼞㼑㼍㼗㼐㼛㼣㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻕 㻯㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼍㼠㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼛㼣㼚㼑㼞㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼍㼞㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥10,102 ¥8,828 㻐㻣㻡㻘㻣㻤㻟 㻯㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼍㼠㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼚㼛㼚㻙㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼛㼘㼘㼕㼚㼓㻌㼕㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻜㻕 㻔㻝㻕 㻔㻤㻕 㻿㼑㼑㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼚㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼟㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚 57 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets 㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㻺㼑㼠㻌㻭㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻘㻌㻸㼠㼐㻚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼕㼑㼟 㼀㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㼟㻌㼛㼒 㻲㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻌㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌㼐㼛㼘㼘㼍㼞㼟 㻹㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼚 㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻕 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻿㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥 㻯㼛㼙㼙㼛㼚㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥12,011 ¥12,011 㻐㻝㻜㻟㻘㻝㻜㻣 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥12,011 ¥12,011 㻐㻝㻜㻟㻘㻝㻜㻣 㻯㼍㼜㼕㼠㼍㼘㻌㼟㼡㼞㼜㼘㼡㼟 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥18,717 ¥18,717 㻐㻝㻢㻜㻘㻢㻣㻠 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥18,717 ¥18,717 㻐㻝㻢㻜㻘㻢㻣㻠 㻾㼑㼠㼍㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼑㼍㼞㼚㼕㼚㼓㼟 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥86,218 ¥93,232 㻐㻤㻜㻜㻘㻟㻠㻟 㻯㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌㼑㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻟㻝㻟㻕 㻙 㻙 㻮㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼒㼠㼑㼞㻌㼞㼑㼒㼘㼑㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥82,905 ¥93,232 㻐㻤㻜㻜㻘㻟㻠㻟 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼐㼕㼢㼕㼐㼑㼚㼐㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻞㻘㻥㻡㻡㻕 㻔㻟㻘㻜㻟㻝㻕 㻔㻞㻢㻘㻜㻝㻥㻕 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼍㼠㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼛㼣㼚㼑㼞㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼍㼞㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻟㻘㻞㻤㻞 㻝㻞㻘㻥㻢㻞 㻝㻝㻝㻘㻞㻣㻝 㻰㼕㼟㼜㼛㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻔㻡㻤㻕 㻔㻠㻥㻣㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻜㻘㻟㻞㻢 㻥㻘㻤㻣㻝 㻤㻠㻘㻣㻟㻢 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥93,232 ¥103,104 㻐㻤㻤㻡㻘㻜㻤㻤 㼀㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 (¥730) (¥1,730) 㻔㻐㻝㻠㻘㻤㻡㻝㻕 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻼㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻥㻥㻥㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻰㼕㼟㼜㼛㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻝㻠㻞 㻝㻘㻞㻝㻤 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻥㻥㻥㻕 㻝㻠㻝 㻝㻘㻞㻝㻜 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 (¥1,730) (¥1,588) 㻔㻐㻝㻟㻘㻢㻟㻞㻕 㻿㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻘㻌㼠㼛㼠㼍㼘 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥116,216 ¥122,230 㻐㻝㻘㻜㻠㻥㻘㻞㻣㻠 㻯㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌㼑㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻟㻝㻟㻕 㻙 㻙 㻮㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼒㼠㼑㼞㻌㼞㼑㼒㼘㼑㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥112,903 ¥122,230 㻐㻝㻘㻜㻠㻥㻘㻞㻣㻠 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼐㼕㼢㼕㼐㼑㼚㼐㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻞㻘㻥㻡㻡㻕 㻔㻟㻘㻜㻟㻝㻕 㻔㻞㻢㻘㻜㻝㻥㻕 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼍㼠㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼛㼣㼚㼑㼞㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼍㼞㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻟㻘㻞㻤㻞 㻝㻞㻘㻥㻢㻞 㻝㻝㻝㻘㻞㻣㻝 㻼㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻥㻥㻥㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻰㼕㼟㼜㼛㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻤㻟 㻣㻝㻞 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻥㻘㻟㻞㻢 㻝㻜㻘㻜㻝㻟 㻤㻡㻘㻥㻡㻡 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥122,230 ¥132,244 㻐㻝㻘㻝㻟㻡㻘㻞㻟㻥 㻭㼏㼏㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑 㼁㼚㼞㼑㼍㼘㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻌㻔㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻕㻌㼛㼚㻌㼍㼢㼍㼕㼘㼍㼎㼘㼑㻙㼒㼛㼞㻙㼟㼍㼘㼑㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥2,041 ¥2,624 㻐㻞㻞㻘㻡㻞㻡 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻤㻞 㻟㻜㻠 㻞㻘㻢㻜㻥 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻤㻞 㻟㻜㻠 㻞㻘㻢㻜㻥 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥2,624 ¥2,928 㻐㻞㻡㻘㻝㻟㻡 㻰㼑㼒㼑㼞㼞㼑㼐㻌㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻌㼛㼞㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼔㼑㼐㼓㼑㼟 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥18 (¥0) 㻔㻐㻜㻕 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻥㻕 㻜 㻜 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻥㻕 㻜 㻜 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 (¥0) 㻙 㻙 㻲㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼏㼥㻌㼠㼞㼍㼚㼟㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼐㼖㼡㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥5,630 ¥1,852 㻐㻝㻡㻘㻤㻥㻤 㻯㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌㼑㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻡 㻙 㻙 㻮㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼒㼠㼑㼞㻌㼞㼑㼒㼘㼑㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥5,646 ¥1,852 㻐㻝㻡㻘㻤㻥㻤 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻣㻥㻟㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻝㻡㻜㻕 㻔㻟㻡㻘㻢㻞㻡㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻣㻥㻟㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻝㻡㻜㻕 㻔㻟㻡㻘㻢㻞㻡㻕 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥1,852 (¥2,297) 㻔㻐㻝㻥㻘㻣㻝㻤㻕 㻾㼑㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼐㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼎㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥16 ¥66 㻐㻡㻢㻢 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻜 㻔㻞㻤㻤㻕 㻔㻞㻘㻠㻣㻞㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻜 㻔㻞㻤㻤㻕 㻔㻞㻘㻠㻣㻞㻕 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥66 (¥221) 㻔㻐㻝㻘㻤㻥㻣㻕 㻭㼏㼏㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼞㼑㼔㼑㼚㼟㼕㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻘㻌㼠㼛㼠㼍㼘 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥7,707 ¥4,543 㻐㻟㻤㻘㻥㻥㻥 㻯㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌㼑㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻡 㻙 㻙 㻮㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼒㼠㼑㼞㻌㼞㼑㼒㼘㼑㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥7,723 ¥4,543 㻐㻟㻤㻘㻥㻥㻥 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻝㻤㻜㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻝㻟㻠㻕 㻔㻟㻡㻘㻠㻤㻤㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻝㻤㻜㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻝㻟㻠㻕 㻔㻟㻡㻘㻠㻤㻤㻕 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥4,543 ¥409 㻐㻟㻘㻡㻝㻝 㻿㼡㼎㼟㼏㼞㼕㼜㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼞㼕㼓㼔㼠㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼟 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥389 ¥469 㻐㻠㻘㻜㻞㻢 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻣㻥 㻔㻞㻕 㻔㻝㻣㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻣㻥 㻔㻞㻕 㻔㻝㻣㻕 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥469 ¥466 㻐㻠㻘㻜㻜㻜 㻺㼛㼚㻙㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼛㼘㼘㼕㼚㼓㻌㼕㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㼟 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥0 ¥0 㻐㻜 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻜㻕 㻣㻝 㻢㻜㻥 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻜㻕 㻣㻝 㻢㻜㻥 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥0 ¥71 㻐㻢㻜㻥 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻘㻌㼠㼛㼠㼍㼘 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥124,314 ¥127,243 㻐㻝㻘㻜㻥㻞㻘㻟㻜㻤 㻯㼡㼙㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑㻌㼑㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻞㻥㻣㻕 㻙 㻙 㻮㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼒㼠㼑㼞㻌㼞㼑㼒㼘㼑㼏㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥121,017 ¥127,243 㻐㻝㻘㻜㻥㻞㻘㻟㻜㻤 㻯㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼐㼡㼞㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼕㼛㼐㻦 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼐㼕㼢㼕㼐㼑㼚㼐㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻞㻘㻥㻡㻡㻕 㻔㻟㻘㻜㻟㻝㻕 㻔㻞㻢㻘㻜㻝㻥㻕 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼍㼠㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼛㼣㼚㼑㼞㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼍㼞㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻟㻘㻞㻤㻞 㻝㻞㻘㻥㻢㻞 㻝㻝㻝㻘㻞㻣㻝 㻼㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻥㻥㻥㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻰㼕㼟㼜㼛㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻤㻟 㻣㻝㻞 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼠㼑㼙㼟㻌㼛㼠㼔㼑㼞㻌㼠㼔㼍㼚㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻓㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻝㻜㻜㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻜㻢㻢㻕 㻔㻟㻠㻘㻥㻜㻠㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥6,225 ¥5,947 㻐㻡㻝㻘㻜㻡㻝 㻮㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㻌㼒㼕㼟㼏㼍㼘㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥127,243 ¥133,191 㻐㻝㻘㻝㻠㻟㻘㻟㻢㻤 㻿㼑㼑㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼚㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼟㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚 HORIBA Report 2016 | 58 Financial data Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㻲㼘㼛㼣㼟 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻘㻌㻸㼠㼐㻚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻯㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㻿㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼕㼑㼟 㼀㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㼟㻌㼛㼒 㻲㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻌㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌㼐㼛㼘㼘㼍㼞㼟 㻹㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼚 㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻕 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼒㼘㼛㼣㼟㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻦 㻵㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼎㼑㼒㼛㼞㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼠㼍㼤㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥19,804 ¥17,243 㻐㻝㻠㻤㻘㻜㻞㻝 㻭㼐㼖㼡㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼞㼑㼏㼛㼚㼏㼕㼘㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼎㼑㼒㼛㼞㼑㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼠㼍㼤㼑㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼚㼑㼠㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼜㼞㼛㼢㼕㼐㼑㼐㻌㼎㼥㻌㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻦 㻰㼑㼜㼞㼑㼏㼕㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼙㼛㼞㼠㼕㼦㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻢㻘㻝㻝㻜 㻢㻘㻤㻝㻢 㻡㻤㻘㻡㻝㻝 㻵㼙㼜㼍㼕㼞㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻣㻜 㻙 㻙 㻵㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼐㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼍㼘㼘㼛㼣㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼐㼛㼡㼎㼠㼒㼡㼘㻌㼞㼑㼏㼑㼕㼢㼍㼎㼘㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻞㻠㻟㻕 㻝㻝㻜 㻥㻠㻠 㻵㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼐㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼚㼑㼠㻌㼐㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼎㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼥㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻜㻞㻕 㻟㻠㻥 㻞㻘㻥㻥㻡 㻵㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼐㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼜㼞㼛㼢㼕㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼐㼕㼟㼟㼛㼘㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼑㼙㼜㼘㼛㼥㼑㼑㼟㻓㻌㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼒㼡㼚㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻢㻜㻟㻕 㻔㻝㻥㻕 㻔㻝㻢㻟㻕 㻵㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼐㼕㼢㼕㼐㼑㼚㼐㻌㼕㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻠㻞㻜㻕 㻔㻞㻥㻠㻕 㻔㻞㻘㻡㻞㻟㻕 㻵㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻤㻝㻢 㻡㻣㻠 㻠㻘㻥㻞㻣 㻲㼛㼞㼑㼕㼓㼚㻌㼑㼤㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㼑㼟㻌㻔㼓㼍㼕㼚㼟㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻜㻢㻕 㻠㻞 㻟㻢㻜 㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㻔㼓㼍㼕㼚㻕㻌㼛㼚㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡 㻔㻟㻞㻕 㻔㻞㻣㻠㻕 㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼐㼕㼟㼜㼛㼟㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻜 㻞㻝㻥 㻝㻘㻤㻣㻥 㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼢㼍㼘㼡㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻢㻤 㻡㻤㻟 㻸㼛㼟㼟㻌㻔㼓㼍㼕㼚㻕㻌㼛㼚㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻠㻠㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻰㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼕㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼞㼍㼐㼑㻌㼚㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼟㻌㼞㼑㼏㼑㼕㼢㼍㼎㼘㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻞㻘㻜㻢㻜㻕 㻔㻡㻘㻠㻡㻠㻕 㻔㻠㻢㻘㻤㻝㻥㻕 㻰㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼕㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼚㼠㼛㼞㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻥㻝㻣㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻠㻢㻝㻕 㻔㻝㻞㻘㻡㻠㻝㻕 㻵㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼐㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼞㼍㼐㼑㻌㼚㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼟㻌㼜㼍㼥㼍㼎㼘㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻘㻜㻣㻤 㻟㻘㻟㻟㻟 㻞㻤㻘㻢㻝㻝 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻘㻌㼚㼑㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻘㻠㻡㻞㻕 㻤㻟㻣 㻣㻘㻝㻤㻡 㻿㼡㼎㼠㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻞㻘㻤㻠㻠 㻞㻞㻘㻟㻟㻜 㻝㻥㻝㻘㻢㻥㻜 㻵㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼐㼕㼢㼕㼐㼑㼚㼐㼟㻌㼞㼑㼏㼑㼕㼢㼑㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻞㻟 㻞㻥㻤 㻞㻘㻡㻡㻤 㻵㼚㼠㼑㼞㼑㼟㼠㻌㼜㼍㼕㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻤㻝㻠㻕 㻔㻡㻢㻥㻕 㻔㻠㻘㻤㻤㻠㻕 㻵㼚㼏㼛㼙㼑㻌㼠㼍㼤㼑㼟㻌㻔㼜㼍㼕㼐㻕㻌㼞㼑㼒㼡㼚㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻣㻘㻢㻤㻞㻕 㻔㻢㻘㻝㻤㻣㻕 㻔㻡㻟㻘㻝㻝㻝㻕 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼜㼞㼛㼢㼕㼐㼑㼐㻌㼎㼥㻌㻔㼡㼟㼑㼐㻌㼕㼚㻕㻌㼛㼜㼑㼞㼍㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻠㻘㻣㻣㻜 㻝㻡㻘㻤㻣㻝 㻝㻟㻢㻘㻞㻠㻟 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼒㼘㼛㼣㼟㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻦 㻵㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼕㼙㼑㻌㼐㼑㼜㼛㼟㼕㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻞㻜㻠㻕 㻔㻞㻘㻤㻡㻣㻕 㻔㻞㻠㻘㻡㻞㻡㻕 㻰㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼕㼙㼑㻌㼐㼑㼜㼛㼟㼕㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻘㻥㻢㻠 㻟㻘㻜㻝㻠 㻞㻡㻘㻤㻣㻟 㻰㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼕㼙㼑㻌㼐㼑㼜㼛㼟㼕㼠㼟㻌㼞㼑㼟㼠㼞㼕㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼡㼟㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻟㻞 㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻟㻞 㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻌㻞㻣㻠 㻼㼍㼥㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼜㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼙㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻘㻣㻜㻞㻕 㻔㻝㻜㻟㻕 㻔㻤㻤㻠㻕 㻼㼞㼛㼏㼑㼑㼐㼟㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼞㻌㼞㼑㼐㼑㼙㼜㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼙㼍㼞㼗㼑㼠㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻘㻡㻜㻠 㻝㻘㻠㻝㻠 㻝㻞㻘㻝㻟㻤 㻼㼍㼥㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼜㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻡㻘㻢㻣㻝㻕 㻔㻝㻟㻘㻜㻜㻝㻕 㻔㻝㻝㻝㻘㻢㻜㻢㻕 㻼㼞㼛㼏㼑㼑㼐㼟㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼞㼛㼜㼑㼞㼠㼥㻘㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼠㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼜㼙㼑㼚㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻢㻤 㻡㻟 㻠㻡㻠 㻼㼍㼥㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼜㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㻌㼕㼚㼠㼍㼚㼓㼕㼎㼘㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻘㻠㻠㻞㻕 㻔㻟㻣㻟㻕 㻔㻟㻘㻞㻜㻝㻕 㻼㼍㼥㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼜㼡㼞㼏㼔㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻢㻞㻜㻕 㻔㻠㻤㻕 㻔㻠㻝㻞㻕 㻼㼞㼛㼏㼑㼑㼐㼟㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼞㻌㼞㼑㼐㼑㼙㼜㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼟㼑㼏㼡㼞㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻤㻟 㻠 㻟㻠 㻼㼞㼛㼏㼑㼑㼐㼟㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼟㼍㼘㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼟㼡㼎㼟㼕㼐㼕㼍㼞㼕㼑㼟㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼍㼒㼒㼕㼘㼕㼍㼠㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻞㻡㻢 㻞㻘㻝㻥㻣 㻼㼍㼥㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼠㼞㼍㼚㼟㼒㼑㼞㻌㼛㼒㻌㼎㼡㼟㼕㼚㼑㼟㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻟㻘㻢㻝㻜㻕 㻙 㻙 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻘㻌㼚㼑㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻠㻞㻕 㻝㻘㻝㻤㻜 㻝㻜㻘㻝㻞㻥 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼜㼞㼛㼢㼕㼐㼑㼐㻌㼎㼥㻌㻔㼡㼟㼑㼐㻌㼕㼚㻕㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻜㻘㻢㻠㻞㻕 㻔㻝㻜㻘㻠㻞㻣㻕 㻔㻤㻥㻘㻡㻜㻥㻕 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼒㼘㼛㼣㼟㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻦 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼐㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼟㼔㼛㼞㼠㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼎㼛㼞㼞㼛㼣㼕㼚㼓㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻘㻟㻤㻜 㻝㻟㻜 㻝㻘㻝㻝㻡 㻵㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㼕㼚㻌㼘㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼐㼑㼎㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻡㻘㻟㻤㻤 㻟㻘㻢㻥㻜 㻟㻝㻘㻢㻣㻢 㻾㼑㼜㼍㼥㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼘㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼐㼑㼎㼠㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻤㻞㻢㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻜㻣㻤㻕 㻔㻥㻘㻞㻡㻠㻕 㻾㼑㼜㼍㼥㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼘㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㼛㼎㼘㼕㼓㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻝㻣㻜㻕 㻔㻝㻥㻡㻕 㻔㻝㻘㻢㻣㻟㻕 㻼㼞㼛㼏㼑㼑㼐㼟㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㻌㼕㼟㼟㼡㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼠㼛㻌㼚㼛㼚㻙㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼛㼘㼘㼕㼚㼓㻌㼟㼔㼍㼞㼑㼔㼛㼘㼐㼑㼞㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻙 㻢㻜 㻡㻝㻡 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼐㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼕㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼞㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼥㻌㼟㼠㼛㼏㼗㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻥㻥㻥㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻔㻜㻕 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼐㼕㼢㼕㼐㼑㼚㼐㼟㻌㼜㼍㼕㼐㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻞㻘㻥㻞㻤㻕 㻔㻟㻘㻜㻡㻤㻕 㻔㻞㻢㻘㻞㻡㻝㻕 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼜㼞㼛㼢㼕㼐㼑㼐㻌㼎㼥㻌㻔㼡㼟㼑㼐㻌㼕㼚㻕㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼚㼓㻌㼍㼏㼠㼕㼢㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻞㻘㻤㻠㻟 㻔㻠㻡㻝㻕 㻔㻟㻘㻤㻣㻝㻕 㻱㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻌㼛㼒㻌㼑㼤㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌㼞㼍㼠㼑㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㼟㻌㼛㼚㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼢㼍㼘㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻢㻢㻤㻕 㻔㻥㻝㻝㻕 㻔㻣㻘㻤㻞㻜㻕 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼕㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼐㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼢㼍㼘㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻔㻟㻘㻢㻥㻣㻕 㻠㻘㻜㻤㻝 㻟㻡㻘㻜㻟㻟 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼢㼍㼘㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼍㼠㻌㼎㼑㼓㼕㼚㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻡㻝㻘㻝㻜㻥 㻠㻣㻘㻤㻡㻥 㻠㻝㻜㻘㻤㻠㻞 㻵㼚㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻌㻔㼐㼑㼏㼞㼑㼍㼟㼑㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼢㼍㼘㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼞㼑㼟㼡㼘㼠㼕㼚㼓㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼏㼔㼍㼚㼓㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼟㼏㼛㼜㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻠㻢 㻙 㻙 㻯㼍㼟㼔㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼏㼍㼟㼔㻌㼑㼝㼡㼕㼢㼍㼘㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼍㼠㻌㼑㼚㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥47,859 ¥51,940 㻐㻠㻠㻡㻘㻤㻣㻡 㻿㼑㼑㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼚㼛㼠㼑㼟㻌㼠㼛㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼒㼕㼚㼍㼚㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼟㼠㼍㼠㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚 59 HORIBA, Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries | Note to Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Basis 1. Basis of presenting of presenting consolidated consolidated financial financial statements statements million in retained million in retained earnings earnings at the at the beginning beginning of the previous of the previous fiscal fiscal TheTheaccompanying accompanying consolidated consolidated financial financial statements statements of HORIBA, of HORIBA, year. year. Ltd.Ltd. (“the(“the Company”) Company”) have have been been prepared prepared in accordance in accordance withwith the the NetNet assets assets perper share share for for fiscal fiscalyearyear 2015 2015 decreased decreased by by ¥66.69 ¥66.69 provisions provisions set set forthforth in the in the Japanese Japanese Financial Financial Instruments Instruments andand while whilenetnet incomeincome perper share share andand diluted diluted net net income income perper shareshare Exchange Exchange LawLaw andand its its related related accounting accounting regulations regulations andand increased in in increased by by ¥9.50 ¥9.50 andand ¥9.45¥9.45 respectively, respectively, as compared as compared the the withwith conformity conformity withwith accounting accounting principles principles generally generally accepted accepted in Japan in Japan figures priorprior figures to the to the retrospective retrospective application. application. (“Japanese (“Japanese GAAP”),GAAP”), which which areare different different in certain in certain respectsrespects as as to to “Revised “Revised Accounting Accounting Standard Standard for Business for Business Combinations” Combinations” (ASBJ(ASBJ application application andand disclosure disclosure requirements requirements from International from International Financial Financial StatementStatement No.No. 21,21, released released on on Sep. Sep. 13,13, 2013,2013, hereinafter hereinafter the the Reporting Reporting Standards. Standards. “Accounting “Accounting Standard Standard for for BusinessBusiness Combinations”), Combinations”), “Revised “Revised TheThe accounts accounts of theof the consolidated consolidated overseas overseas subsidiaries subsidiaries have Accounting have Accounting Standard Standard for Consolidated for Consolidated Financial Financial Statements” Statements” (ASBJ(ASBJ beenbeen prepared prepared in accordance in accordance withwith eithereither International International Financial Financial StatementStatement No.No. 22,22, released released on on Sep. Sep. 13,13, 2013,2013, hereinafter hereinafter thethe Reporting ReportingStandards Standards(“IFRS”) (“IFRS”)or orU.S.U.S.generally generallyaccepted “ConsolidatedAccounting accepted “Consolidated AccountingStandard”), Standard”),“Revised “RevisedAccounting Accounting accounting accounting principles principles (“USGAAP”), (“USGAAP”), withwith adjustments adjustments the the for for fourfour Standard Standard for for Business Business Divestitures” Divestitures” (ASBJ (ASBJ Statement Statement No.No. 7, 7, specified specified items items as as applicable.㻌 applicable.㻌 TheThe accompanying accompanying consolidated consolidated released released on Sep.on Sep. 13,13,2013, 2013, hereinafter hereinafter thethe “Accounting “Accounting Standard Standard for for financial financialstatements statements have have been been restructured restructured andand translated translated Business intointo Business Divestitures”) Divestitures”) andand others others have havebeen been adopted adopted effective effective English, English, withwithsome some expanded expanded descriptions, descriptions, from fromthe the consolidated consolidated from fromthethe beginning beginning of theof theyearyear ended ended December December 31,31, 2016.2016.As As a a financial financialstatements statements of the of the Company Company prepared prepared in accordance in accordance withwith result,result,anyany changechange resulting resulting from from thethe Company’s Company’s ownership ownership Japanese Japanese GAAP GAAP andand filedfiledwithwith thethe appropriate appropriate Local Local FinanceFinance interestsinterestsin its in subsidiary its subsidiary when when thethe Company Company retains retains control control overover Bureau Bureau of the of the MinistryMinistry of Finance of Finance as as requiredrequired by by thethe Japanese Japanese thethe subsidiary subsidiary is accounted is accounted for for as as capitalcapital surplus, surplus, andand acquisition acquisition Financial Financial Instruments Instruments andand Exchange Exchange Law. Law. Some Some supplementary supplementary related related costs costs areare expensed expensed in the in the yearyear in which in which thethe costs costsareare information informationincluded includedin inthe thestatutory statutoryJapanese Japaneselanguage language incurred. incurred. ForFor anyany business business combinations combinations on on or after or after thethe beginning beginning consolidated consolidated financial financial statements, statements, butbut notnot required required for for fair fair of the of theyear,year, subsequent subsequent measurement measurement of theof the provisional provisional amount amount presentation, presentation, is not is not presented presented in thein the accompanying accompanying consolidated consolidated recognized recognized based based on on thethe purchase purchase price price allocation allocation duedue to the to the financial statements. financial statements. completion completion of accounting of accounting for the for the business business combination combination areare reflected reflected TheThe Company Company andand its itsdomestic domestic consolidated consolidated subsidiaries subsidiaries hadhad in the in the consolidated consolidated financial financial statements statements for forthetheyearyear to which to which thethe formerly formerlyrecognized recognized revenue revenue mainlymainly on a onshipping a shipping basis. basis.However, However, datedate of of thatthat business business combination combination occurs. occurs. In In addition, addition, thethe effective effective January January 1 2016,1 2016, thethe Company Company andand its itsdomestic presentation domestic presentation method method of netof net income income waswas amended amended as as wellwellas as consolidated consolidated subsidiaries subsidiaries have have changed changed to revenue to revenue recognition recognition “minority “minority interests interests in consolidated in consolidated subsidiaries” subsidiaries” to “non-controlling to “non-controlling method method on a oncompletion a completion datedate of installation of installation or aordelivery a delivery datedate basis interests.” basis interests.” To To reflect reflect these these changeschanges in presentation, in presentation, adjustments adjustments under under terms thethe terms andand conditions conditions of contracts. of contracts. havehave beenbeen made made to the to the consolidated consolidated financial financial statements statements thethe for for HORIBA’s HORIBA’s overseas overseas consolidated consolidated subsidiaries, subsidiaries, pursuant pursuant to IFRSto IFRS priorprior fiscal fiscal yearyear presented presented herein.herein. TheThe aforementioned aforementioned accounting accounting or US or US GAAP,GAAP, hadhad recognized recognized revenue revenue on on a completion a completion datedate standards of of standards areare adopted adopted as as of of the the beginning beginning of ofthe the yearyear andand installation installationor aordelivery a delivery datedate basis basisunder under thethe terms terms andand conditions thereafter, conditions thereafter, according according to theto the transitional transitional treatment treatment provided provided for for in in of contracts. of contracts. In addition, In addition, sales of products sales of products thatthat require require a long a longtimetime Paragraph for for Paragraph 58-2 58-2 (4) (4)of of the the Accounting Accounting Standard Standard for for Business Business installation installation have have been been increasing. increasing. Consequently, Consequently, HORIBAHORIBA made made Combinations, a a Combinations, Paragraph Paragraph 44-5 44-5 (4) (4)of the of the Consolidated Consolidated Accounting Accounting change change to to more more adequately adequately reflecting reflecting revenue revenue status,status, upon Standard upon Standard andand Paragraph Paragraph 57-4 57-4 (4) (4) of theof the Accounting Accounting Standard Standard for for introduction introduction of theof the Enterprise Enterprise Resource Resource Planning Planning System. System.   Business Business Divestitures. Divestitures. There Thereis no is impact no impact of these of these changes changes on profit on profit ThisThis change change in accounting in accounting policy hashas policy been been retrospectively retrospectively applied andand applied loss.loss. to the consolidated to the consolidated financial financial statements statements for forfull-year full-year period periodof fiscal of fiscal YenYen amounts amounts areare rounded rounded down down to the to the nearest nearest million. million. Therefore, Therefore, 2015. yearyear 2015. totaltotal or subtotal or subtotal amounts amounts do do notnot necessarily necessarily correspond correspond withwith thethe As As a result, a result, netnet sales sales for forfiscal yearyear fiscal 2015 2015 increased increased by by ¥1,017 aggregate ¥1,017 aggregate of such of such account account balances. balances. million, operating million, operating incomeincome increased increased by by ¥769 ¥769 million million andand incomeincome TheThe translation translation of the of the Japanese Japanese yenyen amounts amounts intointo U.S.U.S.dollardollar before beforeincomeincome taxes taxes increased increased by by ¥790 ¥790 million, million, respectively, respectively, as as amountsamounts is included is included solelysolely for forthethe convenience convenience of readers of readers outside outside compared compared withwith thethe figures figures priorprior to the retrospective to the retrospective application. application. TheThe Japan, Japan, using using thethe prevailing prevailing exchange exchange raterate at December at December 31,31,2016,2016, netnet assets at the assets at the beginning beginning of the previous of the previous fiscal yearyear fiscal have reflected have reflected which whichwaswas ¥116.49 ¥116.49 to U.S. to U.S. $1.00. $1.00.TheThe translations translations shouldshould notnotbe be thethecumulative cumulative effects,effects, which which resulted resulted in ain decrease a decrease by by ¥3,223 construed ¥3,223 construed as representations as representations thatthat thethe Japanese Japanese yenyen amountsamounts have have HORIBA Report 2016 | 60 Financial data been,been,could have could havebeen been or could or could in thein the futurefuture be converted be converted intointoU.S.U.S. the thesalesaleof such of such securities securities areare computed computed using moving using moving averageaverage dollars dollars at this at this or anyor any other otherraterate of exchange. of exchange. TheThe U.S.U.S. dollars cost. dollars Available-for-sale cost. Available-for-sale securities securities withwith no available no available market fair fair market value value amounts amounts arearethenthen roundedrounded down downto the nearest to the nearest thousand. thousand. areare stated stated mainly mainly at moving at moving averageaverage cost.cost. Certain Certainpriorprior yearyear amountsamounts have havebeen been reclassified reclassified to conform to conform to to (d) (d) Inventories Inventories the the current year's current presentation. year's presentation. Inventories Inventories areare stated stated at the at the lower lower of average of average costcost or net or net realizable realizable value. value. Cost Cost is determined is determined principally principally by by the the weighted weighted averageaverage 2. Summary 2. Summary of significant of significant accounting accounting policies policies method method for merchandise, for merchandise, finished finished goods goodsandand work-in-process work-in-process andand (a) Principles (a) Principles of consolidation of consolidation by the by the moving moving average average methodmethod for raw for raw materials materials andand supplies. supplies. TheThe consolidated consolidated financial financial statements statements include include the the accounts accounts of theof the (e) Property, (e) Property, plant plantandand equipment equipment andand depreciation depreciation (except (except for for Company Company andand 48 (4848 (48 in fiscal in fiscal2015) 2015) of itsof subsidiaries its subsidiaries (“HORIBA” (“HORIBA” leases) leases) as aasconsolidated a consolidated group).group). From From fiscal fiscal 2016,2016, oneone newly newly established Property, established Property, plantplant andand equipment equipment areare statedstated at cost. at cost. Depreciation Depreciation is is company company hashas been been included included in scope in scope of consolidation of consolidation andand computed oneone computed by theby the straight-line straight-line methodmethod overoverthe the estimated estimated useful usefullife life company company hashas completed completed its liquidation its liquidation andand hashas been beeneliminated eliminated of the of the TheThe asset. asset. estimated estimated useful usefulliveslives of buildings of buildings andand structures structures from from the the consolidation. consolidation. rangerangefromfrom 3 to360 to 60 years yearsandand those those of machinery, of machinery, equipment equipment andand TheThe accompanying accompanying consolidated consolidated financial financialstatements statements includeinclude vehicles the the vehicles fromfrom2 to220 20 years. to years. accounts accounts of the Company of the Company andand significant significant companies companies overoverwhich whichthe the (f) Goodwill (f) Goodwill Company Company hashas control control through through majority majority votingvotingrights or certain rights or certain other Goodwill, other Goodwill, which which represents represents the the excess excess of the of the purchase purchase price overover price conditions conditionsevidencingevidencingcontrol control by bythe theCompany. Company.Significant Significant the the fair fair value value of the of the net net assets assets acquired, acquired, is amortized is amortized on on a a intercompany intercompany transactions transactions andand accounts accounts have have been beeneliminated eliminated straight-line in in straight-line basis basis overover a period a period of five of five years. years. consolidation. consolidation. In the In theelimination elimination of investments of investments in subsidiaries, in subsidiaries, the the (g) (g) Intangibles Intangibles assets assets andand liabilities liabilities of theof the subsidiaries, subsidiaries, including including the the portions Amortization portions Amortization of intangibles of intangibles is computed is computed by the by the straight-line straight-line method.method. attributable attributable to non-controlling to non-controlling shareholders, shareholders, areare evaluated evaluated using the the Computer using Computer software software used used by by HORIBA HORIBA is amortized is amortized overover the the fair fair valuevalue at at the the timetime the the Company Company acquired acquired control control of of the the estimated estimated useful useful life oflife3ofto310 10 years. to years. respective respective subsidiary. subsidiary. Acquisition Acquisition costs thatthat costs areare in excess in excess of the net net (h) (h) of the Leases Leases assets assets of of acquired acquired subsidiaries subsidiaries andand affiliates affiliates andand cannot cannot be be With With regard regard to leased to leased assets assets under under finance finance leasesleases otherother thanthan those those assigned assigned to to specific specific individual individual accounts accounts areare amortized amortized on on a a thatthatareare deemed deemed to transfer to transfer ownership ownership of the of the leasedleased property property to theto the straight-line straight-line basis overover basis years. fivefive years. lessee, lessee, the thelease lease term term is deemed is deemed to beto be the the useful useful life,life, andand December December 31 31 is the is the year-end year-end of theof theconsolidated consolidated subsidiaries depreciation subsidiaries depreciation is computed is computed by the by the straight-line straight-line methodmethod overoverthe thelease lease andand of the thatthat consolidated of the consolidated financial financial statements statements for fiscal 2015 for fiscal 2015andand term zerozero withwith term residual residual value.value.FinanceFinance leases leases otherother thanthanthose thosethatthat fiscal 2016 fiscal 2016 areare deemed deemed to transfer to transfer ownership ownership of the of the leasedleased property property to theto the OneOne of ofthe the Company’s Company’s subsidiaries subsidiaries is notis not included included in thein the lesseelessee andandwhich which commenced commenced in fiscal in fiscal years years beginning beginning priorpriorto to consolidated consolidated accounts accounts as theas the effect effectof itsof inclusion its inclusion on total on total assets, January assets, January 1, 2009 1, 2009 continuecontinue to be be accounted to accounted for inforainwaya waythatthat is similar is similar sales, income sales, income andand retained retained earnings earnings would wouldhave have been immaterial. been immaterial. to the to the method method used used for operating for operating leases.leases. TheThe Company Company hashas oneone affiliated affiliatedcompany company (two(two in fiscal in fiscal 2015). (i) Allowance 2015). (i) Allowance for for doubtful doubtful receivables receivables ForForoneone affiliated company, affiliated company, the theequity equity method method waswas applied. applied. TheThe Company Company andand its domestic its domestic subsidiaries subsidiaries provide provide for for doubtful doubtful (b) (b) Cash Cashandand cash cash equivalents equivalents accounts accounts principally principally at an at anamount amount computed computed based based on onthe the actualactual Cash Cashandand cash cashequivalents equivalents include include cash on hand, cash on hand, readily readily available ratioratio available of bad of bad debts debts in thein the pastpast plusplus the the estimated estimated uncollectible uncollectible bank bank deposits deposits andand short-term short-term highlyhighlyliquid investments liquid investments thatthatareare amountsamountsof ofcertain certainindividual individualreceivables.receivables.TheTheoverseas overseas readily readilyconvertible convertible intointo cash, cash,have have insignificant insignificant of change riskrisk of change subsidiaries in in subsidiaries provideprovide for for doubtful doubtful accounts accounts based based on on estimates estimates value andand value have haveoriginal original maturities maturities of three of threemonths months or less or lessfrom datedate made from made by management. by management. of purchase. of purchase. (j) Accrued (j) Accrued bonuses bonuses to employees to employees (c) Securities (c) Securities Accrued Accrued bonuses bonuses to employees to employees areare provided provided the the for for expectedexpected Available-for-sale Available-for-sale securities securities withwithavailable available fair fairmarket market values values areare paymentpayment of employee of employee bonuses bonuses to those to those employees employees employed employed at at stated statedat fair market at fair market value. value.Unrealized Unrealized gainsgainsandand losseslosses on on thesethese the theendend of the of the fiscal fiscal year. year. securities securities areare reported, reported, net net of applicable of applicable income income taxes,taxes, as as a a (k) Accrued (k) Accrued bonusesbonuses to directors to directors andand corporate corporate auditors auditors separate separate component component of net of netassets. assets. Realized Realized gains gainsandand losses losses on on Some Some consolidated consolidated subsidiaries subsidiaries provideprovidefor for accrued accrued bonusesbonuses to to 61 directors directors andand corporate corporate auditors auditors for forthe the expected expected payment payment of of andand costs were costs wererecorded recorded using the the using completed completed contract contract method. method. director director andand corporate corporate auditor auditor bonusesbonuses to those to those directors directors andand (q) (q) Foreign Foreign currency currency translation translation corporate corporate auditors serving auditors at the serving endend at the of the fiscal of the year. fiscal year. Short-term Short-term andand long-term long-term receivables receivables andand payables payables in foreign in foreign (l) Reserve (l) Reserve product for for product warranty warranty currencies currencies areare translated translated intointo Japanese Japanese yenyen based based on on exchange exchange TheThe reserve reserve product for for product warranty warranty is provided is provided for accrued for accrued warranty warranty rates rates at the at the balancebalance sheet sheet date. date. expenses expenses for for products products of the of theCompanyCompany andand certain certain subsidiaries. subsidiaries. Balance Balance sheet sheet accounts accounts of consolidated of consolidated foreign foreign subsidiaries subsidiaries areare TheThe provision provision is based is based on on estimates estimates made made from from actualactual pastpast translated translated intointo Japanese Japanese yenyen at the at the balancebalance sheet sheet date,date, exceptexcept for for experience experience andand product product warranty warranty records records andand takes takes intointo account shareholders’ account shareholders’ equity equity accounts, accounts, which which areare translated translated at historical at historical individual individual cases. cases. rates. rates. Revenue Revenue andand expense expense accountsaccounts of consolidated of consolidated foreign foreign (m)(m) Provision Provision for forlossloss on on dissolution dissolution of of thethe employees’ subsidiaries employees’ subsidiaries areare translated translated intointo Japanese Japanese yenyen at average at average annual annual pension pension fund fund exchange exchange rates. rates. Differences Differences arising arising from fromthe the application application of the of the As Asit wasit wasresolved resolved to adopt to adopt Japanese Japanese government government policy policyto carry to carry processes processesstated statedabove abovearearepresented presentedseparately separatelyin inthe the out out special specialdissolution dissolution of the employees’ of the employees’ local pension local pension fundfund (general consolidated (general consolidated financial financial statements statements in “Foreign in “Foreign currency currency translation translation type) type) in in whichwhich the the Company Company andand a domestic a domestic consolidated consolidated adjustments”adjustments” andand “Non-controlling “Non-controlling interests” interests” in netin net assets. assets. subsidiary subsidiary arearemembers, members, HORIBA HORIBA postedposted an estimated an estimated lossloss thatthat will will (r) Derivatives (r) Derivatives arise in relation arise to the in relation dissolution. to the dissolution. Derivative Derivative financial financial instruments instruments areare statedstated at at fair fair value, value,andand (n) Provision (n) Provision for loss on disaster for loss on disaster changes changes in the in thefair fair value valueareare recognized recognized as gains as gains or losses, or losses, unless unless OutOut of of the the expenditures expenditures neededneeded for for restoration restoration andand other other the the derivative derivative financial financial instruments instruments areare used used for hedging for hedging purposes. purposes. arrangement arrangement of damaged of damaged assetsassets fromfrom the the earthquakes earthquakes occurred occurred in in HORIBA HORIBA uses usesforeignforeign currency currency exchange exchange contracts contracts to manage to manage riskrisk Kumamoto Kumamoto Prefecture, Prefecture, the the estimated estimated lossloss concerning concerning the theplannedplanned related related to itstoimporting its importing andand exporting exporting activities. activities. Regarding Regarding derivative derivative implementation implementation in the in the fiscal nextnext yearyear fiscal andand beyondbeyond is accounted is accounted for for transactions, transactions, in in addition addition to to conducting conducting exchange exchange agreement agreement as provision as provision for loss on disaster. for loss on disaster. transactionswithin transactions withinthe thelimitlimitof ofthe thebalance balanceof offoreign foreign Accounting (o) (o) Accounting methods methods associated associated with retirement with retirement benefits currency-denominated benefits currency-denominatedreceivables receivablesandandpayables, payables,HORIBA HORIBA ⅰ)ⅰ) Period-based Period-based method method for for estimated estimated amount amount of of retirement retirement conducts conducts forwardforward exchange exchange agreement agreement transactions transactions for for the the benefits benefits expected expected foreignforeign currency-denominated currency-denominated receivables receivables andand payables, payables, In calculating In calculating projected projected benefit benefitobligations, obligations, the the method method to attribute to attribute which whichwould would be be generated generated withwith certainty certainty by by scheduled scheduled exportexportor or the the estimated estimated amount amount of retirement of retirement benefits benefits to the to theperiodperiod up to upthe import to the import trading. trading. HORIBA HORIBA uses uses derivative derivative financial financial instruments, instruments, such such endend of theof thecurrent currentfiscal yearyear fiscal is based is based on on the the benefitbenefit formula as interest formula as interest raterate swap swap contracts, contracts, andand interest interest raterateandand currency currency swap swap method. method. contracts contracts to avoid to avoid risks risks of fluctuations of fluctuations in interest in interest rates andand rates foreign foreign ⅱ) ⅱ)Recording Recording of expenses of expenses for actuarial for actuarial differences differences andand priorprior service exchange service exchange rates. rates. Contracts Contracts areare entered entered intointoandand controlled controlled by the by the costs costs financedepartment, finance department,which whichreports reportsresults resultsto tothe thedirector. director. Actuarial Actuarial differences differences areare recognized recognized in in expenses expenses from from Transactions the the Transactions involving involving derivative derivative contracts contracts areare limited limited to highly to highly ratedrated respectively respectively occurring occurring subsequent subsequent fiscal year, fiscal using year, usingthe the straight-line straight-line banking banking institutions, institutions, andand HORIBA HORIBA considers considers thatthat therethere areare no no method method overover a fixed term a fixed of years term of years (5 to(58toyears), 8 years), which which is within is within material the the material credit credit risks risks associated associated withwiththem. them. average average of the estimated of the estimated remaining remaining service service yearsyearsof employees, of employees, at at (s) Hedge (s) Hedge accounting accounting the the timetime of occurrence of occurrence of each of eachfiscal year. fiscal year. Hedge ⅰ) ⅰ) Hedge accounting accounting methodmethod Prior Priorservice service costs costsareare recognized recognized in in expenses expenses using using Deferred the the Deferred hedge hedge accounting accounting is applied. is applied. 㻌 However, 㻌 However, exceptional exceptional straight-line straight-line method method overovera fixed a fixed termterm of years of years (10(10 years), years), which which accounting is is accounting treatment treatment is applied is applied to certain to certain interest interest raterateandand currency currency within withinthe the average average of the of theestimated estimated remaining remaining service service years years of of swap swap contracts contracts which which conform conform to the to the requirements requirements of integral of integral employees, employees, commencing commencing in the period in the periodtheythey arise. arise. accounting accounting rules. rules. Sales (p) (p) Sales andand costscostsof completed of completed construction construction Hedging ⅱ) ⅱ) Hedging instruments instruments andand hedged hedged items items Sales Sales andand costs of completed costs of completed construction construction were wererecorded recorded using the the Hedging Hedging using instruments: instruments: Forward Forward foreignforeign exchange exchange contracts, contracts, etc.,etc., percentage percentage of ofcompletion completion methodmethod when when the the progress progress of of the the andand interest interest raterate andand currency currency swap swap contracts contracts construction construction up upto the endend to the of theof the yearyear waswas deemed deemed to be to becertain certain Hedged Hedged items: items: Foreign Foreign currency-denominated currency-denominated forecast forecast transactions transactions (estimates (estimates of the ratioratio of the of completion of completion of construction of construction work workareare based based andand foreign foreign currency-denominated currency-denominated loans loans payable payable on the on the cost-to-cost cost-to-cost method). method). In theIn the case caseof other of otherconstruction, construction, sales sales ⅲ) ⅲ) Hedging Hedging policy policy HORIBA Report 2016 | 62 Financial data Forward Forward foreign foreign exchange exchange transactions transactions areare used used to avoid to avoid foreign foreign respective respective fiscal year, fiscal including year, including dividends dividends to be to paid be paid thethe afterafter endend of of currency currency risks, risks,andand interest interest raterate andand currency currency swaps swaps areare used usedto to thethe period. period. avoid avoid thethe riskrisk of rising of rising interest interest rates andand rates foreignforeign currency currency risks,risks, based based on the on the Company’s Company’s Administrative Administrative Rules. Rules. 3. Accounting 3. Accounting standards standards issuedissued butbutnotnot yetyet effective effective Assessment ⅳ) ⅳ) Assessment of hedge of hedge effectiveness effectiveness “Guidance “Guidance on on Recoverability Recoverability of of Deferred Deferred TaxTax Assets”Assets” 㻌 (ASBJ 㻌 (ASBJ TheThe effectiveness effectiveness of of hedges hedges is assessed is assessed by by comparing comparing thethe Guidance Guidance No.No. 26,26, issued issued on March on March 28,28, 2016) 2016) cumulative cumulative changes changes in cashin cash flows of both flows hedging of both hedging instruments instruments andand ⅰ) ⅰ) Overview Overview correspondinghedged corresponding hedgeditems. items. However, However,an anassessment assessmentof of TheThe practical practical guidance guidance on on accounting accounting standards standards andand auditing auditing effectiveness effectiveness is not is not conducted conducted when whenthethesignificant significant conditions conditions of of standards standards (where(where it isitrelated is related to theto the accounting accounting treatment) treatment) tax tax for for bothbothhedging hedging instruments instruments andand corresponding corresponding hedged hedged items areare items the the effect effect accounting, accounting, issuedissued by by thethe Japanese Japanese Institute Institute of Certified of Certified same. same. Public Public Accountants Accountants (JICPA), (JICPA), is toisbe be transferred to transferred to theto the competence competence (t) Research (t) Research andand development development expenses expenses of the of the Accounting Accounting Standards Standards Board Board of Japan of Japan (ASBJ).(ASBJ). ForFor thethe sake sake Research Research andand development development expenses expenses charged areare charged to income to income when when of the of the saidsaid transfer, transfer, “Implementation “Implementation Guidance Guidance on on Recoverability Recoverability of of incurred. incurred. ResearchResearch andand development development expenses expenses chargedcharged to income to income Deferred Deferred TaxTax Assets Assets (Implementation (Implementation Guidance)” Guidance)” hashas been been issued issued for for fiscal 2015 fiscal 2015 andand fiscal fiscal 2016 2016 were ¥12,341 were ¥12,341 millionmillionandand ¥12,933 ¥12,933 by ASBJ, by ASBJ, based,based, in principle, in principle, on on thethe framework framework used usedin the in the Audit Audit million million($111,022 ($111,022 thousand), thousand), respectively. respectively. Treatment Treatment of Judgments of Judgments withwithRegardRegard to Recoverability to Recoverability of Deferred of Deferred (u) (u) IncomeIncome taxes taxes TaxTax Assets , Assets , where where thethe recoverability recoverability is assessed is assessed in accordance in accordance Income Income taxes taxes comprisecomprise corporate corporate enterprise tax,tax, enterprise tax taxandand prefectural prefectural withwith thethefivefive categories categories of aofcorporate a corporate entity. TheThe entity. Implementation Implementation andand municipal municipal inhabitant inhabitant taxes. taxes. Guidance Guidance made made certain certain necessary necessary changes changes in thein the criteria criteria for for these these HORIBAHORIBA recognizes recognizes thethe tax tax effects of loss effects of losscarryforwards carryforwards andand categories thethe categories andand alsoalso in thein the treatment treatment of the of the amountamount of deferred of deferred tax tax temporary temporary differences differences between between the thecarrying carryingamountsamounts of assets of assets andand assets. assets. TheThe Implementation Implementation Guidance Guidance thereby thereby provides provides thethe liabilities liabilitiesfor for tax tax andand financial financial reporting. reporting.TheThe provision provision for for current guidelines current guidelines in applying in applying thethe “Accounting “Accounting Standards Standards for forTaxTax Effect Effect income income tax taxis computed is computed based based on the pretax on the pretaxincome income included included in the Accounting,” in the Accounting,” by by thethe Business Business Accounting Accounting Council, Council, in view in view of of consolidated consolidated statements statements of income. of income. recoverability recoverability of deferred of deferred tax tax assets. assets. TheThe asset/liability asset/liability approach approach is used is usedto recognize to recognize deferred deferred tax tax (The (The requirements requirements of classification of classification andand thethe changes changes in the in the treatment treatment assets assets andand liabilities liabilities for for thethe expected expected future futuretax tax consequences consequences of of of the of the amount amount of deferred of deferred tax tax assets) assets) temporary temporary differences differences between between the thecarrying carryingamountsamounts of assets of assets andand (1) (1) Treatment Treatment of of companies companies thatthat do do notnot fulfillfulfill anyany of of thethe liabilities for for liabilities financial financial reporting reporting purposes purposes andand thethe amounts amounts used usedfor for requirements requirements for classification for classification from from Category Category to Category 1 to1Category 5. 5. income income tax taxpurposes. purposes. (2) Requirements (2) Requirements for classification for classification as Category as Category 2 and 2 and Category Category 3 3 TheThe Company Company andand its consolidated its consolidated domestic domestic subsidiaries subsidiaries have have (3) (3) Treatment Treatment of deductible of deductible temporary temporary differences differences thatthat cannot cannot be be adopted adopted thethe consolidated consolidated taxation taxation system. system. scheduled scheduled for companies for companies applicable applicable to Category to Category 2 2 (v) Per (v) Per share share information information (4) (4) Treatment Treatment of of reasonably reasonably estimable estimable periods periods of of temporary temporary TheThe computations computations of net of net income income perpershareshare areare based based on on thethe differences differences in future in future pre-adjusted pre-adjusted taxable taxable incomeincome for for companies companies weighted weighted average average numbernumber of shares of shares of common of common stock stock outstanding outstanding applicable applicable to Category to Category 3 3 during during each each period. period. TheThe weighted weighted average average number number of shares of shares of of (5) (5) Treatment Treatment in cases in cases where where a company a company fulfilling thethe fulfilling requirements requirements common common stock stock used used in the in the computation computation for forfiscal 2015 fiscal 2015 andand fiscal of Category fiscal of Category 4 is4also is also applicable applicable to Category to Category 2 or2Category or Category 3 3 20162016 waswas 42,136 42,136 thousandthousand andand 42,121 42,121 thousand, thousand, respectively. respectively. ⅱ) ⅱ) Date Date of application of application Diluted Diluted netnet income income perper share share of common of common stock stock assumesassumes full full It isItplanned is planned to apply to apply these these standards standards from fromthethestartstartof the of the fiscal yearyear fiscal conversion conversion of dilutive of dilutive convertible convertible bonds at the bonds at thebeginning beginning of the yearyear ending of the ending December December 31,31, 2017. 2017. or at or the at the laterlater datedate of issuance, of issuance, withwith an anapplicable applicable adjustment adjustment for for ⅲ) ⅲ) EffectEffect of applying of applying these these accounting accounting standards standards related related interest interest expense, expense, netnet of tax andand of tax dilutive dilutive stock stock option plans. option plans. HORIBA HORIBA is is currently currently evaluating evaluating thethe effect effect of of applying applying thesethese TheThe weighted weighted average average number number of shares of sharesused used in the in thecomputation computation accounting accounting standards standards on its its consolidated onconsolidated financial financial statements. statements. for for fiscal 2015 fiscal 2015 andand fiscal fiscal2016 2016 waswas 42,326 42,326 thousand thousand andand 42,30842,308 thousand, thousand, respectively. respectively. Cash Cash dividends dividends perper share share shown shown in the consolidated in the consolidated statements statements of income of income represent represent actual actual amountsamounts applicable applicable to earnings to earnings in thein the 63 4. Financial instruments (1) Overview of financial instruments Management policy HORIBA carries out fund management with an emphasis on security and procures funds mainly through bank borrowings and bond issuances. Derivatives are used to manage foreign exchange fluctuation risk and interest rate fluctuation risk, and it is HORIBA's policy not to engage in speculative transactions. Financial instruments, risks and risk management Trade notes and accounts receivable, which are operating receivables, are exposed to the credit risk of customers. HORIBA endeavors to reduce this risk by conducting due date control and balance control and by attempting to promptly recognize collection concerns stemming from such factors as a deterioration in the financial condition of a customer. Most trade notes and accounts payable, which are operating payables, have payment due dates within one year. Some operating receivables and payables are denominated in foreign currencies and are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuation risk. However, HORIBA endeavors to reduce this risk by offsetting foreign currency denominated operating receivables and payables and by using forward exchange contracts, etc. Marketable securities are mainly short-term investments with high liquidity such as negotiable deposits. Investment securities are mainly shares of companies that have a business relationships with HORIBA and are exposed to market value fluctuation risk. However, when acquiring or selling shares of a certain value, the Board of Directors considers the details of the transactions and HORIBA endeavors to reduce any risk by ensuring that the market value information regarding the shares is reported to the management team in a timely manner. Short-term loans are mainly for financing related to operating transactions, while long-term loans and corporate bonds are mainly for financing related to plant and equipment and working capital. Trade liabilities and loans are exposed to liquidity risk, but HORIBA endeavors to reduce this risk by using methods such as the preparation of cash flow plans. Regarding derivative transactions, in addition to conducting exchange agreement transactions within the limit of the balance of foreign currency-denominated receivables and payables, HORIBA conducts forward exchange agreement transactions for the expected foreign currency-denominated receivables and payables, which would be generated with certainty by scheduled export or import trading. HORIBA uses derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swap contracts and, interest rate and currency swap contracts to avoid risks of fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, within the outstanding amount of borrowings. HORIBA's policy is not to engage in speculative transactions. Supplementary explanation of the estimated fair value of financial instruments The market value of financial instruments includes values based on market prices and amounts rationally calculated when there are no market prices available. As HORIBA incorporates variable factors when making these calculations, the amounts may change due to the adoption of different assumptions. With regard to contract amounts related to derivative transactions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements item Derivative transactions, the amounts do not indicate the market risk associated with derivative transactions themselves. (2) Fair value of financial instruments The book value and fair value of financial instruments and any difference between the two as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 are set forth in the table below. Financial instruments whose fair value was extremely difficult to estimate are not included (See Note 2). Cash and cash equivalents of \5,515 million and \977 million ($8,386 thousand) for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 are included in (3) Marketable securities and investment securities. Millions of yen Millions of yen 12/2015 12/2016 Book value Fair value Difference Book value Fair value Difference Assets: (1) Cash and time deposits....................................................... ¥43,922 ¥43,922 ¥52,272 ¥52,272 (2) Trade notes and accounts receivable........................... 50,128 50,128 53,724 53,724 (3) Marketable securities and investment securities Available-for-sale securities..................................... 14,965 14,965 9,438 9,438 Total............................................................................................ ¥109,016 ¥109,016 ¥115,436 ¥115,436 Liabilities: (1) Trade notes and accounts payable................................. ¥17,675 ¥17,675 ¥20,013 ¥20,013 (2) Short-term loans and current portion of long-term loans...................................................................... 12,879 12,879 12,463 12,463 (3) Accounts payable other.................................................. 14,759 14,759 14,041 14,041 (4) Accrued income taxes......................................................... 3,796 3,796 1,838 1,838 (5) Bonds.......................................................................................... 15,000 15,219 ¥219 15,000 15,214 ¥214 (6) Long-term loans..................................................................... 16,826 16,823 (3) 19,255 19,419 163 Total............................................................................................ ¥80,936 ¥81,153 ¥216 ¥82,612 ¥82,991 ¥378 Derivative transactions (1) Hedge accounting not applied........................................... ¥144 ¥144 (¥14) (¥14) (2) Hedge accounting applied................................................... (0) (0) Total............................................................................................ ¥144 ¥144 (¥14) (¥14) HORIBA Report 2016 | 64 Financial data Thousands of U.S. dollars 12/2016 Book value Fair value Difference Assets: (1) Cash and time deposits.................................................................................................................................. $448,725 $448,725 (2) Trade notes and accounts receivable...................................................................................................... 461,189 461,189 (3) Marketable securities and investment securities Available-for-sale securities............................................................................................................. 81,019 81,019 Total.................................................................................................................................................................... $990,952 $990,952 Liabilities: (1) Trade notes and accounts payable........................................................................................................... $171,800 $171,800 (2) Short-term loans and current portion of long-term loans.............................................................. 106,987 106,987 (3) Accounts payable other............................................................................................................................. 120,533 120,533 (4) Accrued income taxes.................................................................................................................................... 15,778 15,778 (5) Bonds..................................................................................................................................................................... 128,766 130,603 $1,837 (6) Long-term loans................................................................................................................................................ 165,293 166,701 1,399 Total.................................................................................................................................................................... $709,176 $712,430 $3,244 Derivative transactions (1) Hedge accounting not applied...................................................................................................................... ($120) ($120) (2) Hedge accounting applied.............................................................................................................................. Total.................................................................................................................................................................... ($120) ($120) Note 1. Method for calculating the fair value of financial instruments and notes regarding securities and derivative transactions. Assets (1) Cash and time deposits and (2) Trade notes and accounts receivable As these are settled in the short term, market value approximates book value and is, therefore, based on the applicable book value. (3) Marketable securities and investment securities Market value for these is based on prices on securities exchanges in the case of shares, etc. For bonds, market value is based on prices on securities exchanges or prices indicated by corresponding financial institutions. For marketable securities classified by the purpose for which they are held, see Note 5. Liabilities (1) Trade notes and accounts payable, (2) Short-term loans and current portion of long-term loans, (3) Accounts payable other and (4) Accrued income taxes As these are settled in the short term, market value approximates book value and is, therefore, based on the applicable book value. (5) Bonds Market value for bonds issued by HORIBA is calculated based on market prices. (6) Long-term loans Borrowings based on variable interest rates reflect market interest rates, and as the creditworthiness of HORIBA has not changed significantly since execution, market value is considered to be approximate book value and is, therefore, based on applicable book value. The value of borrowings with fixed interest rates is based on the total amount of principal and interest discounted at an interest rate of a similar new loan. Derivative transactions See Note 14 for derivative transactions. Net receivables (payables) derived from derivative transactions are displayed in the table above. Total net payables are shown in parenthesis. Note 2. The following table summarizes financial instruments whose fair value was extremely difficult to estimate. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Non-listed equity securities.............................................................................................................. ¥227 ¥212 $1,819 Investments in nonconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates.................................................. 69 46 394 The above financial instruments were not included in (3) Marketable securities and investment securities because they did not have market values and the fair value was extremely difficult to estimate. 65 Note 3. Repayment schedule of monetary claims, available-for-sales securities with maturities and bonds held to maturity. Millions of yen 12/2015 Over one year Over five years Within one but within five but within ten Over ten years year years years Cash and time deposits......................................................................... ¥43,922 Trade notes and accounts receivable.............................................. 50,128 Marketable securities and investment securities Available-for-sale securities with maturities (1) Governmental/municipal bonds............................................ 10 (2) Corporate bonds......................................................................... 901 ¥100 (3) Other bonds.................................................................................. 499 (4) Other............................................................................................... 500 25 Total............................................................................................................... ¥95,963 ¥126 Millions of yen 12/2016 Over one year Over five years Within one but within five but within ten Over ten years year years years Cash and time deposits......................................................................... ¥52,272 Trade notes and accounts receivable.............................................. 53,724 Marketable securities and investment securities Available-for-sale securities with maturities (1) Governmental/municipal bonds............................................ (2) Corporate bonds......................................................................... 200 (3) Other bonds.................................................................................. (4) Other............................................................................................... 620 ¥20 Total............................................................................................................... ¥106,818 ¥20 Thousands of U.S. dollars 12/2016 Over one year Over five years Within one but within five but within ten Over ten years year years years Cash and time deposits......................................................................... $448,725 Trade notes and accounts receivable.............................................. 461,189 Marketable securities and investment securities Available-for-sale securities with maturities (1) Governmental/municipal bonds............................................ (2) Corporate bonds......................................................................... 1,716 (3) Other bonds.................................................................................. (4) Other............................................................................................... 5,322 $171 Total............................................................................................................... $916,971 $171 Note 4. Repayment schedule of short-term loans, bonds and long-term debt See Note 8 for short-term loans and long-term debt. HORIBA Report 2016 | 66 Financial data 5. Securities The following table summarizes acquisition costs and book values (fair values) of available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016. Millions of yen Millions of yen 12/2015 12/2016 Acquisition Acquisition Book value Difference Book value Difference cost cost Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Equity securities............................... ¥7,869 ¥4,076 ¥3,792 ¥8,237 ¥4,091 ¥4,145 Governmental/municipal bonds. 10 10 0 Corporate bonds............................... 201 200 1 100 100 0 Other bonds....................................... Other..................................................... 500 500 0 Subtotal................................................ 8,580 4,786 3,793 8,337 4,191 4,145 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Equity securities............................... 61 65 (3) 36 41 (4) Governmental/municipal bonds. Corporate bonds............................... 801 802 (0) 100 100 (0) Other bonds....................................... 499 500 (0) Other..................................................... 5,022 5,022 (0) 964 964 (0) Subtotal................................................ 6,384 6,389 (4) 1,101 1,106 (4) Total................................................................... ¥14,965 ¥11,175 ¥3,789 ¥9,438 ¥5,298 ¥4,140 Thousands of U.S. dollars 12/2016 Acquisition Book value Difference cost Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: Equity securities.................................................................................................................. $70,709 $35,118 $35,582 Governmental/municipal bonds..................................................................................... Corporate bonds.................................................................................................................. 858 858 0 Other bonds........................................................................................................................... Other........................................................................................................................................ Subtotal................................................................................................................................... 71,568 35,977 35,582 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: Equity securities.................................................................................................................. 309 351 (34) Governmental/municipal bonds..................................................................................... Corporate bonds.................................................................................................................. 858 858 (0) Other bonds........................................................................................................................... Other........................................................................................................................................ 8,275 8,275 (0) Subtotal................................................................................................................................... 9,451 9,494 (34) Total...................................................................................................................................................... $81,019 $45,480 $35,539 Note. Non-listed equity securities, etc., of \227 million and \212 million ($1,819 thousand) for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, respectively, are not included in the above table because they did not have market values and the fair value was extremely difficult to estimate. The following table summarizes available-for-sale securities sold for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Total sales of available-for-sale securities.......................................................................... ¥81 ¥2 $17 Related gains..................................................................................................................................... 44 0 0 Impairment loss on marketable securities HORIBA recognized an impairment loss of \68 million ($583 thousand) in fiscal 2016 on non-listed equity securities categorized as available-for-sale securities. When applying impairment accounting, if the market value at the end of the term has fallen by more than 50% from the acquisition price, an impairment loss is applied to the entire amount. If the market value has fallen by approximately 30% to 50%, an impairment loss is applied to the amount recognized as necessary after considering the possibility of recovery, etc. 67 6. Inventories Inventories at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Merchandise and finished goods...................................................................................... ¥15,696 ¥15,118 $129,779 Work-in-process..................................................................................................................... 13,707 14,543 124,843 Raw materials and supplies................................................................................................ 10,786 10,626 91,218 Total................................................................................................................................ ¥40,190 ¥40,289 $345,858 7. Trade notes receivable maturing on December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, which were bank holidays December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, the end of the period, were bank holidays. Trade notes receivable maturing on those dates were settled on the following business day. Therefore, notes in the amount of \332 million were included in the ending balance at December 31, 2015 and notes in the amount of \427 million ($3,665 thousand) were included in the ending balance at December 31, 2016. 8. Short-term loans and long-term debt Short-term loans are generally represented by bank notes with annual interest rates ranging from 0.57% to 17.02% and 0.45% to 15.77% at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Long-term debt at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 0.609% unsecured bonds due in 2020............................................................................. ¥15,000 ¥15,000 $128,766 Loans from banks due serially from 2017 to 2026 at rates from 0.09% to 12.25% per annum........................................................ 17,480 20,269 173,997 Lease obligations at 4.68% maturing serially through 2022................................... 522 434 3,725 Total................................................................................................................................ 33,002 35,703 306,489 Current portion........................................................................................................................ (848) (1,158) (9,940) Long-term debt, less current portion............................................................................ ¥32,153 ¥34,545 $296,549 The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Year ending December 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017........................................................................................................................................................... ¥1,158 $9,940 2018........................................................................................................................................................... 696 5,974 2019........................................................................................................................................................... 1,612 13,838 2020........................................................................................................................................................... 15,532 133,333 2021........................................................................................................................................................... 421 3,614 Thereafter............................................................................................................................................... 16,281 139,763 Total................................................................................................................................................ ¥35,703 $306,489 As of December 31, 2016, the Company and its 8 subsidiaries had entered into agreements for bank overdrafts or loan commitments with 9 banks as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars The maximum aggregate principal............................................................................................................. ¥16,745 $143,746 Amount utilized.................................................................................................................................................. 833 7,150 Balance available.............................................................................................................................................. ¥15,912 $136,595 As of December 31, 2016, assets were pledged as collateral for short-term loans and current portion of long-term debt of \142 million ($1,218 thousand) and long-term debt of \55 million ($472 thousand) as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Cash and time deposits................................................................................................................................. ¥500 $4,292 Land........................................................................................................................................................................ 120 1,030 Machinery, equipment and vehicles.......................................................................................................... 429 3,682 Total....................................................................................................................................................................... ¥1,050 $9,013 HORIBA Report 2016 | 68 Financial data 9. Employees' severance and pension benefits (1) Outline of adopted retirement pension fund The Company and domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted a funded defined benefit pension plan (cash balance plan) and a defined contribution pension plan. Certain overseas consolidated subsidiaries have adopted funded and unfunded defined benefit plans and a defined contribution plan. The Company and a domestic consolidated subsidiary have been members of the Kyoto Machinery and Metal Employees' Pension Fund (general type). As it is not possible to reasonably calculate the amount of pension assets corresponding to the company's own contributions, accounting procedures are the same as for defined contribution plans. (2) Defined benefits plan (a) The changes in projected benefit obligation for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Balance at beginning of year....................................................................................................................................... ¥8,449 ¥8,868 $76,126 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies................................................................................. 139 Restated balance.............................................................................................................................................................. 8,589 8,868 76,126 Service cost................................................................................................................................................................... 561 614 5,270 Interest expense on projected benefit obligation........................................................................................... 127 132 1,133 Actuarial differences................................................................................................................................................... (27) 518 4,446 Benefits paid.................................................................................................................................................................. (245) (294) (2,523) Other................................................................................................................................................................................. (137) (227) (1,948) Balance at end of year................................................................................................................................................... ¥8,868 ¥9,612 $82,513 (b) The changes in pension assets for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Balance at beginning of year....................................................................................................................................... ¥6,187 ¥6,920 $59,404 Expected return on pension assets..................................................................................................................... 169 197 1,691 Actuarial differences................................................................................................................................................... 14 (91) (781) Contributions from the employer.......................................................................................................................... 798 709 6,086 Benefits paid.................................................................................................................................................................. (241) (238) (2,043) Other................................................................................................................................................................................. (8) (75) (643) Balance at end of year................................................................................................................................................... ¥6,920 ¥7,420 $63,696 (c) Reconciliation between the net defined benefit liability and the net defined benefit asset posted in the consolidated balance sheets, and the balances of projected benefit obligation and pension assets for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Funded projected benefit obligation......................................................................................................................... ¥7,640 ¥8,286 $71,130 Pension assets.................................................................................................................................................................. (6,920) (7,420) (63,696) 720 865 7,425 Unfunded projected benefit obligation..................................................................................................................... 1,227 1,326 11,382 Net liability for retirement benefits in the consolidated balance sheets.................................................. 1,947 2,191 18,808 Net defined benefit liability........................................................................................................................................... 1,947 2,191 18,808 Net liability for retirement benefits in the consolidated balance sheets.................................................. ¥1,947 ¥2,191 $18,808 (d) The components of retirement benefits expense for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Service cost........................................................................................................................................................................ ¥561 ¥614 $5,270 Interest expense on projected benefit obligation............................................................................................... 127 132 1,133 Expected return on pension assets.......................................................................................................................... (169) (197) (1,691) Amortization of actuarial differences....................................................................................................................... (7) 102 875 Retirement benefits expense....................................................................................................................................... ¥511 ¥652 $5,597 (e) The components of remeasurements of defined benefit plans (before tax effect) in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Actuarial differences....................................................................................................................................................... ¥26 (¥450) ($3,862) Total....................................................................................................................................................................................... ¥26 (¥450) ($3,862) 69 㻔㼒㻕㻌㼀㼔㼑㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼛㼚㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼞㼑㼙㼑㼍㼟㼡㼞㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼐㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼎㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟㻌㻔㼎㼑㼒㼛㼞㼑㻌㼠㼍㼤㻌㼑㼒㼒㼑㼏㼠㻕㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼟㼔㼑㼑㼠㼟㻌㼍㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌 㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢㻌㼣㼑㼞㼑㻌㼍㼟㻌㼒㼛㼘㼘㼛㼣㼟㻦 㼀㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㼟㻌㼛㼒 㻹㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼚 㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌㼐㼛㼘㼘㼍㼞㼟 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㼁㼚㼞㼑㼏㼛㼓㼚㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌㼍㼏㼠㼡㼍㼞㼕㼍㼘㻌㼐㼕㼒㼒㼑㼞㼑㼚㼏㼑㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥82 (¥316) 㻔㻐㻞㻘㻣㻝㻞㻕 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 ¥82 (¥316) 㻔㻐㻞㻘㻣㻝㻞㻕 㻔㼓㻕㻌㻼㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟 ⅰ) The pension assets by major category as a percentage of total pension assets as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were 㼍㼟㻌㼒㼛㼘㼘㼛㼣㼟㻦 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻰㼑㼎㼠㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻠㻜㻚㻢㻑 㻠㻟㻚㻝㻑 㻱㼝㼡㼕㼠㼥㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻣㻚㻠 㻞㻟㻚㻤 㻹㼡㼠㼡㼍㼘㻌㼒㼡㼚㼐㼟㻌㻔㻺㼛㼠㼑㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻡㻚㻣 㻝㻣㻚㻞 㻻㼠㼔㼑㼞㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻢㻚㻟 㻝㻡㻚㻥 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻜㻜㻚㻜㻑 㻝㻜㻜㻚㻜㻑 㻺㼛㼠㼑㻚㻌㻹㼡㼠㼡㼍㼘㻌㼒㼡㼚㼐㼟㻌㼜㼞㼕㼙㼍㼞㼕㼘㼥㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㻌㼕㼚㻌㼐㼑㼎㼠㻌㼕㼚㼢㼑㼟㼠㼙㼑㼚㼠㼟㻚 ⅱ)㻌㻹㼑㼠㼔㼛㼐㻌㼛㼒㻌㼐㼑㼠㼑㼞㼙㼕㼚㼕㼚㼓㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌㼞㼍㼠㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼞㼑㼠㼡㼞㼚㻌㼛㼚㻌㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟 㼀㼔㼑 㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐 㼞㼍㼠㼑 㼛㼒 㼞㼑㼠㼡㼞㼚 㼛㼚 㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚 㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟 㼕㼟 㼐㼑㼠㼑㼞㼙㼕㼚㼑㼐 㼏㼛㼚㼟㼕㼐㼑㼞㼕㼚㼓 㼠㼔㼑 㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠 㼍㼚㼐 㼍㼚㼠㼕㼏㼕㼜㼍㼠㼑㼐 㼒㼡㼠㼡㼞㼑 㼜㼛㼞㼠㼒㼛㼘㼕㼛 㼛㼒 㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚 㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟 㼍㼚㼐㻘㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼘㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼞㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼞㼑㼠㼡㼞㼚㻌㼣㼔㼕㼏㼔㻌㼍㼞㼑㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌㼏㼡㼞㼞㼑㼚㼠㼘㼥㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼒㼡㼠㼡㼞㼑㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼢㼍㼞㼕㼛㼡㼟㻌㼏㼛㼙㼜㼛㼚㼑㼚㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻚 㻔㼔㻕㻌㻭㼟㼟㼡㼙㼜㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼡㼟㼑㼐㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢㻌㼣㼑㼞㼑㻌㼍㼟㻌㼒㼛㼘㼘㼛㼣㼟㻦 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻰㼕㼟㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㻌㼞㼍㼠㼑㻌㻔㼙㼍㼕㼚㼘㼥㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻝㻚㻜㻙㻝㻚㻞㻑 㻜㻚㻢㻙㻜㻚㻤㻑 㻱㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌㼞㼍㼠㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼞㼑㼠㼡㼞㼚㻌㼛㼚㻌㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㻔㼙㼍㼕㼚㼘㼥㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻞㻚㻡㻑 㻞㻚㻡㻑 㻱㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌㼞㼍㼠㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼟㼍㼘㼍㼞㼥㻌㼞㼍㼕㼟㼑㼟㻌㻔㼙㼍㼕㼚㼘㼥㻕㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚 㻟㻚㻥㻙㻠㻚㻜㻑 㻟㻚㻡㻙㻠㻚㻜㻑 㻺㼛㼠㼑㻚㻌㻭㻌㼜㼛㼕㼚㼠㻌㼟㼥㼟㼠㼑㼙㻌㼕㼟㻌㼡㼟㼑㼐㻌㼍㼟㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼎㼍㼟㼕㼟㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼍㼘㼏㼡㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼏㼠㼑㼐㻌㼞㼍㼠㼑㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼟㼍㼘㼍㼞㼥㻌㼞㼍㼕㼟㼑㼟㻚 㻔㻟㻕㻌㻰㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚 㻮㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠㼟㻌㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼐㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐㻌㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢㻌㼣㼍㼟㻌㼈㻥㻢㻞㻌㼙㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌 㼈㻝㻘㻜㻤㻞㻌㼙㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㻌㻔㻐㻥㻘㻞㻤㻤㻌㼠㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㻕㻘㻌㼞㼑㼟㼜㼑㼏㼠㼕㼢㼑㼘㼥㻚 㻔㻠㻕㻌㻹㼡㼘㼠㼕㻙㼑㼙㼜㼘㼛㼥㼑㼞㻌㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚 㻮㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠㼟 㼑㼤㼜㼑㼚㼟㼑 㼒㼛㼞 㼠㼔㼑 㼙㼡㼘㼠㼕㻙㼑㼙㼜㼘㼛㼥㼑㼞 㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚 㼜㼘㼍㼚㻘 㼒㼛㼞 㼣㼔㼕㼏㼔 㼍㼏㼏㼛㼡㼚㼠㼕㼚㼓 㼜㼞㼛㼏㼑㼐㼡㼞㼑㼟 㼍㼞㼑 㼠㼔㼑 㼟㼍㼙㼑 㼍㼟 㼒㼛㼞 㼐㼑㼒㼕㼚㼑㼐 㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚 㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟㻘 㼒㼛㼞 㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢㻌㼣㼍㼟㻌㼈㻠㻞㻟㻌㼙㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼈㻠㻜㻟㻌㼙㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㻌㻔㻐㻟㻘㻠㻡㻥㻌㼠㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㻕㻘㻌㼞㼑㼟㼜㼑㼏㼠㼕㼢㼑㼘㼥㻚 㻔㼍㻕㻌㻲㼡㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㼟㼠㼍㼠㼡㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟㻌㻔㼍㼢㼍㼕㼘㼍㼎㼘㼑㻌㼕㼚㼒㼛㼞㼙㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㻹㼍㼞㼏㼔㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻹㼍㼞㼏㼔㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢㻕 㼀㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㼟㻌㼛㼒 㻹㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼥㼑㼚 㼁㻚㻿㻚㻌㼐㼛㼘㼘㼍㼞㼟 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻡 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻝㻞㻛㻞㻜㻝㻢 㻲㼍㼕㼞㻌㼢㼍㼘㼡㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻌 ¥58,075 ¥53,199 㻐㻠㻡㻢㻘㻢㻤㻞 㼀㼛㼠㼍㼘㻌㼛㼒㻌㼍㼏㼠㼡㼍㼞㼕㼍㼘㻌㼛㼎㼘㼕㼓㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼙㼕㼚㼕㼙㼡㼙㻌㼍㼏㼠㼡㼍㼞㼕㼍㼘㻌㼞㼑㼟㼑㼞㼢㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻌 㻣㻢㻘㻡㻡㻜 㻣㻝㻘㻜㻣㻜 㻢㻝㻜㻘㻜㻥㻡 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻚㻌 (¥18,474) (¥17,871) 㻔㻐㻝㻡㻟㻘㻠㻝㻞㻕 㻔㼎㻕 㻾㼍㼠㼕㼛 㼛㼒 㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻓㼟 㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚 㼠㼛 㼠㼔㼑 㼙㼡㼘㼠㼕㻙㼑㼙㼜㼘㼛㼥㼑㼞 㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟 㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑 㼠㼛 㼠㼔㼑 㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㼟 㼠㼛 㼠㼔㼑 㼛㼢㼑㼞㼍㼘㼘 㼞㼑㼠㼕㼞㼑㼙㼑㼚㼠 㼎㼑㼚㼑㼒㼕㼠 㼜㼘㼍㼚㼟 㼣㼑㼞㼑 㼍㼟㻌㼒㼛㼘㼘㼛㼣㼟㻦 㻲㼞㼛㼙㻌㻹㼍㼞㼏㼔㻌㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼠㼛㻌㻹㼍㼞㼏㼔㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻦㻌㻝㻢㻚㻣㻥㻑 㻲㼞㼛㼙㻌㻹㼍㼞㼏㼔㻌㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢㻌㼠㼛㻌㻹㼍㼞㼏㼔㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢㻦㻌㻝㻣㻚㻜㻟㻑 㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻝㻚 㻺㼑㼠㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼞㼑㼟㼡㼘㼠㼑㼐㻌㼒㼞㼛㼙㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼞㼕㼛㼞㻌㼟㼑㼞㼢㼕㼏㼑㻌㼏㼛㼟㼠㻌㼛㼒㻌㼈㻝㻥㻘㻜㻞㻠㻌㼙㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼈㻝㻤㻘㻡㻟㻝㻌㼙㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㻌㻔㻐㻝㻡㻥㻘㻜㻣㻤㻌㼠㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㻕㻌㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼓㼑㼚㼑㼞㼍㼘 㼞㼑㼟㼑㼞㼢㼑㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㻌㼍㼟㼟㼑㼠㼟㻌㼛㼒㻌㼈㻡㻠㻥㻌㼙㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㼈㻢㻡㻥㻌㼙㼕㼘㼘㼕㼛㼚㻌㻔㻐㻡㻘㻢㻡㻣㻌㼠㼔㼛㼡㼟㼍㼚㼐㻕㻌㼒㼛㼞㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻌㼑㼚㼐㼑㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞㻌㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻌㼍㼚㼐㻌㻰㼑㼏㼑㼙㼎㼑㼞 㻟㻝㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻢㻘㻌㼞㼑㼟㼜㼑㼏㼠㼕㼢㼑㼘㼥㻚 㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻞㻚 㻼㼞㼕㼛㼞㻌㼟㼑㼞㼢㼕㼏㼑㻌㼏㼛㼟㼠㻌㼕㼟㻌㼍㼙㼛㼞㼠㼕㼦㼑㼐㻌㼛㼢㼑㼞㻌㻞㻜㻌㼥㼑㼍㼞㼟㻚 㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻟㻚 㼀㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼏㼑㼚㼠㼍㼓㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻓㼟㻌㼏㼛㼚㼠㼞㼕㼎㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼠㼛㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼙㼡㼘㼠㼕㻙㼑㼙㼜㼘㼛㼥㼑㼞㻌㼜㼑㼚㼟㼕㼛㼚㻌㼜㼘㼍㼚㻌㼐㼑㼟㼏㼞㼕㼎㼑㼐㻌㼍㼎㼛㼢㼑㻌㼕㼚㻌㻔㻠㻕㻔㼎㻕㻌㼟㼔㼛㼡㼘㼐㻌㼚㼛㼠㻌㼎㼑㻌㼏㼛㼚㼟㼠㼞㼡㼑㼐㻌㼍㼟 㼠㼔㼑㻌㼜㼑㼞㼏㼑㼚㼠㼍㼓㼑㻌㼛㼒㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻓㼟㻌㼍㼏㼠㼡㼍㼘㻌㼛㼎㼘㼕㼓㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻚 㻺㼛㼠㼑㻌㻠㻚 㻭㼟㻌㼕㼠㻌㼣㼍㼟㻌㼞㼑㼟㼛㼘㼢㼑㼐㻌㼠㼛㻌㼍㼐㼛㼜㼠㻌㻶㼍㼜㼍㼚㼑㼟㼑㻌㼓㼛㼢㼑㼞㼚㼙㼑㼚㼠㻌㼜㼛㼘㼕㼏㼥㻌㼠㼛㻌㼏㼍㼞㼞㼥㻌㼛㼡㼠㻌㼟㼜㼑㼏㼕㼍㼘㻌㼐㼕㼟㼟㼛㼘㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼛㼒㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㻲㼡㼚㼐㻌㼍㼠㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼞㼑㼜㼞㼑㼟㼑㼚㼠㼍㼠㼕㼢㼑 㼍㼟㼟㼑㼙㼎㼘㼥㻌㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌㼠㼛㼛㼗㻌㼜㼘㼍㼏㼑㻌㼛㼚㻌㻲㼑㼎㼞㼡㼍㼞㼥㻌㻞㻜㻘㻌㻞㻜㻝㻡㻘㻌㻴㻻㻾㻵㻮㻭㻌㼜㼛㼟㼠㼑㼐㻌㼍㼚㻌㼑㼟㼠㼕㼙㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼘㼛㼟㼟㻌㼠㼔㼍㼠㻌㼣㼕㼘㼘㻌㼍㼞㼕㼟㼑㻌㼕㼚㻌㼞㼑㼘㼍㼠㼕㼛㼚㻌㼠㼛㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼐㼕㼟㼟㼛㼘㼡㼠㼕㼛㼚㻚 Consequently, we posted provision for loss on dissolution of the employees’ pension fund of \1,247 million ($10,704 thousand) 㼡㼚㼐㼑㼞㻌㼘㼛㼚㼓㻙㼠㼑㼞㼙㻌㼘㼕㼍㼎㼕㼘㼕㼠㼕㼑㼟㻌㼕㼚㻌㼠㼔㼑㻌㼏㼛㼚㼟㼛㼘㼕㼐㼍㼠㼑㼐㻌㼎㼍㼘㼍㼚㼏㼑㻌㼟㼔㼑㼑㼠㼟㻚 HORIBA Report 2016 | 70 Financial data 10. Net assets Under Japanese laws and regulations, the entire amount paid for new shares is required to be designated as common stock. However, a company may, by a resolution of the Board of Directors, designate an amount not exceeding one half of the price of the new shares as additional paid-in capital, which is included in capital surplus. Under the Japanese Corporate Law ( the Law ), in cases where a dividend distribution of surplus is made, the smaller of an amount equal to 10% of the dividend or the excess, if any, of 25% of common stock over the total of additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve must be set aside as additional paid-in capital or legal earnings reserve. Legal earnings reserve is included in retained earnings in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve may not be distributed as dividends. Under the Law, all additional paid-in capital and all legal earnings reserve may be transferred to other capital surplus and retained earnings, respectively, which are potentially available for dividends. Both of these appropriations generally require a resolution of the shareholder's meeting. The maximum amount that the Company can distribute as dividends is calculated based on the nonconsolidated financial statements of the Company in accordance with Japanese laws and regulations. At the Board of Directors' meeting held on February 14, 2017, the Board of Directors approved cash dividends in the amount of \2,317 million ($19,890 thousand). The appropriation had not been accrued in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2016. Such appropriations are recognized in the period in which they are approved by the Board of Directors. 11. Stock options (1) Expenses and items related to stock options Thousands of Millions of yen U.S.dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Selling, general and administrative expenses................................................................................................. ¥79 ¥80 $686 (2) Scale and movement (fluctuation) of stock options Information regarding stock options outstanding. The number of stock options is stated after conversion into an equal number of shares. (a) Details of stock options No. 1 Stock-based No. 2 Stock-based No. 3 Stock-based No. 4 Stock-based Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option 4 directors and 4 directors and 4 directors and 4 directors and 13 corporate officers 14 corporate officers 16 corporate officers 16 corporate officers Persons granted options of the Company of the Company of the Company of the Company Number of shares by type of stock Common stock Common stock Common stock Common stock (Note 1) 54,200 shares 26,400 shares 31,000 shares 28,200 shares Date of grant April 16, 2009 April 23, 2010 April 21, 2011 April 24, 2012 Vesting conditions (Note 2) (Note 2) (Note 2) (Note 2) Service period (Note 3) (Note 3) (Note 3) (Note 3) April 17, 2009 April 24, 2010 April 22, 2011 April 25, 2012 to to to to Exercise period April 16, 2039 April 23, 2040 April 21, 2041 April 24, 2042 No. 5 Stock-based No. 6 Stock-based No. 7 Stock-based No. 8 Stock-based Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option 4 directors and 5 directors and 5 directors and 5 directors and 14 corporate officers 12 corporate officers 13 corporate officers 14 corporate officers of the Company, of the Company, of the Company, of the Company, 2 directors and 3 directors and 3 directors and 4 directors and 3 corporate officers 6 corporate officers 8 corporate officers 9 corporate officers Persons granted options of the subsidiaries of the subsidiaries of the subsidiaries of the subsidiaries Number of shares by type of stock Common stock Common stock Common stock Common stock (Note 1) 33,200 shares 27,500 shares 22,100 shares 25,900 shares Date of grant May 8, 2013 April 24, 2014 May 8, 2015 May 10, 2016 Vesting conditions (Note 2) (Note 2) (Note 2) (Note 2) Service period (Note 3) (Note 3) (Note 3) (Note 3) May 9, 2013 April 24, 2014 May 9, 2015 May 11, 2016 to to to to Exercise period May 8, 2043 April 23, 2044 May 8, 2045 May 10, 2046 Note 1. Stock options are convertible into an equal number of shares. Note 2. Vesting conditions are not stipulated. Note 3. The service period is not stipulated. 71 (b) Number, movement and price of stock options Stock options are convertible into an equal number of shares. (i) Number of shares No. 1 Stock-based No. 2 Stock-based No. 3 Stock-based No. 4 Stock-based Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Options before vesting (number of shares) Balance at December 31, 2015 Granted Forfeited Vested Balance at December 31, 2016 Options after vesting (number of shares) Balance at December 31, 2015 42,700 22,000 27,300 24,900 Vested Exercised 8,700 4,200 5,000 4,400 Forfeited Balance at December 31, 2016 34,000 17,800 22,300 20,500 No. 5 Stock-based No. 6 Stock-based No. 7 Stock-based No. 8 Stock-based Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Options before vesting (number of shares) Balance at December 31, 2015 Granted 25,900 Forfeited Vested 25,900 Balance at December 31, 2016 Options after vesting (number of shares) Balance at December 31, 2015 31,400 27,500 22,100 Vested 25,900 Exercised 5,400 4,800 3,600 Forfeited Balance at December 31, 2016 26,000 22,700 18,500 25,900 (ii) Price per share No. 1 Stock-based No. 2 Stock-based No. 3 Stock-based No. 4 Stock-based Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Option price (yen) 1 1 1 1 Weighted average stock price (yen) 4,080 4,080 4,080 4,080 Fair value at grant date (yen) 1,091 2,628 2,208 2,245 No. 5 Stock-based No. 6 Stock-based No. 7 Stock-based No. 8 Stock-based Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Compensation Type Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Stock Option Option price (yen) 1 1 1 1 Weighted average stock price (yen) 4,080 4,080 4,080 Fair value at grant date (yen) 2,988 2,739 3,598 3,116 HORIBA Report 2016 | 72 Financial data (3) Method to estimate fair unit value of stock options The grant date fair value of No. 8 Stock-based Compensation Type Stock Option in the year ended December 31, 2016 was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model as follows: No. 8 Stock-based Compensation Type Stock Option Stock price volatility (Note 1) 35.6% Expected remaining period (Note 2) 15 Years Expected dividend (Note 3) \70/share Risk free interest rate (Note 4) 0.054% Note 1. Stock price volatility was calculated based on actual weekly stock prices over 15 years (from the week of May 7, 2001 to the week of May 2, 2016). Note 2. As it was difficult to estimate the expected remaining period without sufficient relevant data, it was determined to be exercised at the mid-point of the exercise period. Note 3. Expected dividend was calculated by using the actual dividend paid for the year ended December 31, 2015. Note 4. Risk free interest rate represents the comparable compound interest rate of strip government bonds whose remaining period corresponds to the expected remaining period of the stock options. (4) Condition regarding the estimate of the fair unit value of stock options Retirement from the office of director is a condition to exercise stock options, but continuous employment is not. Accordingly, the initial number of stock options granted is used as an estimate of the number of vested shares. 12. Leases Finance leases which do not transfer ownership at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 consisted of leases for office equipment and software. The method of depreciation and amortization of lease assets is described in Note 2(h), Summary of significant accounting policies Leases. With respect to finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership and in which the lease transaction began before December 31, 2008, the Company has continued to account for them in the same manner as operating leases as stated above. At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, assets leased under non-capitalized finance leases were as follows: Acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation and balance of assets leased Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Machinery, equipment and vehicles............................................................................... ¥5 ¥5 $42 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization.................................................... (4) (5) (42) Total............................................................................................................................................ ¥1 ¥0 $0 Note. The above depreciation and amortization was calculated by the straight-line method over the term of the lease. If the above leases had been capitalized, interest of \0 million and \0 million ($0 thousand) and depreciation and amortization of \7 million and \0 million ($0 thousand) would have been recorded for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Lease payments under non-capitalized finance leases were \7 million and \0 million ($0 thousand) for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Obligations under finance leases at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Payments remaining: 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Payments due within 1 year........................................................................ ¥0 ¥0 $0 Payments due after 1 year........................................................................... 0 Total....................................................................................................................... ¥1 ¥0 $0 Payments remaining under operating leases at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Payments remaining: 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Payments due within 1 year........................................................................ ¥873 ¥736 $6,318 Payments due after 1 year........................................................................... 1,767 1,453 12,473 Total....................................................................................................................... ¥2,640 ¥2,189 $18,791 13. Contingent liabilities Not applicable 73 14. Derivative transactions Derivative transactions for which hedge accounting was not applied at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Currency related: Millions of yen Millions of yen 12/2015 12/2016 Amount of Amount of Contract Fair Gain Contract Fair Gain principal due principal due amount value (loss) amount value (loss) over 1 year over 1 year Forwards Selling US dollar ¥3,079 ¥9 ¥9 ¥4,083 (¥12) (¥12) Euro 1,307 (2) (2) 1,032 (32) (32) British pound 6,998 104 104 450 ¥280 8 8 New Taiwan dollar 86 0 0 146 0 0 Japanese yen 5 0 0 Chinese yuan 21 (1) (1) Polish zloty 18 (0) (0) 16 (0) (0) Thai baht 17 0 0 14 0 0 Indian rupee 60 (1) (1) 30 (1) (1) Brazillian real 38 1 1 113 (0) (0) Buying US dollar 497 (1) (1) 405 1 1 Euro 456 (5) (5) 89 3 3 British pound 37 (0) (0) 7 (0) (0) New Taiwan dollar 18 (0) (0) Japanese yen 51 (0) (0) 5 (0) (0) Chinese yuan 219 (6) (6) 84 (0) (0) Polish zloty 6 (0) (0) Currency swaps Receiving in US dollar and paying in Brazillian real 58 ¥34 48 48 28 13 19 19 Total ¥12,926 ¥34 ¥144 ¥144 ¥6,563 ¥293 (¥14) (¥14) Note. Fair value is determined by banking institutions. Thousands of U.S. dollars 12/2016 Amount of Contract Fair Gain principal due amount value (loss) over 1 year Forwards Selling US dollar $35,050 ($103) ($103) Euro 8,859 (274) (274) British pound 3,862 $2,403 68 68 New Taiwan dollar 1,253 0 0 Japanese yen 42 0 0 Chinese yuan 180 (8) (8) Polish zloty 137 (0) (0) Thai baht 120 0 0 Indian rupee 257 (8) (8) Brazillian real 970 (0) (0) Buying US dollar 3,476 8 8 Euro 764 25 25 British pound 60 (0) (0) New Taiwan dollar 154 (0) (0) Japanese yen 42 (0) (0) Chinese yuan 721 (0) (0) Polish zloty 51 (0) (0) Currency swaps Receiving in US dollar and paying in Brazillian real 240 111 163 163 Total $56,339 $2,515 ($120) ($120) HORIBA Report 2016 | 74 Financial data Derivative transactions for which hedge accounting was applied at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Currency related: Millions of yen Millions of yen 12/2015 12/2016 Amount of Amount of Hedged Contract principal due Fair Hedged Contract principal due Fair items amount value items amount value over 1 year over 1 year Forwards Buying US dollar Accounts ¥125 ¥0 Accounts Euro payable 160 (1) payable Total ¥286 (¥0) Note. Fair value is determined by banking institutions. Thousands of U.S. dollars 12/2016 Amount of Hedged Contract principal due Fair items amount value over 1 year Forwards Buying US dollar Accounts Euro payable Total Interest rate currency related: Millions of yen Millions of yen 12/2015 12/2016 Amount of Amount of Hedged Contract principal due Fair Hedged Contract principal due Fair items amount value items amount value over 1 year over 1 year Exceptional accounting for interest rate and currency swaps Interest rate and currency swap contracts Fixed rate payments and variable rate receipts Receiving in US dollar and Long-term Long-term paying in Japanese yen loans ¥15,120 ¥15,120 Note loans ¥15,120 ¥15,120 Note Thousands of U.S. dollars 12/2016 Amount of Hedged Contract principal due Fair items amount value over 1 year Exceptional accounting for interest rate and currency swaps Interest rate and currency swap contracts Fixed rate payments and variable rate receipts Receiving in US dollar and Long-term paying in Japanese yen loans $129,796 $129,796 Note Note. Interest rate and currency swap contracts subject to exceptional accounting treatment (special treatment and allocation treatment) are accounted for together with long-term loans as hedged items. Accordingly, their fair values are included in the fair values of long-term loans. 75 15. Income taxes The Company is subject to a number of taxes based on income, which, in the aggregate, indicate a statutory income tax rate in Japan of approximately 35.5% and 33.0% for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, respectively. The following table summarizes the significant differences between the statutory tax rate and HORIBA's effective tax rate for financial statement purposes for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016. 12/2015 12/2016 Statutory tax rate....................................................................................................................................................... 35.5% 33.0% Expenses not qualifying for permanent deduction, e.g. entertainment expenses........................................................................................................... 1.8 0.6 Nontaxable dividend income...................................................................................................................... (1.3) (0.2) Per capita inhabitants tax........................................................................................................................... 0.2 0.3 Increase/decrease in valuation allowance for deferred tax assets.......................................... 1.8 (4.5) Differences in tax rate between foreign subsidiaries and the Company........................................................................................ (1.5) (0.3) Tax credits........................................................................................................................................................ (5.7) (4.9) Reduction in deferred tax assets by the changes of tax rate.................................................... 1.4 0.8 Other................................................................................................................................................................... 0.6 0.0 Effective tax rate........................................................................................................................................................ 32.9% 24.8% Significant components of HORIBA's deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Deferred tax assets Accrued enterprise tax................................................................................................................................ ¥207 ¥43 $369 Loss on write-down of inventory............................................................................................................ 1,151 1,221 10,481 Allowance for doubtful receivables......................................................................................................... 70 126 1,081 Accrued bonuses............................................................................................................................................ 190 214 1,837 Loss carryforwards........................................................................................................................................ 1,540 1,293 11,099 Unrealized gains.............................................................................................................................................. 1,807 1,466 12,584 Net defined benefit liability........................................................................................................................ 411 564 4,841 Depreciation..................................................................................................................................................... 445 398 3,416 Loss on valuation of investment securities........................................................................................ 81 91 781 Loss on impairment of fixed assets........................................................................................................ 106 100 858 Provision for loss on dissolution of the employees’ pension fund........................................... 408 381 3,270 Effects of changes in accounting policies........................................................................................... 2,757 366 3,141 Other................................................................................................................................................................... 3,347 2,946 25,289 Total deferred tax assets........................................................................................................................................ 12,526 9,214 79,096 Valuation allowance................................................................................................................................................... (1,728) (1,268) (10,885) Net deferred tax assets........................................................................................................................................... 10,798 7,945 68,203 Deferred tax liabilities Unrealized losses............................................................................................................................................ (390) (390) (3,347) Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities........................................................... (1,164) (1,211) (10,395) Effects of changes in accounting policies........................................................................................... (1,691) (272) (2,334) Other................................................................................................................................................................... (2,013) (1,191) (10,224) Total deferred tax liabilities.................................................................................................................................... (5,259) (3,066) (26,319) Net deferred tax assets........................................................................................................................................... ¥5,538 ¥4,879 $41,883 Net deferred tax assets are included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Current assets................................................................................................................................................. ¥5,140 ¥4,160 $35,711 Investments and other noncurrent assets.......................................................................................... 1,671 1,726 14,816 Current liabilities............................................................................................................................................ (91) (76) (652) Long-term liabilities...................................................................................................................................... (1,181) (931) (7,992) Net deferred tax assets........................................................................................................................................... ¥5,538 ¥4,879 $41,883 (Revision of amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to change in rate of corporate and other income taxes) The Act for Partial Amendment of the Income Tax Act (Act No. 15 of 2016) and the Act for Partial Amendment of the Local Tax Act (Act No. 13 of 2016) were enacted in the Diet session on March 29, 2016, and the statutory effective tax rate for the consolidated fiscal year on and after April 1, 2016 was reduced. Following the Act, the statutory effective tax rate used to calculate deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities was changed from 32.2% to 30.8% for temporary differences expected to be reversed in the fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2017 and 2018, and to 30.5% for temporary differences expected to be reversed in the fiscal years beginning on and after January 1, 2019. Due to such change in tax rate, the amount of deferred tax assets (netted with deferred tax liabilities) and remeasurements of defined benefit plans decreased by \75 million ($643 thousand) and \2 million ($17 thousand), respectively, while income taxes (deferred) and unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities increased by \139 million ($1,193 thousand) and \66 million ($566 thousand), respectively. HORIBA Report 2016 | 76 Financial data 16. Impairment loss HORIBA reviewed its long-lived assets for impairment, and, as a result, impairment losses were recognized by the Company for the following asset groups as other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015. Location Use Type Millions of yen Sao Paulo, Brazil Planned to be sold Machinery and equipment ¥170 (Background) In the case of assets that are planned to be sold, they have been estimated that losses will arise due to the sales. Thus, the book value of these assets was lowered to the recoverable value, and the resulting impairment loss was recognized as other expenses. (Method used for grouping) In connection with the use of impairment accounting, business assets are grouped on a reporting segment basis. Idle assets, etc., are grouped on a property-by-property basis. (Method used for calculating a recoverable amount) The recoverable amount was measured according to estimated net realizable value. Assets that are planned to be sold were estimated at the contract amount. HORIBA reviewed its long-lived assets for impairment, and, as a result, impairment losses were not recognized for the year ended December 31, 2016. 77 17. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Components of other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31 2016 consisted of the following Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities: 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Increase (decrease) during the year....................................................................................................................................... ¥778 ¥351 $3,013 Reclassification adjustment........................................................................................................................................................ (44) Subtotal, before tax........................................................................................................................................................................ 733 351 3,013 Tax (expense) or benefit.............................................................................................................................................................. (150) (47) (403) Subtotal, net tax.............................................................................................................................................................................. 582 304 2,609 Deferred gains or losses on hedges Increase (decrease) during the year....................................................................................................................................... (63) (29) (248) Reclassification adjustment........................................................................................................................................................ 33 30 257 Subtotal, before tax........................................................................................................................................................................ (29) 0 0 Tax (expense) or benefit.............................................................................................................................................................. 10 (0) (0) Subtotal, net tax.............................................................................................................................................................................. (19) 0 0 Foreign currency translation adjustments Increase (decrease) during the year....................................................................................................................................... (3,793) (4,040) (34,681) Reclassification adjustment........................................................................................................................................................ (113) (970) Subtotal, before tax........................................................................................................................................................................ (3,793) (4,153) (35,651) Tax (expense) or benefit.............................................................................................................................................................. Subtotal, net tax.............................................................................................................................................................................. (3,793) (4,153) (35,651) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Increase (decrease) during the year....................................................................................................................................... 53 (553) (4,747) Reclassification adjustment........................................................................................................................................................ (26) 102 875 Subtotal, before tax........................................................................................................................................................................ 26 (450) (3,862) Tax (expense) or benefit.............................................................................................................................................................. 23 161 1,382 Subtotal, net tax.............................................................................................................................................................................. 50 (288) (2,472) Total other comprehensive income....................................................................................................................... (¥3,180) (¥4,137) ($35,513) 18. Segment information General information regarding reportable segments (1) Calculation method for reportable segments HORIBA's reportable segments are components of the Company about which separate financial information is available and that are evaluated regularly by the management in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company has established the segment strategy office for each product and service at its headquarters which draws a comprehensive plan for Japan and overseas markets for business development. The Company thus is composed of business segments by product and service that are determined at the head office. The Automotive Test Systems, Process & Environmental Instruments & Systems, Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems, Semiconductor Instruments & Systems and Scientific Instruments & Systems comprise five reportable segments. Major products and services of each segment are described below. (a) Automotive Test Systems Emission Measurement Systems, In-Use Automotive Emissions Analyzers, On-Board Emission Measurement, Driveline Test Systems, Engine Test Systems, Brake Test Systems, Drive Recorders, Engineering Consultancy, Test Services & Consultancy, Leasing of R&D Facility (b) Process & Environmental Instruments & Systems Stack Gas Analyzers, Water Quality Analysis and Examination Systems, Air Pollution Analyzers, Environmental Radiation Monitors (c) Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems Hematology Analyzers, Equipment for Measuring Immunological Responses, Clinical Chemistry Analyzers, Blood Sugar Measurement Systems (d) Semiconductor Instruments & Systems Mass Flow Controllers, Chemical Concentration Monitors, Reticle/Mask Particle Detection Systems, Residual Gas Analyzers (e) Scientific Instruments & Systems pH Meters, Particle-Size Distribution Analyzers, X-Ray Fluorescence Analyzers, Raman, Spectrophotometers, Gratings (2) Method of measurement regarding income (loss), assets and other material items by reportable segment The accounting methods applied for reportable segments are identical with those stated in Note 2, Summary of significant accounting policies. Income for each reportable segment is the amount based on operating income. (3) The change in accounting policy has been retrospectively applied and segment information for the previous year has been retrospectively restated. As a result, compared to the amounts before retrospective application, segment sales and segment income for fiscal 2015 increased by \1,185 million and \752 million in the Automotive Test Systems segment and by \222 million and \155 million in the Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems segment, respectively. At the same time, segment sales and segment income for fiscal 2015 decreased by \46 million and \17 million in the Process & Environmental Instruments & Systems segment, by \32 million and \10 million in the Semiconductor Instruments & Systems segment and by \311 million and \110 million in the Scientific Instruments & Systems segment, respectively. HORIBA Report 2016 | 78 Financial data (4) Information regarding income (loss), assets and other material items by reportable segment Millions of yen 12/2015 Process & MedicalAutomotive Semiconductor Scientific Adjustment Consolidated Environmental Diagnostic Sales Sales to outside customers..................... ¥65,436 ¥16,708 ¥27,669 ¥35,353 ¥26,748 ¥171,916 Intersegment sales and transfers.......... Total................................................................... 65,436 16,708 27,669 35,353 26,748 171,916 Segment income (loss)....................................... ¥5,200 ¥1,756 ¥2,558 ¥9,429 ¥1,197 ¥20,142 Segment assets..................................................... ¥72,843 ¥15,782 ¥23,820 ¥33,775 ¥23,463 ¥62,435 ¥232,121 Other items: Depreciation................................................... 2,183 519 1,343 1,172 745 5,964 Amortization of goodwill............................ 53 92 145 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets................................................... 7,919 2,259 2,319 2,257 1,552 16,309 Millions of yen 12/2016 Process & MedicalAutomotive Semiconductor Scientific Adjustment Consolidated Environmental Diagnostic Sales Sales to outside customers..................... ¥62,207 ¥16,753 ¥26,564 ¥38,828 ¥25,738 ¥170,093 Intersegment sales and transfers.......... Total................................................................... 62,207 16,753 26,564 38,828 25,738 170,093 Segment income (loss)....................................... ¥3,529 ¥1,540 ¥2,806 ¥9,678 ¥944 ¥18,499 Segment assets..................................................... ¥71,081 ¥16,075 ¥24,611 ¥38,506 ¥23,946 ¥65,436 ¥239,657 Other items: Depreciation................................................... 2,767 528 1,337 1,294 748 6,676 Amortization of goodwill............................ 63 75 139 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets................................................... 7,227 1,336 1,308 2,029 1,894 13,796 Thousands of U.S. dollars 12/2016 Process & MedicalAutomotive Semiconductor Scientific Adjustment Consolidated Environmental Diagnostic Sales Sales to outside customers..................... $534,011 $143,814 $228,036 $333,316 $220,946 $1,460,151 Intersegment sales and transfers.......... Total................................................................... 534,011 143,814 228,036 333,316 220,946 1,460,151 Segment income (loss)....................................... $30,294 $13,220 $24,087 $83,080 $8,103 $158,803 Segment assets..................................................... $610,189 $137,994 $211,271 $330,551 $205,562 $561,730 $2,057,318 Other items: Depreciation................................................... 23,753 4,532 11,477 11,108 6,421 57,309 Amortization of goodwill............................ 540 643 1,193 Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets................................................... 62,039 11,468 11,228 17,417 16,258 118,430 Note 1. Details of adjustment amounts are as follows: (1) Unallocated amounts to be included in the adjustment amount of segment income were not generated. (2) The adjustment amounts of \62,435 million and \65,436 million ($561,730 thousand) of segment assets for the years ended 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016, respectively, represent corporate assets that are not allocated to any business segment. They include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, investment securities, idle land, etc. Note 2. Depreciation and increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets include long-term prepaid expenses and the amount of amortization associated with the expenses. Note 3. Increase in tangible and intangible fixed assets for the year ended December 31, 2015 does not include an increase in fixed assets of \14,446 million due to the acquisition of the ECT business from MIRA Ltd. 79 <Related Information> 1. Information regarding geographic areas (1) Net sales Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Japan........................................................................................................................................................................... ¥52,148 ¥56,522 $485,209 United States........................................................................................................................................................... 27,022 24,521 210,498 China............................................................................................................................................................................ 20,677 19,692 169,044 Europe......................................................................................................................................................................... 40,919 38,337 329,101 Asia............................................................................................................................................................................... 24,894 25,270 216,928 Others......................................................................................................................................................................... 6,254 5,748 49,343 Total................................................................................................................................................................... ¥171,916 ¥170,093 $1,460,151 Note 1. Net sales are categorized by country or geographic area based on the location of the customer. Note 2. The Asia amount is that of the Asian region other than China. (2) Property, plant and equipment Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Japan........................................................................................................................................................................... ¥27,933 ¥29,359 $252,030 France......................................................................................................................................................................... 6,682 6,534 56,090 United Kingdom....................................................................................................................................................... 11,081 11,273 96,772 Others......................................................................................................................................................................... 11,281 14,809 127,126 Total................................................................................................................................................................... ¥56,978 ¥61,977 $532,037 2. Information regarding major customers There is no customer who represents more than 10% of the consolidated sales. 3. Information regarding impairment loss on fixed assets by reporting segment Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems............................................................................................... ¥170 Total................................................................................................................................................................... ¥170 4. Information regarding the amortized amount and unamortized balance of goodwill by reporting segment Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 12/2015 12/2016 12/2016 Automotive Test Systems.................................................................................................................................. ¥272 ¥173 $1,485 Scientific Instruments & Systems................................................................................................................... 303 214 1,837 Total................................................................................................................................................................... ¥576 ¥387 $3,322 Note. Information regarding the Amortized amount of goodwill is omitted as similar information is disclosed in Segment Information. 5. Information regarding gain on bargain purchase by reporting segment Not applicable. HORIBA Report 2016 | 80 Financial data 19. Related party transactions (1) Related party transactions with the Company Directors and major shareholders (individuals only) of the Company The year ended December 31, 2015 The year ended December 31, 2016 Director's close Category Not Applicable family member Name Masao Horiba Address Amount of capital stock (millions of yen) Business or occupation Advisor Percentage of voting rights held 2.7% (direct) Relationship Consulting contract Consulting Transaction Transaction fee \14 million amount (Note 2,3) Balance at Account December 31, 2015 Note 1. The above transaction amounts do not include consumption taxes. Note 2. Transaction conditions and policy on determining transaction conditions The consulting fee for Masao Horiba is compensation for management consulting services to the Company, so valued on the basis of his background of long experience starting with the founding of the Company, and activities of societyacademia collaboration for innovation and participation in economic organizations, as the representative of the Company. The payment was determined on a negotiated basis. Note 3. As Masao Horiba passed away on July 14, 2015, the amount of transactions with him is for the period from January 1, 2015 to the date of his retirement. (2) Related party transactions with consolidated subsidiaries of the Company that submitted consolidated financial statements Directors and major shareholders (individuals only) of the Company The year ended December 31, 2015 The year ended December 31, 2016 Director's close Category Not Applicable family member Name Masao Horiba Address Amount of capital stock (millions of yen) Business or occupation Advisor Percentage of voting rights held 2.7% (direct) Relationship Consulting contract Consulting Transaction Transaction fee \17 million amount (Note 2,3) Balance at Account December 31, 2015 Note 1. The above transaction amounts do not include consumption taxes. Note 2. Transaction conditions and policy on determining transaction conditions The consulting fee for Masao Horiba is compensation for management consulting services to consolidated subsidiaries of the Company, so valued on the basis of his background of long experience starting with the founding of the Company. The payment was determined on a negotiated basis. Note 3. As Masao Horiba passed away on July 14, 2015, the amount of transactions with him is for the period from January 1, 2015 to the date of his retirement. 81 20. Subsequent events (Transfer of the water quality and liquid analysis instruments and systems business through simplified absorption-type corporate split) The Company had HORIBA Advanced Techno, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, take over its water quality and liquid analysis instruments and systems business (hereinafter the “water measurement business”) through absorption-type corporate split approach, effective January 1, 2017. The absorption-type corporate split is summarized as follows. (1) Purpose of the corporate split The HORIBA Group’s water measurement business, represented by pH meters, the Group’s mainstay product since the foundation of the Company, had been promoted jointly by the Company and HORIBA Advanced Techno. With the aim of business expansion in the water measurement area, as one of the priority initiatives in the HORIBA Mid-Long Term Management Plan, the Company separated its water measurement business division and integrated it with HORIBA Advanced Techno in order to develop more market-oriented products, improve customer satisfaction, and enhance market competitiveness and earnings power. (2) Corporate split method This corporate split is an absorption-type corporate split in which HORIBA Advanced Techno is the succeeding company. (3) Effective date January 1, 2017 (4) Details of allotments relating to the corporate split The Company owns all shares of HORIBA Advanced Techno and there is no consideration such as allotment of shares or payment of cash due to this corporate split. (5) Calculation of allotments relating to the corporate split There are no allotments of shares or other assets due to this corporate split. (6) Rights and obligations to be succeeded by the successor company In accordance with the absorption-type corporate split agreement, HORIBA Advanced Techno shall succeed to assets, liabilities, other rights and obligations, and contractual status that are considered necessary to carry out the business. (7) Outline of the successor company Capital: \250 million Business: Development, manufacturing, sales and services of measurement equipment (8) Outline of accounting treatment to be applied Based on the Accounting Standard for Business Combinations and the Guidelines on Accounting Standard for Business Combinations and Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures, this transfer is to be treated as a transaction under common control. HORIBA Report 2016 | 82 Financial data 83 Corporate data Corporate Information Head Office 2, Miyanohigashi-cho, Kisshoin, Minami-ku, Kyoto 601-8510, Japan Founded October 17, 1945 Incorporated January 26, 1953 Net sales ¥170,093 million (Consolidated) Fiscal 2016 Paid in Capital ¥12,011 million (Consolidated) As of December 31, 2016 Number of Employees 7,149(Consolidated) As of December 31, 2016 Fiscal Closing Date December 31, annually Annual Meeting of Shareholders Held in March Transfer Agent Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Independent Auditor KPMG AZSA LLC Stock Listings Tokyo Stock Exchange, First Section Securities Code: 6856 Major Shareholders As of December 31, 2016 Name of Shareholders Shares (Thousands) Percentage (%) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 3,108 7.31 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 2,232 5.25 National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives 1,287 3.03 Atsushi Horiba 1,128 2.65 NATIXIS JAPAN SECURITIES Co., Ltd 1,067 2.51 The Bank of Kyoto, Ltd. 828 1.95 THE KYOTO CHUO SHINKIN BANK 794 1.87 HORIBA Raku-Raku Kai 784 1.84 NORTHERN TRUST CO.(AVFC) RE EXEMPT UK PENSION FUNDS 700 1.65 BNP PARIBAS SECURITIES SERVICES PARIS /JASDEC FRENCH RES/UCITS ASSETS 699 1.65 Stock Price Trend Foreign investors 5.4% Japanese companies 2.9% Financial institutions, -HORIBA (left) -Nikkei Stock Average (Nikkei 225) (right, yen) Securities companies Yen Yen/Point 1.8% -JPX-Nikkei Index 400 (right, point) 6,000 24,000 Breakdown of Types of Shareholders 5,000 20,000 (5,258 in total) Individual investors 4,000 16,000 89.9% 3,000 12,000 Japanese companies 7.5% Individual investors 17.9% 2,000 8,000 Breakdown of Ownership among Shareholders 1,000 4,000 (42,532,752 shares in total) 0 0 Foreign investors Financial institutions, 33.0% Securities companies 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 41.6% HORIBA Report 2016 | 84 Corporate philosophy HORIBA’s corporate motto “Joy and Fun” Originates from the belief that if we take interest and pride in the work that occupies most of the active time in our lives, in the place where we spend the large part of each day, then as a result our satisfaction with life will increase, and we will be able to enjoy our lives even more. Taking interest and pride in our work leads us to “Joy and Fun.” Business Operations term corporate value is one of the priority objectives of At HORIBA, our mission is to contribute to the management. Our basic policy is to target total returns progress of science and technology, and the (the combination of dividend payments and share preservation of the global environment and resources buybacks) to shareholders to be at a certain ratio of through the provision of highly original products, HORIBA’s consolidated net income, and consistently analytical and measurement solutions, and engineering deliver them. In addition, we are committed to create services that utilize our world renowned measurement opportunities for constructive dialogues with investors and analytical technologies. We are engaged in the and stakeholders, regularly reporting our operating fields of engine emissions, scientific analysis, industrial performance, fairly and promptly disclosing information and process measurement, environment monitoring, whenever an important business or managerial issue semiconductor process control, medical and healtharises, and maintaining transparency in our care, and biotechnology. The new businesses and new management. HORIBA Group companies, having products we may initiate shall also satisfy our aim to adopted a unified accounting standard and system develop scientific technology, improve the life of the and a common information base, shall maintain a community, and minimize the impact on the timely and responsive management control system. environment. We put priority on ensuring a safe The managements of group companies also share business environment and strictly abide by applicable responsibility in generating profit, delivering dividend laws, regulations, and our articles of incorporation. We payments, establishing and managing the internal have established and adopted a quality management control system, and developing human resources. system and environmental preservation system. We strive to deliver high value-added products and Employees services in the shortest possible time to customers all We are proud of the entrepreneurial spirit that has led over the world while combining the unique to the creation of HORIBA Group companies. Each development, production, sales, and service functions group employee is made aware of this heritage and we of all HORIBA Group companies throughout the world. actively encourage ideas and innovations from We aim to be a leader in the global market in the fields individual employees. HORIBA promotes an open and in which we operate by consistently satisfying our fair business environment, with attention to safety and customers’ needs and effectively maximizing our health, which allows all group employees to achieve resources through investments in the carefully selected their individual goals and maximize their talents and fields. potential. We strive to foster an environment of mutual respect so that diverse talents and viewpoints can Customer Responsiveness flourish. At the same time, to further everyone’s We maintain a philosophy of pursuing cutting edge personal and professional growth, we encourage technology in order to supply products and services intercultural understanding and thinking from a global that consistently satisfy customers’ requirements. We perspective. We create a work environment for are committed to offering top-quality, highly reliable employees to achieve their growth potential and exert products and services with a consistent level of their talents to the maximum by accelerating diversity excellence throughout the world. Meanwhile, we strive management and expanding our international core to understand the true needs of customers and human resources development and exchange proactively propose solutions. program. The basis of our performance evaluation is the merit count principle, (not the demerit mark Responsibility to Shareholders and Investors principle), as we value each and every employee who We recognize that maximizing the returns to makes efforts to improve his or her performance with a shareholders by consistently raising HORIBA’s longchallenging spirit. 85 HORIBA Report 2016 HORIBA Report Booklet “To Our Stakeholders” Website This booklet summarizes primarily HORIBA’s business activities and This website provides the detailed information including the HORIBA financial information, along with “Invisible Values” such as talents and Report web data collection, which features HORIBA’s safety and technologies. environmental activities, contribution to the society, and other information. http://www.horiba.com/to-our-stakeholders/ HORIBA Report 2016 | 86 HORIBA, Ltd. 2 Miyanohigashi, Kisshoin, Minami-ku Kyoto 601-8510 Japan Phone: +81-75-313-8121 E-mail: ir-info@horiba.com http://www.horiba.com
