UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2016-17 Green Team Group A/S | Simmelbrovej 44 | DK-7260 Sdr. Omme | +45 76 50 40 60 | www.greenteam-group.com 2 Statement of Support Green Team Group A/S has been a steady member of Global Compact We are proud to make our modest contribution to a better planet and since 2010 and our support is unchanged. We are dedicated to carry the next years we will focus on strengthening our CSR-strategy and out the intentions of the 10 Principles outlined by the UN in the Global developing better methods for measuring our performance within the Compact Initiative in our company. The UN Global Compact Initiative ten Global Compact principles. acts as a general framework for our CSR strategy and ensures we get around the four main areas: We endeavor to be open and transparent across the organization and report our findings good as well as bad. This Communication on • Human Rights Progress report (COP) will be made available through the UN Global • Labor Standards Compact homepage www.unglobalcompact.org and to all our employees at regular meetings with the staff. • Environment • Anti-Corruption We are committed to respect fundamental human rights and basic labor standards and to implement these principles throughout our October 23, 2017 organization. We strive to influence our suppliers and business partners to live up to the same obligations within their sphere of influence. As a leading producer of Christmas trees in Europe the environmental challenges are important to us. We always strive to be innovative and to find environmental friendly means of running our nurseries and Hans Schultz, CEO farms. We try to influence our suppliers always to take a Green Team Group A/S precautionary approach to environmental challenges and to choose an environmental friendly method if possible. 3 About Green Team Group Green Team Group A/S is one of Europe's largest producer and seller of seedlings In Green Team Group we have founded our CSR strategy in our focus on quality and Christmas trees. Although the Adelis Equity Partners became majority throughout our supply chain from seed, to nursery, to tree and finally the shareholders in 2014 when they bought 51 % of the shares, the foundation of customer service. Green Team Group has always addressed environmental issues today’s company was founded in 1991 by the brothers Majland – Majland Nursery. in the nursery in Denmark and since 2010 been working with CSR on a strategic level and in a more coordinated manner. Part of this is also due to the adaptation Green Team Group is the mother company for a whole range of subsidiaries which of the UN Global Compact Initiative. is split up into two main subsidiary companies with different areas of focus: It is a clear goal to live up to the demands from future customers and to expand Majland A/S the knowledge about Global Compact frameworks for responsibility in running the business. ❖ Harvesting and import of seeds for production of seedlings ❖ Producing and marketing of Christmas tree seedlings In Green Team Group we work with human rights, labor standards, environment, responsible supply chain and communication as the four main areas of Global Compact. Green Team Holding A/S ❖ Producing and marketing of Christmas trees, foliage and decorations In Green Team Group we have control of the complete value chain from seed to Customer final tree, and in all areas we operate with a set of overarching Values; Visionary, Customer Focus, Trustworthy and Responsible. focus It is our Vision to be leading in innovation, quality and optimized customers service in the seedling and Christmas tree industry Our Mission is to be the leading supplier of Nordmann Christmas seedlings and Christmas trees in Europe. Our Goal is to maintain a steady sale of more than 2.5 mil. Nordmann trees Green Team Visionary Trustworthy around Europe. Group With the international production and sales set-up in Green Team Group, we are able to pick our seeds in Georgia and Denmark, cultivate the seeds in our nursery in Denmark for 3 years, and afterwards grow the trees in our plantations across Europe. Our trees, which meets the highest standards, are pruned to keep the perfect shape and finally the harvest takes place when the trees are about 8-10 years old. Responsible 4 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses What we want In Denmark, for example, we observe the Danish have nationality other than Danish in 2016/17. 23 % of We want to be an open, international and welcoming legislation, which does not allow any discrimination our employees on management level or working in workplace. Green Team A/S commits to comply with what so ever. All terms of employment are established confidential jobs, are women. international human rights conventions, and we by individual workers contracts according to Danish 100 % of all suppliers in risk countries are audited condemn discrimination based on race, religion, sex, legislation and the relevant Collective Bargain according to BSCI with the latest audit result: age or disability. It is important for us that people with Agreement. INSUFFICIENT – why an action plan has been set in disabilities, women, people with other nationality than One of these areas we are focusing on is our business motion to follow-up and make sure that all BSCI goals Danish or others with special conditions are visible in partners around the world. We operate in long term are met. 100 % of all farms and nurseries in EC are the workplace and have equal opportunity to make a relationships with few core suppliers with whom we certified according to Global GAP. career. have been doing business with for many years. At We will increase our focus on diversity at all levels of present we have only one supplier in a risk country, Goals for 2017/18 the organization, and we are constantly working to Georgia. It is our belief that we have influenced all our In 2017/18 we will continue to focus on human rights create an inclusive workplace with room for diversity. suppliers by upholding a constant pressure on within our sphere influence. In 2017/18 we will We believe that diversity creates value for the company information and documentation for decent labor endeavor to have a level of at least 50 % of employees and expand our horizons. standards every where our company is represented. with different nationality than Danish, as we believe that diversity strengthens our organization. What we do What we have achieved It is our goal that all employees knows the basics CSR We have focused on international human rights in our We have raised awareness about human rights issues in issues of the company and the BSCI concept. diversity policy, which we have implemented in our our headquarters. We have formulated policies and We are aware of our obligations to address all human organization. This means that we upon recruitment, have a key person responsible for action plans in rights conventions according to the UN Guiding promotion and dismissal are focused never to violate human rights issues. Principles. basic human rights conventions of discrimination. Because of our common values and our commitment to diversity policy, 63 % of our employees What we do? What we have achieved? Goals for 2017/18 CSR-policy a) 63 % of employees have other nationality than DK a) 50 % of employees have other nationality than DK b) 23 % of employees on management level are women b) 25 % of employees on management level are women c) Human Right assessment c) Human Right assessment Global: Global: Global: BSCI Code of Conduct • 100% of all suppliers in risk countries latest audit result • 100% of all suppliers in risk countries latest audit result Global GAP Certification according to BSCI concept: INSUFFICIENT (NEW AUDIT PENDING) according to BSCI concept: GOOD • 100% Global GAP certified production in EC • 100% Global GAP certified production in EC 5 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to bargain Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation What we want consideration for the people, who have been involved legislation. Our collective agreement is between GLS-A We support the UN global work to eliminate all forms in the entire process from seed to tree. and 3F, and between GLS-A and HK. We respect and of forced and compulsory labor and the extortion of follow all regulations in these collective agreements. child labor and any discrimination in employment. What we do In our headquarter in Denmark we comply with Danish Our diversity policy is clear; no worker must be subject We have a sustainability policy with focus on legislation on human rights and labor rights. In to discrimination due to race, religion, age, national openness, education and a safe working environment. accordance with the Danish Health and Safety Work origin, sexual orientation or gender. It is core value to A policy to ensure that we respect the right to be a Act, we have a health and safety committee with us that all employees in Green Team Group and every member of the union as the individual wishes, equality representatives from the workers group and from the where our seeds are produced are treated with respect under the laws and elimination of discrimination in the management group. Our occupational and safety work and dignity. workplace as well as basic labor standards. is well organized and functions successfully according to the intentions of the law. We have a policy on child labor and we do not tolerate child labor as defined in the ILO conventions under the All employees have access to relevant personal age of 15 years or the local defined school age. If a protective equipment (PPE). We have made the child is ever revealed in the production we insist, that compulsory APV-assessments for all workplaces and a plan should be made in order for the child to go back we have a system to keep records of any accidents to school and at the same time a compensation should and “near-by” accidents. be given to the family by offering other family According to our supplier Code of Conduct the work members a job. This policy is included in the BSCI must be safe and sound for all workers. It is a general Code of Conduct and relevant for suppliers in risk rule that no workers must work more than 48 hours + countries as well as on our farms in EC. 12 overtime hours and never on a regular basis. Freedom of association and the right to be a member Compensation must always be paid with a premium of a freely chosen union are fundamental rights that rate according to the intentions and spirit in Danish we cherish. We will ensure a healthy and safe working labor laws and we will assess any labor related risk of environment for all our employees. We believe that accidents professionally. health and well-being are linked and that well-being is The company provides everyone with a private health of great importance in the daily life of the individual We are a member of the employers association, GLSA, and we respect the collective agreement system as insurance, and coffee, tea and fresh fruit for free and the company. besides lunch at favorable prices. We always try to We believe basically that our social responsibility effort a supplement to Danish labor legislation in our area of business. It is a system based on collective offer jobs on special terms, whenever possible, to the involves not only activities in Denmark, but covers our long-term unemployed, trainees, unemployed in work entire chain, regardless of where the production takes negotiations between employer and employee, resulting in a collective agreement in line with national testing situations. place. Our costumers must be confident that we have 6 Labour Standards Our office staff is encouraged to take education within Our collective pension scheme is currently of 12,99 % to keep the level on sick leave hours on a minimum their area of responsibility. We strive to give both men of the salary after 3 months of employment. In and at a maximum of the level of last year. and women equal opportunities and we encourage 2016/17 we had 2 minor accident and had a total of In Green Team Group we will try to obtain a balance both genders to join relevant training programs within 41 % of staff that has training in first aid. of at least 2 in 5 having training in first aid. their area of responsibility. However at present only In 2016/17 absent due to sick leave was at 3 % of all It is our goal that all employees knows that basics CSR men are represented in the board of directors. working hours, even though 50 % of all workers are issues of the company and the BSCI concept. In peak season a subcontracting partner is supplying working outside in all kind of weather. This figure is on the same level as last year and is something that the We are aware of our obligations to address all human us with more workers employed by our subcontracting rights conventions according to the UN Guiding partner. We have appointed a serviceperson for all our management is very proud of and we trust this shows that Green Team Group is a nice place to work. Principles. foreign workers assisting in all sorts of problems arising from working in Denmark as a foreigner. The production in our nursery in Denmark and our At a global level, we have joined the BSCI, which is an farms in different European countries from Scotland to association of more than 1500 European companies Poland, are all Global GAP certified. Global GAP is which share a common set of ethical rules, a Code of covering environment and working conditions. In that Conduct. This concept help us to ensure respect for way we cover the environment as well as working basic labor standards of our partners through 3rd part conditions wherever our organization is represented. audits at factory level in risk countries. Goals for 2017/18 What we have achieved In 2017/18 we will continue to focus on our labor standards. In 2017/18 we will be sure to have all We have been setting up goals and Key Performance employees on a collective pension of 12,99 % after 3 Indicators (KPI) within human rights and labor rights months of employment. in our headquarter, in our nurseries and farms in order We will do our outmost to prevent any accidents and to be able to measure our progress year by year. What we do? What we have achieved? Goals for 2017/18 CSR-policy a) 100 % with collective pension of 12,99 % after 3 month a) 100 % with collective pension of 12,99 % after 3 month b) 2 accident b) No accident c) 3 % sick leave hours of all working hours c) 1% sick leave hours of all working hours d) 41 % on first aid course d) 20 % on first aid course e) 0 % employed on special terms e) 2 % employed on special terms Global: Global: Global: BSCI Code of Conduct • 100 % of all suppliers in risk countries latest audit result • 100 % of all suppliers in risk countries latest audit result Global GAP Certification according to BSCI concept: INSUFFICIENT (NEW AUDIT PENDING) according to BSCI concept: GOOD • 100 % Global GAP certified production in EC • 100 % Global GAP certified production in EC 7 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology What we want What we do We want to reduce our CO2 footprint of operating our We integrate environmental concerns in our daily We focus on the environmental impact from running business and we strive to be a reliable environmentally business activities on market conditions, in other our headquarter. We have a waste management responsible partner to our customers. We will support words – we will operate a profitable business with system in the headquarterWe have a project of environmentally friendly technologies and help to raise respect for the environment and human health. minimizing pesticides and strive to reduce fertilizer on awareness of environmentally friendly production a daily basis. We make an effort to reduce diesel and a within our range of business. We will focus our We focus on the environmental impact of the have project to reduce our consumption of water and resources to areas where we can have a considerably production of Christmas trees and greenery from reusing rainwater. A restricted chemicals list has been impact on the environment such as pesticides, cradle to grave. We are innovative and consider how defined according to the rules in the Global GAP fertilizer, diesel and water consumption, however we to go new ways, use new production methods and concept and is successfully implemented in the are very weather dependent and in a dry year we new materials. organization. need to use sufficient water. We have raised awareness in general about the environmental impact from running a production and implemented our positions to our suppliers. What we have achieved We have drafted and continue to update an overview of our opportunities to be environmentally friendly. We have defined how we will measure our environmental impact from heating, fertilizer, diesel, pesticides, electricity and water and we have generated Key Performance Indicators and have set up goals for our environmental work. We have implemented a simple waste management system and we measure our consumption of water, pesticides, fertilizer and recycling of all materials. Due to Danish legislation we recycle glass, paper and environmental harmful waste and sort our daily waste as much as possible. In 2016/17 we have been successful in reducing waste and increased recycling of materials such as paper, cardboard and wood (see table of results and goals on the next page). 8 Environment In Green Team Group we have developed a machine operate in. We are a business that are highly weather Goals for 2017/18 to carry out mechanical cleaning between the dependent, which is largely beyond our influence. As mentioned previously we are very satisfied with plants/seedlings. This method has helped keep our results of 2016/17 and have come to the conclusion consumption of pesticides on the same level as last Our nursery in Denmark and farms in other EU that this is the right balance in which the business best year. countries are certified according to the Global GAP can operate – therefor we will, in 2017/18, focus on concept. In that way we are confident that our nursery keeping the level of environmental impact in balance Consumption of diesel has also been reduced due to and farms are run in an environmentally friendly way as previous years. change in the type of machinery in cleaning the plants. and that the Occupational Health and Safety work in our farms is in compliance with the GLOBAL GAP The method that we are using has reduced our standard. Our effort has raised awareness at suppliers consumption of pesticides by 55 % compared to 2013 in risk countries and they are now in compliance with and hereby our total consumption of diesel in this national environmental regulations. operation has been reduced by 72 % simply due to a change in the type of machinery used. We plan to extend that methods to all our farms in EC. We find the current level of consumption of pesticides satisfying and though we always strive to improve. Due to the rules in Global GAP and the Danish 2015/16 2016/17 Goals for legislation, we have a commitment to only use authorized fertilizer. We are satisfied with our 2016/17 2017/18 figures in the respect. We have allocated a responsible person to measure Industrial waste in KG 21.265 21.046 20.000 our efforts on various relevant areas within our external environmental impact. We have started Recycling of paper etc. in KG 1.820 3.210 3.000 raising awareness in our organization that environmental issues are of most importance to Heating in MWH and m3 2.733 2.460 2.500 European customers. We are compliant with the environmental legislation in Electricity in kWh 182.999 178.683 185.000 Denmark and our supplier in risk countries are in compliance with national legislation too. Consumption of pesticides in l. pr. ha. 4,9 5 4,8 Consumption of fertilizer in % of quota 75 % 49 % 70 % We measured our total consumption of electricity, water, central heating, pesticides and fertilizer. We sort and measure our waste according to the Global Consumption of water in l. pr. ha. 796 824 750 GAP concept. Our figures for 2016/17 are satisfying and some of the major differences in the results from previous years can be found in the business we 9 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery What we want We try to influence our suppliers in risk countries. That Goals for 2017/18 We hold the position strongly to refrain from all forms business results through corruption is very wrong and The goal for 2017/18 is to make sure that all suppliers of corruption, including extortion and bribery. We that they should refrain from using bribery in any keep on living up to the BSCI concept. strongly support the work done by the UN and other situation what so ever. However we are aware of the We will also strive to influence our partners as much international organizations against corruption since we demand for small facility payments in various countries as possible as well as make sure that every employee very much denounce the phenomenon. due to cultural reasons. of Green Team Group are aware of the company's We have informed our suppliers that corruption is a policy in this matter. It’s a core Green Team Group value to be open and honest in our way of doing business and therefore we key issue for us and that we might carry out take distance from using bribery, corruption or other unannounced inspections to disclose bribery if we have lubricating money. We will work against corruption and any such indications what so ever. bribery of any kind in our effort to operate a sound We have decided that all employees should have the and profitable business. We try to influence our opportunity to put forward any complaints, suspicions partners to refrain from applying corruption in order to or concerns anonymously to the company. In 2014 we remain objective. drafted a description of a whistleblower initiatives for employees. What we do What we have achieved In Green Team Group we have formulated an anticorruption policy, which will help us ensure that the We have a detailed anti-corruption policy and with our company operates in an open and honest manner. We anti-corruption policy, we have started focusing on do not offer, promise or demand bribes or other undue corruption and bribery, even if the subject is far away advantage to obtain or retain business opportunities. from the general workflow of a typical Scandinavian This is regardless of whether it is at the employee level company. or the company as such. We do not pay any protection money to obtain favorable terms and no employee shall not give or receive inappropriate gifts at work. What we do? What we have achieved? Goals for 2017/18 Anti-corruption policy Global: Global: • 100 % of all suppliers in risk countries latest audit result • 100 % of all suppliers in risk countries latest audit result Global: according to BSCI concept: INSUFFICIENT (NEW AUDIT PENDING) according to BSCI concept: GOOD BSCI Code of Conduct • 100 % Global GAP certified production in EC • 100 % Global GAP certified production in EC 10 11
