CSR REPORT 2015 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report Scope of This Report Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (the “Group”) conducts hearings with institutional Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (comprised of Sumitomo investors focused on ESG factors, outside directors, and experts to identify ESGMitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, and other group companies) related factors (materiality, i.e. identifying priority issues) with strong linkages to mediumand long-term value creation. Taking into account what we learned from Target Readers these hearings, we identiﬁed materiality for the Group. All stakeholders, including customers, shareholders and While referencing “Creating Shared Value (CSV),” a concept propounded investors, employees, business partners, local communiby Professor Michael E. Porter of Harvard Business School, this CSR report is ties, NPOs, governments, international institutions, etc. structured around the basic policy on the social responsibility of the Group (i.e., Sustainability Policy) in its disclosures on identiﬁed priority issues. Moreover, the Period Covered by This Report report references the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 Guidelines that were released in May 2013. * This report also includes the most recent information on activities In response to readers’ various needs, we publish CSR reports for the Group before fiscal year 2014 as well as after October 2015. in three forms: a full report (this report), a digest report, and feature booklets on Climate Change, Natural Capital, Responsible Investment, and Environmentally Reference Guidelines Friendly Property. Please visit our website to view our other CSR initiatives. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) * We have attached a questionnaire at the end of this report so that we can receive forthright opinions con“G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” cerning this report and the Group‘s CSR activities. Please feel free to use this questionnaire to inform us * For tables comparing GRI guidelines and information in our CSR of your opinions and impressions. report, please refer to the section from page 129. In response to reader needs, our CSR report is available in three styles. Full Digest Feature report Not yet available report booklets Our website carries extensive We issue a regular report Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group is information on the CSR activities on social contribution activities working for biodiversity that Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (“With You” activities). conservation, including does not cover in this report. protection of rare species. Specifically, the website provides more The quarterly journal “SuMi TRUST With detailed information on our initiatives related You” reports on the “With You” social contrito issues such as successful aging and supbution activities of SuMi TRUST Bank (four port for the environment and living creatures. issues per year). Cover photo: Short-Tailed Weasel (Mustela erminea) The short-tailed weasel is listed as an endangered species in the least concern category. CSR in Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group http://smth.jp/en/csr/index.html Creating Shared Value through CSR Activities “Creating Shared Value” (CSV) is the concept of companies creating social value by addressing society’s needs and challenges while Creation of Shared Value simultaneously creating their own economic value. PRI UNEP FI Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s (the “Group”) pursuit of CSV Identifying Materiality is based on its Management Principles (“Mission”), Ideal Model Sustainability Policy (“Vision ), and Codes of Conduct (“Values”), as well as its Sustainability Policy—basic policy on the social responsibility of Principles for United Financial Action Nations the Group. These policies identify our approach to creating ecoGlobal for the 21st nomic value and social value. Century Mission, Vision, Values Compact (Dedication and Development) Moreover, as a part of our process for realizing CSV, we identiﬁed materiality for our Group based on the perspectives of longterm investors and external experts we interviewed, and we are Process of Creating Shared Value working to raise awareness and understanding within the Group through internal engagement methods. Furthermore, the Group is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a global policy framework for corporate sustainability, and the “Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century),” a set of voluntary guidelines established by Japan’s major ﬁnancial institutions. The Group aims to create shared value while respecting these principles and guidelines, including the above two, related to social responsibility. Management Principles (“Mission”) 001 (I) Swiftly provide comprehensive solutions to our clients by fully utilizing the signiﬁcant expertise and comprehensive capabilities. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report (II) Adhere to the principles of sound management based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of ﬁduciary spirit and establish strong credibility from society. (III) Strive to fulﬁll all shareholder expectations by creating distinct values through fusing the various functions featuring the trust bank group. (IV) Offer a workplace where the diversity and creativity of its employees are more fully utilized to add value to the organization and where employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fulﬁlling their missions. Ideal Model (“Vision”) —Towards “The Trust Bank”— Based on the ﬁduciary spirit and with signiﬁcant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group will create distinct values by leveraging a new business model, combining its banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses, and will move onto the global stage as a leading trust bank group which boasts the largest and highest status in Japan. Codes of Conduct (“Value”) In order to pursue the Management Principles of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, the executives and employees commit themselves to comply with the six Codes of Conduct described below. Completely Client-oriented—Truthfulness and Loyalty We will adhere to the highest degree of “Truthfulness and Loyalty” as well as credibility and sureness, and will carry out all our responsibilities for client satisfaction and comfort as our top priority. Contribution to Society—Dedication and Development We will remain dedicated in all our efforts, with “Frontier Spirit,” and continue to contribute to society. Realization of Organizational Capability—Trust and Creativity We will realize our organizational capabilities with full of mutual trust and creativity through improvement by mutual learning and continuous personal transformation of various people who share the enthusiasm for trust. Establishment of Individuality—Self-help and Self-discipline With a spirit of self-help and self-discipline as well as a sense of ownership, we will carry out our responsibilities. Strict Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations We will strictly comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and will ensure that all our corporate activities meet the highest standards of social norms. Resolute Stance against Antisocial Forces We will continue to take a resolute stance against antisocial forces, which may threaten public order and the security of civil society. 1 Contribute to Solving Social and Environmental Problems through Business 009 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Basic Policy on Social 2 Serve Clients with Sincerity 058 002 Responsibility (Sustainability Policy) 3 Earn the Trust of Society 067 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report At Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, based on our 4 Management Principles (“Mission”), our Ideal Model (“Vision”) and our Codes of Conduct Address (“Value”), we respect dialogue with all stakeholdEnvironmental Issues ers, such as clients, shareholders, investors, employees, business partners, local communities, 092 NPOs, government authorities and international 5 institutions, and play an active role in building a sustainable society. Respect the Individual 098 6 Participate in and Contribute to the Community 111 Contents 004 Management Commitment 006 Identifying Materiality of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group and Initiatives Toward Creating Shared Value Sustainability Policy 1 010 Addressing Climate Change Using Our Financial Capabilities 019 Natural Capital-related Initiatives Using Our Financial Capabilities We aim to enhance our earnings by devel025 Addressing the Issues of a Super-Aging Society by Using Our Financial Functions oping and marketing products and services 034 Various Solutions Using Trust Functions that help address social and environmental 041 ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Asset Management Businesses problems. 048 ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Real Estate Businesses Sustainability Policy 2 059 Initiatives to Earn the Trust of Clients 059 Client Protection Management A basic premise of corporate activities is 066 Delivery of Reliable Financial Products and Services obtaining the trust of customers. We work to improve client protection and customer satisfaction and ensure product reliability. Sustainability Policy 3 068 Corporate Governance 077 Compliance and Conducting Business Activities Fairly We are bolstering the foundations of cor082 Risk Management porate value creation such as corporate 089 Environmental and Social Considerations in Project Finance governance, CSR, compliance, and risk 090 CSR Procurement 003 management. (Procurement that Gives Consideration to the Environment and Society) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Sustainability Policy 4 093 Environmental Burden Reduction Measures We are working to reduce our environmental burden with the aim of building a circular society where nature co-exists with human communities. Sustainability Policy 5 099 Human Rights and SuMi TRUST Group 103 Employment Conditions and Work Environment We value people that form communities. 105 Toward the Realization of a Healthy Work-Life Balance We create workplace environments that 106 Supporting and Improving Human Capital to Enhance Corporate Value enable people to achieve peak form in putting their capabilities to use. 113 Initiatives to Promote “With You” Activities Sustainability Policy 6 116 Activities Aimed at Forming Ecology Networks We believe sound local communities underpin 117 Our Activities Supporting National Trusts a healthy client base. We contribute and par118 Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) Projects 120 Providing Educational Opportunities to India’s Most ticipate in the communities where we do busiUnderprivileged through ISAK ness through our local “With You” activities. 122 CSR Activities at Group Companies 126 Reconstruction Support for Regions Afflicted by Great East Japan Earthquake 128 CSR of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group: Accession to International Guidelines for Corporate Conduct, etc., and Related Activities 129 GRI Content Index 137 Financial Highlights 138 Basic Information of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Management Commitment We seek to be a true sustainability bank that combines contribution to a sustainable society with a high levels of corporate value. 004 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Kunitaro Kitamura Hitoshi Tsunekage President Chairman Japan’s Stewardship Code paves the way Identifying materiality and to ESG markets internal engagement A series of capital market reforms led by the administraMeanwhile, we need to strengthen our own ESG activities. tion of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe are prompting changes Therefore, in FY2015, we worked to rebuild our foundation in Japanese society and its economy. One of the reforms, by identifying priority issues (Materiality) from the dual viewJapan’s Stewardship Code, encourages institutional invespoints of the corporate value of SuMi TRUST Group and tors to engage in constructive dialogue with companies with degree of inﬂuence on society. Furthermore, in order to prothe aim of restoring corporate earning capabilities. With mote ESG internally, we have adopted the approach behind more than 200 investors signed on, the Stewardship Code is the Stewardship Code to start a new “internal engagement” beginning to have an inﬂuence on corporate management. in which CSR departments act as “pseudo-ESG investors” These trends are accelerating even faster overseas. In and engage in dialogue with departments in charge of operparticular, the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) call ations with high materiality. We will apply the “recognition” on institutional investors to make investments based on a we have gained through these efforts to our management long-term perspective that considers the environment, sociand hope to link them with more extensive disclosure of ety, and governance (ESG). The number of PRI signatories non-ﬁnancial information. has been steadily increasing since it was established in 2006. The market is worth more than 2,000 trillion yen. Seeking to be a true sustainability bank Japan was late getting on board with this global trend, CSR is not a form of social contribution. Nor is it advertisbut its introduction of the Stewardship Code has drawn ing for the company. SuMi TRUST Group has always sought attention to ESG, which shares a similar long-term perspecto fuse CSR with its core business, but we still have a long tive, and signs of a change have appeared in a once stagway to go toward realizing a true “sustainability bank” that nant market. On September 27, 2015, Prime Minister Abe contributes to the formation of a sustainable society while 005 announced at the United Nations that the Government increasing our own corporate value. We will redouble our Pension Investment Fund, Japan (GPIF), the world’s largest efforts to pursue ESG in a way that strikes the right balance Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report pension investor, had become a PRI signatory. We see this between both defense (handling risk) and offense (business). as a landmark event leading to full-scale expansion of ESG We look forward to your warm and continued support and investment in Japan. cooperation in these endeavors. Launch of ESG integration December 2015 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (“SuMi TRUST Group”) developed a full-ﬂedged ESG investment fund in 2003 and began offering it to corporate pension funds. We continued to reﬁne our management methods for a long time afterward, and ESG investment has since become one of our fortes. In light of these results, we launched an “ESG integration” in April 2015, integrating ESG into the active management of all Japanese equities. The explosive expansion of ESG investment in the US and Europe is due to an accelerated move to Hitoshi Tsunekage, Chairman integrate ESG into not only themed investing, but also management of existing funds. The policy of SuMi TRUST Group is to seek to improve long-term investment returns through ESG integration and to combine this with dialogue (engagement) with companies in order to fulﬁll our responsibilities as an institution that has adopted the Stewardship Code. Kunitaro Kitamura, President Identifying Materiality of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group and Initiatives Toward Creating Shared Value With the establishment of the Corporate Governance Code, Japanese companies are increasingly being called upon to identify issues surrounding sustainability, including social and environmental issues, and appropriately address them as management themes. SuMi TRUST Group regards sustainability issues as a concept that shares the same meaning as environment, society and governance (ESG), advocated by the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). With the cooperation of external experts, SuMi TRUST Group has identified priority issues (Materiality) from the long-term perspective of investors. Furthermore, through internal engagements, SuMi TRUST Group has strengthened its responses toward these issues on the working level and has established a system for addressing them as management issues for creating shared value. Five Steps Toward Creating Shared Value Starting with the Identification of Materiality STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 006 Selecting Items for Identifying Calculating the Points for the 28 Compiling a Materiality Map ESG Materiality from the Items through Interviews with and Sharing ESG Issues on the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Long-term Perspective of Internal Related Parties and Management Level Investors External Officers and Experts We emphasize the views of ESG invesWe asked the related parties and We plotted the average point score of tors who take into account the interexperts to grade the 28 items for identithe 28 items for identifying materiality ests of various stakeholders to pursue fying materiality from two perspectives calculated in STEP 2 on the materiality corporate value from a long-term peron a ﬁve-point scale. map (scatter diagram) illustrating the spective. Based on reporting guide(First perspective) relationship between the “degree of lines such as GRI and SASB, we select We asked the departments comprisimportance on the mediumto longbank materiality items emphasized by ing the ESG Risk Management Project term corporate value of SuMi TRUST ESG research companies*1 that provide Team (see page 85) and all eight exterHoldings” and the “degree of SuMi information to investors. We then select nal directors and external corporate TRUST Holdings’ inﬂuence on society 28 items for identifying materiality, takauditors (“external ofﬁcers”) of SuMi (stakeholders).” We then conﬁrmed ing into consideration case studies from TRUST Holdings and Sumitomo Mitsui SuMi TRUST Group’s materiality, which the world’s most innovative banks, such Trust Bank, Limited (“SuMi TRUST had been assessed from the two difas ESG risks of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank”) to grade in points the degree of ferent perspectives. The items plotted Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) and inﬂuence of each item on the mediumin “the range with the highest mateESG risks unique to Japan*2. to long-term corporate value of SuMi riality” are considered to be the ESG TRUST Group. issues requiring the greatest emphasis. *1 MSCI, FTSE, Sustainalytics, Robeco SAM, etc. The issues are resolved at the Executive *2 “Risk Landscape in Japan: The Second Survey” (Second perspective) Committee and subsequently reported The University of Tokyo We asked 18 external experts and to the Board of Directors. external ofﬁcers to grade in points the degree of SuMi TRUST Group’s inﬂuSelecting 28 items for ence on society (stakeholders). identifying materiality We calculated the average point score The range with the of all the items. highest materiality Grading the items in points based on interviews nc e rta po Im External Experts Interviewed (in Alphabetical Order) Opinions of External Officers and Experts (Excerpted) Chihiro Kawashima (Head of the Department of Economic and Social Policy, Japanese • Due to the materiality changes, it will be necessary to conTrade Union Confederation) duct reviews according to changes in the external and internal Eiichiro Adachi (Counselor, Center for the Strategy of Emergence, The Japan Research Institute, Limited) environments. Hidemi Tomita (Group Manager, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited) • In terms of supply chain management, the problem of the inﬂuKeisuke Takegahara (General Manager, Environmental Initiative & Corporate Social ence exercised on clients (leverage) is the most crucial issue (in Responsibility-Support Department, Development Bank of connection with consideration of our inﬂuence on the environJapan Inc.) Makoto Teranaka (Visiting Professor, Tokyo Keizai University) ment and society of companies that we invest in or lend to). Mariko Kawaguchi (Head of Research, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.) • Disputes and political unrest have greater materiality than natuMasahiro Mizuno (Representative Director, TREE INC.) ral disasters. Being a trust bank, SuMi TRUST Holdings will be Masao Seki (Senior Advisor on CSR, Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance and required to respond to such social unrest in an autonomous Associate Professor, School of Business Administration, Meiji University) manner. Masaru Arai (Chairman, Japan Sustainable Investment Forum) • I believe that “overall balance” is an important feature for ﬁnanMasatoshi Kikuchi (Chief Equity Strategist, Equity Research Department, Mizuho cial institutions. They have a responsibility of supplying funds to Securities Co., Ltd.) industries as a whole and must select companies as targets for One Akiyama (President, Integrex Inc.) Ryoji Terada (Executive Officer, PricewaterhouseCoopers Sustainability LLC) investments in a well-balanced manner. Takashi Hongo (Senior Research Fellow, Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute) • I believe that the degree of inﬂuence an enterprise has on society Takejiro Sueyoshi (Special Advisor, UNEP Finance Initiative) depends on its size I graded higher for the inﬂuence on norms Tomonari Yashiro (Vice President, The University of Tokyo (Dr. of Engineering)) that should be established for society as a whole rather than Yasunori Nakagami (Chief Executive Officer, Misaki Capital Inc.) the inﬂuence on issues impacted by physical size. I also carefully Yasushi Hibi (Director, Conservation International Japan) Yoshihiro Fujii (Director, Research Institute for Environmental Finance and graded the items that should be proactively addressed without Visiting Professor, Sophia University) being legally required to do so. STEP 4-1 STEP 4-2 STEP 5 007 Implementation of Internal Putting into Practice Content Initiatives toward Increased Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Engagement of the Engagement Long-term Corporate Value The CSR Promotion Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning The departments subject to internal Department selects current issues regarding engagement will utilize the content The identiﬁed materiality will be items with high materiality, based on feedback of the dialogue regarding the items regarded as corresponding to “the envifrom ESG research companies on SuMi TRUST determined to be necessary for ronmental and social issues over susHoldings’ assessments, opinions of institutional dialogue from the perspective of tainability to be addressed by the Board investors and other factors, and it compiles creating shared value in improving of Directors,” prescribed in Article a discussion paper. Based on the paper, their business. The CSR Promotion 3-4 of the Basic Policy on Corporate we undertake internal engagement*1 with Ofﬁce will utilize the content to Governance of SuMi TRUST Group, as departments that usually do not interact directly upgrade the disclosure of nonwell as being put into practice through ﬁnancial information such as CSR internal engagements. Multi-faceted with investors*2. reports. IR departments will utilize discussions will be conducted at the *1 Internal engagement means to indicate ESG issues such disclosed information for their Board of Directors’ meetings, mainly on from the standpoint of investors and conduct dialogue themes with especially high materiality, (engagement) on necessary measures and content of dialogue with external investors. information disclosures. and the direction to be taken by SuMi *2 Corporate Administration Department, Human TRUST Group will be determined. Resources Department, Risk Management Department, Compliance Department and Customer Satisfaction Utilization for improving busiPromotion Department ness, upgrading the disclosure Preparation of the discussion paper of non-financial information, etc. Themes discussed at the management level Implementing internal engagement Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Materiality Map Issues Identified as Highest Priority (Materiality) The range with the • Corporate governance Degree of Our Group’s Impact on Society highest materiality • Risk management & resilience • Protection of personal information & client data • Consideration of fair transaction practices • Compliance n ce • Financial system stability rta • Customer satisfaction improvement po • Financial product reliability Im • Stakeholder dialogue • Cyber attacks • Transactions with anti-social forces • Human capital • Crime prevention • Factoring environmental and social impacts into investments and loans Degree of Our Group’s Impact on Our Longer-term Corporate Value Creation Reporting Framework based on Our Group’s Sustainability Policy 008 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Basic Policy on Social Responsibility Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 1. Contribute to Solving Social and Pursuit of business opportunities with environmental and social themes* Environmental Problems through Business 2. Serve Clients with Sincerity Protection of personal information & client data, customer satisfaction improvement, financial product reliability 3. Earn the Trust of Society Corporate governance, risk management & resilience, consideration of fair transaction practices, compliance, financial system stability, stakeholder dialogue, cyber attacks, transactions with anti-social forces, crime prevention, factoring environmental and social impacts into our investments and loans 4. Address Environmental Issues Reduction of our Group’s environmental burden* 5. Respect the Individual Human capital 6. Participate in and Contribute to the Community Social contribution* *This includes 28 items identified as within the scope for materiality consideration, but were not identified as highest priority issues (materiality). Defining the Boundaries we impact in (the scope of subjects affected by the Group’s activities) lders dire eho ctl tak Investment in y S a company Loans to The Group identifies “boundaries” as below: a company Loans to a company rs we impact lde Investment in (1) Companies belonging to the Group; a company ho dir ke e Investment in Property Project (2) Suppliers, contractors providing services, equipment, or Sta transactions finance ctly a company Loans to a company Project Property office supplies to the Group; and finance transactions Others Others Others Others (3) Stakeholders we impact through our Group businesses: SuMi TRUST Holdings (a) Direct-impact businesses (e.g. project ﬁnance, property transactions) (b) Indirect-impact business (e.g. loans to and investments in companies) SuMi TRUST Group’s Boundaries aries Suppliers, contractors Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 1 Contribute to Solving Social and Environmental Problems through Business 009 • We work to solve social and environmental Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report problems from a global perspective through our core businesses. • We integrate the diverse functions that are unique to a trust bank group and develop new business models and innovative products and services to help solve social and environmental problems. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 010 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Addressing Climate Change Using Our Financial Capabilities In recognition that building a sustainable society is necessary to addressing climate change, the Group devised “Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change” and is advancing this theme as the most Main risks in the future due to rising temperatures 1) Rising sea levels, high coastal tides important of its Eco-Trustution* initiatives. 2) Flooding in large urban areas 3) Breakdown of infrastructure and other functions due With the adoption of the Paris Agreement, a new to extreme weather events international framework for climate change at COP21 4) Mortality and illness due to heat waves 5) Threat to food security due to rising temperatures in Paris, the world is nearing a major turning point and drought 6) Shortage of water resources and decreased agriculin the supply-demand structure of energy, from the tural production 7) Loss of marine ecosystems in coastal waters need to further reduce CO2 emissions and pressure 8) Loss of services provided by terrestrial and inland to exit coal-fired power generation to growing interaquatic ecosystems est in renewable energy deployment. The Group will continue to develop high-value-added financial solutions businesses that leverage its capabilities and skills as a trust bank. * ECO Trustution: The Group has coined the word “Eco-Trustution” for environmental financial businesses that offer solutions to ecological issues using our trust function. Under this concept, we work to develop and provide solutions-based financial instruments and services. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change 1. Implementation of Measures and Support to Help Mitigate 3. Collaboration with Stakeholders Climate Change We engage in dialogue and cooperation with our stakeholdIn addition to actively taking measures to reduce greenhouse ers as we work to mitigate climate change. gas emissions in our own business operations, we are mak4. Education and Training ing efforts, as a corporate citizen, to support activities that We will ensure that these guidelines are fully implemented mitigate and adapt to climate change. at group companies, and will actively conduct education and 2. Provision of Products and Services training to mitigate climate change. We are working on developing and providing products and 5. Information Disclosure services that help mitigate climate change. Our ﬁnancial We will actively disclose information related to our efforts to functions are being leveraged to promote energy conservamitigate climate change. tion and encourage the use of renewable energy. Finance and Climate Change Financial institutions are exposed to risks arising from clicautious about funding businesses that will be substantially mate change but climate mitigation and adaption meaaffected by climate change while actively seeking to allocate sures offer new business opportunities. In their investment funding to businesses contributing to climate action. and lending decisions, ﬁnancial institutions will need to be Climate risks facing financial Climate-related business opportunities for institutions: Examples financial institutions: Examples 1 Risk of deterioration at companies, projects, and individuals in loan 1 Provide ﬁnancing to promote broad adoption of renewable energy 011 and investment portfolios due to climate change impacts 2 Provide ﬁnancing to corporations and individuals to adopt energy2 Risk of earnings swings at individual companies and sectors due to saving solutions Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report legal and/or regulatory changes, a heavier economic burden from 3 Provide ﬁnancing for social infrastructure responsive to climate climate-related measures, and technological competition change risks 3 Risk of infrastructure ceasing to function due to ﬂood damage, irreg4 Provide ﬁnancing to develop new technologies for mitigation and ular weather, etc. and spill-over effects on business continuity adaption 4 Risk of rising costs for mitigation and adaption measures to address climate change Spread and Growth of Renewable Energy Our Renewable Energy Initiatives SuMi TRUST Group is working Graph (include projects in the planning stage and under construction) Capacity to develop financial products (kW) to facilitate diverse forms of 1GW=106 renewable energy. These include Wind schemes for business scales that Mega-solar generation 105 range from micro-generation to PV* sites Renewable Renewable energy funds large-scale generation. energy funds Project Woody Hydro 104 Project ﬁnance biomass Waste-toSpecifically, the Group proﬁnance generation energy vides finance in various forms, Corporate generation lease-type ranging from renewable energy 1MW=103 PV Rooftop funds that invest in electricity lease PV Hot spring generation to project finance 102 Micro-hydro binary cycle PV for SMEs* Biomass gas generation generation and leases. 1 10 PV for households 1 Solar power Wind power Biomass Hydro power Other *SMEs: small and medium-sized enterprises; PV: photovoltaic Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Renewable Energy Funds Renewable energy funds have been set up to invest in large-scale generation projects using renewable energy sources like solar power. • We contribute by providing equity-like funding for the spread of renewable energy projects. • We are expanding assets under management in our funds and building up an investment track record in solar power. We plan to broaden the scope of our renewable energy investments to include biomass, wind, and other sources. • We are working to develop investment products for individuals and institutional investors and pension funds that seek stable income gains. Overview of Funds Mega-solar PV Sites: Metrics on Operational Status* * For mega-solar PV sites of over Item Comment Sites 160 2MWs (as of June 2015), about Number 90% of them are not in operaN-REIF No. 1 Investment Limited Licenses & permits 1,554 Name of sites tion (i.e., sites still at the planning Partnership (LP) Ratio of operating PV sites* 10.3% stage). In terms of aggregate mega-solar PV capacity, about Establishment March 30, 2015 MWs 1,753 94% is still not in operation. Capacity General Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Investment Licenses & permits 30,573 [MW] ** Calculated based on materials partnership Co., Ltd., ITOCHU ENEX Co., Ltd. Ratio of operating PV capacity* 5.7% released by the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy. Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited partnership Investigating Multiple Projects as Prospective Investments Fund size 5.025 billion yen (as of November 2015) 012 • Mega-solar PV sites extend from the Kanto region to the Kyushu region Renewable energy projects backed • Generation capacity ranges from 10MW to 60MW Investment scope Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report by renewable energy sources law* • Total project expenses range from 3 billion yen to 25 billion yen Note: Investment scope includes greenfield projects (developments where facilities have been certified) and brownfield projects (sale of facilities • Capital required from funds range from 500 million yen to 2 billion yen in operation). * Act on Special Measures Concerning Procurement of Electricity from Renewable Energy Sources by Electricity Utilities We look to respond to the following needs of renewable energy generators. • They seek to lock in equity-like ﬁnance for projects. • They seek to raise funds smoothly. • They aim for further expansion of mega-solar PV sites, while the investment funds we manage seek to keep their equity exposure per site at a safe level. • They seek to move generation assets off their balance sheets. • They seek to unwind existing generation assets into non-core businesses. • They seek to sell off a portion of project equity to conﬁrm the viability of a future exit. Fund Schemes Generation project PJ 1 N-REIF No. 1 Investment Nonrecourse loans Limited Partnership Investment from Investment from an anonymous an anonymous partnership* (1) partnership (1) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited liability Limited Investment from an anonymous Generation project PJ 2 partnership (2) Nonrecourse loans Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Investment from an anonymous Investment Co., Ltd. Investment from partnership (3) Unlimited liability an anonymous ITOCHU ENEX Co., Ltd. partnership (2) *Anonymous partnerships are called “tokumeikumiai” in Japanese. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Project Finance for Renewable Energy We are promoting the adoption of renewable energy such To accompany our investments in wind and solar genas wind and solar power through project finance. eration, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) We are also participating in new kinds of large-scale is executing ﬁnancing arrangements in new ﬁelds such as projects such as offshore wind turbines and biomass. large-scale biomass generation in Japan and two overseas Since the introduction of Japan’s feed-in tariff (FIT*) system, offshore wind generation projects. Expectations for ﬁnancmega-solar PV sites have been built across the nation. The ing to support broader adoption of renewable energy conprocess of negotiating an international agreement to comtinue to grow. bat climate change from 2020 onwards is highlighting the * Japan’s FIT system requires utilities to purchase electricity generated by renewable sources at fixed prices. necessity of further CO2 emission reductions globally. Investment Record in Japan and Overseas Financing for 33 sites in Japan, Netherlands seven sites overseas Germany Wind power Hydro power Canada Solar power Biomass United States Other Australia 013 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Large Projects Come On-stream in Japan and Overseas Wind Farm in Japan Akita In Akita Prefecture, where wind conditions on the coastline are favorable, a large-scale wind turbine park has been installed. Each turbine can generate 3MW, the greatest capacity among domestic wind Akita city farms. The total generation capacity of the six wind turbines combined comes to 18MW. Using the FIT system, electricity generated by the wind turbines is sold on to afﬁliated electric power utilities. Overseas Mega-solar A mega-solar PV site with 250MW capacity has been built in a hilly desert region of Nevada, United Carson City States. There are no mega-solar PV sites of this size Nevada in Japan, but overseas more mega-solar sites of a similarly massive scale will come on-stream or are Las Vegas at the planning stage. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Solar PV Panels for Leased Rooftops Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance Co., Ltd. supUsing the FIT system, solar power developers wholesale the ports financing for the facilities necessary for solar PV panelectricity generated, and property owners receive a stable els to be installed on leased rooftops. rental fee for leasing their rooftops. There is still a lot of untapped space to install PV panels on Through September 2015, PV panels have been installed buildings in Japan. Solar power developers lease the roofon the rooftops of seven properties using this approach. The tops of various businesses such as warehouses, distribution smallest installation is 120kW and the largest is 1,050kW, centers, and commercial properties for PV panel installations. with total installed capacity exceeding 4,300kW. Analysis, Building owner Generation capacity evaluation • Warehouse, distribution center (kW, MW) analysis Electric power utility • Commercial property Consulting firm Project A Revenues from Contract to sell Rental Rooftop supplying electricity electricity fees lease Assets, accounting, administration Installation and contract operation of facilities Solar power project developer Accountant Limited liability company Deferred sales contract Project B Cash Installment plan Sumitomo Mitsui Trust liabilities Panasonic Finance Co., Ltd. Repayment Installation and Generation operation of facilities facilities Equity capital Investment Anonymous partnerships Dividends Project C Insurance Installation Maintenance policy contract contract 014 Installation and operation of facilities Non-life insurer EPC/O&M Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Biomass Generation We support adoption of biomass facilities that convert gases, mainly methane, are extracted and used as fuel to genfood waste and other organic waste into biogas. erate electricity. Under the Food Recycling Law, the recovery At a biomass power generator, organic waste—such as food of heat from food wastes is recognized as a form of recycling waste, livestock urine and manure, and organic sludge from provided certain conditions are met, and so the electricity sewage and waste-water—is fermented and combustible generated can be resold using the FIT system. • Curtails volume of waste produced, reduces waste disposal costs • Food waste, food residues • Earns income from reselling electricity via the FIT system Wastes • Livestock urine and manure • Curtails putrid odors due to fermentation, reduces release of bad • Organic sludge, etc. from sewage Merits eligible for smells to nearby areas and waste-water • Byproducts like post-fermentation, digested slurry can be recycling recycled as a liquid fertilizer Adopting a Food Waste Processing System: An Example Untreated garbage Leftover food Methane production (fuel) Electricity Food waste Warm water Electricity generator Liquid fertilizer Drainage wastewater Methane fermentation system Liquid fertilizer Receiving station and crusher production unit (purifier) Waste volume reduction Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Support for Energy Efficiency Energy Management Systems Using Leases: Examples We offer comprehensive support from the planning and adoption stages through to energy management services. Specific investment ideas Energy-Saving Consulting: Energy Management Services 1 Installation of high-efficiency refrigerators and refrigerator showcases Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance 2 Conversion to LED lighting (Total management includes fund raising) 3 Adoption of integrated control systems Visualize energy ICT automatic Energy-saving Post-adoption savings Maintenance consumption controls inspections 1 Electricity consumption lowered by about 500,000 kWh per year Energy management services Energy-saving consulting services (25% cut) 2 Electricity bill lowered by about 13 million yen per year (These examples are for a supermarket with 7,300 m2 total floor Clients A store that remodeled by installarea) ing high-efficiency refrigerators, refrigerator showcases, and LED Propose the most appropriate menu of options Key points in our proposals lighting. 1 A one-stop service menu from energy-saving consulting, equipment Open platform of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance investment planning, and ﬁnancing to post-installation energy manageVarious energy-saving menu options 015 ment services Remote monitoring, operational improvements, energy-saving renovations, 2 Harnessing subsidies lightens upfront investment sum (subsidy rate of improved heat source efﬁciency, lighting, air conditioning etc. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 33%) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Manufacturers, engineering 3 Use of leases reshapes payment stream: Zero upfront investment to purPanasonic Finance firms, construction firms chase equipment with costs paid over time in the form of leveled out payments One-Stop Services for Energy-Saving Investment: Subsidy-Eligible Leases We offer one-stop services that support all proposals from planning for energy-saving investments to asset operation. • Our one-stop service menu ranges from energy-saving assessments, examinations to identify energy-saving measures, equipment selection, subsidy applications, and securing ﬁnancing to maintenance services. • Using leases enables installation of energy-saving equipment without upfront investment cost. • Securing subsidies lowers upfront investment costs, enabling recipients to beneﬁt even more from energy savings and cost reductions. • We offer tailored proposals through partnerships with manufacturers and installers. A Flow Chart Mapping Out the Use of Subsidies Main subsidy systems National government/local public authority • Subsidy support for rationalizing energy use at SMEs 1 Joint application 5 Collection of for subsidies transferred subsidy • Zero net energy building (ZEB) project: Subsidies to promote adoption of innovative energy-saving techSumitomo Mitsui nologies in housing and buildings Client 2 Lease contract Trust Panasonic Finance • Sharply cut CO2 emissions via efﬁcient execution of advanced countermeasures (ASSET project) 4 Payment for 3 Equipment Select vendor equipment sale contract • Subsidies to support adoption of onsite installed lithium-ion storage batteries Vendor A Vendor B Vendor C * Certain conditions must be met to be Equipment vendors eligible to apply for subsidies. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Stages in the Subsidy Application Process Energy-saving Examination of Board of Directors, Examination of assessment optimal energyetc. decide on Preparations to Subsidy energy-saving Energy-data saving secondary energy-saving apply for subsidies application primary proposal provision proposal investment 1 month to 2 weeks before application 6-12 months before application 3-6 months before application 1-3 months before application 1 month before application acceptance announcement acceptance announcement acceptance announcement acceptance announcement acceptance announcement (length of acceptance period) Other Contributions to Climate Change Countermeasures Farming systems that use renewable Safe retrieval and disposal of Freon gases, natural resources next-generation refrigerants We support energy-efﬁcient farming Safely retrieving and disposing of Freon gas from equipment that uses natural forms of energy such whose lease has expired are the main tasks of Japan Machinery as sunlight, water, and wind to control Leasing and Sales Co., Ltd., a Group member. An atmospheric the environment inside greenhouses. ozone destroyer and greenhouse gas, Freon has been used in Sensors can track key environmenair conditioners, freezer/refrigerator showcases, refrigerators, tal metrics such as the atmospheric and freezers. temperature and the temperature of Moreover, the Group things inside greenhouses and autois striving to provide matically adjust controls to effectively leases for equipment balance the overall environment. that use next-generation We seek to improve annual prorefrigerants like nonduction efﬁciency such as the volume 016 Freon gases with a low of produce for each unit of energy A passive house-based A non-freon freezer unit and a nonGHG coefﬁcient. consumption and upfront investment. farming system freon freezer showcase Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Picture: Panasonic Eco Solutions Condominiums & Apartments Engineering Co., Ltd. Reducing CO2 Emissions in Buildings, Community Development Renovation Loans for Smart Houses We support remodeling homes into “smart houses” Since a system to purchase surplus electricity from solar through our home renovation loans. Houses are being panels was created, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic transformed into places where families use wisely the Finance has contributed to the spread and adoption of solar energy they generate themselves. power generation by households through its solar loans. A smart house can efﬁciently generate and store energy Our solar loan portfolio as of October 2015 stood at 58.5 bilby combining solar PV panels, a storage battery unit, and lion yen. Through our partnerships with equipment vendors a household fuel cell. There have been extensions and and installers, we support remodeling homes into “smart improvements to functions that enable dwellers to control houses” through our renovation loans. electricity consumption to match their lifestyle and weather conditions. Retail sales of electricity and gas to households in Japan Equipment for Upgrading to a Smart House are to be liberalized soon. It is hoped non-electricity companies, such as telecommunication companies, will enter this market and offer bundled services that include telecom, TV broadcasts, etc. along with electricity. Moreover, electric vehicle battery packs may A solar PV module A HEMS monitor increasingly be put to use to store energy, and progress is expected in the development of services where the functions performed by housing, home appliances, A lithium-ion Household fuel cells Electric vehicles vehicles, and vehicles are integrated. A smart house storage battery unit (Ene-Farm home fuel cell) EV chargers Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Smart Cities We support smart town and smart city projSmart City Diagram ects in many ways, ranging from the creation of value-added by taking the environment Electricity LED into account to the provision of funding to aggregators individuals via leases and housing loans. Public Condominiums ESCO* services facilities Solar PV generation Leases for energySolar leases Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town saving equipment Car leases Solar loans Office Electric buildings vehicles Railcar leases Housing Renovation loans Next-generation transport systems Leases for energysaving equipment Equipment leases Panasonic Corporation, Fujisawa City, and Heat supply facilities Building leases Commercial retail eleven partner companies, including SuMi TRUST Bank, are collaborating to promote * Energy service companies Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town. Communitywide, comprehensive CO 2 reduction efforts The goal of smart cities is to realize a sustainable society via climate change include town management programs. This mitigation by improving energy usage efﬁciency across many activities such 017 approach is driving town development. as information technology, transportation, residential environment, production activities, and recreation activities. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Evaluation of Corporate Climate Change Mitigation Efforts in Responsible Investment (RI) Climate change mitigation efforts are an important evaluation item for the various responsible investment funds offered by SuMi TRUST Bank. When selecting stocks for investment, we emphasize the dual perspectives of pursuing business opportunities and risk management based on the comprehensiveness of a company’s measures. Our View on Corporate Evaluation in a Responsible Investment Context Environment Climate change Environmental management Biodiversity Society • Environmental policy and long-term vision • Environmental management system • Integration of environmental management into operations • Supply chain management (SCM) Resource recycling Determining Efforts in business activities a group of • Targets for greenhouse gas emission reduction • Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in business activities candidate Chemical investment Efforts for products and services substances stocks Evaluation of • Disclosure of development strategy and policy on environmenCorporate top mantally friendly products and services agement’s • Energy-saving standards/energy consumption efficiency targets governance commitment, • Environmental performance evaluation (LCA) Other impact on • Environmental performance evaluation (certification system) y business results, future Points that potential of are heavily the business Business opportunities perspective (CSV*) Risk management perspective weighted etc. when selecting investment Responsible investment fund portfolio stocks * CSV stands for “creating shared value.” CSV is the philosophy of pursuing social value and corporate value together. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Evaluation of Corporate Climate Change Mitigation Efforts in Financing The Group evaluates climate change mitigation efforts the company has a grasp of the volume of emissions in its through an environmental rating system and measurement of supply chain, and whether it promotes initiatives through its CO2 emissions volume in a potential borrower’s supply chain. supply chain. Clients of SuMi TRUST Bank’s environmental rating loans Environmental Rating Loans can use an optional paid service for calculating the scope 3 SuMi TRUST Bank embeds items on climate change and greenhouse gas emissions upstream in their supply chain. global warming mitigation efforts into the rating criteria for They can use the results of this calculation for information environmental rating loans. These loans incorporate an evaldisclosure for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and coruation system not only of emission volume and measures to porate social responsibility (CSR) reports. In addition, the reduce greenhouse gases produced by business activities at optional service provides calculations of water usage volume the client company, but also of the climate impacts from its and land area used in the upstream supply chain. supply chain management. The evaluation includes whether Branches with Built-in Eco-features Koganei Branch (Tokyo) Hoshigaoka Branch (Nagoya) The Koganei branch was The Hoshigaoka branch 018 opened in July 2015 as was opened in August 2015 the sole trust bank in the as the sole trust bank in Koganei neighborhood. The Nagoya city’s eastern part. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report branch has many features Outﬁtted with solar panels designed to reduce its CO2 and digital displays at two emission impact. It has been spots that show its electricoutﬁtted with solar panels, ity use, the branch adds all its indoor lighting comes to the surroundings with a from LED sources, and its green roof covered with a energy management system drought-resistant moss varishows how much electricity etal (sunagoke in Japanese, it is using on displays in ways Racomitrium japonicum). that are easy to grasp. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 019 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Natural Capital-related Initiatives Using Our Financial Capabilities The concept of natural capital is attracting growing interest. Natural capital is positioned as one Financial Capital of the six forms of capital that organizations depend on when creating value in an integrated reporting framework, which is a new trend in nonManufactured financial information disclosure. It is defined as Capital “all renewable and non-renewable environmental Intellectual Human resources and processes that provide goods and Capital Capital services that are the basis of the past, current or Social and future prosperity of an organization.”Specifically, Relationship Capital natural capital includes air, water, soil, and minerals, as well as the health of forests, biodiversity, and ecosystems. Natural Capital Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Protecting Natural Capital Natural Capital: Foundation for All Environmental, Social, and Economic Spheres Natural capital is made up of diverse living creatures and the water, Five elements of natural capital soil, and air that sustain them. These are the foundation sustaining Biodiversity life on earth and conserving them needs to be prioritized ahead of Fauna Flora everything else. Water Soil Air Natural Capital’s Blessings The way we live depend on natural capital and the ecosystem serRegulating services Cultural services vices they provide. We thus feel continued wise use of natural Regulating climate, controlling Aesthetic, spiritual, educational etc. ﬂoods, purifying water etc. resources emanating from natural capital over the long run goes beyond mere environmental conservation. It must extend to putting Supporting services Provisioning services Nutrient salts cycle, soil formation, Food, fresh water, wood, ﬁber, communities on a solid social foundation to enable sustainable ecoprimary production etc. fuel etc. nomic development. Four categories of ecosystem services Sustainable Development Goals Main Targets Involving Natural Capital in SDGs At a United Nations-sponsored Sustainable Development Summit held in September 2015, a set of sustainable development goals End poverty and Ensure water hunger, promote Ensure healthy lives, and sanitation (SDGs) were adopted as a plan of action for people, planet, and prossustainable promote wellbeing are managed agriculture sustainably for all perity. About 40% of the 17 SDGs and the 169 associated targets set for 2030 to realize sustainable development involve water, climate Make cities and Ensure sustainable Ensure access to consumption change, food, forests, the ocean, and other forms of natural capital. sustainable energy settlements and production 020 sustainable patterns Take urgent action Conserve and Sustainably Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report to combat climate sustainably use manage forests, change and its oceans and marine halt biodiversity impacts resources loss Global Supply Chain: Natural Capital Risks Facing Japan’s Economy Of the total material inputs into Japan’s economy, Material Flow in Japan (Fiscal year 2012) about 50% are imported from overseas. Of natural Imported products (60) resources, inputs of domestic origin have declined to Export (179) Import about half of total natural resource inputs versus the Imported (800) Net additions resources to stock (529) level ten years earlier, with natural resource imports (741) Total material inputs now at 1.3X the level of those of domestic origin. (1,606) Natural Japan’s reliance on global materials procurement conresources, Energy consumption * The “including water” Domestic etc. inputs and emissions from category refers to tinues to grow larger and larger. resources (561) (1,361) industrial processes (504) Fertilizer wastes containing (14) Procurement from overseas comes with hidden Food consumption (86) water, etc. (sludge, Returned to nature (82) animal mature, human risks for corporate management in the form of the size Generation waste, waste acid, of wastes, of environmental impacts and natural capital depenIncluding etc. (554) and waste alkali) and water* Reduction (209) sediments, etc. from dence in supply chains. (260) Final disposal production accom(18) Two important factors for sustainable corporate panying economic activities (sludge from management are properly identifying the scale of mining, building, and water use, materials use, and CO2 emissions across waterworks as well as Amount of cyclical use (244) tailing from mining). supply chains and managing natural capital impacts, (Unit: Million tons) especially in the upstream supply chain. Source: Annual Report on the Environment, Sound Material-Cycle Society, and Biodiversity 2015 Natural Capital Should be Managed Globally GHG Air Water emissions* pollution pollution Mining and d IIn-house Processing of Manufacturing Assembly and Shipping and harvesting of production Use Waste raw materials parts shipping p processing raw materials activities Land Waste Substantial burden in upstream supply chains usage materials *GHG: greenhouse gases Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Ecological Network: Foundation for Japan’s Natural Capital Japan is seen as a country with many natural blessings—clean water, clear air, and abundant greenery. In contrast to this, however, is the realHigh-value natural capital areas ity of run-down farming ﬁelds and mountain forest plantations, urban Real estate prices: low Natural capital: abundant environments without much greenery, and rivers and shorelines paved with concrete. Suburbs Real estate prices: mid-range Rich biodiversity underpins our everyday lives and economic activiNatural capital: mid-range Cities ties. For living creatures to thrive, they need “core areas” and “corReal estate prices: high Natural capital: scarce ridors” that connect these places together. This view informs the concept of “ecological networks.” Setting aside a wide array of core areas for many kinds of living creatures and linking them with corridors makes it possible to efﬁciently protect and foster natural ﬂora and fauna. CASBEE for Properties* We believe it is necessary to form ecological networks designed to JHEP certification system** Financial valuation of natural value preserve natural capital with the aim of creating a sustainable society Environmentally friendly properties where future generations can continue to enjoy nature’s blessings. Biodiversity offsets (no net losses realized) Across Japan, from cities and suburbs and woodlands adjacent to Natural Trust activities them to mountainous regions, the shape and state of sustainability Improving biodiversity Halting the erosion of Setting aside more land for systems in each of these regions differs. We think valuing the impact of quality nature due to development flora and fauna regions, cities, and buildings on natural capital, developing manageSafe use of natural capital and biodiverse flora ment methods, and building ecological networks will enable Japan to and fauna via ecological networks address its natural capital problems. *CASBEE for Properties is a simple evaluation system for the environmental performance of buildings (the name of this program was changed from “CASBEE for Market Promotion” in November 2014). **JHEP is a habitat evaluation certification developed to quantitatively evaluate and certify efforts to contribute to the conservation and restoration of biodiversity. 021 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Natural Capital Policy of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group The Natural Capital Declaration Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) became a signatory to the Natural Capital Declaration advocated by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development “Rio+20” held in Rio de Janeiro in June 2012. SuMi TRUST Holdings is the only ﬁnancial institution in Japan to have signed the declaration. Commitment of Financial Institutions under the Natural Capital Declaration (Excerpt) We will support the development of methodologies that can integrate natural capital considerations into the decision-making processes for all financial products and services including loans, investment, and insurance policies. (a) We will apply a holistic approach to the evaluation of bonds and stocks by integrating natural capital considerations in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risk analysis in short-, medium-, and long-term growth forecasts of investee companies. (b) We will systematically incorporate the consideration of evaluating natural capital into the credit policies of speciﬁc sectors, including commodities, that have a major impact on natural capital, either directly or indirectly through the supply chain. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Action Guidelines for Preserving Biodiversity 1. Implementing Measures and Providing Support for Biodiversity Preservation: We will strive to actively protect endangered and native species. In our role as a corporate citizen, we will work to support activities for the preservation of biodiversity. 2. Providing Products and Services: We will endeavor to develop and provide products and services that contribute to the preservation of biodiversity, by conducting appropriate economic and social evaluations of the ecosystem and encouraging the sustainable use of living resources through our ﬁnancial functions. 3. Collaboration with Stakeholders: We will engage in dialogue and cooperation with our stakeholders while working to preserve biodiversity. 4. Education and Training: We will ensure thorough implementation of these action guidelines at all Group companies and will work to provide education and training aimed at the preservation of biodiversity. 5. Information Disclosure: We will actively disclose information about our efforts to preserve biodiversity. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Business and Biodiversity Initiative: Activities based on Leadership Declaration SuMi TRUST Holdings signed a leadership declaration under the Business and Biodiversity Initiative “Biodiversity in Good Company” at the ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 9) held in May 2008 in Germany. Since then, we have continued to carry out activities in line with the principles of the declaration, which was led by the German government. Declaration Status of initiatives during 2014-2015 1. Analyzing corporate activities with regard to their impacts on biological We continued to provide investment trusts that assess impact on biodiversity and loan diversity products that include impact on natural capital in their assessment criteria. 2. Including the protection of biological diversity within their environmental In our CSR promotion system, we draw up a plan for each ﬁscal year on efforts related to management system natural capital and review their performance semiannually. 3. Appointing a person in the company responsible for steering all activities in The Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer in the Corporate Planning Department supervises all activithe biodiversity sector and reporting to the Management Board ties and reports to the Executive Committee. 4. Deﬁning realistic, measurable objectives that are monitored and adjusted We have set objectives in the CSR Midterm Plan for measures including those related to every two to three years natural capital, and we review performance at the Executive Committee. 5. Publishing activities and achievements in the biodiversity sector in the comWe publish a yearly Natural Capital feature report. We disclose our biodiversity initiatives pany’s annual, environmental, and/or corporate social responsibility report in our CSR report and at various events. We have banned transactions with manufacturers involved with illegal logging in tropical 6. Informing suppliers about the company’s biodiversity objectives and interain forests, which has a major impact on biodiversity, as well as copier paper containing grating suppliers accordingly and step by step such materials, and all Group companies have changed their suppliers accordingly. 7. Exploring the potential for cooperation with scientiﬁc institutions, nongovWe organize the Natural Capital Study Group, which brings together participants that ernmental organizations (NGOs) and/or governmental institutions with include companies, national and regional governments, academics, research institutions, the aim of deepening dialogue and continuously improving the corporate management system vis-à-vis the biodiversity domain and NGOs. We documented and published the results of this research. 022 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Evaluating Supply Chain Impacts on Natural Capital Natural Capital Evaluation Natural capital evaluation is a service that calculates natural capital dependence arising from corporate activities and estimates the degree of impact for each input item sourced and for each country and region, tracing back through supply chain levels. Example of output from a Natural Capital Assessment Tool Breakdown of water usage volume in each region by sector Ratio of land usage area by region 5% 10% Japan 25% China 20% 18% 18% Asia (ex Japan and China) 15% Oceania 10% USA 5% 14% 13% Americas (ex USA) Europe 0 Agriculture, forestry, Service industries Africa and ﬁsheries Shipping equipment parts 7% 15% Coal, oil, gas, other minerals GHG emissions volume is likeIndustrial products Electrical equipment wise calculated by sector and Heavy industries region. Energy Benefits of Natural Capital Evaluation (1) Gaining quantitative risk data related to the supply chain that can be used for management judgments • Can obtain previously hidden risk data related to environmental impacts and the use of resources that are essential to global supply chain management (2) Obtaining quantitative data on environmental impacts that can be used for information disclosure • Can use scope 3 disclosure responses to surveys such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and disclosures in integrated corporate reports Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives in Loans Environmental Rating Loans with Evaluation of Natural Capital Preservation The sustainable use of natural capital as resources is vital the concept of evaluating impacts on natural capital and a for a company to continue its business. There is a growing company’s initiatives into the environmental-rating evaluaawareness that efforts to address issues related to natural tion process that assesses its environmental measures. This capital across the global supply chain as well are an indisis the world’s ﬁrst attempt to incorporate natural capital pensable part of management strategy. evaluation into loan criteria, and our efforts have been cited In April 2013, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST in Japanese government environmental white papers and Bank”) launched its Environmental Rating Loans with European Commission reports as an example of leadingEvaluation of Natural Capital Preservation, which embed edge practice. Environmental rating loans Natural capital evaluation (optional) Evaluation items for environmental rating Five elements of natural capital Strategy and enviro onmental manage ement Fauna Climate change/glo obal warming mitiigation eff fforrtss Introduction Flora of Resource recycling g/pollution counterrmeassuress qualitative evaluation Water Soil Air Environmental friendlliness of products annd envvironm menntal busineess related to natural Environmentally frieendly properties capital Three items targeted in natural capital evaluation Biodiversity Water usage Land area GHG* emissions volume used volume *GHG stands for greenhouse gases. Terms of loan decided based on environmental rating Reporting on environmental burden and risk information 023 (eligible for use with interest subsidy system) in upstream supply chains Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Note: “Optional” refers to ESCHER calculations provided by PwC Sustainability Co., Ltd. that are not available without loan products. Initiatives in Asset Management (Responsible Investment) Biodiversity Companies Support Fund In 2010, SuMi TRUST Group developed the world’s ﬁrst important component of natural capital, and uses those Japanese equity fund that evaluates the status of biodiverevaluations to screen and select stocks for investment. sity efforts at companies from a global perspective such as According to our research, no other Japanese equity fund is sustainable use and conservation of biological diversity, an designed around such a concept. Evaluation Axis for Selecting Companies for Investment 1 Risk management Companies that actively take measures to 2 Business opportunities Companies that provide technologies or 3 Long-term goals Companies that have set action plans or mitigate the impact their business activities services that preserve biodiversity other long-term goals for conserving biodihave on biodiversity* versity Investment Process Investment universe Listed companies in Japan Evaluation of (including emerging compaList of companies nies listed on TSE-operated the status of Portfolio with biodiversity Mothers, JASDAQ standard, biodiversity JASDAQ growth, and other commitments efforts markets for listing smaller companies with growth prospects) STEP 1: The Japan Research Institute STEP 2: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank STEP 3: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Surveys and analysis regarding the status Selection of stocks for investment Creation of portfolio of biodiversity efforts * An indicator of the magnitude of risk that the Natural Capital Efﬁciency Index will decrease that acts as a standard for measuring risk preparedness. With a focus on a company’s “material balance” reports, the index is calculated based on the relationship between each unit of sales and its energy, water, and waste outputs. In Japan, a company’s material balance shows the amount of resources used and the amount of materials with environmental impact that are produced (outputs) in business activities, at sites, and for products, including after-sales collection and recycling (inputs). The stages range from R&D/design, procurement, manufacture, and logistics/sales, to use by purchasers and recovery/recycling. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Property and Natural Capital Construction Consulting on How to Foster Biodiversity and Ecosystems Through the use of CASBEE for Properties*1 and JHEP*2 A building’s environmental performance is evaluated on many together, the environmental performance of properties can dimensions such as energy savings, global warming mitigabe improve across many dimensions, helping to increase tion measures, biodiversity, durability, and resource efﬁciency. overall property value. The value of buildings decline with age but the biodiverAt SuMi TRUST Bank, biodiversity considerations are sity value increases every year as the ecosystem surroundincluded in our menu of construction consulting services. ing it forms. These offsetting lifecycle patterns can maintain *1 CASBEE for Properties: The comprehensive assessment system for built environment the combined value of the building and site together as a efficiency (CASBEE) certification is an environmental performance evaluation system whole. Ecological networks can be created through the confor buildings being developed and promoted in Japan under the guidance of the nection of local sustainable-use sites, neighboring buildings Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT). *2 JHEP: JHEP is a system developed by the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan to and green nature reserves. quantitatively evaluate and certify efforts to contribute to the conservation and restoration of biodiversity. Change in property value with age (image) CASBEE for Properties JHEP (CASBEE: the comprehensive assessment (JHEP: Japan Habitat Evaluation and system for built environment efﬁciency) Certiﬁcation Program) Property value Key focus points for evaluation Key focus points for evaluation Property value certification certification • Better energy efﬁciency and envi• Improve natural value of biodiverronmental sustainability sity versus pre-project situation • Better intellectual and labor produc• Habitat well suited to native ﬂora/fauna Biodiversity value tivity, better indoor environments JHEP certification requirements for Evaluation items in CASBEE for new evaluations Properties 1 No net loss in natural value of 024 Building value 1 Energy/greenhouse gases biodiversity 2 Water 2 Quality of biodiversity exceeds the 3 Use of resources/safety minimum speciﬁed level Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 4 Biodiversity/sustainable site 3 No use of speciﬁed foreign inva5 Indoor environment sive species Time Increases Overall Property Value Dissemination of Information on Natural Capital Eco-Products in Japan Exhibition Natural Capital Study Group Held annually in December at Tokyo Big Sight, “EcoThe Natural Capital Study Group commenced in April 2013, Products in Japan” is one of the nation’s largest environmentchaired by Masaru Yarime, a Project Associate Professor in the related events. Science, Technology, and Innovation Governance Program at SuMi TRUST Bank’s booth had been focused on biodiTokyo University’s Graduate School of Public Policy. Its particiversity from 2007, but its exhibit theme since 2012 has been pants come from all walks of life, ranging from companies and natural capital. Its exhibit introduces visitors to how it is national and local governments to academics, research instituembedding natural capital into investment and loan prodtions, and NGOs. In an environment welcoming to open inquiry, ucts and real estate initiatives as well as its support for activiparticipants have so far engaged in a series of lively debates on ties of the National Trusts. Its natural capital booth has been the research topics of various members. The content of these well received by many companies and organizations. debates have been shared with external stakeholders via symposiums, environment-themed exhibits, and the like. In August 2015, the key points and ﬁndings of these discussions were organized, documented, and published as an introductory book on natural capital. With a focus on the challenges for national governments, local authorities, and companies, the book covers a wide range of themes, ranging from the historical context and global trends informing the growing debate on natural SuMi TRUST Bank’s exhibit capital to the initiatives of ﬁnancial instituat Eco-Products in Japan tions, companies, and local authorities in applying natural capital concepts. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 025 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Addressing the Issues of a Super-Aging Society by Using Our Financial Functions The birthrate in Japan is continuing to fall and the Trend in Aging Population and its Projection population is declining rapidly. With the population Actual Figures Projections (10 thousands) (%) of 65 years or older reaching 25%, our nation has 16,000 40.0 become a super-aging country without parallel elsewhere in the world and various social distortions are 12,000 30.0 beginning to emerge. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) actively supports successful 8,000 20.0 aging, seeking to ensure that our clients can continue to enjoy healthy, spiritually enriching lives as 4,000 10.0 they grow older. To this end, we use our financial functions to offer a range of information and solutions to the money worries of senior generations. 0 0 2013 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 (year) Population by Age Group 0-14 15-64 65-74 75 or over Percentage of Population Aged 65 or Older Sources: Figures for 2013 are from the “Population Census” (as of October 1, 2013), Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications; estimates for 2015 and beyond are based on the medium-fertility (medium-mortality) projection from the “Population Projections for Japan (January 2012),” National Institute of Population and Social Security Research. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Support for Successful Aging 1 Effective Use of Assets for Security and Peace of Mind in Old Age Wrap Accounts/Life Reassurance Package Customers eligible for this service are people aged 40 to SuMi TRUST Bank offers discretionary investment 65 who apply for the Foreign Currency Revolution (deposit management products (wrap accounts). We suggest a period: 1 year, automatic renewal). For each 3 million yen management plan suited to the client, who then concludes tranche of deposits deposited by customers, 500,000 yen a discretionary investment contract, entrusting all decisions will be paid to them if they have been hospitalized with canrelating to the management of their investment—including cer for a total of 31 days or more or if they are recognized buying and selling—to SuMi TRUST Bank to undertake on as requiring Level 2 or a higher level of long-term nursing their behalf. Clients aged between 40 and 65 who have care. As long as the Foreign Currency Revolution contract applied for a wrap account can also apply free of charge for remains in effect, the insurance coverage remains valid witha Life Reassurance Package, a service that features cancer out a need for the customers to pay insurance premiums (the and nursing care insurance. (SuMi TRUST Bank bears the insurance premium cost will be borne by SuMi TRUST Bank). cost of the premiums.) Reverse Mortgages A reverse mortgage is a loan that supports an enriching secMechanism of Life Reassurance Package ond life. SuMi TRUST Bank began offering reverse mortFor each contract sum of ¥5 million invested in a wrap gages in March 2005, which lend funds to allow clients to account, SuMi TRUST Bank will put in place ¥1 million (1 live comfortably in their retirement years by using their resiunit) of insurance against either cancer or nursing care. dence as collateral. The funds can be received in an annual Increasing the contract sum through additional investments speciﬁed amount like a pension, or at any time in an amount allows the client to build up the level of assurance with a within a certain predetermined limit, with their residence 026 combination of cancer and nursing care insurance. serving as the collateral. This product enables them to use the money for any purSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report pose other than as a business loan, so that they can not only Increasing the contract Cancer use it to enjoy their free time, but also to fund renovations to sum also increases a sense insurance of security (1 unit) their residence or as a lump sum payment when moving into 1 million yen (insurance benefits) a nursing home. Cancer Cancer insurance insurance (1 unit) (1 unit) 1 million yen 1 million yen Relocation and Renovation Nursing care Nursing care Nursing care Renovation Loans insurance insurance insurance Some people need to carry out renovations to accommo(1 unit) (1 unit) (1 unit) 1 million yen 1 million yen 1 million yen date reduced mobility or the need for nursing care, in order to continue living in their familiar residence. Sumitomo Mitsui (Contract Sum) Cancer Cancer Cancer Cancer insurance insurance insurance insurance Trust Panasonic Finance offer renovation loans to support (1 unit) (1 unit) (1 unit) (1 unit) our clients in housing to live comfortably after retirement. 1 million yen 1 million yen 1 million yen 1 million yen Bridge Loans for Sales of Real Estate 5 million 10 million 15 million 20 million 25 million yen yen yen yen yen As their family structure and physical condition changes, *Illustration quite a few people ﬁnd that they want to sell their residence to move into a nursing home or a condominium in an area where transport is more convenient. To ensure that clients do Foreign Currency Revolution not have to rush to sell their precious real estate, Sumitomo Reassurance Package Mitsui Trust Loan & Finance offers bridge loans for sales of In December 2014, SuMi TRUST Bank developed the “Foreign real estate, providing them with support as they seek a new Currency Revolution Reassurance Package,” the ﬁrst service home that suits their post-retirement lifestyle. in the trust banking industry to attach cancer and nursing care In addition, our realty company Sumitomo Mitsui Trust insurance coverage to foreign-currency time deposits (called Realty offers clients help with selling their old home and buy“Foreign Currency Revolution”) without any extra fee, in parting a new one. nership with Cardif-Assurances Risques Divers. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 2 Helping People to Manage Their Post-Retirement Assets Safely Anshin Support Trust (Money Trust) kinship, etc.) must consent to a request by the contracting SuMi TRUST Bank offers Anshin Support Trust, a product party for a payment from deposited funds before the that leverages the unique functions of a trust bank to provide payout can be executed. For everyday living expenses, mediumto long-term, made-to-order support for the presthe contracting party can withdraw up to 200,000 yen ervation and management of clients’ precious assets for their per month periodically even without the consent of the sake as well as their families’. Two types of Anshin Support Trust co-signer. are available: a “money trust” and a “life insurance trust.” Through a structure that requires the consent of a As for the money trusts, the trustor him/herself (self benfamily member, the product offers preventative security eﬁt trust) or another person (third-party beneﬁt trust) can be against ﬁnancial crime and protects the precious assets named as the trust beneﬁciary. In this way, trust assets are disand family members of our clients. bursed according to the client’s wishes, to him/herself, family members, charities, or any other bodies. In the case of a selfGuardianship System Support Trust beneﬁt trust, for example, if a client is considering moving into The Guardianship System Support Trust is a trust designed a nursing home, but has nobody to whom they can entrust the to protect the assets of the ward and contribute to the stamanagement and conservation of their precious assets and are bility of his or her living into the future. The money placed concerned about what would happen if they were to develop in trust is paid out as a speciﬁed sum paid regularly to the dementia in the future, SuMi TRUST Bank would pay their ward, under a special provision established in accordance monthly residence fees on their behalf, without fail. with a written instruction of the family court. Mechanism of Money Trust Guardianship System Support Trust (3) Disbursement of living Submission of an (1) Establishment of trust expenses, educational Ward of adult application form, etc. Sumitomo Mitsui (contract or will) funds, etc. guardianship Money entrusted Trust Bank 027 (trustor and beneficiary) (trustee) Jointly operated Jointly operated designated Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report designated money Trustor him/herself, money trust with special clause trust with special family member(s), attached (principal guaranteed) clause attached Related guardian/ Management charity (charities), (principal guaranteed) professional guardian of money etc. (beneficiary) Money disbursed (legal representative) according to written Client Giving concurrence and instructions of family court (trustor) directions with respect to Report Instructions disbursement of assets to (2) Money entrusted beneficiary Family court Person authorized to give directions Sumitomo Mitsui (individual Trust Bank (trustee) related to trust) Security Trust Consultations and Inquiries related to In view of the growing sophistication of ﬁnancial crime, Adult Guardianship System SuMi TRUST Bank commenced offering a Security Trust, Under agreements concluded with the Legal-Support Adult a new product for protecting client assets, in September Guardian Center (Legal-Support) and some regional lawyers’ 2015. This product is structured so pre-designated a associations, SuMi TRUST Bank refers customers’ consultaco-signer (a relative as far removed as the third degree of tions and inquiries related to the adult guardianship system to Legal-Support and the associations. Customers can consult with judicial scriveners recommended by Legal-Support Steps in Requesting Payout and lawyers recommended by regional lawyers’ associations. When there is no relative suited to act as a person (1) Initiates request for consent of payout authorized to give directions and concurrence with regard Contracting Party Co-signer to Anshin Support Trust, a voluntary guardianship contract (2) Consents to payout may be concluded with a reliable lawyer or judicial scrivener, designating him/her as the person authorized to give (3) Issues notification for payout directions and concurrence with regard to Anshin Support (signed and sealed by contracting party and co-signer) Trust. Through the combination of the voluntary guardSumitomo Mitsui ianship system and the trust service, administration of the Trust Bank assets of the adult ward can be better ensured. (4) Payment released from trust assets Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 3 Helping with Lifestyles of Family and Relatives Special Donation Trust The special donation trust is a product for the purpose of con“Speciﬁed persons with disabilities” who become bentributing to stable living into the future for speciﬁed persons eﬁciaries are divided into “special persons with disabilities” with disabilities. With this trust, funds donated are managed and “other speciﬁed persons with disabilities” according to securely by SuMi TRUST Bank through jointly operated desigthe degree of disability. Special persons with disabilities may nated money trusts and other instruments, and disbursed to receive up to 60 million yen tax-free in periodic installments the speciﬁed person with disabilities by the bank on behalf of to cover living costs or medical expenses, while other specithe client. ﬁed persons with disabilities may receive up to 30 million yen without paying tax. Structure of Special Donation Trusts Special donation Payment of living, medical Anshin Support Trust (Life Insurance Trust) trust and other Anshin Support Trust (Life Insurance Trust), co-developed contract expenses Client Special Beneficiary’s by SuMi TRUST Bank and Prudential Life Insurance Co., Sumitomo disabled person representative trustor Ltd., makes it possible to ﬂexibly design the trust service in and Mitsui Trust beneficiary Concurrence, and communidonor Bank recipient cation, etc. advance with regard to the provision method and usage of (trustee) of bequest life insurance beneﬁts. For example, the trust service can Money entrusted be designed such that if a customer dies, beneﬁts are paid out as necessary while being protected to cover education Acting as an agent, giving Deemed donations concurrence and directions with expenses for their children. respect to various transactions on behalf of beneficiaries 028 Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) Family Consideration Trust (Annuity) In the event of a bereavement, family members have to This product ensures a regular payment from the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report deal with various procedures, including arrangements for deposited assets in trust, offering bereaved family the funeral and inheritance-related procedures. The Family members a sense of security in their daily lives after the Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) is a product that, in the client‘s death. event of a client’s death, pays out the deposited assets in We manage the deposited assets in trust and suptrust to a recipient designated in advance by the client from port their family by making a regular monthly payment among their legal heirs so as to cover interim expenses and to cover living costs to a recipient designated in advance funeral costs. by the client from among their legal heirs. Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) Family Consideration Trust (Annuity) • Apply for Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) • Application for Family Consideration Trust (Annuity) Client • Money entrusted Client • Money entrusted (trustor and • Designate recipient of assets in trust (trustor and • Designate recipient of assets in trust beneficiary) beneficiary) Sumitomo Sumitomo Client’s death Mitsui Client’s death Mitsui Trust • At SuMi TRUST Bank Head Office, apply for payment Trust • At SuMi TRUST Bank Head Office, apply for payment Bank from Family Consideration Trust (Annuity) Bank Family from Family Consideration Trust (Lump Sum) (trustee) Family • Designate payee bank account (trustee) member member (recipient of (recipient of • Advice regarding payment method • Advice regarding payment method and assets in trust) assets in trust) confirmation of payee bank account • Payment of assets in trust • Payment of assets in trust The recipient of the assets in trust receives them as a lump sum. The recipient of the assets in trust receives them as a regular payment. Deposit into Deposit into Application Application money trust money trust Death Death (Lump Sum) (principal (Lump Sum) (Annuity) (principal (Annuity) Trust fund Trust fund Trust fund (Annuity) guaranteed) guaranteed) Trust fund (Annuity) Trust fund Trust fund The recipient of the assets in trust receives them as a lump The recipient of the assets in trust receives them as sum, as a payment for interim expenses or funeral costs. a regular monthly payment for living expenses. Illustration Illustration Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 4 Helping People to Pass on a Variety of Assets Smoothly to the Next Generation Helping Still-Living Clients to Give to the Next Generation Annual Donation Support Trust funds by SuMi TRUST Bank when a request for payment is Annual Donation Support Trust is a service that supports received from the grandchild, etc. If payment is made to a the implementation of procedures for lifetime donation to school or other educational institution, an exemption from relatives, such as compilation of a donation contract. Each gift tax will be provided, up to a maximum of ¥15 million per year, SuMi TRUST Bank provides customers with informagrandchild, etc. tion on documents necessary for the donation, helping them to not miss the opportunity for donation. This service Wedding and Child-Rearing Support Trust makes it easy to execute lifetime donations. Once each The wedding and child-rearing trust is based on a tax year, SuMi TRUST Bank sends a donation report to both exemption from the gift tax for lump-sum donations to the donor and recipient. cover funds for a wedding or raising a child. Through this tax system preference created in the 2015 amendment to the Tuition Fund Endowment Trust tax system, up to 10 million yen can be given as a tax-free (also referred to as “Thinking of Our Grandchildren”) lump-sum donation for wedding or child-rearing purposes An exemption from the gift tax has been created for lumpto a child or grandchild who is at least age 20 up until he sum donations to cover tuition funds, allowing grandparents or she turns age 50. As disbursements are made from a to make a tax-free lump-sum donation to grandchildren, etc. “money trust” that requires receipts conﬁrming payments aged under 30, to help with tuition fees and other educafor wedding or child-rearing purposes, this product can tional costs. clearly be the answer for donors who want their gifts to be Funds deposited with SuMi TRUST Bank as tuition funds used for marriage or child-rearing purposes. 029 for a grandchild, etc. via this product are paid out as tuition Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Helping with Smooth Planning for Inheritances Estate Planning Meanwhile, to customers who wish to contribute their legEstate planning is a service that provides support (consultacy to social and public goods, SuMi TRUST Bank provides ing) aimed at summing up the client’s wishes regarding the information on the “donation through bequeathal” system. succession of their assets and drawing up a speciﬁc plan This system supports people who wish to bequeath their legfor this. Using the know-how that we have built up over acy (donation by way of a will) to such organizations as public decades in the ﬁeld of asset management, inheritance, and foundations, incorporated organizations, incorporated eduwill-related services, SuMi TRUST Bank offers the following cational institutions and recognized non-proﬁt organizations consultation services. through SuMi TRUST Bank’s will trust business function. Will Trusts One-Stop Inheritance Service SuMi TRUST Bank offers a will trust service to support the sucSuMi TRUST Bank offers a One-Stop Inheritance Service cession to the next generation of various assets, including to ensure that complex inheritance procedures proceed deposits, securities, and real estate, in accordance with the smoothly. More speciﬁcally, upon application by an heir, we client’s wishes. There are two following courses for Will Trusts: will provide support and carry out the following procedures on their behalf, according to their request. • Conﬁrmation of the legal heirs Execution Course: SuMi TRUST Bank holds wills under • Investigation and identiﬁcation of inherited property its custody and undertakes their exe• Advice in discussions concerning the division of the estate cution when the inheritance process • Change of name on savings and securities and/or their starts. conversion into cash (we will carry out the procedures preCustody Course: SuMi TRUST Bank holds wills under scribed by each ﬁnancial institution on the heir’s behalf) its custody and hands them over to • Change of name on real estate the heirs when the inheritance pro• Advice concerning allowances to pay tax obligations, such cess starts. as income tax and inheritance tax Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 5 Dealing with Dementia-Related Problems Dementia is a disease which accompanies aging. Dementia, a rapidly increasing. Among people aged 65 or older, around one typical example of which is Alzheimer’s disease, causes disabiliin seven people is presumed to be suffering from dementia, and ties, including memory and judgment problems, by undermining if people afﬂicted with MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment), which is the brains’ functions, making it difﬁcult for the patient to lead a regarded as a pre-dementia stage, are included, the proportion social life and communicate with other people. As Japan’s poprises to one in four. This means that a certain percentage of our ulation ages, the number of people suffering from dementia is customers are presumed to be suffering from dementia. Current Status of Dementia among People Aged 65 or Older (estimate as of 2010) (1) Elderly people with dementia recognized as requiring long-term nursing care Approx. (Daily life independence level II or higher) Elderly people with dementia 2.8 million (2) Elderly people recognized as Approx. 4.39 million requiring long-term nursing care (Around 15% of the total) Approx. (Daily life independence level I) or elderly people with dementia not recognized 1.6 million Total as requiring long-term nursing care 28.74 million (3) Elderly people with MCI Approx. 3.8 million (13% of the total) (4) Healthy elderly people Approx. 20.54 million Source: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare 030 Participation in Industry-Academia Partnership on how the ﬁnancial industry should respond to the deepening Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report concerning Dementia problem of dementia in an aging society was broad and multiLed by the Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, the dimensional. Widening the record of debate proceedings on this COLTEM project for “a development center of social technoloissue to signatories of the Principles for Financial Action in the 21st gies integrating law, engineering and medicine that seamlessly Century has raised important questions for the ﬁnancial industry. support community life for the elderly from the period of sound health to the onset of dementia” is subsidized by the Ministry Workshop on Becoming a Supporter for of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology. SuMi People with Dementia TRUST Bank belongs to the ﬁnancial satellite team under this The nurturing of “Dementia Supporters” is an initiative orgaproject and is a collaborator in the effort to create a manual nized by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, with for ﬁnancial institutions for responding to people with dementhe aim of creating a “society in which people can live with a tia. Premised on the supposition that the client is a person with sense of security even with dementia.” With the aim of traindementia, the satellite team has solicited a wide variety of viewing employees as Dementia Supporters, SuMi TRUST Bank points on how this premise would affect face-to-face sales with is holding a course called the Workshop on Becoming a dementia sufferers and product development. Supporter for People with Dementia at each of our branches SuMi TRUST Bank was the lead sponsor of a symposium on across the country. Participating employees are certiﬁed as the themes of ﬁnance and dementia held on October 16, 2015 Dementia Supporters after taking a course lasting about an in collaboration with COLTEM hour, which covers such matters as the symptoms of demenand Principles for Financial tia, problems that can occur at ﬁnancial institutions, and ways Action in the 21st Century of dealing with people who have dementia. As a result, many (see Page 128), for which the employees have acquired deeper understanding of dementia. Group serves as chair of the steering committee. Participant at a Dementia Symposium in Kagoshima The debate at the symposium At a Shigakukan University-sponsored symposium in Kagoshima Prefecture in July 2015 on “People with Dementia, and Future Society Creation,” SuMi TRUST Bank discussed in an integrated Themes manner how the appropriateness principle, the legal guardian • For a society where the elderly can live with peace of mind: system for adults, etc. are relevant to the issue of “asset adminA legal perspective • Financial business practices for elderly clients: A medical perspective istration for elderly people with dementia,” raising questions • What ﬁnancial institutions seek: A social welfare perspective on how the industry should respond on this front. • Financial transactions and legal guardianship system for adults: A lawyer’s perspective Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 6 Collaborating with Diverse Stakeholders Participants in Comprehensive Regional Care themselves. One form of self-help is preparation, but there are not Comprehensive regional care is a necessary support system to many places where people can learn systematically what speciﬁenable the elderly to continue to live in ways that suit them in the cally they should do to be prepared for an aging society. Silver place they are most comfortable until they reach their ﬁnal days. College is a place where our clients can learn how to be prepared We think SuMi TRUST Bank can play an important role as a ﬁnanfrom some of the best instructors. cial institution that shoulders a responsibility for managing elderly The Silver College seminar curriculum organizes the issues facclient assets. Some branches have commenced trial initiatives on ing an aging society into four categories. this theme. The Omori Branch is a participant in Ota Ward’s progressive Category 1: A Safe, Secure Post-Retirement Lifestyle network to look out for elderly citizens, a scheme the comprehen• What is a longevity diet? sive regional care support center is promoting. The branch par• Be prepared for remittance fraud ticipates in the urban-based comprehensive regional care system • From a focus on growth to safety in asset management that collaborates with diverse stakeholders. In close collaboration with local communities that work closely Category 2: Residence Options for Old Age • Thinking about residence variations with nearby Higashi Saitama General Hospital, the Sugito Branch • Growing old at home is actively cooperating with promotion of the area’s comprehen• Relocating to a residence for the elderly sive regional care system. At a seminar on feeling secure living as a senior the branch sponsored, we invited the promotion ofﬁce of Category 3: Thinking about Dementia an in-home medical care coordinating enterprise to speak on the • Properly understanding dementia, ensuring a sense of security topic of the nursing care and medical systems that support healthy • Effective use of the legal guardianship system for seniors living (see Page 114). • Using trusts for dementia response Category 4: A Departure You’ll Be Happy with 031 • How to face your ﬁnal days in a manner of your choosing • Asset succession for future generations (wills, inheritances) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report The curriculum for Silver College seminars at our provincial branches takes into account regional characteristics. The Tottori Branch, for example, has developed its own curriculum around the themes of safety and peace of mind: “AntiSilver College Seminars crime measures for seniors exposed to crime,” “How to use Many seniors hope to live out their golden years safely with peace gas safely,” and “The status of regional support and public of mind. SuMi TRUST Bank offers Silver College seminars espeadministrative government services for seniors.” Many clicially for this generation of seniors at our branches across Japan. ents who attended were supportive of the seminars. One There are three system or function concepts seen as necessary for told us “I was so impressed with Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank an aging society: assistance (medical and nursing care), mutual aid delivering a message to our region about how to live better, (giving and receiving help), and self-help where people protect fuller lives.” A Departure You’ll Be Happy with Japan will be the ﬁrst population in history to achieve average life expectancies of 90 years and even 100 years. There is no model for how people should interact when old age can last for more than thirty years. What is necessary to stay in good health? How, where and with who will we live? And how will we come to terms with old age? It will be necessary for us to learn anew how these issues affect each of us. In particular, it is necessary to work through many kinds of information, think about the implications, and decide what to do so we can live in ways that feel right International Longevity Center to us until we die a natural death while coming to terms with disease, the biggest Japan (ILC-Japan) Secretary General risk for seniors. Yoko Shido What do we need to do to live out our ﬁnal days with peace of mind and in accordance with our convictions? I hope we can think through these questions together. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 7 Increasing Literacy concerning Gerontology Wellbeing Knowledge Examination Partnership with ILC-Japan Japan is becoming a super-aging society without parallel As a member of the Advisory Board of ILC-Japan, the elsewhere in the world. No country needs gerontology, an Japanese branch of the International Longevity Center, an interdisciplinary ﬁeld on topics relating to aging, as much as international alliance of organizations focused on gerontolJapan. At SuMi TRUST Bank, our branch general managers, ogy, SuMi TRUST Bank participates in a group sponsored which often interact with customers at our branch ofﬁces, by ILC-Japan called Seminars on the are setting an example and studying gerontology, and all Lifestyles of Long-Lived Societies. of them have or will take the Wellbeing Knowledge Exam, We work with ILC-Japan on many which is run by the Society for Applied Gerontology-Japan. issues, and a mini-handbook we Students of gerontology study a wide assortment of subjointly published called “The Healthy jects relating to seniors, how seniors live, health, successCentenarian’s Encyclopedia” conful aging, nursing-care insurance, and pension systems. Our tains information about our Silver aim at SuMi TRUST Bank is to encourage even more of our College seminars (see Page 31) and employees to study gerontology so we can become a bank information on aging societies. that is genuinely necessary for a super-aging society. Growing Necessity of Gerontology Many countries are on the verge of becoming aging societies to a degree experienced nowhere else in human history. We will no longer be able to venture forth relying solely on learning from an existing academic discipline and the experiences of those who came before 032 us. In anticipation of just such an aging society, the ﬁeld of gerontology ﬁrst developed around the turn of the 20th century. Gerontology translates into Japanese as “Ronengaku.” It is a multidisciplinary practice that integrates many ﬁelds that have splintered into separate Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report silos and narrow communities, a pattern that goes back to the Renaissance. Gerontology asks how people change as they age. Its aim is to scientiﬁcally examine the Society for Applied kinds of problems—emotional, physical, economic, etc.—people face as they reach middle Gerontology-Japan President and old age. It also seeks understanding on growing older and the problems of an aging Hiroshi Shibata society from the arts and humanities such as philosophy, religion, literature, etc. One sub(Professor Emeritus at J.F. ﬁeld in gerontology is its application to senior businesses such as developing products, Oberlin University) services and markets for seniors. Applied gerontology also encompasses life-long learning and our attitudes toward death and dying (thanatology, e.g. end-of-life studies). For those thinking of policies or management in an aging society, for those aiming to build a senior-friendly business, for those involved with education in schools and lifelong learning, gerontology is a necessity in the society that awaits us in the 21st century. The insights gerontology offers are vital for those active in volunteer activities and for those who interact with elderly relatives and friends at home. I would encourage people at SuMi TRUST Bank who have or will soon start studying to become a wellbeing concierge with a mastery of core gerontology subjects to work hard and pass the certiﬁcation exams. 8 Property Business Incorporating Facilities Supporting Super-Aging Society Developing Finance for Investment Trusts Focused on Health Care Amid growing needs for a stepped-up supply of health for-proﬁt nursing homes, residences for the elderly with care facilities such as nursing-care and medical facilities care services, medical malls, etc. Health care REITs use loan as the country becomes a super-aging society, there are proceeds for health care facility acquisitions and various growing expectations J-REITs will be a supplier of stable, related costs. long-term funding. Against this backdrop, SuMi TRUST The addition of another investment category is expected Bank has started to develop loans for health care REITs, to offer diversiﬁcation beneﬁts for investors, so the listing of which focus on investment in health care facilities such as health care REITs is expected to attract funds for investment Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 into health care facilities. The heath care REITs are also strong demand for housing for the elderly in cities desigexpected to have secondary beneﬁts such as encouraging nated by government ordinance and surrounding commuquality improvements in operators of health care facilities. nities, especially in and around Japan’s three largest urban SuMi TRUST Bank has implemented two loan packages centers, and we think contributing to the healthy formation for health care REITs, and as of July 2015, including these, of an aging society from the vantage point of funding supthe number of loan-ﬁnanced facilities stands at 30. There is ply is our social responsibility as a ﬁnancial institution. Flowchart of a Health-Care REIT Health-care REIT Asset custodian Capitalized Loan consignment contract expenses (cash loans for consumption) Asset custodian Financial institutions Shareholders’ Loans registry management consignment contract Health-care Investors’ registry manager facilities Administrative work consignment contract Residences for Administrative agent elderly & medical facilities Equity Equity investment Long-term Investor whole-building lease Operator Asset management agreement Advisory contract Planning & operation advisor Asset manager 033 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Securitization Business for Healthcare Facilities SuMi TRUST Bank is actively engaging in the securitization custodian and general administrative work agent. Healthcare business related to real estate investment trusts (REITS) and & Medical Investment Corporation (SuMi TRUST Bank entrustprivately placed funds incorporating healthcare facilities such ment), established in December 2014, provides various supas for-proﬁt nursing homes, residences for the elderly with port services in cooperation with customers. care services and hospitals. As of November 2015, entrusted balance of assets at SuMi TRUST Bank came to 96 billion yen, Outline of the Real Estate Administration and including a total of 52 facilities. Disposal Trusts In the securitization business related to REITS and priTrustor New beneficiary vately placed funds, SuMi TRUST Bank uses the scheme of a owner of the Effective owner real estate administration and disposal trust. The real estate real estate (3) Transfer of the trust of the real estate beneficiary right administration and disposal trust business refers to transfer of real estate ownership from the trustor (real estate owner) (1) Real (2) Trust to the trustee (trust bank) followed by administration, manestate beneficiary (4) Dividend agement and disposal of the real estate by the trustee based trust right on directions given by the beneﬁciary and the distribution of Master lease arrangement proﬁts thus generated (mainly rent revenue minus expenses) as dividends to the beneﬁciary. Master lease As the pioneer of the real estate trust business, SuMi company End tenant Trustee Lease (Lessee) Re-lease Re-lessee TRUST Bank has so far been involved in a number of innova(Trust bank) or tive cases using real estate administration and disposal trusts. lessee In the real estate securitization business as well, SuMi TRUST Lease Bank has a record of managing numerous trusts and handling Direct lease arrangement a wide range of real estate assets, including ofﬁces, houses, (1) The trustor (owner of the real estate) entrusts the real estate to the hotels, and distribution and commercial facilities. SuMi TRUST trustee (trust bank) (The ownership of the real estate is transferred from the trustor to the trustee). Bank has the largest amount of entrusted real estate assets (2) The trustor acquires the trust beneficiary right in exchange, becoming the among Japanese trust banks at about 12.5 trillion yen as of initial beneficiary. November 2015. (3) The trustor transfers the trust beneficiary right to the buyer (new beneficiary). Moreover, in addition to engaging in the real estate securi(4) The trustee distributes profits generated from management of the real tization business, SuMi TRUST Bank is also REIT-related asset estate as dividends to the new beneficiary. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 034 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Various Solutions Using Trust Functions Under the trust system, trustors enact trust activiTrust Mechanism ties, such as trust agreements and wills, to transTrustee fer their property including money and estate to a (Trust bank) trustee, who the trustors can rely on. The trustee, Trust Monitoring, then, administers the trust property for the benagreement, Defining supervision rights will the purpose eficiaries in accordance with aims defined by the of the trust, Distribution of income from transferring trustors. The trustee is highly responsible for a property trust assets duty of loyalty and other obligations. Based on our “Trustee Spirit,” Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Entruster Beneficiaries (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) is working towards resolving social issues. Duty of due care of a prudent manager Administration Duty of loyalty Duty to segregate property, etc. Trust assets (Source: Trust Companies Association of Japan) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Mechanism of Using Donations and Other Funds to Solve Social Issues Charitable Trusts A charitable trust is a system in which funds are entrusted to What public interest is it to serve and what sort of granta trust bank that administers and manages the funds to carry ing process will it implement? The trust can be arranged to out charitable activities in a pre-determined way. For example, reﬂect the client’s instructions on the monetary size of the these trusts may be used by individuals wishing to provide funds grants (scholarships), the number, the regional scope, or the for charitable activities or by companies that wish to return a terms of eligibility. portion of their proﬁts to society. They have been used in a wide Since Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) range of ﬁelds, including the provision of academic scholarships, began managing its ﬁrst charitable trust in 1977, the number support of environmental protection activities, and promotion of trusts under its management has steadily risen, and they of international cooperation and international exchanges. fund grants in various charitable ﬁelds. Charitable trusts are often named for the trustor, so his As of March 2015, there are 203 charitable trusts with total or her aspirations can be remembered for years to come assets of 33.5 billion yen under our management. In ﬁscal by many people. Moreover, to ensure the public interest is year 2014, grants from charitable trust totaling 1.3 billion yen served in accordance with the client’s intentions, a charitawere provided to 3,050 bodies in total (including individuals) ble trust can be “order made” to ﬁt the client’s instructions. for activities that serve the public interest. Mechanism of Charitable Trusts List of Charitable Trusts by Donation Type (as of March 2015) Client Number of trusts (fund provider = entruster) Type under management Grant recipient Scholarship 73 035 Consultation Promotion of natural science research 38 Grant recipient Conclusion of Implementation of Promotion of human science research 5 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report a charitable trust agreement public-interest activity Grant recipient Promotion of education 22 Day-to-day management Social welfare 10 Grant recipient Provision Sumitomo Mitsui Financial management Promotion of arts and culture 10 of grants Grant recipient Trust Bank Protection and propagation of (trustee) 1 animals and plants Conservation of the natural Exercise of the authority Nomination of a grant 8 granted under the recipient and advice and environment Permission Trust Act and Supervision recommendations Development and maintenance of consent in Application concerning 17 important Submission of a important matters the urban environment matters report on the status of trust Promotion of international 14 assets cooperation and exchanges Other 5 Management Trust executor Government ministry committee, etc. Total 203 Charitable Trust: Ohba Town Development Fund The Ohba Town Development Fund was established on September 11, 2015 with the authorization of Miyagi Prefecture to support post-disaster rebuilding in the prefecture by trustor Ohba Co., Ltd. Through assistance to individuals and organizations actively working on town redevelopment in Miyagi Prefecture, the fund aims to spur town redevelopment led by residents, sustain communities, and foster vibrant, rich local cultures. In commemoration of its listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange ﬁrst section, Ohba established the fund in part as a way of giving back to Miyagi Prefecture, where it set up a branch ofﬁce long ago to conduct business as a member of the local community. Miyagi Prefecture is thankful for the timely establishment of the fund at a juncture four and half years removed from the earthquake and tsunami, because it expects the private sector to play a growing role in its reconstruction efforts. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Policy 4 ility Policy Sustainability ainability Sustainability Policy 5 Su Sustainability Policy 6 Social Contribution Donation Trust SuMi TRUST Bank offers social contribution donation trusts ts (also referred to as “Bridge to Tomorrow”) intended to make e donations to charitable organizations etc. engaged in social contribution activities. Through the trust, clients can choose donation recipients from a list of organizations that SuMi Donors receive a “Nature’s TRUST Bank provides and donate one-ﬁfth of the original Bounty” gift (above) every year along with a report trust principal once a year. (Donors can change donation (below) on sites protected recipients each year.) These clients receive reports from the by Natural Trusts. recipient on how the donations were used and what activities were conducted. SuMi TRUST Bank supports activities regarding not only the environment but also various themes including education, medical care, academia, and culture through social contribution donation trusts. List of Donation Recipients (as of April 1, 2015) World Wide Fund for Nature Japan Environment (WWF Japan) Environment Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan National Federation of UNESCO Education Associations in Japan Medicine Japan Cancer Society 036 Mechanism of Social Contribution Donation Trusts Social welfare Japan Guide Dog Association International medical Application for social Médecins Sans Frontières Japan contribution Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report support donation trust Donation transferred Academics The Japan Prize Foundation Designation of recipient (in November of each year) Culture Japan Arts Council Client Recipient Disaster reconstruction Central Community Chest of Japan support (disaster relief for the Great East Japan Earthquake) Sumitomo Mitsui Support for children The Nippon Foundation Trust Bank (trustee) Support for sports for Special Olympics Nippon Foundation people with disabilities Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto Receipt for donation sent Medicine University Activities report sent Designated Donation Trusts SuMi TRUST Bank offers designated donation trusts, which recipients can be chosen from beyond the list of organizawere created based on the ﬁscal year 2011 revision to the tions SuMi TRUST Bank provides. Regular donations are tax system. Investment returns are exempt from taxation and made over a period of either ﬁve or ten years to the desigcan be donated together with the trust principle. Donation nated recipient. Choosing ECS-J as a Donation Recipient Supports National Trusts’ Activities For social contribution donation trusts, the selection of Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan (ECS-J) as a donation recipient supports the activities of the Association of National Trusts in Japan, an organization that aims to protect nature by purchasing land that forms the natural habitat of endangered species in Japan. Support has been ongoing in particular in three regions for National Trusts’ activities: habitat for the endangered Tsushima leopard cat in Nagasaki Prefecture’s Tsushima, habitat for the endangered Amami rabbit in Kagoshima Prefecture’s Amami Oshima, and the site of Japan’s northern-most native beech forest in the Hokkaido region’s Kuromatsunai-cho. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Social Contribution Scheme Using Treasury Shares Trusts for Managing Loaned-Out Shares SuMi TRUST Bank offers trust schemes for companies to SuMi TRUST Bank offers trusts for managing loaned-out donate dividend income from their treasury holdings to pubshares so shareholders can donate dividend income tax free lic interest foundations etc. as a way to contribute to society. to public interest foundations etc. Using this trust, shareThe voting rights with treasury shares placed in such trusts holders lend shares without compensation to NPOs etc. in reside with SuMi TRUST Bank. a scheme that enables them to offer ongoing support to the In ﬁscal year 2014, SuMi TRUST Bank, in conjunction with designated stock borrower in the form of tax-free dividend Toyota Motor Corp. (trustor) and Toyota Mobility Foundation income from the shares. (beneﬁciary), commenced initiatives using this scheme. In ﬁscal year 2014, SuMi TRUST Bank commenced efforts In this case, the dividend income is used for many issues, to encourage interested parties to set up such trusts with from narrowing the mobility disparity in emerging nations the Center for iPS Cell Research and Application at Kyoto and activities to promote healthy development of the auto University as the designated stock borrower. industry to funding cutting-edge technological and systems research in developed markets. Shareholder De facto stock lending Foundations* etc. Share lender Share borrower • Allotment of treasury shares Shares placed Receives cash from • Dividends Dividends held in trust in a trust trust dividends (Donation) Shares (Trustee) (Trustor) Sumitomo (Beneficiary) Mitsui Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank 037 Stock issuer NPOs*, Trust Bank Trustee (Trust for managing foundations** loaned-out shares) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Shares For such trusts, the nominal shareholder is “Japan * General incorporated foundations Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account).” ** Public interest foundations * Public interest foundations Center for iPS Cell Research and Application at Kyoto University The Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA) at Kyoto University is a world-leading core research institution specializing in iPS cell research. Led by Director Shinya Yamanaka, the 2012 Nobel Prize winner in Physiology or Medicine, the center aims to harness iPS cell technologies to develop more effective medical treatments for patients hoping for them. iPS cell technologies are a breakthrough technology developed in Japan with the potential to create better medical treatments for intractable diseases like Parkinson’s disease, hard-to-diagnosis disHuman iPS cells eases like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), blood diseases, diabetes, and those suffering from painful injuries. CiRA pursues its research activities with the aim of accelerating the realization of medical treatments derived from iPS cell applications. A U.S. research center linked to Professor Yamanaka has received many donations from individuals and corporations, and such donations provide a solid ﬁnancial basis for research centers, Dr. Yamanaka argues. We agree with this and have set up “trusts for managing loaned-out shares” and “social contribution donation trusts” as sources of support for CiRA. In connection with our support for the above, we invited CiRA’s Takehiro Matsuda to be a speaker at the successful aging support seminar we hosted at the Kyoto-Shijo Branch in August 2015. Everyone gathered for the seminar listened eagerly to his lecture on research using iPS cells and the promise of regenerative medicine. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 IR/SR/ESG Consulting in Stock Transfer Agency Services Business Stock Transfer Agency Services ESG Consulting Services The stock transfer agency services business undertakes Among institutional investors mostly in Europe that invest on stock-related services on behalf of stock-issuing companies. a medium-to-long term horizon, ESG has become increasIts operations include: ingly prominent. SuMi TRUST Bank appeals to stock issu• Administering shareholder registries and sending out ers on the importance of IR/SR/CSR activities in view of the invitations to general shareholders’ meetings aforementioned trend, and we are developing our ESG solu• Administration on capital increases, stock splits, and tion services in support of broadening our ties with mediumother stock-related matters to-long term investors, especially those based overseas, and • Offering various consulting services of stock-related of seeking to win their trust (see Page 42). professional work on, for example, general shareholders’ meetings 1 2 Defining desired overseas instituIdentifying issues in IR/SR* Consulting Services tional investors based on the conaccordance with the The Group has a “dedicated IR/SR team to provide IR/SR cepts of medium-to-long-term investors’ attributes holding and engagement support” in the Stock Transfer Agency Business Advisory Department, and provides IR and SR support services, taking maximum advantage of the stock transfer agency’s proprietary know-how and distinctive features in order to allow Identifying Identifying clients to realize efﬁcient and effective IR and SR activities. investors issues * Investor Relations (IR) and Shareholder Relations (SR) Our services Investor relations (IR) refers to public relations activities that target investors, specifically 038 the full range of activities by which corporations provide to shareholders and investors Investors the information they need to make investment decisions in a timely, fair, and ongoing Feedback meetings manner. Shareholder relations (SR) refers to those activities targeting shareholders. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 4 3 Main Offerings in IR/SR Consulting Follow up with postArrange meetings with the inmeeting feedback and vestors on medium-to-long-term consulting on how targets, regular activity reports, to improve future SR and exchanging views on ESG Domestic beneficial shareholder survey activities activities The domestic beneﬁcial shareholder survey covers domestic institutional investors that exist behind domestic trust banks focused on asset management. The survey can be used to select institutions subject to investor meetings on ﬁnancial results and one-on-one IR meetings, and Creation of an Extensive Network of to build communication toward shareholders’ meetings. Contacts and a Hotline Foreign beneficial shareholder survey The foreign beneﬁcial shareholder survey covers overseas institutional investors that exist behind overseas custodian banks. The survey can be used to select destinations to visit for overseas IR, and provides serThe client company vices for promoting the exercise of voting rights ahead of shareholdInternational Overseas ers’ meetings. organizations pension funds Individual shareholder analysis We analyze shareholders’ registries from the perspective of IR activities. The analysis can be used to understand the current status of individual shareholders for planning IR strategies, measuring the effects of IR/SR activities for individuals, etc. Analysis for exercise of voting rights Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Domestic and Stock Transfer Agency Business Overseas We analyze trends in the exercise of voting rights by domestic and overseas research Advisory Department institutional overseas institutional investors. The analysis is available as materials for agencies IR/SR Team investors in-house reports and considerations, including predictions on the exercise of voting rights ahead of shareholders’ meetings and reviews after shareholders’ meetings. Focus Club (for members) The Focus Club provides information about Japanese stocks investment trends among overseas institutional investors, etc. and their views Domestic Institutions for on corporate governance to IR, administration, and legal sections of pension promoting the funds Domestic exercise of voting rights member companies. institutional investors Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Social Contribution as Business Activities Mortgage Security Service against Severe and Chronic Diseases “The severe major diseases” (cancer, acute myocardial three severe diseases, and the cancer guarantee. Home infarction, stroke) and “the ﬁve serious chronic diseases” mortgage borrowers who are at least age 20 and up to age (high blood pressure, diabetes, chronic kidney failure, cir45, and those who are age 46 up to age 55 are eligible to rhosis of the liver, chronic pancreatitis) are what we call “the select the guarantee option that suits their needs. eight major diseases.” The number of people affected by These options are the “full-beneﬁt type” that eliminates the loan these ailments in Japan is growing as the population ages. balance in the event they are diagnosed, and the “half-beneﬁt For cases where clients with unpaid principle on their home type” that reduces the loan balance to half. For those clients mortgage are diagnosed with one of the eight major diswho are at least age 20 and up to age 45 who select guarantees eases, SuMi TRUST Bank offers a guarantee service for the against either the eight major diseases or the three severe disremainder of their home mortgage. eases, their guarantee comes with a lump-sum payment in the The guarantee service comes with three forms of coverevent they are hospitalized for diseases or injuries not named in age: one against the eight major diseases, one against the their guarantee, i.e., “triple hospitalization security.” Full benefit type Eliminates the loan balance Half benefit type Reduces the loan balance to half Diagnosed with cancer, acute myocardial infarction, Diagnosed with cancer, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, high blood pressure, diabetes, chronic kidney stroke, high blood pressure, diabetes, chronic kidney failure, cirrhosis of the liver, or chronic pancreatitis failure, cirrhosis of the liver, or chronic pancreatitis Loan balance Loan balance is 039 Waiting Waiting period goes to zero! period cut in half! Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report (three Repaid (three Repaid months) months) Loan balance Loan balance Execute loan Execute loan Support for the Bellmark Movement By collecting the Bellmark labels found on everyday prodOur Role in the Bellmark Movement ucts, schools can purchase needed equipment based on the number of points they have gathered; this is known as the Sponsoring PTAs, etc. Bellmark points Transfer into companies Bellmark movement, which began in 1960. Although numer(schools, collected, order PTA account community for equipment (displaying the Bellmark on ous banks were involved at the start, since 1982 SuMi TRUST centers, etc.) their products) Bank has overseen all administration related to transactions 10% of payment for Order placed for goods for the movement. ordered goods Invoice for amount of is donated from Bellmark points collected We now administer a total of 27,715 parent teacher Trust bank PTA account Bellmark association (PTA) accounts nationwide (as of the end of (the Group) Foundation Assistance through September 2015) and take care of tasks such as handling the Bellmark Payment from Foundation account payments from sponsor companies to PTAs, and transferring PTA account for goods ordered Trust bank assistance funds from partner companies to the Bellmark (the Group) Educational Support Foundation. In addition, we look after Partner Receipt of Remote schools, companies goods ordered special support ﬁnancial aid transfers to regions affected by disasters and (companies schools, disasteradversities (friendship assistance). dealing in Receipt of aid goods stricken schools, educational developing countries When schools purchase equipment through the Bellmark equipment) movement, 10% of the purchase price is donated to the Main process of Bellmark movement Bellmark Foundation, to be used as ﬁnancial aid for schools, Flow of money in the Bellmark movement including those in remote areas and those damaged in disasters, as well as schools in developing countries. SuMi TRUST Bank continues to support the Bellmark project as a social contribution that is part of our business. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives to Facilitate Financing Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (the “Group”) considers head ofﬁce to fully grasp the branch ofﬁce support acthe facilitation of ﬁnancing to small and medium-sized tivities. The bank also responds to clients’ requests for enterprises (SMEs) and individuals seeking housing consultation and complaints through a toll-free teleloans as one of its most important social missions. phone number as well as at branch ofﬁces. SuMi TRUST Bank took steps to further enhance its The Act concerning Temporary Measures to Facilitate ﬁnancial intermediary function and established a basic Financing for SMEs, etc. expired on March 31, 2013. Even policy on the facilitation of ﬁnancing. This was to ensure so, the Group will continue providing appropriate and prompt and appropriate responses to requests from proactive ﬁnancial intermediary services to facilitate the SMEs and housing loan clients for various consultations, business activities of SMEs and to help housing loan clients restructuring of loan repayment conditions, etc. enjoy a stable lifestyle. Also, when there are consultations The bank facilitates ﬁnancing operations through about, or requests for, the restructuring of loan repayment a system at branch ofﬁces to provide prompt and apconditions, etc. from clients who have been directly or inpropriate responses to clients’ consultations about, or directly affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, the requests for, the restructuring of loan repayment conGroup endeavors to respond in a ﬂexible and appropriate ditions and other matters, and through a system at the manner, taking into account each client’s circumstances. Number of Loan Claims which Requested Restructuring of Loan Conditions, etc. (In the case of SMEs) (Unit: case) End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of June September December March June September December March 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 040 Number of loan claims for which restructuring 3,351 3,537 3,676 3,835 3,950 4,086 4,173 4,265 of loan conditions, etc. was requested Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Of which, number of loan claims 3,088 3,248 3,397 3,539 3,659 3,772 3,863 3,956 regarding implementation Of which, number of loan claims 46 59 63 64 73 73 74 78 regarding refusal Of which, number of loan claims 68 58 34 43 23 41 32 17 under examination Of which, number of loan claims 149 172 182 189 195 200 204 214 regarding withdrawal * As of the end of March 2015, the figures include claims regarding trust accounts as follows. Request: 1, Implementation: 1, Refusal: 0, Under examination: 0, Withdrawal: 0 Claims regarding trust accounts refer to loan claims for which SuMi TRUST Bank received requests for restructuring of loan conditions, etc. from clients among those entrusted to SuMi TRUST Bank from other financial institutions, etc. for securitization and other purposes. SuMi TRUST Bank, a trustee, responds to them based on judgments by multiple people involved in trusts pursuant to the provisions of trust agreements. Number of Loan Claims which Requested Restructuring of Loan Conditions, etc. (In the case of housing loan clients) (Unit: case) End of End of End of End of End of End of End of End of June September December March June September December March 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 Number of loan claims for which restructuring 3,644 3,822 4,010 4,191 4,370 4,557 4,720 4,881 of loan conditions, etc. was requested Of which, number of loan claims 3,012 3,154 3,289 3,425 3,577 3,729 3,878 3,995 regarding implementation Of which, number of loan claims 42 45 53 58 66 69 76 83 regarding refusal Of which, number of loan claims 88 80 76 91 82 84 69 73 under examination Of which, number of loan claims 502 543 592 617 645 675 697 730 regarding withdrawal * As of the end of March 2015, the figures include claims regarding trust accounts as follows. Request: 484, Implementation: 410, Refusal: 13, Under examination: 2, Withdrawal: 59 Claims regarding trust accounts refer to loan claims for which SuMi TRUST Bank received requests for restructuring of loan conditions, etc. from clients among those entrusted to SuMi TRUST Bank from other financial institutions, etc. for securitization and other purposes. SuMi TRUST Bank, a trustee, responds to them based on judgments by multiple people involved in trusts pursuant to the provisions of trust agreements. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 041 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Asset Management Businesses Of the Principles for Responsible Investment announced their intention to accept the Code. We (PRI) signatory institutions as of October 1, expect the trend of institutional investors advanc2015, 1,395 are signatories to ESG investment ing ESG initiatives as one of their stewardship initiatives that take into account environment responsibilities to grow. (E), social (S), and governance (G) factors. Assets under management at those PRI institutions have grown to a total of US$59 trillion. PRI is Institutional Investors Announcing Acceptance of Japan’s Stewardship Code leaning into initiatives aimed at growing respon(Number of institutions) sible investment in Asia, and announced it would 200 focus on increasing the effectiveness of PRI sig150 natory initiatives. Amid rapid growth in ESG investment on a 100 global scale, Japan’s Stewardship Code with Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors 50 was published in February 2014. According to a 0 June Sept. Dec. Mar. June Sept. September 2015 release from Japan’s Financial 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 Services Agency, 197 institutional investors have Source: Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Asset Management at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Asset under Management With one of the largest sums of assets under management markets products such as investment trusts to individuals, (AuM) sourced in Asia, AuM at Fiduciary Services Business of brings the Group’s total AuM to about ¥76 trillion. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) has grown While Japanese public pension and corporate pension to about ¥51 trillion (USD 430 billion*). Moreover, adding in funds comprise the great majority of our client base, our AuM at Nikko Asset Management Co., Ltd., which primarily AuM from overseas investors are growing. Asset Class USD bln Weight Other Japanese Equities Japanese Equities 103.65 24.1% Alternative Foreign Equities Foreign Equities 84.60 19.6% 12.5% 2.9% 24.1% Japanese Bonds 125.84 29.2% Foreign Bonds 50.56 11.7% 11.7% Alternative 12.34 2.9% 19.6% Other 53.84 12.5% 29.2% Total 430.85 100.0% * Assumed forex conversion rate of ¥119.77/US$1 is as of September 30, 2015. Foreign Bonds Japanese Bonds Source: Assets under management at SuMi TRUST Bank as of September 30, 2015. 042 Our Record in ESG-related Activities Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Bolstering Global Collaboration Aimed at RI Asia’s Annual Conference Addressing ESG Challenges RI Asia is an annual event on responsible investment (RI) held in Strengthening collaboration the U.S., Europe, or Asia. In April 2015, the event was convened globally among institutional in Tokyo for a second successive year. Following up on the preinvestors and asset managevious year’s event, SuMi TRUST Bank joined the RI Asia panel ment institutions is critical to discussion amid growing addressing and resolving ESG interest in Japanese marchallenges. As a signatory to ket reforms such as the the Principles for Responsible adoption of a stewardInvestment (PRI), the SuMi TRUST Group participates in working ship code and corporate groups based on PRI principles and actively engages compagovernance code. nies whose securities we own in dialogue and discussion aimed at raising their ESG awareness. At the PRI conference held in London, UK, in ﬁscal 2015, we made a presentation as the representative of a working group on water risk. Council of Institutional Investors’ Annual ESG Solutions Services Spring Conference in April 2015 At the Stock Transfer Agency Services Business, we have Corporate governance is one of the main topics global launched a new ESG solutions service where we provide asset management institutions are watching closely. With information on ESG-related issues that we understand on a membership centering on the major U.S. public pension a global level to our client base of corporate issuers. In funds and institutional investors, the Council of Institutional addition to providing them ESG-related information, we Investors (CII) has led the debate on corporate governance strive to offer corporate issuers useful advice on their in the U.S. since its founding in 1985. ESG-related disclosures, convening regular study groups, At CII’s 2015 Spring Conference and 30th Anniversary dialoguing with overseas investors, and supporting inteCelebration, SuMi TRUST Bank became CII’s ﬁrst Japangrated reporting. based asset manager member to join a panel discussion, held on April 1, where it presented a report on the state of corporate governance in Japan. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our ESG Activities as an Institutional Investor Our ESG Activities Policy for Our Role as an framework, we are working to properly meet our stewardInstitutional Investor ship responsibilities. We are actively taking steps to respond to various ESGrelated issues as an asset management institution that is a Engagement Framework PRI signatory, moving ahead with activities that are in the Our analysts perform a central role in our ESG-related interest of our clients. engagement. Through their meetings with companies and In May 2014, the SuMi TRUST Group announced its adopother coverage activities, our analysts evaluate companies, tion of the Japanese version of the stewardship code. This and drawing on this knowledge, they can serve as a onecode calls on institutional investors to fulﬁll their stewardstop resource on engagement, dialogue on exercising proxy ship responsibilities through purposeful engagement with votes, and research. management aimed at achieving higher investment returns over the mediumto long-term by encouraging compaThree Pillars nies to achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate Our ESG activities comprise three different ﬁelds: engagevalue. With our analyst teams at the core of our engagement ment, ESG integration, and exercising proxy votes. SuMi TRUST Bank’s Initiatives Aimed at ESG Topics Engagement ESG Integration Exercising Proxy Votes Analysts seek to raise awareness on ways to improve Analysts evaluate investee companies on the basis of ESG One of the stewardship responsibilities ascribed to management by offering constructive opinions to investee factors (non-financial information) and harness these for institutional investors is exercising proxy votes in the interest companies in the interest of increasing their corporate value. investment purposes. of encouraging sustainable growth at investee companies. 043 Meetings on Initiatives for ESG Topics Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report SSC* Engagement Committee ESG Monitoring Committee SRI Universe Selection Committee Committee on Exercising Voting Rights • Announced policy on stewardship ac• Announced policy on ESG-related ac• Select Japanese and Chinese stock • Announced policy on exercising proxy tivities for Japanese stocks; report tivities; report on relevant activities universes for our SRI funds votes; report on relevant activities on relevant activities • Report on ESG-related market envi• Convene monthly meetings • Convene monthly meetings • Convene monthly meetings ronment • Convene meetings once every six months * SSC refers to the Stewardship Code. Engagement At SuMi TRUST Bank, we believe addressing ESG topics to and increase their corporate value. build a sustainable society is in the interests of our clients, The annual number of contacts between our analysts and and we actively engage investee companies on this basis. investee companies has risen to about 9,400, encompassing a broad range of actions from normal coverage activities Engagement with Companies Based in Japan (including items relating to exercising proxy votes), particWe engage with investee companies in keeping with our ipation in analyst meetings and company tours, and manengagement guidelines. The engagement process is one agement engagement. Of these, management engagement element in the activities of our analysts aimed at obtaining sessions came to about 300. a deep understanding of the business structure and sector Two cases where we engaged with investee companies environment of investee companies as they work to support are summarized below. efforts at investee companies to achieve sustainable growth Dialogue overview Dialogue overview Company A We shared with a leading electric equipment Company B We approached a leading processed food makmanufacturer our view that it needs to impleer regarding to its unprofitable businesses with ment fundamental reforms at businesses with our view that it needs to restructure with an eye slumping earnings along with directing investon prospects for allying with other companies. ments into new growth fields. This opened the This led to a discussion on the future direction way for a discussion on its strategic allocation of of its unprofitable business lines. management resources. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Engagement with Companies Based Overseas ESG Monitoring and Engagement SuMi TRUST Bank is an active participant in engagement as a participant in a PRI-sponsored clearinghouse for signaactivities, collaborating with other PRI signatory institutions tories to collaborate on managing engagement with ESG to address global ESG challenges. The ESG Monitoring themes, we took part in discussions relating to water risk as Committee, situated inside the Fiduciary Services Business, well as debate on problems involving development around monitors the status of such engagement activities. In 2015, tropical rainforests. Examples of Our Involvement in Efforts to Address Global ESG Challenges Example 1 Problems with Development in and around Tropical Rainforests (Palm Oil Plantations) Tropical rainforests perform important functions in preserving biodiversity, husbanding water resources, and limiting global warming (role in CO2 cycle). In regions where tropical rainforests are abundant, however, development of plantations for growing palm oil, a common ingredient in everyday consumer goods, has proceeded rapidly. There is growing interest in this topic at global investment institutions from the standpoint of sustainable development, and we are deepening our collaborative efforts on this front, such as maintaining dialogue with companies involved with palm oil development. Example 2 Engaging Companies Involved with Anti-personnel Mines and Cluster Bombs The issues of anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs are being addressed on an international level and from a humanitarian point of view. These weapons disrupt the maintenance of peace and stability as well as restoration and development in affected regions. Accordingly, the Ottawa Convention (1999) on the prohibition of anti-personnel mines and the Oslo Convention (2010) on cluster bombs have been enforced in Japan. The global fund management industry, meanwhile, is increasingly acting to cut off ﬁnancial support to related companies by stopping investment in them in addition to discouraging production of these weapons. Through our engagement activities, SuMi TRUST Bank encourages companies* involved in the manufacture of anti-mine personnel 044 and cluster bombs to stop manufacturing these weapons. Our activities are having an impact, as evidenced by a November 2015 letter to us from an Asian-based company declaring its intent to refrain entirely from business relating to the production and sale of anti-personnel Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report mines and cluster bombs. * On the basis of a list of companies prepared by Dutch NGO IKV Pax Christi in the report “Worldwide Investments in Cluster Munitions: a shared responsibility.” ESG Integration In addition to the normal schedule of ﬁnancial disclosures The use of ESG ratings in investment processes is known over the ﬁscal year, we also use ESG information (non-ﬁnancial as ESG integration. All actively managed funds at SuMi information) in our process of evaluating investee companies. TRUST Bank factor in ESG considerations. While ﬁnancial information such as earnings reports are The way ESG ratings are applied, however, differs accordimportant in the short term in evaluating companies as ing to the investment style of each individual fund. investments, we think assessments Investment Type of Engagerelating to the sustainable growth Engagement Evaluations (output) Horizon ment fund prospects of investee companies Hands-on Focal points Long-term are important over the mediumand Outsource (3-5 years) type*1 long-term. SuMi TRUST Bank In-house Opportunity assessment Client value As a result, we strive to effectively (added value sought by Engagement clients) gather ESG information such as the Im G en pro Sustainable growth amount of value added derived from ESG Mediumto ga ve Management, prospects information long-term a company’s products and services, ge as business base, Levers/influence to ensure evaluation Monitoring me se client value takes root (2-3 years) type*2 etc. the sustainability of that, and the resilnt ssm Risk assessment S ac en Risks to sustainable ience of its governance system in suptiv ts itie via Non-financial growth prospects porting the provision of added value. E information s (Reports of misconduct, etc.) We put this ESG information to use in Financial information Projected cash flows Earnings forecasts, Short-term investment recom(1 year) our company evaluations and work to mendation improve the quality of our evaluations *1: A hands-on engagement-type approach seeks to secure a commitment from investee companies to implement business E: Environmental via engagement aimed at fostering an S: Social growth measures, etc. *2: A monitoring-type approach seeks to support independent management decision-making at investee companies via deongoing dialogue with companies. G: Governance bate on share price impacts, etc. from improving IR activities and rebalancing business portfolios. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Overview of Investment Strategies at our Flagship Japanese Equity RI Funds Investment Strategy at SRI Fund, 2. SuMi TRUST Bank’s Investment Team Selects our Flagship Japanese Equity RI Fund Our SRI Universe Candidates SRI Fund, our ﬂagship RI fund for Japanese stocks, is one We exclude companies with high credit risks from The Japan of the oldest responsible investment funds in Japan, havResearch Institute list of SRI candidates. A monthly commiting been managed since 2003. Its stock selection focuses tee, chaired by the General Manager of Equity Investment on ESG, and the degree of contribution of these to the Department, decides candidate stocks for our SRI universe. improvement of ﬁnancial returns. Distinguishing features are the insights of our RI fund management team along with 3. SuMi TRUST Bank’s Portfolio Managers basic research by The Japan Research Institute. Choose Stocks Our portfolio managers choose stocks from among our RI 1. The Japan Research Institute Chooses universe based on 1) our assessment of the growth pros“Best-in-class” for RI Universe pects of prospective investee companies stemming from The Japan Research Institute, one of the most inﬂuential their ESG initiatives, and 2) equity valuation and earnings think tanks in Japan, conducts a survey covering 2,000 commomentum derived from the earnings forecasts of our panies to select “best-in-class” companies as candidates for Japanese stock analyst teams. We seek to achieve an excess the RI universe. return versus the benchmark TOPIX. The evaluation criteria consist of E (environment), S (social), G (governance) and V (Value). V has been adopted as a new criterion from the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014 (ﬁscal year 2013) to evaluate the contribution of ESG initiatives to a company’s business growth. 045 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Investment Management Process Performance of Our SRI Fund Universe Approx. 3,500 The chart below shows the cumulative excess return ratio JRI Survey (All listed equities) and TOPIX return since the launch of the flagship RI fund. • High-quality ESG Step1 JRI’s Universe Since the Abe administration took the helm at the end of survey Approx. 2,000 2012, the Japanese stock market has performed solidly. We Screening expect this trend to continue, on the back of positive factors • JRI survey information Step2 Responsible • Credit risk Investment Universe including improvement in corporate performance and the Approx. 400 governments-sponsored capital market reforms. In addiPortfolio Construction tion, the environment is becoming increasingly favorable • ESG evaluation Step3 Portfolio Risk control and • Valuation of stocks 50-100 monitoring for this fund as Japanese companies are becoming more and more ESG-conscious. Source: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Ltd. (as of September 30, 2015) JRI: The Japan Research Institute (%) (Points) 25 2,500 20 2,000 15 1,500 10 1,000 5 500 0 0 -5 -10 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 Aug. Sep. Excess return ratio (Left) TOPIX (Right) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our RI Investment Trusts SRI Japan Open (Good Company) China Good Company The Group launched Japan’s ﬁrst RI Fund aimed at corpoThe “China Good Company” fund is a RI Fund that applies rate pension funds in 2003 (ﬂagship RI fund). Using the same the same methodology as the Japanese ﬂagship RI fund responsible investment (RI) approach, the “Good Company” to Chinese stocks. The fund is attracting the attention of mutual fund is marketed to a wide variety of investors, US and European investors as the world’s ﬁrst Chinese RI including individuals, and is now regarded as one of Japan’s fund developed by an investment manager not owned by a standard-setting RI funds. Chinese ﬁnancial institution (established in 2010). The Good Company fund strictly screens for and invests in For stock selection, we draw on the Japan Research companies with proactive ESG initiatives aimed at enhancing Institute’s ESG surveys and research, and we are working to corporate value. It aims to achieve excess returns compared to build a structure to gather any negative information about the performance of its benchmark, the Tokyo Stock Price Index. target companies in a timely manner. 046 Investment Manager Investment Manager Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Asset Management World Bank Bond Fund Biodiversity Fund for Supporting Nikko Asset Management, a group company, developed Companies this fund together with the World Bank. More than 30% of its Biodiversity refers to “a wide range of species and creaportfolio is in green bonds, a ﬁxed income instrument issued tures” and “the connections among them.” The Biodiversity by the World Bank. Funds raised with green bonds are in Fund for Supporting Companies invests in Japanese compaprinciple used for lending to projects that address climate nies that actively commit themselves to biodiversity conserchange in developing countries. This fund is thus recognized vation and sustainable use of biodiversity-reliant resources globally as a fund through which its investors can feel they using the family fund method. SuMi TRUST Bank is an adviare making a social contribution. sor on management of the mother fund. Few US and European investment funds focus on biodiversity, so this fund is attracting attention in the global investment community. Investment Manager Investment Manager Nikko Asset Management Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Exercising Proxy Votes As one of the stewardship responsibilities ascribed to companies ought to build healthy corporate governance sysinstitutional investors, SuMi TRUST Bank exercises proxy tems that respect shareholder interests by encouraging manvotes in the interest of encouraging sustainable growth at agement to use shareholder capital efﬁciently and actively investee companies. disclose information to stakeholders. As a result, as long as investee companies are not involved in anti-social actions and Basic Policy on Exercising Proxy Votes shareholder interests are not neglected, our default posture is Our view of corporate governance is premised on the belief to defer to management judgment. that management policies and decision-making at companies In the event, investee companies or members of their manought to reﬂect not just the wishes of shareholders but should agement become involved in misconduct or anti-social actions, also take into account the interests of many other stakeholdand we regard the matter to be a serious problem in terms of ers such as employees, creditors, and suppliers, and be detercorporate governance, we will exercise our proxy votes in a mined after coordinating their interests. We thus believe way that promotes improvements to corporate governance. System for the Exercise of Proxy Votes for Japanese Stocks Person with Authority to Exercise Proxy Votes: Director of Fiduciary Services Business (1)Establishment of guidelines (b) Approval (b) Drafting a (c) Approval General Manager, (a) Drafting proposed Asset Management Department proposed plan for each guidelines individual vote (2) Exercise based on (a) Drafting a prothe guidelines Committee on Exercising Voting Rights posed plan for (Secretariat: Asset Management Department) each individual (4) Periodic reports on record of proxy votes exercised vote (b) Decision 047 (a) Deliberation Drafting and close examination of plans for exercise Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report of voting rights (3) Circumstances to which no existing guidelines apply Investment Research Department Instructions for the exercise of voting rights Fiduciary Services Department Custody bank Record of Proxy Votes Exercised by Category of Proposal Our record on proxy votes exercised for shares of Japangeneral meetings of shareholders from July 2014 through based companies in conjunction with their convening of June 2015 is as follows. 1. Proposals Made by Investee Companies Approving votes Dissenting votes Abstention Blind trust Total Appropriation of surplus, etc. 1,413 67 1 0 1,481 Appointment of directors 1,615 475 1 0 2,091 Appointment of corporate auditors 1,637 261 1 0 1,899 Partial amendment to Articles of Incorporation 1,027 31 1 0 1,059 Payment of retirement beneﬁts 156 147 0 0 303 Revision of compensation for ofﬁcers 603 15 0 0 618 Issuance of share warrants 107 51 0 0 158 Appointment of accounting auditors 19 0 0 0 19 Matters related to reorganization strategies*1 40 0 0 0 40 Other proposals by the company*2 136 25 0 0 161 Of those related to measures to deﬂect hostile takeovers, etc. 74 23 0 0 97 Total 6,753 1,072 4 0 7,829 *1 Merger, transfer or acquisition of business, share exchange, share transfer, company split, etc. *2 Share buyback of own stock, reduction of statutory reserve, capital increase by allocation of new shares to third parties, capital reduction, consolidation of shares, measures to deflect hostile takeovers, etc. 2. Proposals Made by Shareholders Approving votes Dissenting votes Abstention Blind trust Total Total 0 155 0 0 155 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 048 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Real Estate Businesses Amid a growing sense of crisis about global enviA growing sense of crisis about global ronmental problems, environmental consideration environmental problems has become necessary in real estate to realize a Global warming, threats to biodiversity, water scarcity & resource depletion sustainable society. “Environmentally friendly property” refers Imperative to develop sustainable societies to properties that take the environment into Growing eco-awareness, stricter regulations, seen as de rigueur by investors, tenants, etc. account, are sustainable, and foster high environmental value. The Group believes environmentally friendly Environmentally friendly property properties can generate more value added than Sustainable, creates high environmental value conventional properties through features that High environmental Prospects for enhance income by improving environmental perperformance value added • Energy conservation, CO2 • Lower utility costs formance and reducing risk. reduction • Healthier, more comfortable • Renewable energy adoption • Lower environmental• Greater efﬁciency in water response risk and resource use • Lower market risk • Recycling and reuse of materials • Restoration of biodiversity Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Why is Environmentally Friendly Property Necessary Now? Many governments are adopting policies to respond to than 300 ﬁnancial institutions, including banks, insurers, and global environmental problems based on the United Nations brokerages, are working together to integrate ESG risks Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and into ﬁnancial system functions. In 2015, Japan’s Government Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) became a PRI signatory, a On the domestic policy front, new non-residential buildnotable step for PRI’s acceptance. The SuMi TRUST Group ings with ﬂoor space of 2,000m2 or more will need to comply has been a PRI UNEP FI signatory since its launch. with energy saving standards under the Energy Conservation Used for investment decision-making, Global Real Estate Act (publicly issued in 2015) when the law comes into force in Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) was created in 2009, April 2017. Meanwhile, there has been progress in improving mainly for a group of large pension funds in Europe, to meaand broadening programs that offer government subsidies sure sustainability performance in the real estate sector. In and investment funds for high-environmental-performance 2015, 32 ﬁrms (including 21 REITs) participated in the GRESB projects such as the “leading projects” program for sussurvey. tainable buildings and a program to promote eco-friendly, In 2015, about 200 institutions in Japan’s asset manageearthquake-resistance property. ment and ﬁnance sector announced their adoption of Japan’s Global investment and ﬁnancial centers recognize that Stewardship Code, which spells out principles for responaddressing global environmental problems is essential. More sible institutional investors. The Corporate Governance than 1,300 institutions in Japan and overseas have become Code, which includes principles to encourage companies to signatories to the Principles for Responsible Investment respond to sustainability concerns, also took effect in 2015 (PRI), a United Nations-led global platform for investment as an attachment to the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s securities that factors in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) listing requirement. issues, since its launch in 2006. Under the United Nations As the above shows, there is no time to wait in shifting to 049 Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), more eco-friendly property. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report No time to wait in shifting to eco-friendly property International conventions Global investment & financial centers • United Nations Framework Convention on • PRI UNEP FI Climate Change (UNFCCC) > Promotes investment and finance that factors • Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in ESG • GRESB > A benchmark is used for real estate-related investment decisions Japanese government policies Domestic investment & financial centers • Energy Conservation Act • Japan’s Stewardship Code > Bolsters environment-related regulations > About 200 institutions have announced • “Leading projects” program for sustainable adoption buildings, etc. • Corporate Governance Code • Program to promote eco-friendly, earthquake> Principles to encourage listed companies resistant property to respond to sustainability concerns > Support property with high environmental performance Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Added Value of Environmentally Friendly Property It is often said environmental friendly property “costs more income by reducing utility expenses via energy savings and than usual and is difﬁcult to invest in,” but price theory in maintenance and operating expenses via the enhanced real estate investment suggests such buildings are able to durability of parts and materials. Furthermore, such buildgenerate added value equal to or greater than their addiings can also generate higher gross income on higher tional cost. rents stemming from higher productivity enabled by their From the perspective of proﬁtability (how much and how enhanced ofﬁce environments and the cachet boost from long do properties generate steady proﬁts), a property’s their environmental credentials. price derives from net income (revenue minus costs) divided Furthermore, environmentally friendly property is less by the real estate capitalization rate. The greater gross exposed to future environment-related tax hikes or tougher income including rents is, and the lower the costs of utilities, regulations, so the capitalization rate for such buildings factors maintenance, and building management are, the higher net in less environmental risk. A lower depreciation rate resulting income is, and so the higher the price valuation of a propfrom a longer life span as well as enhanced appeal as environerty. In addition, stable properties with less income ﬂuctuamentally friendly can also lower the capitalization rate. tion risk are awarded higher valuations as investors require a For the reasons above, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank lower yield from them. (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) believes that environmentally friendly Environmentally friendly property can earn higher net property will realize added value. Conceptual Diagram of Environmental Added Value (1) Prices Focused on the “Profitability” of Real Estate 050 Prices focused on the “profitability” of real estate Environmental added value Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report the net income generated by real estate The price of real estate*= the real estate capitalization rate * In the case of direct capitalization I Contribution to increase in net income II Contribution to decline in Environmentally conscious measures Benefits of environmentally conscious measures Reduction of utilities and other costs capitalization rate Energy conservation design Avoidance of toxic substances Increase in rental income and sales Preservation and creation of biological environments Reduction of the depreciation ratio Reduction of risk of declining income Longer building lifespans, recycling of building materials Becoming a landmark etc. etc. Conceptual Diagram of Environmental Added Value (2) Conceptual Diagram of Environmental Added Value (3) Reflection in Net Income Reflection in Capitalization Rate Risk premium on environmentally friendly property Ordinary risk premium on real estate Net Income from Net income increases Net income of Environmental Gross income from real estate environmentally Real estate capitalization rate Net Income from Real Estate further if gross income Environmental increases through Risk friendly property Real Estate Added Value Environmental improvement of fluctuates less due to Taxes and Added Value productivity and image future tax raises and Environmental tighter regulations Ordinary real estate cost Public Dues Taxes and Depreciation Ratio Risk Public Dues Net income Lowers depreciation Repair Cost increases Depreciation Ratio (before depreciation) Repair Cost Market Risk ratio through Maintenance Market Risk extended property Management Maintenance Reduces through Business Risk lifespan Management enhanced durability Business Risk Improves image Utilities Cost Other Risks Other Risks Utilities Cost Reduces through through environenergy savings ment-consciousness General Financial General Financial Other Expenses Other Expenses Asset Yield Asset Yield Source: Partial revision of the “A Note on Environmental Value Added for Real Estate,” a commemorative paper written by Masato Ito in 2005 for the 10th anniversary of Tokyo Association of Real Estate Appraisers Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our Environmentally Friendly Property Initiatives SuMi TRUST Bank has made many recommendations related environmentally friendly property among ﬁnancial instituto environmentally friendly property since the 2005 release tions in Japan in 2010. of an employee-authored paper about the added value creWe are working to realize a sustainable society by bringated by such buildings. ing environmentally friendly property into the mainstream Easy-to-understand indicators of environmental perand linking it to business sustainability. This is one of our misformance and the attendant value added are especially sions as a leading company in the environmentally friendly important as a way to recommend environmentally friendly property market. property. In view of this, the CASBEE Research Committee * The comprehensive assessment system for launched the “CASBEE for Properties*” certiﬁcation sysbuilt environment efficiency (CASBEE) certification is an environmental performance tem in 2013 to promote widespread use of environmenevaluation system for buildings that is being tal evaluations in real estate. In 2015, the Smart Wellness developed and promoted in Japan by the Ofﬁce Research Committee, a member of the Japan Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT). CASBEE for Properties (the Sustainable Building Consortium, released the result of a name was changed from “CASBEE for Market study on the CASBEE program suggesting that it yielded Promotion” in November 2014) has fewer evaleconomic beneﬁts. uation items but maintains consistency with CASBEE® Standard Version. In terms of services, we use the unique characteristics of a trust bank to offer a diverse lineup of business services related to environmentally friendly property, including consulting services on environmentally friendly ”CASBEE for Properties” construction. We established the ﬁrst section dedicated to manual (see page 53) 051 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Balancing Environmental Friendliness and Economic Performance I believe that real estate has a signiﬁcant role to play in resolving global environmental problems and creating a pathway to a sustainable society. Initiatives concerning environmental friendliness in real estate should be based on the concept of investment, i.e., “aiming to increase property asset values by raising profits and enhancing stability,” rather than on the idea of “doing something good for the environment, even if it means spending a little extra money.” Institutional investors mainly in Europe and the United States have come to utilize a benchmark for real estate management institutions called GRESB in making investment decisions. As a result, a trend toward improving the environmental performance of buildings is also springing up among Japanese real estate funds and real estate investment companies. Since releasSumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank ing a paper about the added value of environmentally friendly property in 2005, Real Estate Advisory Department SuMi TRUST Bank has been working on this theme together with various stakeAssociate General Manager Head of the Environmentally Friendly holders in Japan and overseas, and we have a real sense that environmentally Property Promotion Team friendly property is truly starting to spread and expand at this very moment. We Masato Ito will continue to work toward expanding environmentally friendly property both in terms of promotion and awareness-raising as well as from a business angle. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our Business Lineup in Environmentally Friendly Property 1 Environmentally Friendly Construction Consulting To promote the introduction of environmentally friendly years. In addition, some projects have been selected by the property, SuMi TRUST Bank provides environmentally Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) friendly construction consulting services where we advise on for the “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings the installation of energy-saving systems in buildings, ways (see page 54) and by the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and to take into account landscapes and ecosystems, extension Industry (METI) for the “net zero energy building” proof-ofof building life spans, and adoption of recycling systems. concept pilot program. As interest in environmental issues has grown, so has the * The comprehensive assessment system for built environment efficiency (CASBEE) certinumber of properties applying for CASBEE® certiﬁcation* or fication is an environmental performance evaluation system for buildings being developed and promoted in Japan under the guidance of MLIT. providing notiﬁcation of self-evaluation in the past several Examples: Environmentally Friendly Construction Consulting Company Name Location Use Number of Floors Floor Area Target Rank Headquarters ofﬁce 10 ﬂoors above ground, 1 rooftop ﬂoor 2 Clarion Saitama Prefecture and research center Approx. 19,000 m A (certiﬁcation completed) *1 2 Yachiyo Bank Tokyo Central branch 9 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 7,700 m S (certiﬁcation completed) Tokyo Central branch 1 basement ﬂoor, 9 ﬂoors above ground, 2 rooftop ﬂoors Approx. 6,000 m2 A (self-evaluation) Chuo Labour Bank Kanagawa Prefecture Ofﬁce 1 basement ﬂoor, 7 ﬂoors above ground, 1 rooftop ﬂoor Approx. 10,000 m2 B+ (application) AEON MALL Tokyo Commercial facility 5 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 150,000 m2 A (certiﬁcation completed) FUJI Ehime Prefecture Commercial facility 3 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 140,000 m2 B+ (certiﬁcation completed) 052 Ito-Yokado Kanagawa Prefecture Commercial facility 4 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 29,000 m2 B+ (application) Toyo Seikan Group Holdings Tokyo Ofﬁce*1 2 basement ﬂoors, 21 ﬂoors above ground, 1 rooftop ﬂoor Approx. 72,400 m2 S (certiﬁcation completed) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Daikin Industries Osaka Prefecture Ofﬁce, R&D facility*1 1 basement ﬂoor, 6 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 48,000 m2 S (self-evaluation) Hiroshima Mazda Hiroshima Prefecture Ofﬁce*1 Renovation project for existing building Anritsu Kanagawa Prefecture Ofﬁce*2 7 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 28,000 m2 S (self-evaluation) 1 Shimane Bank Shimane Prefecture Central branch* 1 basement ﬂoor and 13 ﬂoors above ground Approx. 12,000 m2 S (self-evaluation) *1: Selected for the MLIT-led “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings; This was formerly known as the “leading projects for promoting CO2 reduction” program for housing and buildings. *2: Selected for the METI-led “net zero energy building” experimental pilot program. Case Study A Construction of Anritsu Global Headquarters Building Based on the concepts of “innovative business creation,” “building safety and comfort,” and “advancing energy-savings and low environmental impact,” the Anritsu Global Headquarters Building has a wide range of eco-conscious features. The exteriors save energy (insulation, vents, natural lighting), and with integrated high-efﬁciency systems for lighting, air conditioning, and ventilation with individual operational control options and a building-wide energy management system, the building can be run based on a plan that enables ﬂexible energy management and eliminates waste in many small ways. Moreover, the climate and site conditions of the headquarters site in Atsugi City are well suited to natural ventilation and renewable energy systems, and making visible the energy use of all the other structures at the site with potential for efﬁcient management is what Anritsu seeks to achieve next before integrating and applying such technologies in the future to transition the site to a smart community model with the aim of reaching net zero energy building (ZEB) status (CASBEE Kanagawa S rank, self-certiﬁcation). Photos: Shigeo Ogawa Studio Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 2 Consulting to Support Applications for “CASBEE for Properties” Certification Initiatives related to CASBEE for Properties CASBEE for Properties (the name was changed from focused on overseas. “CASBEE for Market Promotion” in November 2014) is a sysCASBEE for Properties can also use the GRESB study (see tem developed for the purpose of promoting widespread page 49) (2013-2015 results), so use of this certiﬁcation is use of environmental building performance evaluations in spreading, especially among REITs and real estate compathe real estate market. While maintaining consistency with nies that are sensitive to sustainability concerns. CASBEE® Standard Version, CASBEE for Properties sharply SuMi TRUST Bank is a participant in developing CASBEE narrows down evaluation items and takes into account confor Properties as an organizer of a CASBEE subcommittee. sistency with environmental performance items that are Table Evaluation Items in CASBEE for Properties (In the case of office buildings) Energy/ Target setting and monitoring/energy saving standards, usage and emissions intensity (calculated values), usGreenhouse gases age and emissions intensity (actual values), renewable energy Water Target setting and monitoring, water usage intensity (calculated values), water usage intensity (actual values) Disaster prevention and safety (new earthquake resistance, etc.), high earthquake resistance/seismic isolation and Use of resources/Safety vibration damping, etc., usage of recycled materials, service life of structure materials, necessary renewal interval for main equipment functions, higher self-sufﬁciency ratio (electricity, etc.), maintenance and operation Biodiversity/Sustainable No use of invasive alien species, enhancement of biodiversity, soil environment quality/regeneration of brownﬁelds, site public transportation access, measures in preparation for natural disaster risks Indoor environment Attainment of building sanitation management standards, use of daylight, natural ventilation function, view 053 * 1 Underlined items are prerequisites (they must be met to pass an evaluation). * 2 Items in red are related to universal metrics recommended by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Consulting to Support Applications for CASBEE for Properties Certifications SuMi TRUST Bank engages in consulting services to support 1 5 6 applications for CASBEE for Properties certiﬁcation. We will continue to provide services that use the CASBEE system in our business promoting environmental property. Examples: Consulting on CASBEE for Properties 2 Certification Applications Owner Property Rank Certification date 7 8 1 Aeon Mall Musashi Murayama S 2/27/2015 2 Aeon Mall Itami A 2/27/2015 3 JRF REIT* 3 Aeon Mall Tsurumi Ryokuchi S 2/27/2015 4 Higashi-Totsuka Aurora City S 2/27/2015 5 Premier Kaigan Bldg. A 8/7/2015 4 Premier 6 Premier Toyocho Bldg. A 8/7/2015 REIT** 7 Takadanobaba Center Bldg. A 8/7/2015 Tosei Corp. 8 Toranomon Tosei Bldg. A 9/26/2015 * JRF: Japan Retail Fund Investment Corp. ** Premier REIT: Premier Investment Corp. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 3 Assistance to Help Subsidy Applicants Qualify What is the “Leading Projects” Program for Sustainable Buildings? Leading projects (construction and renovation projects) that range of 200 million yen. show outstanding initiative in CO2 reduction can apply to a Recipient projects are announced by MLIT and published MLIT-led public subsidy program. on the Building Research Institute website. Recipients are The program grants subsidies up to one half of the budgiven an opportunity to present their projects at the time of get for construction and other costs of pioneering initiatives. selection as well as post-completion. The average per-project subsidy (budget) has trended in the “Leading Projects” Program* for Sustainable Buildings: Number of Applications, Recipients, and Budget Amounts Applications Recipients Fiscal year Number of Number of Budget projects projects 2008 155 20 5 billion yen 2009 84 33 7 billion yen 2010 91 27 Included in 33 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2011** 74 24 Included in 16 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2012 92 25 Included in 17 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2013 42 21 Included in 17 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate 2014 28 17 Included in 22 billion yen for projects promoting the environment and use of stock real estate * Projects that promote CO2 reduction 054 ** Figures for ﬁscal year 2011 exclude the third round, a section for speciﬁed disaster-afﬂicted zones. (Source: MLIT) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Our Initiatives Involving the “Leading Projects” Program for Sustainable Buildings As part of our environmentally friendly construction connot only in material matters, but also in consulting based on sulting, we offer support for projects that seek to qualify our extensive experience and expertise in building managefor subsidies. ment and the like. We also provide specialized consulting services to assist * Our consulting service does not guarantee applicants will be granted subsidies under in applying for subsidies under the MLIT-led “leading projthe “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings. ects” program for sustainable buildings, offering assistance Case Study B Daikin Industries Technology Innovation Center This is a new construction plan that integrates the ofﬁce and R&D facilities on the existing factory site. The ofﬁce plan features a high degree of depth, combining such architectural measures as building shapes and differing exterior speciﬁcations depending on orientation, and the latest equipment technology such as air conditioning, lighting, and solar power generation. The idea is to make the ofﬁce zone a zero energy building (ZEB) in the future. We also seek to achieve CO2 reductions not only in the management of this facility but across a broader sphere by inviting visitors from around the world and making building energy management system (BEMS) data available to designers, technicians, researchers, and other visitors. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 4 Supporting Eco-conscious Regional Development Making the Value of Smart Towns and Cities Mizbering Project, Proposing Visible, Supporting Development Policies Effective Land Use Ideas Developing smart towns and cities that adopt next-generation Since ﬁscal year 2011, efforts by MLIT to open up riverside “smart community*” social systems at the local level is an imporspaces have moved ahead, with for-proﬁt private-sector tant step from the standpoint of regional development. In the operators increasingly active in using such spaces. Raised past few years, these towns and cities have combined a series platforms on river banks and open-air cafes have been set of complex reforms from changes to citizen lifestyles and local up, for example. transportation systems to the introduction of area energy netIn Japan, this effort to create new possibilities for the use works, including the recapture of heat and unused energy, to go of waterside spaces is called the Mizbering Project. Through together with effective use of electricity. this project and others, people are gathering for informal To realize smart towns and cities, it is necessary to crediscussions on social design for waterside spaces and comate economic value added commensurate with higher costs munities. SuMi TRUST Bank also participates in such discuswhile establishing clear targets from the basic planning sions as a commentator. stage onward for ESG topics for the city or town. SuMi TRUST Bank approaches property owners adjacent SuMi TRUST Bank supports projects for smart towns and to river zones with ideas for effective land use, drawing on cities on many fronts such as devising frameworks that link Mizbering Project experiences and other community efforts. various initiatives on environmental contributions etc. to economic value added and formulating project concepts. Through our provision of ﬁnancial functions such as leases and home mortgages, we also help projects get executed. * See METI’s website for details. 055 Case Study C Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town The “Fujisawa Sustainable Smart Town” is a project currently being carried out by Panasonic Corporation at the former site of Panasonic’s Fujisawa factory. Panasonic Corporation, Fujisawa City, and eleven partner companies, including SuMi TRUST Bank, are collaborating to promote the project, which marked the town’s opening in spring 2014. We are participating in the project in various capacities. We are designing the smart town evaluation indicators (environmentally friendly property values), investigating eco-point and town card mechanisms, advancing projectspeciﬁc product plans for environmentally friendly housing loans, and providing leasing and ﬁnancing schemes. This project is also praised for its community-wide comprehensive CO2 reduction efforts together with town management. It was selected for subsidies under the MLIT-led “leading projects” program for sustainable buildings. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 5 Supporting Formation of Environmentally Friendly Property Funds On October 1, 2013, SuMi TRUST Bank joined with MLIT and investment opportunities to fund managers. the Real Estate Sustainability & Energy-Efﬁciency Diffusion With our extensive knowledge of real estate services and (Re-Seed) Association to conclude a “partnership agreement wealth of experience in environmentally friendly property, on the amended Real Estate Speciﬁed Joint Enterprise Act we use information supplied by MLIT and Re-Seed to disand program to promote the formation of environmentally seminate relevant information to our clients and other stakefriendly, earthquake resistant property.” Under this agreeholders. We likewise study the commercial potential of each ment, we work together with MLIT and Re-Seed to foster use case referred to us based on the information we receive, of the program to promote the formation of environmentally harnessing the Group’s comprehensive capabilities in areas friendly, earthquake resistant property and the amended Real such as equity arrangements, ﬁnancing, fund management, Estate Speciﬁed Joint Enterprise Act. We cooperate on matters asset management, effective-use consulting, and construcsuch as providing information to each other, introducing cases tion consulting as well as serving as a broker for rentals, purthat could beneﬁt from use of the program, and presenting chases, and sales. SuMi TRUST Bank’s Menu of Services Provided Services Provided Business Department Description/Strengths Financing arrangements Real Estate Finance Department Mezzanine arrangements and supplying ﬁnancing Equity arrangements Real Estate Business Department I Attracting investors seeking mediumto long-term stable returns in line with the fund concept Trusts under management Real Estate Custody Business Department Verifying eligibility in the event of liquidation, handling due diligence Brokering sales or Real Estate Business Departments Exit support through sales activities taking advantage of our wide-ranging channels in Japan and abroad purchases of real estate Fund management/asset Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Real Estate Scheme formation capabilities, smooth debt-equity procurement, and arrangements based on our management services Investment Management Co., Ltd. track record and credibility in FM (AM) as a ﬁnancial institution (1) Securing places to relocate existing tenants; (2) Attracting competitive new tenants after rebuilding Tenant leasing Real Estate Business Solution Departments or development Total support, from drawing up plans to verifying business feasibility and management of cost scheduling 056 Construction consulting Real Estate Advisory Department etc., based on our neutrality as a ﬁnancial institution (1) Business plan proposals in sync with government-promoted concepts by formulating Businesses related to environmentally friendly renovation and development plans using CASBEE® etc. environmentally friendly Real Estate Advisory Department Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report (2) Support for fund formation using a global network of real estate investors through the United property Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative Property Working Group (UNEP FI PWG) etc. Structure of Program to Promote Environmentally Friendly, Earthquake Resistant Property Under this program targeting aging, unused or underused and delivers strong environmental performance. The proreal estate, the government supplies risk funds as an incengram thus advances town development activities that contive to attract private investors and bring in private capital tribute to local renewal and revitalization as well as measures and expertise to foster the renovation, rebuilding, and develto mitigate global warming. opment of high-quality real estate that resists earthquakes Fund-establishing corporation: Outline of Scheme Re-Seed Association Government funds Support fund for environmentally friendly, Transfer redeemed funds to program for environmentally National government friendly, earthquake resistant property earthquake resistant property > Repeat investing and lending Limited partner (LP) Total 10% or Dividends investment and monitoring LP formation to invest in rebuilding and other projects Fund managers (FM) more under private-sector leadership (Real estate management company) General partner (GP) LP investment is capped at the same amount or less investment of Investment limited than the private investment in each SPC. 1% or more partnerships (LPs) (Example: Ordinarily, if the borrowing ratio is 50%, the Sponsors etc. GP/LP maximum LPS investment amount would be 25% of investment Dividends total project costs.) Investment etc., (rent, gains on and monitoring *In the event the borrowing ratio is 50% sales etc.) Management [Requirements after completion of Asset managers (AM) Target business operator (SPCs etc.) project] Advice • In principle, total ﬂoor area of at Financial least 2,000 m2 Loans institutions • No restrictions on use of Borrowing from private sector (banks, life building (certain entertainment insurance establishments etc. are not eligible) Property companies etc.) * SPCs include: *Renovation, rebuilding, LPS > Special purpose companies (the InvestPotential future development projects investment Japanese acronym is TMK) buyers of portion Investment ment Previous owner >Public companies, limited liability properties (incentive from private of property, real companies, or special business to attract sector estate companies operators speciﬁed under the Real J-REITs, companies etc. private etc. funds) Estate Speciﬁed Joint Enterprise Act, whose sole purpose is building 50% and 50% and the target project under over > Investment companies (J-REITs) Source: Outline of the program to promote the formation of environmentally friendly, earthquake resistant property (Re-Seed Association) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 A Leading Company in Japan’s Environmentally Friendly Property Market Study on Economic Impact of Buildings with CASBEE Evaluations Given the paucity of research in Japan showing a correlaComparison of Average Rents: Yen per 3.3 M2 tion between the environmental performance of buildings and economic beneﬁts, SuMi TRUST Bank cooperated as Tokyo’s 23 wards Yokohama Nagoya Osaka the lead investigator with a study into the economic impact of buildings with CASBEE evaluations in a working group 25,000 examining economic beneﬁts under the aegis of the Smart 20,000 Wellness Ofﬁce Research Committee. The study found mar15,000 ket rents in buildings with CASBEE certiﬁcation (or CASBEE applications, etc.) were about 3.6% higher than the aver10,000 age for non-evaluated buildings with similar attributes. This 5,000 suggests each point in the CASBEE scoring system (scores adjusted so 100 points is the maximum score) equates to 0 CASBEE buildings Total Tokyo CASBEE buildings Total urban sample CASBEE buildings Total urban sample CASBEE buildings Total urban sample a market rent 0.5% higher than the average. These results were announced at a Smart Wellness Ofﬁce-sponsored sym23-ward sample posium and an Architecture Institute of Japan convention. Correlation between CASBEE Score and Market Rents (Single regression analysis) 45,000 C B B+ A S Summary of Multiple Regression Analysis Results for CASBEE Buildings 40,000 Differential (Estimated yen rent per 3.3 M2*) 35,000 Sample CASBEE evaluations, etc. Coefﬁcients in average 057 size 30,000 rent 25,000 CASBEE ﬂag 517 564.160 +3.64% Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 20,000 CASBEE rank 517 263.525 +1.70% 15,000 CASBEE score 183 78.974 +0.46% 10,000 5,000 Service performance (Q2) score 183 1702.667 +9.9% 0 Intellectual productivity evaluation 180 319.318 +1.86% 40.0 50.0 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 (Scores of building population) Source: Data is from a fiscal year 2014 report issued by Japan Sustainable Building Consortium’s Smart Wellness Office Research Committee. * One tsubo equals 3.3 square meters. Smart City Study Group Land Policy Forum. Recently, we have been working on the Since 2013, the Group has run the Smart City Study Group, visualization and distribution of information about environalso chaired by University of Tokyo Professor Tomonari mentally friendly property as a chair of Working Group A Yashiro and subsidized by the Trust Forum Foundation. The in the Study Committee on the Promotion and Spread of group brings together leading experts from various ﬁelds Environmentally Friendly Properties. Furthermore, in the across industry, government, and academia to engage in belief that the MLIT-led CASBEE system should be put to discussion on smart cities, which are attracting worldwide effective use in the real estate market, the Group has supattention as a 21st century urban planning model. The purported its spread by actively making proposals in a CASBEE pose of the discussion is to identify what is required for smart subcommittee. As an organizer of the subcommittee, we cities to sustain value in the long term and to study related were involved in the development of CASBEE for Properties. challenges and the direction they are going. Our Activities as an UNEP FI Property Supporting Creation of Market Foundation for Working Group Member Spread of Environmentally Friendly Property As a member of the United Nations Environment Programme Since 2008, the Group has participated in MLIT commitFinance Initiative Property Working Group (UNEP FI PWG), tees for spreading environmentally friendly properties, such the Group has collaborated on the creation and translation as collaboration on setting up the MLIT’s Green Building of tools and case studies to encourage investment in propOnline Portal and support in organizing the International erties that take sustainability into account. We actively make recommendations for the promotion of such investment. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 2 Serve Clients with Sincerity • We strive to provide in-depth explanations and proposals so that clients can fully understand the details of our products and services. In addition, we make efforts to quickly meet the demands of clients and link their feedback to business improvements and product and service enhancement. • We strive to undertake meticulous management of client information. 058 • We engage in educational and awareness-raising acSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report tivities by cooperating with educational institutions, government authorities, NPOs, etc., to enable clients to take the lead in rationally selecting financial products and building sound assets. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives to Earn the Trust of Clients There is a pressing need for financial institutions to properly and fully explain to clients the mechanisms and risks of their products and to gain their understanding. It is also increasingly important that financial institutions properly manage client information and work to improve client satisfaction. The Group is promoting various initiatives to address these issues. We explain our initiatives below from three perspectives: client protection management, efforts to enhance customer satisfaction, and delivery of reliable financial products and services. Client Protection Management Basic Policy Amid the growing number of ﬁnancial products with ever Rules to enable each Group company to enhance client pro059 more complex mechanisms and unique characteristics, there tection and convenience. Checking and promotion systems is a pressing need for ﬁnancial institutions to properly and have also been developed, so the Group complies with these Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report fully explain to clients product mechanisms and risks and to and carries out business activities in a fair and just manner. gain their understanding. It is also increasingly important that By developing these systems, the Group is promoting various ﬁnancial institutions appropriately respond to complaints and initiatives to address issues and problem areas, and enabling requests from clients and properly manage client information. appropriate action based on self-discipline. Given these conditions, the Group regards client protecGroup companies develop appropriate client protection tion as one of its most important management issues. To management systems in accordance with the characteristics of meet the expectations and trust clients place in the Group, their own operations, based on the basic policy established by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (SuMi TRUST Holdings) has SuMi TRUST Holdings. established a basic policy in its Client Protection Management At Group companies, there are departments responsible Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Board of Directors Executive Committee Compliance Department Sumitomo Mitsui Board of Directors Trust Bank Executive Committee Other subsidiaries Compliance Committee Compliance Department Compliance Department IT & Business Process Planning Department Customer Satisfaction Promotion Department Ensuring Customers Managing Client Outsourcing Client Support Receive Adequate Conflicts Information Management Management Explanations of Interest Management Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 for client protection management. Under this rubric, separules as needed, and provide regular status reports to the rate departments tasked with managing conﬂicts of interest, Board of Directors, etc. Through their preparation of interclient information management, outsourcing management, nal company rules, guidance to related departments, and and client support management have also been established. training expansion and improvement, these departments These departments work to ensure the appropriateness and oversee client protection management as a whole as well sufﬁciency of client protection, revise and update important manage as the supervisory departments. Ensuring Customers Receive Adequate Explanations In providing ﬁnancial products and services to clients, the our website. We also ensure such actions are appropriately Group takes into account their knowledge, experience, taken from the clients’ standpoint by ensuring compliance asset situation, and purpose of transactions, and provides with the suitability rule* and establishing company regulations appropriate and adequate explanations to obtain their through the compilation of a client manual regarding the prounderstanding and consent. vision of adequate explanations, etc., as well as through the At Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”), the thorough training we give to our employees. Compliance Department oversees this ﬁeld as the departIn particular, for transactions of products with no guaranment responsible for ensuring customers receive the infortee of principal, we conduct monitoring to ascertain whether mation they need based on relevant rules and regulations. adequate explanations have been provided to elderly cliUnder the ambit of the compliance department, our policy ents, and we review solicitation rules as required. for solicitation and sales of ﬁnancial products and services, for * The suitability rule prohibits financial institutions from soliciting clients in ways that are instance, is available for clients to see at our branches and on inadequate in light of the client’s knowledge, experience, and asset status and the purpose for entering into the financial transaction contract. Managing Conflicts of Interest* 060 The Group complies with laws and regulations, etc. so as to TRUST Bank has been established as a department responsiavoid unjustly undermining customers’ interests as a result of ble for managing conﬂicts of interest independent of the sales Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report various services provided by group companies and relevant department. For the whole Group, a system to properly carry persons and has published the outline of the policy for manout the management of conﬂicts of interest has been put into aging conﬂicts of interest, which describes “transactions that place. The Compliance Department examines and evaluates may constitute conﬂicts of interest,” “methods of managing the effectiveness of the Group’s management of conﬂicts of conﬂicts of interest” and “systems for managing conﬂicts of interest on a regular basis in order to make continual improveinterest.” In addition, based on this policy, the Group approments. We also provide regular training and education and priately manages transactions that may constitute conﬂicts keep executives and employees informed on such matters. of interest and properly executes business operations. * “Conflicts of interest” refers to cases in which the interests of the Group and those of In order to properly manage conﬂicts of interest based on clients or interests among clients contradict each other. rules for such situations, the Compliance Department at SuMi Solicitation Policy (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) 1. Explain the basic policy 4. Offer appropriate explanations and conduct approSumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) priate solicitations practices its Codes of Conduct (“Value”) that calls for “completely Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank does not make explanations or conduct client-oriented” service and “strict compliance with applicable laws solicitation activity that may mislead clients, such as communicating and regulations,” and recommends ﬁnancial products and services false information or providing definitive explanations concerning based on this solicitation policy so that clients can decide for themuncertain matters. selves what is most appropriate for them. 5. Strive to conduct solicitation activity convenient for clients 2. Recommend financial instruments suited to clients Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank strives to conduct solicitation activity via Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank recommends financial products telephone or visit at a time, place and means convenient for clients. and services suited to clients according to their “knowledge,” “experiences,”“asset situation” and “the purpose of their transactions.” 6. Strive to improve in-house systems Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank strives to improve in-house systems so that 3. Explain the contents of financial products and serwe can provide ﬁnancial products and services suited to clients. Sumivices in an easy-to-understand manner tomo Mitsui Trust Bank also strives to acquire accurate knowledge and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank explains not only the contents and mermaster ways of providing easy-to-understand explanations. its of ﬁnancial products and services we provide but also risks and 7. Created a consultation contact point for clients fees in an appropriate, easy-to-understand manner so that they can be fully understood. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Client Information Management The Group has established the Declaration for the Protection risk management rules with the aim of properly maintaining of Personal Information as a policy to securely protect the and managing the Group’s information assets. These departpersonal information of its clients. Furthermore, the Group ments regularly evaluate the status and effectiveness of client manages client information appropriately, and when using information management execution and provide regular staclient information jointly in the Group, each company comtus reports to the Board of Directors, etc. At sales and head plies with laws on personal information protection, guideofﬁce departments, in addition to assigning general managlines on personal information protection in the ﬁnancial ers the responsibility of managing and administering informaindustry, and other related laws and regulations so as to tion, general managers require all employees they supervise ensure appropriate use of such information. to submit written afﬁrmation of their duty of conﬁdentiality At SuMi TRUST Bank, IT & business process planning so all concerned clearly recognize they have a duty to keep departments oversee client information management as units important information, including personal data they come tasked with this responsibility based on information security across while working, conﬁdential. Outsourcing Management When outsourcing its operations, the Group takes measures departments are responsible for outsourcing management, to ensure that the outsourced operation is consigned to a and based on rules for outsourcing management, they select contractor capable of: (1) establishing regulations for the contractors suitable to the Group for outsourcing consignappropriate management of risks from unexpected losses ments and monitor them. These departments provide reguincurred by the Group or its clients, (2) recognizing problar status reports to the Board of Directors, etc. about the lems related to the quality of service and the reliability of status of outsourcing management. service continuity, and (3) implementing the operation accuMoreover, each business designates a department to overrately, fairly, and efﬁciently. We also verify whether or not see operations outsourced to contractors and evaluates whether 061 outsourced contractors are antisocial in nature before enterthey are performing their assignments properly in accordance ing into new contracts, and we repeat this veriﬁcation on a with relevant rules and their consignment contracts through Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report regular basis. The purpose is to prevent transactions with conﬁrmations of the status of consigned operations both on an antisocial forces and to eliminate interference from them. ongoing periodic basis and in response to emerging situations. At SuMi TRUST Bank, IT & business process planning These departments also monitor contractors when necessary. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Privacy Policy We at the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, in the utmost effort to protect the personal information of our clients and shareholders, have established the following policies, and we declare to abide by this policy. 1. Compliance with all Applicable Laws and Regulations, etc. information consequent to the succession of business in a merger or The companies in the Group shall comply with the laws pertaining otherwise or if it is shared with a speciﬁed party set forth separately, to the protection of personal information, laws concerning the use then the personal information held for the client may be provided to of numbers to identify a speciﬁc individual for public administration the third party without obtaining the client’s consent. procedures (e.g., the “My Numbers Act”), and guidelines set forth With regards to speciﬁc personal information, we shall not provide by government agencies including other standards. this to third parties irrespective of whether the person concerned has or has not consented, apart from cases where it is stipulated by 2. Appropriate Acquisition laws concerning the use of numbers to identify a speciﬁc individual The companies in the Group shall obtain personal information from for public administration procedures. clients, speciﬁc personal information, etc. only to the extent necessary for our operations and only through proper and legal means. 6. Responding to Inquiries from Clients, etc. The companies in the Group shall establish the procedures for 3. Purpose of Use correcting and disclosing personal information, and any inquiries The companies in the Group shall notify or announce how the perconcerning questions, suggestions or inquiries and corrections of sonal information shall be used, and shall only use it within the concontent, etc. related to personal information and speciﬁc personal fines of the prescribed purpose except as otherwise provided by information shall be handled quickly and accurately. laws and regulations, and shall not use it for any other purpose. With regards to speciﬁc personal information, use shall be limited to the 7. Safety Measures scope stipulated in relevant laws and regulations. The companies in the Group, in their approach to managing personal information and speciﬁc personal information, take appropri4. Consignment ate safety measures in terms of their organizations, personnel affairs, If the companies in the Group consign the handling of the personal and systems to manage personal information so as to prevent leaks information as well as speciﬁc personal information, then the conetc. and have put into place a framework of responsibility necessary signee shall be properly supervised to promote safe management of to protect personal information. personal information. 8. Continuous Improvement 5. Offering to Third Parties The companies in the Group continually review and strive to improve The companies in the Group shall not provide to any third party perthe compliance program for protecting personal information. All exsonal information held for clients without obtaining prior consent ecutives and employees are trained to understand the importance from the client except in cases specified by laws and regulations. of protecting personal information and to appropriately handle perHowever, if the companies in the Group provide a client’s personal sonal information and speciﬁc personal information. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Client Support Management At SuMi TRUST Bank, the Customer Satisfaction (CS) efforts to improve operations. In ﬁscal year 2014, there were Promotion Department is responsible for client support 10,563 complaints. management. Based on rules for supporting clients, the With regards to complaints etc., there is a reporting sysdepartment quickly responds to inquiries and complaints tem for complaints etc. that collects and manages this inforfrom clients in a sincere manner, aiming to resolve them mation, and management receive periodic reports about the with the understanding and consent of clients to the greatcontent of complaints. By utilizing our “Voice of Customers est degree possible while also working to assess and anaPortal” (See page 63), we strive to improve operations to lyze the causes of such inquiries and complaints and making enhance client convenience. Initiatives to Prevent Remittance Scams With the aim of reminding employees about the key points that are crucial to preventing remittance scams, SuMi TRUST Bank holds lectures for employees on the prevention of remittance scams at all of our branches nationwide. The lectures are held with the assistance of the police and participants learn about the status of remittance scams locally, the methods used by criminals to target their victims, and the key points crucial to preventing this form of crime. Employees also role-play various remittance scams scenarios. Moreover, employees at our branches routinely speak to clients who are making bank transfers, and carry out thorough checks of such transactions. As a result, we were able to prevent 43 cases of remittance scams in ﬁscal year 2014. Of those, 16 of our branches have received commendations from local police forces for their contributions in this area. SuMi TRUST Bank will continue to be proactive in speaking to our clients in our endeavors to prevent crime. List of Shinjuku-Nishiguchi Branch Kobe Branch Hachioji Branch Tokyo-Chuo Branch commended Tokorozawa & Seiseki-Sakuragaoka Kita-Kyushu Branch Ueno Branch Tokorozawa-Ekimae Branch Consulting Office 062 branches Matsudo Branch Ogikubo Branch Shakujii Branch Konandai Branch Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Tsudanuma Branch Shinjuku Branch Toyohashi Branch * The Tokorozawa Branch and Shakujii Branch were commended twice. Efforts to Enhance Customer Satisfaction Basic Policy the Group’s website as well as the “Voice of Customers The Group is utilizing its signiﬁcant expertise and comprehenQuestionnaires” available at every branch. In ﬁscal year sive capabilities to quickly provide clients with comprehensive 2014, we appreciated the upwards of 200,000 opinions and solutions. It is also making every effort to adopt a “customerrequests we received through these channels (See page 63 ﬁrst approach” and to offer clients peace of mind and ensure regarding our system for applying customer feedback). their satisfaction with supreme loyalty and sincerity, placing In addition to our ongoing initiatives, we mailed prime importance on credibility and sound management. “Customer Questionnaires” in April 2015 to the about 1.6 million clients who have consummated contracts for time Initiatives to Use “Voice of Customers” deposits, investment trusts, etc. with us with the aim of furto Improve Our Services ther improving customer satisfaction. SuMi TRUST Bank receives a lot of feedback from customIn this way, we aim to use the opinions and requests we ers and many requests at branch ofﬁces throughout Japan received from our clients to provide even better products through diverse channels such as telephone centers and and services. • Regardless of the size of their account, we enclosed “Customer Questionnaires” in the How “Customer account balance report we sent to clients who have consummated contracts for time deposits Questionnaires” and other ﬁnancial products with us. Clients return the questionnaires by mail, so we are able Differs from Other to collect feedback from them directly. CS Initiatives • There are detailed question items regarding the manners, appropriate use of language, and the sales proposals of our employees so our employees can better grasp in detail how clients evaluate their approach to client service. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our System for 1 Collecting customer feedback Applying Customer SuMi TRUST Bank highly values not only feedback collected Feedback through the “Voice of Customers Questionnaires” and mail questionnaire surveys but also customer feedback included SuMi TRUST Bank receives a lot of feedback from in inquiries, consultations and requests we handle routinely. customers and many requests at branch offices Such feedback is used for improving its operations. throughout Japan as well as its telephone centers Five ways of collecting customer feedback and website, along with the “Voice of Customers • Branches (over-the-counter, telephone) Questionnaires” available at every branch. We use this Customer feedback is recorded in a dedicated system so that it can be used to make improvements. In addition, feedback to provide better products and services. there is a system that enables company-wide sharing of feedback in cooperation with the head ofﬁce. • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Direct Procedures are implemented via telephone and inquiries, and consultations and opinions are also received and are used to make improvements. Such feedback is also comStudying and Collecting municated to and shared by relevant departments. 3 implementing 1 customer feedback • Various Questionnaire Surveys improvement Various questionnaire surveys are conducted to solicit opinmeasures CS ions regarding SuMi TRUST Bank’s products and services. (Customer Satisfaction) • Customer Service Office Promotion Cycle of Customers’ opinions and requests are received via teleSuMi TRUST Bank phone, postal mail and Internet. • Voice of Customers Questionnaires 063 Customers may send back the “Voice of Customers Questionnaires,” available at branches across Japan, via Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Analyzing mail or the “Voice of Customers Posts” installed within the 2 customer feedback branches to convey their opinions and requests. We also receive opinions and requests from customers during visits to them. 3 Studying and implementing improvement measures 2 Analyzing customer feedback Regarding opinions and requests received from customers, In order to realize customer satisfaction by utilizing the more branches and the head ofﬁce cooperate in investigating and than 100,000 cases of feedback we receive each year, we use analyzing the causes and identifying problems. Based on the the “CS Voice of Customers Portal,” a system to analyze cusresults, we look for improvement measures and strive to protomer feedback. We are striving to meet customers’ needs vide better products and services. by making customer feedback “visible” so that we can better “recognize” customer needs. Customer feedback CS Voice of Customers Portal: a System for Analyzing Customer Feedback Head office Branches CS Committee Investigation and sharing of challenges Search for improvement measures Implementation of improvement measures Enhancement of customer satisfaction Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Examples of Improvement Based on Feedback from Individual Customers We will pay attention to each customer feedback and use pleasure. We will continue to strive to better serve customit to realize customer satisfaction. Customers’ smiles and ers as a bank. words of appreciation give us a sense of fulﬁllment and *To learn more about “example cases of improvement based on feedback from individual customers,” please go to SuMi TRUST Bank’s website. http://www.smtb.jp/corporate/cs/improvement/personal.html Abenobashi Branch Shakujii Branch Voice of I feel anxious about what would happen to me Voice of customer customer There isn’t anywhere to put belongings around if I were alone at the bank when a natural disasATMs. That makes it harder to use them. ter struck. We have placed helmets in a location where We installed two shelves for belongings in Improvement customers can easily see them so they can Improvement between three ATMs. One ATM has enough immediately use them in an emergency. Our space so that someone in a wheelchair can employees will provide customers guidance in access it. the event of a disaster. Tokorozawa & Tokorozawa-Ekimae Branch Emergency helmets Voice of customer I need to go upstairs. Climbing the branch’s stairs is taxing. We installed elevators at branches as part of 064 Improvement the renovations that accompanied our branch consolidation. Customers can now use elevators to go as high as the third floor. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Examples of improvement based on feedback from corporate clients Product Service improvement improvement Trust Business Defined Contribution Pension Business case case We started handling “issued deposit money We support client companies’ investment Improvement trusts” targeted at customers who issue Improvement education for members and also provide prepaid payment instruments (prepaid investment education services, including cards, IC-based electronic money, etc.) training programs, web service and * A protection method using a trust scheme that was added as a result of the revision of e-learning tools. the protection obligation related to the unused balance of prepaid payment methods. Normalization Initiatives SuMi TRUST Bank is implementing a variety of initiatives in order to ensure that its branches are accessible to all. For example, we are installing ATMs for the visually impaired, as well as textured paving blocks, to allow them to carry out their transactions smoothly. We have also deﬁned internal procedures for writing and reading proxies for deposits, withdrawals, and the like. To make our branch facilities easier to use for those with hearing difﬁculties, we have posted “Ear Mark” signs and “Assistance Dog” stickers, and equipped counters at each branch with writing boards, hearing aids, and communication boards. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Efforts to Enhance Customer Satisfaction Mindfulness To promote customer satisfaction (CS) improvement activiCustomer Service Role Playing ties, “CS Committees” are established in all branches, and Role playing is implemented, with employees acting as custhey actively conduct various CS improvement activities tomers, and employees evaluate each other’s performance. that match the characteristics of each branch. In addition, In addition, the role playing is recorded on video so that solid education and training are provided to employees, to employees can check their own performance and improve encourage each and every employee to practice a customertheir customer service skills. ﬁrst approach to service on a daily basis. Service “Helper” Reflecting on Business Manners The service “helper” certiﬁcation is a way to demonstrate that Two Months a Year one is committed to client hospitality and has learned helpWe offer programs two months a year—February and ing skills to support the elderly and disabled in many everyAugust—for employees at all branch ofﬁces and head ofﬁce day life situations. About 1,000 companies nationwide have departments to think about and reﬂect on business manadopted this certiﬁcation system in their businesses. Among ners in the context of performing their work. Employees ﬁnancial institutions, SuMi TRUST Bank was one of the ﬁrst reﬂect broadly on manners, including personal appearance to incorporate it. Along with initiatives to make barrier-free and grooming, how they carry and conduct themselves design a standard feature at our branch ofﬁces, we encourin an ofﬁce context, and their greetings and salutations. aged employees to seek certiﬁcation so they can feel conﬁDiscussions where employees share their thoughts are then dent in providing client service. As of October 31, 2015, 160 held at each branch ofﬁce and head ofﬁce department, and employees at 62 branch ofﬁces have obtained the service the results of the discussions are written up in a report. “helper” certiﬁcation. Various Tools for Improving CS Mindfulness 065 Month Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Course name Content Eligibility offered 1H FY2014 Study preparations for client support All Training on client support May management employees management August 2014 Improving the ofﬁce work capabilities of All August Office task retraining all employees employees Diligence in basic conduct All e-learning and improving workplace Self-checks on business manners August employees (See page 66) environments 2H FY2014 Study preparations for client support All Training on client support January management employees management February 2015 Improving the ofﬁce work capabilities of All February Office task retraining all employees employees February 2015 Self-checks on efforts to improve busiAll February Reflecting on business manners ness manners employees The handbook, given to all employees, starts with instructions on how to answer phone calls and the ﬁner points of proper greetings and has entries on proper carriage and conduct at ceremonial Business manners & occasions and how to write congratulatory and condolence gift notes. Each employee reads the handbook handbook carefully and uses it as a guide to manners. Moreover, at branch ofﬁces, employees seek to remind themselves of the importance of manners and self-improvement by reading the handbook aloud together. The compliance manual, given to all employees, provides a code of conduct as a way to earn the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust trust of clients and society with entries on what offering an adequate explanation entails, how to Bank’s compliance properly handle personal information, and ways to respond to anti-social forces. Each employee manual reads the manual carefully and uses it as a compliance reference, while also gaining an under(see page 79) standing of the latest laws and internal company rules. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Delivery of Reliable Financial Products and Services Systems for Introducing New Products and New Operations When starting to handle new products or when engaging Flow Chart of Introduction of New Products in new operations, it is necessary to identify and evaluate and New Operations the places and types of inherent risks, develop infrastructure necessary for management and conduct sufﬁcient advance Departments in charge of risk check study so as to ensure appropriate risk management. To that Consultation Consultation end, we have built a product examination system. In this proabout risks about risks cess, we clarify the risks borne by clients. Moreover, in marketing products, we have developed frameworks to ensure Departments in Corporate Risk charge of product Management Department explanations and solicitations provide proper conﬁrmation Consultation management Product Examination Office of suitability for clients. In these ways, our systems for introas to whether or not product ducing new products and operations are meant to foster the examination Product is necessary examination referral trust clients place in us. Application for product examination Product Examination Monitoring Systems Approval Committee In the post-launch phrase, the department responsible for the new product or operation provides quarterly “post-introduction initiative status reports” to the Product Examination Ofﬁce. Under this management approach, the ofﬁce conﬁrms initiative status based on the report and Applying Customer Feedback whether conditions differ from those assumed in the assessAs one plank in our approach to client protection manage066 ment at the Product Examination Committee. When necment vis-à-vis the products and services we offer, the Group essary, the ofﬁce coordinates with departments in charge recognizes it is best to go beyond responding to complaints Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report of risk checks and management planning in conjunction as we ﬁeld inquiries, advice and requests from clients. We with the department responsible. As a follow-up risk manbelieve feedback from clients is a valuable source of inforagement measure, the department responsible for the mation for identifying problems involving compliance and new product or operation must immediately report to the ways to improve operations. Rather than passively processProduct Examination Ofﬁce in the event conditions differ ing advice and complaints we hear from clients, we strive to from those assumed in the Product Examination Committee respond with sincerity and actively take onboard feedback in assessment. Likewise, it must report to the ofﬁce if differways that improve the quality of our products and services. ent risks are assumed than those previously identiﬁed. When we receive advice or complaints, we work to resolve When necessary, the ofﬁce coordinates with departments issues quickly, doing our utmost to respond swiftly and sinin charge of risk checks and examines response options at cerely to ensure we have gone as far as we can to obtain the the Product Examination Committee. understanding and acceptance of our clients (see page 62). SuMi TRUST Bank’s e-learning At SuMi TRUST Bank, all employees can enroll in e-learning capsules that are available online at “Web Campus,” an information portal for employees. The departments in charge design the capsules so the content can be learned in ﬁve to ten minutes. For e-learning courses employees are required to complete, there are self-check tests employees can take to conﬁrm their level of comprehension. Moreover, department supervisors manage mandatory courses to ensure all the employees they oversee learn the required content and their department completion rate reaches 100%. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 3 Earn the Trust of Society • We strictly adhere to all laws, regulations and rules, and conduct our activities in a sincere and fair manner that conforms to societal norms. • We build sound and proper relationships with stakeholders, and fulfill our responsibilities as a member of society, engaging in fair competition and appropriate disclosure of corporate information, etc. 067 • We maintain a resolute stance against antisocial forces Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report which threaten public order and safety, and work to prevent improper use of financial functions by organized crime. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Corporate Governance The Group has created a management structure befitting a trust bank group that boasts the largest scale and highest status in Japan, combining the banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses. We are striving to ensure management transparency and soundness, while speeding up our decision-making in order to respond with flexibility to changes in the environment. 1 Basic Policy In order to adhere to the principles of sound management mediumto long-term enhancement of the corporate value of based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (“SuMi TRUST Group”). The of ﬁduciary spirit and establish strong credibility from society, Board of Directors has published SuMi TRUST Group’s manSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) agement principles (mission), ideal model (vision), and codes shall commit itself to enhancing its corporate governance of conduct (value) as the general principle for its managesystem in line with the following fundamental perspectives, ment, which shall be shared by all the ofﬁcers and employees with the objective of supporting sustainable growth and of SuMi TRUST Group and relied upon in all activities. 068 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Fundamental Perspectives • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall respect shareholder rights, and Disclosure Policy, and endeavor to appropriately disclose corpoendeavor to develop an environment in which shareholders can rate information, including non-financial information, and ensure exercise their rights appropriately and effectively, and to secure the transparency of its corporate management. effective equal treatment of shareholders. • As a financial holding company with the function of managing • By recognizing the importance of its social responsibilities and the business execution of the SuMi TRUST Group, SuMi TRUST public mission, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall endeavor to appropriHoldings shall endeavor to ensure the Board of Directors’ role of ately cooperate with its stakeholders such as shareholders, cuseffective oversight of the business execution. tomers, employees, business partners, and local communities, • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall engage in constructive dialogue with and to establish a corporate culture where it conducts sound busiits stakeholders in order to contribute to sustainable growth and ness operations based on a high degree of self-discipline. mediumto long-term enhancement of the corporate value of • In order to establish the basis for constructive dialogue with its SuMi TRUST Holdings. stakeholders, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall separately set out its Corporate Governance System Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings *1 Including CSR Council General Meeting of Shareholders *2 Corporate Auditors • Business Management Committee Holding Company • Enterprise Risk Management Committee Board of Corporate Auditors • Disclosure Committee Nominating and Board of Directors Audit Compensation Consultation and Consultation and Committee Report Report Committee Executive Committee*1 Committees*2 Formulating Group Monitoring Administration Allocating Supervising Risk Supervising Compliance Managing Internal Management Strategy of Business Activities Management Resources Management Management Auditing Directly Owned Business Planning Risk Management Compliance Internal Auditing Subsidiaries Directly Owned Subsidiaries Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 2 Outline of Corporate Governance System (1) Perspectives Regarding SuMi TRUST of Directors. However, due consideration shall also be given Holdings’ Corporate Governance System to securing diversity and professionalism at the Board of The SuMi TRUST Group is a trust bank group, which is formed Directors in deciding such number. In light of the importance around Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”), a of external directors’ functions in corporate governance, SuMi core subsidiary with signiﬁcant expertise developed over the TRUST Holdings shall operate the Board of Directors with at years and with wide business ﬁelds that enable the provision least one-third of the directors being independent external of a one-stop total solution service. With the objective of directors, in principle. For the Independence Standards of meeting its stakeholders’ expectations, SuMi TRUST Group Independent External Ofﬁcers established by SuMi TRUST shall further ensure the transparency of its management, and Holdings, please refer to our website (http://www.smth.jp/en/ shall develop a system necessary to enhance its corporate about_us/governance/independence.pdf). governance system. Composition of the Board of Directors (2) Organizational Structure of Corporate Governance SuMi TRUST Holdings adopts the system of a company with a Number of Directors: 9 Board of Corporate Auditors in which directors who are thoroughly familiar with businesses determine the execution of important business and establishes a Board of Corporate Auditors with at least half of the corporate auditors being external auditors. Number of Internal Directors: 6 Number of External Directors: 3*1 (All external directors are (3) Roles of the Board of Directors independent ofﬁcers.) The Board of Directors shall oversee overall management and *1 SuMi TRUST Holdings has notified the financial instruments exchange that all three ensure fairness and transparency of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ corexternal directors are independent officers. porate management. In addition, the Board of Directors shall *2 For details, please refer to our website (http://www.smth.jp/en/about_us/officer/index.html). 069 make decisions for SuMi TRUST Group by, among other things, deciding important business-execution matters to be decided (5) Qualification of Directors and Nomination Procedures Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report by the Board of Directors as required by laws. Except for the SuMi TRUST Holdings’ candidates for directors are decided important business-execution matters, the Board of Directors from among a wide range of diversiﬁed individuals pursuant shall delegate business execution and decision-making thereon to the following nomination policies: (i) A person with abunto subordinate meetings, such as the Executive Committee, dant knowledge and experience regarding the management and ofﬁcers exercising control over the relevant business, etc., administration and business operation of a trust bank group; and the Board of Directors shall oversee the execution of duties and (ii) A person who fully understands the social responsiby such meetings and ofﬁcers, etc. bility and mission of banking business and the ﬁduciary spirit External directors shall oversee the execution of busiof trust business, and who is able to fairly and appropriately ness by the Board of Directors and the top management, implement management administration and business operand any conﬂicts of interest that may arise between SuMi ation based on a high degree of self-discipline. TRUST Holdings and the management team, etc., from the The candidates for external directors are decided from standpoint of stakeholders, in order to support sustainable among a wide range of diversiﬁed individuals pursuant to the growth and mediumto long-term enhancement of the corfollowing nomination policies: (i) A person who satisﬁes the porate value of SuMi TRUST Group. Independence Standards of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and who In light of the importance of environmental and social issues is deemed unlikely to give rise to conﬂicts of interest with genover sustainability, the Board of Directors shall prescribe the eral shareholders of SuMi TRUST Holdings; (ii) A person who basic policy regarding social responsibility to be implemented understands SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management principles, by each group company (the “Sustainability Policy”). With and fully understands the social responsibilities and roles of the Sustainability Policy, the Board of Directors shall enhance SuMi TRUST Holdings as a trust bank group; and (iii) A perawareness of its ofﬁcers and employees, and promote posison who fully recognizes the role of external director, and who tive efforts to resolve these issues by considering its stakeholdis able to oversee SuMi TRUST Holdings’ directors and maners, aiming to support the sustainable growth of society and agement, and provide proper and appropriate opinions and increase the corporate value of SuMi TRUST Group. advice, by leveraging the person’s knowledge and activities in ﬁelds such as corporate management, economics, legal (4) Composition of the Board of Directors affairs, accounting, tax accounting, and auditing. The Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST Holdings shall have no more than 15 directors, which is the number of directors preReasons for the Appointment of External Directors scribed in the Articles of Incorporation, and it shall basically Soichi Shinohara: Professor Shinohara concurrently serves as comprise such number of directors as shall be necessary and President of Kyoto Gakuen University and Emeritus Professor appropriate to secure an effective management system of of Doshisha University. He was appointed as an external SuMi TRUST Group and substantive discussion at the Board director as he was expected to offer his wealth of knowledge Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 about, and sophisticated insight into, economic issues both and the headquarters on the status of execution of duties as at home and abroad to further enhance the quality of SuMi well as business reports from subsidiaries as necessary. TRUST Holdings’ management. He developed his knowledge and insight in his capacity as an economist specializing (7) Qualification of Corporate Auditors and in international economics and macroeconomics. Nomination Procedures SuMi TRUST Holdings’ candidates for corporate auditors Takeshi Suzuki: Mr. Suzuki had held numerous prominent are decided from among a wide range of diversiﬁed indipositions at Toyota Motor Corporation and Aioi Nissay viduals pursuant to the following nomination policies, with Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Currently, he concurrently serves the approval of the Board of Corporate Auditors: (i) A peras an external director of AICHI CORPORATION. He was son with abundant knowledge and experience regarding appointed as an external director as he was expected to the management administration and business operation of offer his wealth of experience and extensive insight devela trust bank group; and (ii) A person who is able to oversee oped in his capacity as a senior executive of a company to the execution of duties by directors from a fair and objective SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management. standpoint and contribute to enhancing the soundness and transparency of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management. Mikio Araki: Mr. Araki served as the Deputy President and The candidates for external auditors are decided from Representative Director of Development Bank of Japan Inc. He among a wide range of diversiﬁed individuals pursuant to concurrently serves as President of The Japan Economic Research the following nomination policies, with the approval of the Institute, an external director of Kintetsu Group Holdings Co., Board of Corporate Auditors: (i) A person who satisﬁes the Ltd. and an external auditor of Japan Freight Railway Company. Independence Standards of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and who is He was appointed as an external director as he was expected to deemed unlikely to give rise to conﬂicts of interest with general bring his wealth of experience and deep insight into ﬁnance as a shareholders of SuMi TRUST Holdings; (ii) A person who underbusiness leader to SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management. stands SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management principles, and fully understands the social responsibilities and roles of SuMi 070 External Directors’ Attendance at TRUST Holdings as a trust bank group; and (iii) A person who Board of Directors Meetings fully recognizes the role of external auditor and who is able to Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Attended all 11 Board of Attendance rate oversee the execution of duties by directors from a neutral and Soichi Shinohara Directors meetings 100% objective standpoint, by leveraging the person’s knowledge Attended all 7 Board of Attendance rate Takeshi Suzuki and activities in ﬁelds such as corporate management, ecoDirectors meetings 100% Mikio Araki Attended all 7 Board of Attendance rate nomics, legal affairs, accounting, tax accounting, and auditing, Directors meetings 100% and who is thereby able to contribute to enhancing the sound* Attendance for Soichi Shinohara refers to the period from April 2015 through November 30, 2015, and for Takeshi Suzuki and Mikio Araki refer to the period from June 2015 ness and transparency of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management. through November 30, 2015. Reasons for the Appointment of External Auditors (6) Composition of the Board of Corporate Auditors Tetsuya Yoshimoto: Mr. Yoshimoto had held numerous promSuMi TRUST Holdings has adopted the corporate auditor inent positions as a judge and has a wealth of experience in system. The Board of Corporate Auditors comprises a total the legal community, including serving as the Chairman of of four corporate auditors, including two full-time corpothe National Public Service Ethics Board after he retired from rate auditors and two part-time corporate auditors (exterhis position as a judge, and has a high sense of morality. He nal auditors). In order to ensure the independence of the was appointed as an external auditor as he was expected to auditing function, two of the corporate auditors are external offer his experience and a high sense of morality to further auditors. Furthermore, the two external auditors meet the enhance the quality of audits at SuMi TRUST Holdings. Independence Standards of SuMi TRUST Holdings and thus have been designated as independent ofﬁcers. Shinichi Saito: Mr. Saito concurrently serves as Representative Corporate auditors attend important meetings including the Director, President and CEO of Japan Industrial Solutions Board of Directors meetings and receive reports from directors Co., Ltd. and External Director of Sharp Corporation. He was appointed as an external auditor to further enhance the quality of audits at SuMi TRUST Holdings. He was expected Composition of the Board of Corporate Auditors to offer his wealth of experience in, and insight into, areas Number of Corporate Auditors: 4 External Auditors’ Attendance at Board of Corporate Auditors Meetings Attended all 11 Board of Attendance rate Tetsuya Yoshimoto Corporate Auditors meetings 100% Number of Internal Number of External Auditors: 2 Corporate Auditors: 2 (All external auditors are Attended all 11 Board of Attendance rate independent ofﬁcers.) Shinichi Saito Corporate Auditors meetings 100% * For details, please refer to our website (http://www.smth.jp/en/about_us/officer/index.html). * Attendance in the period from April to November 30, 2015 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 including treasury, accounting, overseas business, ﬁnance, (10) Outline of Results of Analysis and and corporate rehabilitation, drawing on his career in the Evaluation Concerning the Effectiveness ﬁnance functions at a major trading conglomerate as well as of the Board of Directors as a Whole in the consulting business at a leading auditing ﬁrm. The secretariat of Board of Directors regularly arranges occasions for hearings for external directors and corporate auditors (8) Internal Auditing to review, among other things, the effectiveness of the Board of Regarding internal auditing, an internal audit unit, which is indeDirectors, the operational structure (such as advance information pendent of units pertaining to business execution, has been provision and support), and subjects that should be discussed established to create the policy on development of the internal with the Board of Directors. After sharing the results with the Chair auditing system and internal audit plans of SuMi TRUST Group. of the Board of Directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings implements necIt also performs internal auditing for each business execution essary improvements, contributing to the enhancement of the unit and indicates and recommends points to be improved. operation of the Board of Directors. At the end of the ﬁscal year, The results of internal audits and the status of internal auditing SuMi TRUST Holdings assesses the effectiveness of the Board of plans in terms of progress and objectives achieved are reported Directors and reports the results to the Board of Directors, as well to the Board of Directors, etc., in a timely and appropriate manas making further efforts to ensure its effectiveness. ner. Effective June 26, 2015, the Audit Committee was established as an advisory board to the Board of Directors. The (11) Establishment of Voluntary Committees Audit Committee deliberates in advance on important matters In order to further enhance its corporate governance sysincluding the internal audit plans and reports the results of the tem, SuMi TRUST Holdings establishes the Nominating and deliberation to the Board of Directors. Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee, in which external directors participate, as advisory bodies to Internal Auditing Implementation System the Board of Directors. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, etc. General Meeting General Meeting 071 of Shareholders of Shareholders Outline of the Nominating and Compensation Committee Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Corporate Auditors Corporate Auditors Corporate Auditors (as of September 30, 2015) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Board of Directors Advisory & reporting Chair: Mikio Araki (External Director) Board of Directors Audit Committee Executive Committee Member: Soichi Shinohara (External Director) Executive Committee Prior deliberation Member: Takeshi Suzuki (External Director) Internal Member: Hitoshi Tsunekage (Chairman) Internal auditing auditing Head office Monitoring Internal Audit Internal auditing departments and Member: Kunitaro Kitamura (President) Each department Department unit sales departments Internal In principle, the majority of the Committee members consists of auditing external directors. Main consultation matters (9) Policies Regarding Training of Directors and • The nomination of candidates for directors and corporate auditors Corporate Auditors • The Independence Standards of independent external ofﬁcers SuMi TRUST Holdings collects and provides informa• The compensation structure for ofﬁcers tion regarding industry movement, corporate governance, • Other important matters regarding ofﬁcers ﬁnance and accounting, and any other matters, which is required by directors and corporate auditors in order to perform their roles and functions, and it thereby supports directors’ and corporate auditors’ execution of duties. The Outline of the Audit Committee (as of September 30, 2015) “External Ofﬁcers Support Ofﬁce” was established in June 2015 in order to strengthen supporting systems to fulﬁll the Chair: Soichi Shinohara (External Director) functions of external directors and external auditors. The Member: Takeshi Suzuki (External Director) External Ofﬁcers Support Ofﬁce provides support to exterMember: Mikio Araki (External Director) nal directors by explaining proposals, etc., to the Board of Member: Yoshiaki Koshimura (Officer responsible for SuMi Directors in advance and providing materials and the like. TRUST Holdings’ Internal Audit Department) For external auditors, full-time corporate auditors report Member: Masahiro Tsuchiya (Officer responsible for SuMi audit information collected through daily audit activities TRUST Bank’s Internal Audit Department) such as minutes of important meetings and investigation In principle, the majority of the Committee members consists of results of SuMi TRUST Holdings and its subsidiaries and external directors. share information at the Board of Corporate Auditors. At the same time, staff members of the Corporate Auditors Ofﬁce Main consultation matters who are independent of the execution of business provide • Internal audit plans support to external auditors by providing materials and • Other important matters regarding the internal audit explanations and answering questions. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 3 Compensation for Directors Compensation for directors is intended to function effecﬁxed monthly compensation alone and the suitable level tively as an incentive for improvement of corporate perforfor corporate auditors of SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi mance and expansion of corporate value in order to realize TRUST Bank shall be discussed with corporate auditors and stable and sustainable growth of the SuMi TRUST Group. then determined, taking into consideration the business conditions of SuMi TRUST Holdings, compensation levels of (1) Compensation Structure corporate directors, general standards and the like. SuMi TRUST Bank, core subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings, engages in businesses in a wide ﬁeld of business. SuMi (2) Procedures to Determine Compensation TRUST Holdings has adopted a management style that aims In SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank, the compento increase proﬁts through efforts to increase the scale of sation structure and compensation table for directors and entrusted assets and the like by expanding the customer base executive ofﬁcers, and compensation amounts of individual over the mediumto long-term rather than seeking short-term ofﬁcers shall be determined by the following procedures: proﬁt. With these features of a trust bank as the background, • The Nominating and Compensation Committee that was the systems and structures for compensation of directors have established as an advisory body to the Board of Directors been established, not focusing on single-year performance of SuMi TRUST Holdings shall consider matters relating to evaluation in which short-term contribution to proﬁt is emphaofﬁcers’ compensation of SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi sized, but focusing on ofﬁcers’ qualiﬁcations and capabilities as TRUST Bank (ofﬁcers’ compensation structure, ofﬁcers’ senior management, and based on a comprehensive evaluation compensation table and other important matters) and then that reﬂects assessment of mediumto long-term performance. report it to the Boards of Directors of each of them. Speciﬁcally, the following structure is applied to compensa• In principal, a majority of the Nominating and Compensation tion of directors (excluding external directors) and executive Committee members shall be external directors, and the ofﬁcers of SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank. chair shall be selected from external directors, in principle, • In principle, payment shall be made as a combination through a mutual election by the members. 072 of monthly compensation, ofﬁcers’ bonus, and stock• The monthly compensation amounts, bonus amounts, and compensation-type stock options, and the compensathe number of stock-compensation-type stock option rights Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report tion policy and compensation table for each ﬁscal year and the like for individual directors (excluding external shall be resolved at the Board of Directors meeting. directors) and executive ofﬁcers of SuMi TRUST Holdings • The monthly compensation is separated into two types: and SuMi TRUST Bank based on the performance evalua“ﬁxed compensation” that is a ﬁxed amount per position, tion shall be proposed at the performance evaluation meetand “performance-based compensation” that is based on ing that is composed of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ internal each individual ofﬁcer’s evaluation of the preceding year ofﬁcers and resolved at the Board of Directors meeting. while also reﬂecting the ofﬁcer’s mediumto long-term • Details of the determined compensation amount and performance contribution as well. the like shall be reported at the explanatory meeting for • Allocated amounts of ofﬁcers’ bonuses shall be deterexternal directors and external corporate auditors of SuMi mined by deciding the total payment amount taking into TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank. This meeting is consideration the overall management environment, cororganized in order to establish an opportunity to hear porate performance and the like and reﬂecting each indiopinions from an objective standpoint. vidual ofﬁcer’s performance in the preceding ﬁscal year. • With regard to the stock-compensation-type stock options, (3) Compensation for FY2014 the number of stock option rights shall be determined The total amount of compensation for FY2014 for directors based on the number of stock option rights per position excluding external directors was 506 million yen, and for corwith an adjustment for each individual ofﬁcer’s performance porate auditors excluding external auditors was 57 million yen. evaluation and the like. SuMi TRUST Holdings has omitted individual disclosures of com• The share ownership plan of ofﬁcers is a mechanism by pensation as no one received compensation of 100 million yen which individual ofﬁcers shall voluntarily determine their or more, the amount subject to the disclosure requirements. invested amounts based on the target number of share ownership deﬁned per position. Total Amount of Compensation for Applicable Officers at SuMi TRUST Holdings The compensation to external directors of SuMi TRUST (From April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015) Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank shall be composed of the Millions of Yen ﬁxed monthly compensation alone and resolved at the Total amount Category Headcount of compenTotal amount Total amount Compensation Retirement Board of Directors meeting, taking into consideration the sation of ﬁxed comBasic compenof variable pensation sation compensation Bonus as stock option beneﬁts business conditions of SuMi TRUST Holdings, compensation Directors 8 506 401 401 64 64 41 – level of its internal directors, general standards and the like. (excluding External Directors) The compensation to corporate auditors of SuMi TRUST Corporate Auditors 2 57 57 57 – – – – (excluding External Auditors) Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank shall be composed of the * Amount of compensation stated above includes compensation for (concurrent) directorship at the significant consolidated subsidiaries. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 4 Regarding Cross-Shareholdings (1)Policies Regarding Cross-Shareholdings subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings, shall decide to vote for The SuMi TRUST Group shall not acquire and hold the shares, or against each agenda and exercise voting rights pertainetc. of its business counterparty, etc. (the “Cross-Shareholding ing to the Cross-Shareholding Shares (the “Voting Rights”), Shares”), except in the case where it is deemed that such after comprehensively taking into consideration the busiacquisition and holding will contribute to mediumto longness conditions, etc. of the issuing company of the Crossterm enhancement of the corporate value of the SuMi TRUST Shareholding Shares (the “Issuing Company”), as well as Group, from the perspective of, among other things, establishthe impact to sustainable growth and mediumto long-term ing a stable transactional relationship over the long-term, busienhancement of the corporate value of the Issuing Company ness alliance, or facilitating or reinforcing collaborative business and the SuMi TRUST Group. development with the business counterparty, in principle. In the case that SuMi TRUST Holdings or SuMi TRUST Regarding major ones from among the Cross-Shareholding Bank is required to pay special attention upon the exercise Shares, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall verify, and report at a Board of the Voting Rights due to a long-term downturn of busiof Directors meeting regarding, the mediumto long-term ness conditions, a reorganization, or an occurrence of sigeconomic rationale for holding them, and the effect of holding niﬁcant compliance violations, etc., of the Issuing Company, them from the aspect of maintaining and enhancing the overall SuMi TRUST Holdings or SuMi TRUST Bank shall decide to relationship with the business counterparties, etc. vote for or against each agenda after collecting enough In principle, the SuMi TRUST Group shall sell the Crossinformation through a variety of methods including engagShareholding Shares in the case where the signiﬁcance and ing in dialogue with the Issuing Company. rationality of holding them is not observed, after taking into In the case that there is a risk of conﬂicts of interest upon consideration various factors, including the impact of selling the exercise of the Voting Rights, SuMi TRUST Holdings and the shares on the stock market. SuMi TRUST Bank shall properly deal with the risk pursuant to the Management Policy Concerning Conﬂicts of Interest (2) Standards for Voting on Cross-Shareholding Shares prescribed separately. 073 SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank, which is a core Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 5 Measures for Protection of Stakeholders’ Interests (1) Management System of Related Party Transactions “Management Policy”) pursuant to laws, etc., in order to When SuMi TRUST Group engages in transactions with its ensure that none of the various services provided by each ofﬁcers or major shareholders, etc., the transactions shall be group company and its related parties unfairly harm the referred to the Board of Directors for prior approval, in order interests of its customers. Pursuant to the Management to ensure that such transactions do not harm, among other Policy, SuMi TRUST Group shall appropriately manage transinterests, the interests of SuMi TRUST Group or the common actions that may give rise to a conﬂict of interest, and shall interests of its shareholders, except where the trading terms properly implement its business operations. are obviously equivalent to those of general transactions. (3) Compliance Hotline System (2) Management System of Transactions Involving In order to promptly and appropriately respond to any violaConflict of Interest with Customers in tion of laws, etc., SuMi TRUST Group has established a comSuMi TRUST Group’s Business Operations pliance hotline system where all ofﬁcers and employees can SuMi TRUST Group shall separately prescribe the directly report to the Compliance Department or external Management Policy Concerning Conﬂicts of Interest (the law ﬁrms. 6 Internal Control An internal control system is designed to prevent the occurrence Basic Policy on Internal Control System Structure of misconduct by putting various mechanisms and rules into place for the purpose of conducting sound management in a company. Compliance System System regarding Basically, there are four objectives: (1) effectiveness and efﬁciency Risk Management Audits by System Corporate Auditors of operations, (2) reliability of ﬁnancial reporting, (3) compliance with laws and ordinances concerning business activities, and (4) safeguarding of assets. A company achieves these objectives by Business Execution System Internal Control Internal Auditing System developing and operating its internal control system. System At SuMi TRUST Holdings, in order to accomplish the four System to obtain Information transparency Storage and abovementioned objectives, the Board of Directors decides on of management Management Management System system to ensure the Basic Policy on Internal Control. the appropriateness of operations at the Group Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 7 Regarding Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders SuMi TRUST Holdings has established the Policy for policies, and it shall endeavor to support sustainable Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders, etc. as provided growth and mediumto long-term enhancement of the in the “Basic Policy on Corporate Governance”: corporate value of the SuMi TRUST Group, by absorbing • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall emphasize constructive dialogue and reﬂecting analyses of management administration with its shareholders, etc., and shall endeavor to engage in and views from the perspective of capital providers, etc. dialogue with its shareholders, etc. through various opporthrough listening to the voice of the shareholders, etc. tunities under the initiative of its senior management. • Through constructive dialogue, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall To promote constructive dialogue with shareholders, SuMi endeavor to obtain the understanding of its shareholdTRUST Holdings actively conducts IR activities. For details, ers, etc. regarding SuMi TRUST Holdings’ management including the speciﬁc efforts and measures, please refer below. Activities Regarding IR Supplemental remarks Preparation and SuMi TRUST Holdings has established the Disclosure Policy and disseminates it externally, as well as to SuMi TRUST Group’s ofﬁcers and employees for the purpose of appropriately implementing it. The Disclosure Policy serves as SuMi TRUST Group’s IR activity guidelines, publication of setting forth that we should make efforts to proactively disclose corporate information which we deem useful for our shareholders, invesdisclosure policy tors, etc. in understanding the SuMi TRUST Group, adopting timeliness, accuracy, and fairness as basic requirements therefor. Regular information SuMi TRUST Holdings holds corporate brieﬁngs via securities companies and so on, where the representative director, and the meetings for ofﬁcer and employee in charge of IR explain SuMi TRUST Group’s characteristics, earnings results and ﬁnancial condition, and individual investors management strategies, etc. Regular information SuMi TRUST Holdings holds investor meetings semi-annually (around May and November), inviting securities company analysts and institutional investors, with the representative director explaining SuMi TRUST Group’s earnings results and management meetings for analysts strategies, etc. 074 and institutional Further, SuMi TRUST Holdings holds one-on-one and group meetings for analysts and institutional investors from time to time, with investors the representative director, and the ofﬁcer and employee in charge of IR providing explanations. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report SuMi TRUST Holdings’ representative director, or the ofﬁcer in charge of IR, visits major institutional investors in the U.S., Europe, Regular information and Asia, etc. several times per year, explaining SuMi TRUST Group’s earnings results and ﬁnancial condition, and management meetings for overseas strategies, etc. investors Further, SuMi TRUST Holdings regularly participates in IR conferences organized in Japan by securities companies for overseas institutional investors, as well as participates in such conferences held overseas. Promptly after their announcement, SuMi TRUST Holdings discloses various types of IR information and information for shareholders, etc. on its website. The types of information disclosed are, among others, as follows: ﬁnancial results and related explanatory materials; annual securities reports; quarterly securities reports; summary of ﬁnancial results; investor meetings’ presentation materials; the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance; stock information; business reports, annual reports, convocation notices for general shareholders’ meetings; results of voting, etc. Posting of IR materials Videos of investors meetings and corporate brieﬁngs for individual investors are also posted on the website. on website Further, on the page of its website entitled “For Individual Investors,” explanation is provided for individual investors regarding SuMi TRUST Group’s business and operational results in an easy-to-understand format. For overseas institutional investors, too, SuMi TRUST Holdings provides various types of IR information and so on in a timely manner via its English website. Japanese URL: http://smth.jp/IR/index.html English URL: http://smth.jp/en/IR/index.html SuMi TRUST Holdings has appointed an ofﬁcer in charge of IR, as well as established the IR Department as the section in charge of Establishment of daily IR activities. SuMi TRUST Holdings makes efforts to appropriately disclose corporate information, as well as aiming for highly transparent corporate management through proactive IR activities and constructive dialogues with both domestic and foreign department and/or shareholders and investors. manager in charge Ofﬁcer in charge of IR: Yukihiro Kitano, Senior Managing Executive Ofﬁcer of IR Section in charge of IR: IR Department The General Manager of the IR Department serves as the administrative IR contact person. <Internal organic cooperation to assist dialogues with shareholders> Through cooperation with the management team and each section, the ofﬁcer in charge of IR and the section in charge of IR endeavors to appropriately understand management information and other internal information, and make efforts to disclose such information in a timely, accurate, and fair manner, as well as leverage such information for the purpose of constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors. <Feedback regarding shareholders’ opinions and IR activities to the management team and the Board of Directors> We provide timely and appropriate feedback to the management team regarding opinions or concerns, etc. expressed by shareholdOthers ers, investors, and analysts, etc. In addition to an overall report on IR activities, reports regarding such opinions or concerns, etc. shall be regularly made to the Board of Directors. <Management of insider information during dialogues> For the purpose of the management of insider information, the SuMi TRUST Group regularly disseminates, within the SuMi TRUST Group, the laws, regulations, and rules, etc. which the SuMi TRUST Group is bound to comply with, as well as instructions for the appropriate handling of insider information. Strict management and operation is also conducted during dialogues with shareholders and investors. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 8 CSR of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Fundamental Perspectives towards the creation of shared value and determines the SuMi TRUST Group’s Basic Policy on Corporate Governance direction which SuMi TRUST Group is to take. sets out the role of the Board of Directors as working to sup2) The CSR Council, which is held as part of the Executive port the sustainable growth of society and increasing the Committee, formulates the CSR medium-term policies as corporate value of SuMi TRUST Group by promoting active well as the policies for each ﬁscal year and manages the CSR efforts to resolve environmental and social issues in considactivities of SuMi TRUST Group based on the PDCA cycle. eration of its stakeholders. “Creating shared value” is the 3) The CSR Promotion Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning Department concept of pursuing social value together with corporate plays an integral role in promoting the CSR activities of SuMi value. It has long been an issue ingrained in SuMi TRUST TRUST Group based on the instructions of ofﬁcers in charge Group’s management. (see page 76). Dealing with issues of sustainability at the working level 4) CSR ofﬁcers and CSR coordinators have been appointed is SuMi TRUST Group’s approach to CSR. As sustainability at each group company and each branch of the SuMi issues can be broken down into the three elements of enviTRUST Bank to play a role in promoting CSR activities, as ronment, society and governance (ESG), we have deﬁned well as promoting activities that reduce the environmenour CSR to be the incorporation of ESG into our daily busital burden at each ofﬁce and leading “With You” activiness processes. ties (see page 112). Meanwhile, ESG stems from the concept of responsi5) Group afﬁliates promote CSR activities by formulating ble investment that strives to balance the interests of varipolicies on shared initiatives throughout SuMi TRUST ous stakeholders while pursuing long-term corporate value Group and on each of the afﬁliates’ own initiatives spe(share prices). In other words, responsible investment is ciﬁc to the business. Additionally, Group CSR Meetings described as an investment method that assesses shared are held regularly to exchange information. value. Therefore, SuMi TRUST Group puts particular emphasis on the perspective of responsible investment. It also 075 serves as the starting point for the identiﬁcation of materiality and undertaking internal engagements. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Officer in charge of Masahiro Tsuchiya Structure for Promoting CSR Activities CSR activities (Managing Executive Ofﬁcer) 1) The Board of Directors formulates the Sustainability Policy, while managing CSR activities as a whole in an effort to Head Office Executive of enhance the awareness of ofﬁcers and employees of SuMi Tsukasa Kanai the CSR Promotion Office, (Council member and General TRUST Group. The Board of Directors also conducts multiCorporate Planning Department Manager in charge of CSR) faceted discussions mainly on themes of high materiality (Chief Sustainability Ofﬁcer) SuMi TRUST Group’s Structure for Promoting CSR Activities Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Board of Directors Executive Committee (CSR Council) CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Planning Department Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Planning Department Group CSR Meetings Head office departments Business departments/branches Group affiliates CSR officer CSR officer CSR officer CSR coordinators CSR coordinators CSR coordinators Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 The Four Pillars Supporting Activities of the CSR Promotion Office Development of innovative products and ESG Management that aims to create shared value services and rolling out CSV business • Identiﬁcation of materiality and inputs to management • Development of innovative ﬁnan• Dialogues with ESG-related departments through internal cial instruments and services that engagement will contribute to solving environmental* and social issues • Promotion of CSR activities that take into account the PDCA cycle, based on the CSR medium-term policies and * We have coined the word “Eco-Trustution” to describe initiatives that provide solutions to ecological issues through the use of our trust function, and we are actively promoting yearly policies such initiatives. • Information disclosures using CSR reports and the website • Development of “With You” strategies to address issues and dialogues with responsible investors, etc. unique to each region stemming from the issues of an aging society Penetration of CSR and development of the Building sound relationships with stakeholders awareness of officers and employees • Promotion of “With You” activ• Exchanging information with NPOs/NGOs in Japan and ities at the business departoverseas, government organizations and universities, etc., ments and branches, granting and understanding the needs of stakeholders budgets, managing points and • Actively participating in international initiatives (UNEP FI, managing blogs United Nations Global Compact, Business and Biodiversity 076 • Holding various meetings Initiative, Natural Capital Declaration, etc.) Group CSR meetings • Actively participating and playing a leading role in ﬁnanSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Global ESG meetings cial alliance projects in Japan (Principles for Financial ESG Risk Response Project Team Action for the 21st Century, COLTEM Financial Satellite, Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee etc.) LGBT Matter Information Liaison Committee CSR Medium-term Policies/FY2015 Policies (1) CSR Medium-term Policies (FY2014 to FY2016) Integrating ESG into day-to-day operations, SuMi TRUST Holdings will set the position of CSR as the foundation of SuMi TRUST Group’s sustainable growth Themes Medium-term policies • Raising ESG risk management capability across all operations including loans and investment, SuMi TRUST Building an ESG management system of Holdings will integrate it into the overall risk management system. international standards • SuMi TRUST Holdings will issue integrated reports that disclose narratives where non-ﬁnancial data make more ﬁnancial value. • SuMi TRUST Holdings will use its group capability to develop an ESG business model with total solutions, which help Developing SCV businesses for resolute social problems and increase corporate value. building a sustainable society • SuMi TRUST Holdings will address issues of highest priorities, stemming from super-aging society, climate change and natural capital. • SuMi TRUST Holdings will conduct leadership to nurture ESG markets by using SuMi TRUST Group’s brand to Working to expand the business scope call on stakeholders. (2) FY2015 CSR Policies Themes FY2015 CSR Policies • SuMi TRUST Holdings will complete the identiﬁcation of materiality, pass on the results to the related departments and utilize them to compile the materiality map (reinforcement of non-ﬁnancial information disclosure through the CSR Report). Building an ESG management system of • SuMi TRUST Holdings will strengthen ESG risk management in loan operations by becoming a signatory of the international standards Equator Principles and other initiatives. • SuMi TRUST Holdings will lay out the basic concept of the integrated report in preparation for its issue in FY2016. • SuMi TRUST Holdings will play a commanding role in sales that leverage the added-value of ESG, which is attracting attention in various aspects. Developing SCV businesses for • SuMi TRUST Holdings will gain additional insight into the issues of the super-aging society and strengthen building a sustainable society capabilities for providing information to each business. • SuMi TRUST Holdings will further strengthen energy-related ﬁnancing, particularly renewable energy. • SuMi TRUST Holdings will take advantage of the rising interest in the two codes as a favorable business opporWorking to expand the business scope tunity and proactively provide information from an investor’s perspective. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Compliance and Conducting Business Activities Fairly 1 Basic Initiative Policy With recent progress in deregulation of the ﬁnancial industry, greatest asset, and achieving compliance is naturally a basic ﬁnancial transactions and services are diversifying, and there principle. Executives and each individual employee must is a need to work on various issues by thorough implemensolidly practice compliance in our daily operations. tation of the self-responsibility principle and self help efforts To achieve thorough compliance and an appropriate sysin ﬁnancial institutions. Under these conditions, to maintem which suits “The Trust Bank,” the Group has established tain and enhance the trust of clients, sound and appropriCodes of Conduct (“Value”) and speciﬁc compliance stanate management based on strict self-discipline is essential. dards in the Compliance Rules. A checking system and proFrom this viewpoint, the SuMi TRUST Group positions commotion system are also developed, so the Group complies pliance as one of the most important management issues. with these and carries out sincere and fair company activiCompliance means adherence to various rules such as ties. By developing these systems, the Group is promoting laws, regulations, market rules, and internal company rules, various initiatives to address issues and problem points and in addition to conformity to social norms. Trust is the Group’s to enable appropriate action based on self-discipline. 2 Outline of Initiatives Group Compliance System The Group positions supervision of the entire group’s comcompliance, a Compliance Program is made each ﬁscal year, pliance structure as one of the most important functions of and progress status is periodically assessed. the SuMi TRUST Holdings’ Compliance Rules establish stanThe roles of the Board of Directors, Executive Committee dards which executives and employees must follow. and other bodies are as follows. 077 For speciﬁc practice plans in various measures on Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Group Compliance Structure Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Board of Directors Executive Committee Compliance Department Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Board of Directors Executive Committee Other subsidiaries Compliance Committee Compliance Department XX Business XX Branch XX Branch XX Department XX Department XX Branch XX Subsidiary Department ・ ・・・ ・ ・・・ ・ ・・・ Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Officer Officer Officer Officer Officer Officer Officer Domestic business departments/branches Business departments Overseas network Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 The Roles of the Board of Directors, attorney’s ofﬁce, without having to go through regular reportExecutive Committee and a Director in Charge ing channels. This hotline system enforces rigorous control of of the Compliance Department information and protection of privacy to ensure protection of 1) The Board of Directors regards the achievement of thorwhistleblowers, who shall never be adversely treated so long as ough compliance at the SuMi TRUST Holdings and other what and how they report is appropriate and fair. group companies as the most important management There are no restrictions on the compliance hotline on the matter. The Board supervises the development of the type of language used or the hours when reports may be made. compliance system by developing and raising awareThe SuMi TRUST Group posts on its website a contact ness of the compliance policy, Compliance Manual and phone number to which third parties may direct their opinCompliance Program, as well as developing organizaions and requests. tional structures and monitoring and evaluating progress. 2) The Executive Committee makes decisions on matters conSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. cerning compliance and undertakes preliminary discussions 03-6256-6000 (Main Number) of matters to be resolved by and reported to the Board of Each group company also posts its contact phone number on its Directors. The Committee refers and reports to the Board website. The phone number for inquiries regarding SuMi TRUST of Directors matters concerning rules and regulations to be Bank is as follows. approved or communicated as well as matters concerning Customer Service Office the development of the department to manage compliance. 3) Directors and executive ofﬁcers engage in compliance-oriWeekdays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Service is not available on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and the period from December 31 ented business management upon recognizing matters that to January 3.) need to be considered in accordance with laws especially for * The personal information you will be required to give at the time of inquiries will businesses in charge, in light of the importance of complibe treated responsibly by SuMi TRUST Bank. It will only be used in replying to your ance. Additionally, the director in charge of the Compliance inquiries and not be disclosed to third parties or used for any other purposes withDepartment accurately recognizes the situation and considout your consent. 078 ers policies and speciﬁc measures toward the development and establishment of an appropriate compliance system. Response at the Time of Compliance Violations Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 4) The Compliance Department oversees the overall comShould a compliance violation occur, a system for reporting pliance of SuMi TRUST Holdings and other group compaand managing it has been established at the SuMi TRUST nies by establishing the rules and manuals necessary for the Group by the Risk Management Department. This includes compliance system, implementing measures and provida system of customer care, a system for reporting internally ing instruction, dealing with various issues and improving and to the relevant authorities, and measures to prevent a the training systems, among other efforts. The Compliance recurrence (occurrence) of such a violation. The aim is to Department also creates a compliance policy, monitors the ensure appropriate responses, prevent and reduce accisituation of compliance management and execution, and dents, and improve the quality of operations, among others. reports to the Executive Committee on its ﬁndings regardIn the event of a violation, SuMi TRUST Bank responds to ing the status of compliance management and execution. the situation and manages it by following the process outlined below. SuMi TRUST Bank also established the Compliance Department 1) In the event of a compliance violation, the department in as a department to manage compliance. Based on the compliviolation will appropriately and promptly make a report ance policy established by SuMi TRUST Holdings, this departand responsibly manage and respond to the situation ment creates its compliance policy and Compliance Program, from the time the violation occurred until its resolution. and monitors the situation of compliance management and Furthermore, upon conducting an investigation and analexecution. Also, the Compliance Department reports to the ysis of the causes of the violation, it will formulate and Executive Committee on its ﬁndings regarding the status of implement measures to prevent recurrence. compliance management and execution after examined by the 2) Departments responsible for supervising businesses will Compliance Committee, which is chaired by a director who is cooperate with the department in violation and implein charge of the Compliance Department. ment responses, investigate the causes and formulate Other subsidiaries develop appropriate compliance measures to prevent recurrence. They also conduct case systems which suit their own operations’ characteristics, studies, raise awareness and implement measures to prebased on the compliance policy established by SuMi vent recurrence within businesses as necessary. TRUST Holdings. 3) Risk management-related departments (the Compliance Department) will provide instructions to the department Compliance Hotline System in violation and departments responsible for supervising In order to promptly and appropriately cope with any violation, businesses as necessary. In the event a serious violation SuMi TRUST Holdings has established a compliance hotline occurs, a compliance subcommittee will be convened, in through which all executives and employees can directly report principle, to examine the adequacy of the report and the violations to the Compliance Department and an external appropriateness of the measures to prevent recurrence. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 3 Response to Major Compliance Risks Initiatives to Foster Compliance Awareness In order to foster compliance awareness throughout the primary responsibility for providing training as to companyGroup, a Compliance Manual is created for SuMi TRUST wide compliance themes. Meanwhile, the person in charge Holdings and each group company, and employees are thorof compliance at each company is responsible for enhancing oughly informed about laws and regulations as well as varicompliance awareness and ensuring thorough compliance ous rules and items which must be followed. with regard to business and product characteristics and cliThe Group is also enhancing training courses including ent attributes by implementing training and study in his/her a course for rules to strictly comply with insider trading regworkplace and providing guidance and instructions in daily ulations, and each company’s compliance department has work processes. Compliance Training through E-learning for 2014 (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) Month of Course name Content Applicable executives and employees implementation Basics of compliance: FY2014 version Compliance in general All employees Training on the prevention of insider trading and measures to Prevention of insider trading All employees prevent leakage of confidential information: May 2014 version May General managers and persons in For persons in charge of compliance: FY2014 version Compliance in general charge of compliance at all branches and departments Prevention of transactions Preparedness against antisocial forces: 1H FY2014 version All executives and employees with antisocial forces New or returning employees assigned to June Compliance training for new branches or departments since April 2014; 1H FY2014 training for real-time trade execution verification staff and returning employees led by officer in charge of measures to 079 prevent money laundering, etc. Training on the prevention of insider trading and measures to Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report prevent leakage of confidential information: July 2014 version, Prevention of insider trading All employees written pledge July All employees at branches/departments; Training on the measures to prevent money laundering and Prevention of money led by officer in charge of measures to similar practices: 1H FY2014 laundering, etc. prevent money laundering, etc. Training on the prevention of insider trading and measures to Prevention of insider trading All employees November prevent leakage of confidential information: November 2014 version Prevention of transactions Preparedness against antisocial forces: 2H FY2014 version All executives and employees December with antisocial forces Compliance protects you Compliance in general All employees All employees at branches/departments; January Training on the measures to prevent money laundering and Prevention of money led by officer in charge of measures to similar practices: 2H FY2014 laundering, etc. prevent money laundering, etc. Training on the prevention of insider trading and measures to prevent leakage of confidential information: February 2015 Prevention of insider trading All employees February version, written pledge Major Compliance Risks • Leakage of customer information • Disregard for information disclosure • Inappropriate acquisition and use of personal information • Illegal payoffs • Lack of credibility in products and services offered • Inhibiting free and fair competition • Violation of the principle of suitability • Insider trading and other forms of unfair trading • Inadequate explanations to customers • Violation of Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act • Insincere responses to customer consultations and complaints • Infringement of intellectual property rights • Relationships with customers that lack moderation • Opaque relationships with government authorities • Transactions with conflicted interests • Dealings with antisocial forces • Inappropriate accounting treatment • Money laundering Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Due Diligence in Transactions internally and externally, its resolute stance against antisoBefore conducting each transaction, SuMi TRUST Bank cial forces in its Code of Conduct (“Value”) and various other checks whether a potential customer has any connections codes. We have established a system for investigating and to antisocial forces, as well as performing checks at the conducting systematic checks in all types of transactions in time of the transaction based on the Act on Prevention of order to prevent transactions by antisocial forces. Transfer of Criminal Proceeds and the Foreign Exchange and We have also incorporated a clause to exclude organized Foreign Trade Act. Additionally, transactions with customcrime in the provision of our loan and money transfer coners of countries considered high-risk according to the Act tracts. This clause deters antisocial forces from initiating on Prevention of Transfer of Criminal Proceeds are subject transactions with us. The measure gives us the legal grounds to even more stringent checks at the time the transaction is to dissolve contracts, once the presence of antisocial forces made. Foreign exchange transactions are subject to checks is detected, after the commencement of transactions. on whether the counterparty is an individual or entity desigIf the counterparty in a transaction is shown to be as nated for economic sanctions such as the freezing of assets. an antisocial force after the commencement of a transacIf a customer requests payment to or a capital transaction tion, we have developed a framework that allows us to with such a counterparty, SuMi TRUST Bank conducts strict take measures in close coordination with police and other checks on whether permission has been obtained from relexternal expert organizations for the eventual cancellaevant authorities. tion of such a transaction. In addition, in order to strengthen awareness about and Prevention of Money Laundering systems to deal with antisocial forces, in ﬁscal year 2014, Money laundering is the act of hiding the source of money SuMi TRUST Bank provided all executives and employees obtained illegally (for example, through the sale of illegal with training for the prevention of transactions with antisodrugs) by routing such money through multiple banks or cial forces once each half of the year. bank accounts. Terrorists and perpetrators of remittance scams are examples of people who may abuse the accounts Management of Conformity with Legal Revisions 080 of ﬁnancial institutions. It is the responsibility of ﬁnancial Head ofﬁce departments of SuMi TRUST Bank gather inforinstitutions to prevent the misuse of ﬁnancial services. Such mation on legal revisions and report them to the Compliance Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report efforts are referred to as “Money Laundering Prevention Department. The Department centrally manages informaCountermeasures.” tion on the revisions and instructs and manages the related In order to prevent money laundering, etc., SuMi TRUST departments to respond to them in an appropriate manner. Bank conducts checks on personal identiﬁcation items, such as the name and address, as well as customer management Prevention of Insider Trading items, such as the transaction purpose and occupation, when The Group prevents insider trading and other wrongdostarting continuous business relationships, when conducting ings by strictly managing insider information that may be large-lot cash transactions, or when conducting transactions obtained during the execution of job duties. with persons who reside or stay in speciﬁed countries. Speciﬁcally, the “Rules on Insider Information Management” Additionally, SuMi TRUST Bank has adopted an antiobligates employees to immediately report to their seniors money laundering (AML) system, which veriﬁes whether any when they have obtained information that may constitute illicit transfers between accounts have taken place. insider information. General managers at branches and In addition, when they come across transactions susdepartments strictly manage and report insider information to pected to be related to money obtained illegally or terrorthe necessary departments while it is completely prohibited ist ﬁnancing, employees immediately report to the person to communication such information departments other than in charge, who notiﬁes the relevant authorities. When the those deemed necessary. At entrusted asset business units, use of accounts for illegal purposes, such as “furikome” entrusted asset supervision departments are responsible for fraud, has been found, SuMi TRUST Bank strives to prevent expansion of the damage by quickly taking such measures as freezing the accounts. SuMi TRUST Bank obligates employees at relevant Progress in the implementation of the meabranches and departments to periodically receive training sures to prevent recurrence of insider trading concerning prevention of money laundering, etc. In ﬁscal year We have implemented all the measures to prevent 2014, such training was provided to all employees at the relrecurrence of insider trading that were announced by evant branches and departments once each half of the year. the SuMi TRUST Group in March and June 2012. We are continuously conducting regular monitoring of the staResponse to Antisocial Forces tus of their implementation and consolidation. Antisocial forces refer not only to organized crime groups and their members, but also to individuals and compa* Details of the violation of insider trading regulations that occurred in 2012 are described nies with ties to them, who may threaten public order and in the 2012 CSR Report. the security of civil society. The Group has declared, both URL: http://www.smth.jp/en/csr/report/2012/2012e_04.pdf Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 managing insider information. of an acceptable level from interested parties or others Moreover, particularly strict measures are taken to shield • Prohibition of activities that mix individual and public information so as to prevent communication of insider inforinterests mation to departments involved in investment (asset man• Prohibition in principle of holding concurrent posts and agement). In addition, in entrusted asset businesses, the dual employment “Guidelines on Contact, etc. with Securities Companies, • Prohibition of being in a position that has a conﬂict of etc.” have been formulated to prohibit any contact between interest with SuMi TRUST Holdings and other group compersonnel responsible for asset management and sales perpanies in conducting business operations and using one’s sonnel of securities companies in principle. professional position to beneﬁt oneself or a third party SuMi TRUST Bank has developed a training system on a whole company basis. In ﬁscal year 2014, a training Protection of Intellectual Property Rights program for prevention of insider trading targeted at all The Copyright Act and other laws ban the use of intellecemployees was implemented four times (four additional tual property rights such as copyrights without permission. times at entrusted asset business units). In addition, all The Group, while protecting the intellectual property rights executives and employees were required to submit writof group companies, ensures employees’ thorough compliten oaths pledging to comply with internal rules, etc. conance with those laws by specifying, in the compliance mancerning prevention of insider trading twice during the ual, the prohibition of copying and use of other persons’ ﬁscal year (two additional times at entrusted asset busicopyrighted materials, etc. without permission. ness units). Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Basic Policy Fair Trade with Outsourced Contractors concerning Tax Compliance When outsourcing its operations, the Group takes measures All of us at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group appropriately manto ensure that the outsourced operation is consigned to a age tax affairs and promote corporate activities that comcontractor capable of: (1) establishing regulations for the ply with social norms while maintaining the balance between 081 appropriate management of risks from unexpected losses various stakeholders, including customers, investors, govincurred by the Group or its clients, (2) recognizing problems ernments and local communities. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report related to the quality of service and the reliability of service continuity, and (3) implementing the operation accurately, fairly, and efﬁciently. We also verify whether or not outsourced contractors are antisocial in nature before entering into new contracts, and we repeat this veriﬁcation on a regular basis. The purpose is to prevent transactions with antisoCompliance cial forces and to eliminate interference from them (please We strictly comply with tax laws, directives and rules refer to Page 61). based on international standards and implement a tax strategy in a conscientious manner. Prevention of “Dango” Bid Rigging and Cartels As the Antimonopoly Act is intended to promote “fair and Governance free competition” in order to secure consumers’ interests and The top management accurately understands tax-related promote democratic and sound development of the national risks and implements a tax strategy in coordination economy, it sets basic rules for the free economy, such as a ban with a business strategy from the perspective that such on unfair restrictions on transactions (cartel). In order to comply risks are critical challenges that could directly affect with the Antimonopoly Act, the Group has formulated a combusiness management. The top management also strives pliance manual concerning compliance with the Antimonopoly to maintain and enhance tax compliance by giving Act and has established a rule requiring checks related to the guidance to employees. prohibition of joint activities, abuse of a superior position and false and misleading advertising indications at individual busiRelationship with the Tax Authority ness units and is strictly enforcing them. We build a relationship of trust with the tax authority by enhancing transparency through information disclosure Prevention of Bribery and other means, thereby reducing tax-related risks. The SuMi TRUST Group has set forth rules to be followed by Tax Avoidance ofﬁcers and employees for the prevention of bribery, etc. in the We make efforts to properly pay taxes at locations Compliance Rules and prohibits the following transactions. where value was created through economic activities, • Prohibition of providing entertainment or granting favors in accordance with an action plan on base erosion and in excess of an acceptable level to interested parties, pubproﬁt shifting (BEPS). lic servants and shareholders of SuMi TRUST Holdings • Prohibition of receiving entertainment or favors in excess Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Risk Management 1 Basic Philosophy on Risk Management Reducing various risks surrounding a company is indispensof its operations and environmental changes as one of the able in averting any damage to its corporate value. Even so, most important management issues it faces. Accordingly, strengthening the company’s risk management structure SuMi TRUST Group is making constant efforts to enhance ensures a robust corporate foundation and contributes to and advance its risk management, which forms the basis of the enhancement of its corporate value. As the trust bank operations that support business expansion and sustainable group which boasts the largest scale and the highest stagrowth of SuMi TRUST Group. tus in Japan, SuMi TRUST Group regards the development of a risk management system suited to the characteristics 2 Risk Management Structure The roles and responsibilities of the management structure 3) The front ofﬁces, pursuant to the Risk Management Rules and principal departments related to risk management are and other related risk management regulations, accuas follows. rately recognize risks and conducts operations including practicing appropriate controls commensurate with the The Responsibilities and size and characteristics of the risk with the goal of ensurRoles of Each Governing Body ing the effectiveness of risk management. 1) The Board of Directors formulates policies on the iden4) The risk management-related departments develop tiﬁcation, assessment, monitoring, control and reduction and implement risk management processes including of risks, formulates management plans that include the the identiﬁcation, assessment, monitoring, control and 082 Risk Capital Allocation Plan and Risk Management Plan reduction of risks under their control. To achieve effecand informs SuMi TRUST Group of the plans. The Board tive checks on the front ofﬁces, the risk managementSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report also builds an appropriate reporting system and grants related departments plan and promote risk management the necessary authority for it, among other efforts. systems by monitoring the risk status and risk manage2) The Executive Committee, pursuant to the policies set forth ment activities of the front ofﬁces and by making reports by the Board of Directors, approves arrangements for the to management periodically or as necessary. identiﬁcation, assessment, monitoring, control and reduction of risks and develops systems to enable the implementation of such arrangements, among other efforts. Risk Management Structure Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings General Meeting of Shareholders Nominating and Compensation Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Board of Corporate Auditors Executive Committee Corporate Auditors Corporate Auditors Office Enterprise Risk Management Committee Business Management Committee Internal Audit Department Risk Management-related Departments Corporate Risk Management Department Risk Management Department IT & Business IT & Business IT & Business Legal Dept., Human Corporate Process Planning Process Planning Process Planning Compliance Resources Administration Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Credit Market Funding Operational Business Information Legal & Human Processing System Risk Security Compliance Resource Event Risk Reputational Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Integrated Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management *Crisis management is handled across risk categories Consultation & Reporting Supervision & Guidance Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Other Group Companies Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Multi-tiered Risk Management SuMi TRUST Holdings has adopted the Three Lines of (iii) Third Line of Defense (Risk Assurance) Defense model as a risk management system. This enables • The third line of defense veriﬁes the appropriateness of riskrisk-taking with the goal of achieving the proﬁt plans of each taking and risk governance. business based on company-wide business strategies. The system also allows for appropriate revisions to the business Under this system, each line is monitored and controlled model in line with changes in the risk status and implements by high-level bodies, i.e. various committees, the Executive appropriate responses in emergency situations. Committee and the Board of Directors. The Three Lines of Defense comprise the following. (i) First Line of Defense (Risk-taking) Board of Directors • The ﬁrst line of defense assesses risks and the situation at Management hand based on knowledge of services and products. Executive Committee • In the event that a risk materializes, the ﬁrst line of defense Internal Auditing External Auditing responds promptly on the on-site level and implements Credit Risk ALM Various recovery measures. Committee Committee committees (ii) Second Line of Defense (Risk Governance) Senior managers Senior Managers/ (Officers in charge, general managers, etc.) managers • The second line of defense identiﬁes and evaluates Business Front offices of each business, Each business company-wide risks and monitors and controls the management sales, investments and loans department determined risk limits. • The second line of defense formulates recovery strategies First Line of Defense Second Line Third Line when risks materialize. of Defense of Defense 083 3 Risk Management Operations Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Types of Risk systems suited to the characteristics of their own operations SuMi TRUST Group classiﬁes risk categories by causes of the and risks, based on SuMi TRUST Holdings’ policy concernrisks it faces in its management as a whole into “credit risk,” ing risk management. “market risk,” “funding risk” and “operational risk.” SuMi TRUST Group manages these risks in accordance with their Integrated Risk Management and respective characteristics. Risk Capital Allocation (1) Enterprise Risk Management and Integrated Risk Risk Management Methods Management (Economic Capital Management) SuMi TRUST Holdings has established a department to SuMi TRUST Holdings manages various risks in SuMi TRUST supervise the overall group risk management and monitor Group and comprehensively measures risks unique to SuMi the risk status of SuMi TRUST Group as a whole, and has TRUST Group’s organization which each group company designated other risk management-related departments cannot recognize alone, such as the spread of risks within to supervise risk management for each risk category. These SuMi TRUST Group. It manages these risks by comparing departments provide appropriate supervision of and guidthem with SuMi TRUST Group’s overall ﬁnancial strength ance to group companies as needed. (Enterprise Risk Management). SuMi TRUST Holdings has also established Risk In addition, among the risks subject to the Enterprise Risk Management Rules covering the basic points of risk manManagement, SuMi TRUST Holdings combines risks which agement for SuMi TRUST Group as a whole. It has clariﬁed are quantiﬁable with a uniﬁed criteria such as the integrated the authority and organizational structure so that it can VaR*, and manages these risks by comparing them with appropriately perform a series of activities, which include SuMi TRUST Group’s overall ﬁnancial strength, which is indithe identiﬁcation, assessment, monitoring, control and cated by its capital efﬁciency (Integrated Risk Management). reduction of risks. SuMi TRUST Holdings has also created * Value at Risk (VaR): Risk amount measurement indicator. The maximum amount of loss risk management policies and plans (the Risk Management anticipated within a certain period (the holding period) within the range of certain probability (the confidence interval). SuMi TRUST Holdings is applying a measurement Plan and the Risk Capital Allocation Plan). with a one-tailed confidence interval of 99%. Group companies develop appropriate risk management Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 (2) Risk Capital Allocation Operations and reports to the Board of Directors and others. For the purpose of the SuMi TRUST Group’s capital alloThe SuMi TRUST Group assesses capital adequacy level cation operations, SuMi TRUST Holdings assesses capital multilaterally by establishing multiple deﬁnitions of capital adequacy level, in consideration of the external environand risk as follows. ment, risk-return performance status, strategic targets, From the viewpoint of ensuring business continuity, the and the results of its stress test, and allocates capital of SuMi TRUST Group assesses the capital adequacy level by the SuMi TRUST Group to each group company based on comparing the amount of risk with a conﬁdence interval of its risks (credit risk, market risk, and operational risk). The 99% with the regulatory required Common Equity Tier 1 caprisk capital allocation plan is subject to the approval of the ital (allocation fund). Also, from the viewpoint of depositor Board of Directors. protection, it compares the amount of risk with a conﬁdence Each group company operates its business in compliance interval of 99.9% and the amount of risk with a conﬁdence with the allocated amount of risk capital (risk capital). The interval of 99% after the consideration of stress events with risk management supervision department monitors adherthe regulatory required total capital. ence to the allocated risk capital (risk capital) and the risk amount status on a monthly basis and reports to the Board of Directors and others. Capital and Risk Capital The risk capital allocation plan is reexamined semiannu(within a 99% confidence interval, 1 year holding period) ally, and also whenever deemed necessary due to modiﬁca(Billions of Yen) tions to the business plan of any one of the group companies 3,000 2,843.5 or changes in risk status, etc. Tier 2 2,500 Other 778.4 Capital Allocation Scheme Each group company operates 2,000 084 its business so that the risk amount stays within the scope of allocated capital Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 1,489.9 Other group companies 1,500 27.6 Risk capital Operational risk Allocation of capital to each group company 998.8 1,000 Tier 1 972.6 27.6 Risk 2,065.1 amount 581.9 Market risk 500 Risk capital 489.8 389.3 Credit risk Capital Risk 0 Allocated fund amount Capital Risk capital Risk amount Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Risk amount (4) Stress Testing Risk capital It is becoming increasingly important to develop and review Risk countermeasures beforehand, against contingencies such as amount a ﬁnancial crisis. These measures should be based on prior analysis and recognition of the impact on corporate management and ﬁnance, in the event of materialization of the stress event. The SuMi TRUST Group conducts stress tests under the risk capital allocation plan (economic capital) and the capi(3) Assessment of Capital Adequacy Level, tal adequacy ratio plan (regulatory capital), and utilizes the Capital Strategy result for purposes including assessment of capital adeThe capital management departments assess the level of quacy levels and development of countermeasures against capital adequacy from the viewpoint of soundness each time the occurrence of the risks (contingency plan) when formua risk capital allocation plan is formulated or reexamined, lating management plans. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 • The framework of Stress Testing Fostering a Risk Culture The Stress Scenarios Review Committee, whose members SuMi TRUST Group recognizes that its social responsibilinclude ofﬁcers, select conclusive scenarios to be used for ity involves building on its “Trustee Spirit” and utilizing its formulating plans. These are based on a review from the signiﬁcant expertise and comprehensive capabilities to creviewpoints of probability of occurrence as well as the impact ate distinct value through a new business model that fuses to the SuMi TRUST Group. The scenarios are developed the banking, asset management and administration and real by the Research Department and the Risk Management estate businesses. To this end, SuMi TRUST Group has set Department. Some assume the recurrence of an event that forth its Management Principles (“Mission”), Ideal Model actually took place in the past 10 to 20 year period with sig(“Vision”) and Codes of Conduct (“Value”). niﬁcant impact on SuMi TRUST Holdings’ portfolio (historiSuMi TRUST Group deﬁnes “risk culture” as the basic cal scenarios) and forward-looking scenarios (hypothetical concept of adhering to various rules such as laws, regulascenarios) with relatively high probabilities of occurrence tions, market rules and internal company rules, in addition depending on the market environment with signiﬁcant to conformity to social norms. This culture assumes approimpact on the corporate management. priate risks based on the management policy and business After estimating amount of loss in the event of occurstrategies from the standpoint of securing appropriate earnrence of risks is calculated based on the selected scenarios. ings to the extent allowed by SuMi TRUST Group’s ﬁnancial This loss is reported to the Board of Directors and others capabilities, as well as managing such earnings and risks. along with an assessment of its impact on the level of capiTo foster and ﬁrmly establish the risk culture, efforts are tal adequacy. being made to share and communicate this concept among ofﬁcers and employees. The activities include regular mesStress Test Framework sages from top management, compliance seminars, various meetings and e-learning. Report to the Board of Development of management plans based on Directors and others the report on the assessment results Response to ESG Risks 085 The need has become greater than ever before for compaCalculation of financial impact in the event of occurrence Assessment of of the selected scenarios nies to step up their responses toward environmental, social Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report financial impact Implementation of the assessment of capital adequacy levels and others and governance (ESG) risks, as companies are increasingly being required to be mindful of sustainability issues. While Deliberation and selection of scenarios at the Stress certain items under ESG risks overlap with operational risks Review and selection Scenario Review Committee with membership (see page 86), these risks also contain new themes never of scenarios including officers perceived before. Consequently, in December 2013, SuMi Candidate scenarios including the historical scenarios TRUST Group established the ESG Risk Response Project Formulation of draft scenarios based on the past events and the hypothetical Team (sponsored by the CSR Promotion Ofﬁce), which is scenarios based on the prospective future events jointly engaged by related departments and has been discussing many facets of ESG risks. Progress was made in FY2015 in the following initiatives, which grew out of discus(5) Capital Adequacy Status sions by the ESG Risk Response Project Team. Under the risk capital allocation plan, against total capital of ¥2,843.5 billion (Common Equity Tier 1 capital of ¥2,065.1 billion) of SuMi TRUST Holdings on a consolidated basis, the Becoming a signatory allocated risk capital (risk capital) is ¥1,489.9 billion. Risk capResponding to ESG risks in project ﬁnance, to the Equator ital actually used (risk amount) is ¥998.8 billion. In addition, etc. (see page 91) Principles the balance between total capital (risk capital) and allocation fund, about ¥1,353.6 billion, is at a sufﬁcient level according Preparation of the Summary of unique customs and human overseas application rights issues which overseas ofﬁces need to to the results of stress tests. handbook be aware of (see page 103) (6) Upgrading of Integrated Risk Management and Identification of Identification of important ESG items that take into account the risks of SuMi TRUST Capital Management Systems materiality Group as a whole (see page 6) The SuMi TRUST Group will continuously verify the scope of risk to be managed, risk measurement methods, risk capital allocation methods, capital adequacy level assessment The CSR Promotion Ofﬁce holds global CSR meetings with methods, etc., so that integrated risk management and caprelated departments on a monthly basis to gather the latest ital management will be more effective, and will strive to ESG-related information being discussed around the world. improve and upgrade the systems. The Ofﬁce utilizes this information to grasp potential ESG risks. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Management Status of Individual Risks Credit Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to the value of an asset (including off-balance sheet assets) decreasing or impairing owing to such reasons as Definition deterioration in the ﬁnancial condition of an obligor. Of this, “country risk” in particular means risk that the Group incurs losses on credit provided overseas, due to foreign exchange, political and economic conditions of the country of the obligor. • A credit risk management system and an asset evaluation management system are developed to ensure the soundness and adequacy of creditrelated operations, in accordance with established basic policies on Group-wide credit risk management. Meanwhile, we are dealing with obligors, based on the understanding that it is critical to keep informed of the obligors’ actual business status and provide them with management consultaBasic policy tion and guidance along with assistance for business improvement initiatives, in an effort to mitigate credit risk. • Likewise, the afﬁliated banks engage in appropriate credit risk management based on risk management systems established in accordance with the aforementioned basic policy. • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for credit risk management at SuMi TRUST Holdings and engages in moniRisk toring and analysis of the credit risk status across the Group. The department also provides supervision and guidance to afﬁliated banks and companies. management • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for credit risk management at afﬁliated banks as well, while the credit supersystem vision departments, the departments responsible for problem loans management, and the departments responsible for asset evaluation/management are designated as departments responsible for credit risk-related management. • An obligor’s business status is managed on a consolidated basis across the Group. Not only loans but also assets and off-balance sheet assets asRisk sociated with credit risk are managed on an integrated basis. management • Credit risk is evaluated and measured using criteria including credit ratings, while credit risk is adequately controlled through measures such as the method imposition of risk limits and management of concentrated credit risk. The status of credit portfolio (concentration of credit to certain industry sectors or speciﬁc groups) is also adequately grasped and controlled. Market Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to ﬂuctuations in the value of assets/liabilities (including off-balance sheet assets/liabilities), or in the earnings generated from assets/liabilities, due to ﬂuctuations in various market risk factors, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, stocks, commodities, and credit spreads. Of this, Definition “market liquidity risk” in particular means risk that the Group incurs losses caused in a situation where it becomes impossible to conduct transactions in the market or becomes obligatory to trade at prices much more disadvantageous than usual due to market turmoil. • Adequate market risk management is in place, commensurate with the Group’s strategic goals as well as the scale, characteristics, and risk proﬁle of business activities, to ensure the soundness and adequacy of business activities, in accordance with established basic policies on Group-wide market Basic policy risk management. • Our afﬁliated banks also engage in market risk management in accordance with risk management policies established on the basis of the aforementioned basic policy. 086 • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for market risk management at SuMi TRUST Holdings and engages in Risk monitoring and analysis of market risk status across the Group. The department also provides supervision and guidance to afﬁliated banks. management Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report • An adequate market risk management framework is in place at our afﬁliated banks, where the front ofﬁce (trading/marketing departments), the back system ofﬁce (administrative departments), and the middle ofﬁce (departments responsible for market risk management) are separated to achieve effective checks and balances between them. Market risk is managed through monitoring and control of the status of conformity to the risk limits established based on risk capital alloRisk cated commensurate with the ﬁnancial strength of each organizational unit, and to the alarm points established to prevent enlargement of loss. management Meanwhile, market risk is measured by VaR (Value at Risk: the maximum amount of loss anticipated within a certain holding period and within a certain method conﬁdence interval), while stress testing is carried out to supplement such VaR-based measurement. Interest rate risk in the banking book in terms of the outlier criteria under Basel II is managed by regular monitoring. Funding Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses in a situation where it becomes impossible to secure necessary funds or becomes obligatory to raise funds at interest Definition rates signiﬁcantly higher than usual. • Adequate funding risk management is in place, commensurate with the Group’s strategic goals as well as the scale, characteristics, and risk proﬁle of business activities to ensure the soundness and adequacy of business activities, in accordance with established basic policies on Group-wide funding Basic policy risk management. • Our afﬁliated banks also engage in funding risk management in accordance with risk management policies established on the basis of the aforementioned basic policy. • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for funding risk management at SuMi TRUST Holdings and engages in Risk monitoring and analysis of funding risk status across the Group. The department also provides supervision and guidance to afﬁliated banks. management • At our afﬁliated banks, an adequate funding risk management framework is in place, where the independence of the department responsible for system funding risk management from the departments responsible for funding management and the trading/marketing departments is ensured to achieve effective checks and balances between them. Risk We adequately grasp the current degree of tightness of funding under the stipulated classiﬁcation, based on analysis of information collected from domanagement mestic and overseas sources. We conduct funding operations in compliance with adequate predetermined limits in order to avoid funding risk and carry method out stress testing to develop contingency plans, thus ensuring crisis preparedness. Operational Risk Definition Risk that the Group incurs losses resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. • Adequate operational risk management is in place, commensurate with the scale and characteristics of business activities and risks, based on the recognition that operational risk is an inevitable risk associated with business execution, to ensure the soundness and adequacy of business activities, Basic policy in accordance with established basic policies on Group-wide operational risk management. • Our afﬁliated banks also engage in operational risk management in accordance with risk management policies established on the basis of the aforementioned basic policy. • The Risk Management Department is designated as a department responsible for overall operational risk management at SuMi TRUST Holdings, Risk while departments responsible for business processing risk and system risk are separately designated. management The Risk Management Department also engages in monitoring and analysis of overall operational risk status across the Group, while providing supervision system and guidance to the afﬁliated banks. • Likewise at the afﬁliated banks, departments responsible for the above three risk categories are separately designated. The Group regularly carries out self-assessments with respect to internal control (CSA: Control Self Assessment) and measurement of operational risk Risk to adequately identify and assess the risk from both qualitative and quantitative aspects. On this basis, the Group develops measures for preventing management such risk from materializing, action plans in the event it does materialize, and recurrence prevention measures based on the analysis of its causal facmethod tors, in an effort to mitigate risk. Risk mitigation measures developed through the above exercise are tested for its effectiveness, as part of the process for review and improvement thereof. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Operational Risk Sub-categories Business Processing Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to inappropriate business procedures arising from executives or employees neglecting to engage in Definition proper business activities, or other incidents such as accident or fraud. The IT & Business Process Planning Department is responsible for business processing risk. The Department comprehensively deliberates such risks Risk management and operational efﬁciency issues across businesses. It also promotes the development of systems to ensure effective management of business promethod cessing risks from a company-wide perspective. Additionally, a department to supervise and instruct business process has been established within each business to verify rules they set out and to instruct and train the head ofﬁce departments and branches on business processing in general. System Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to such reasons as computer system failure, malfunction and defects, as well as the risk that the Group Definition incurs losses due to unauthorized use of a computer. The reliability of hardware, software and system operations is being enhanced through measures such as hardware maintenance and securing its Risk management backup and alternative functions, conducting backups and preparing manuals. Measures are also being taken to ensure the safety of information systems and prevent unauthorized access and use. Additionally, a clear notiﬁcation and response system has been established to minimize the method impact of malfunctions and disasters on information systems and enable quick recovery and business continuity. This system is complemented by the preparation of manuals for back-up measures and recovery procedures and the implementation of operational education and training. Information Security Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses because information assets are not properly maintained or managed. This includes information leaks, incorrect Definition information, an inability to use the information system or misuse of information. Each information asset held has been assigned an importance level according to the degree of damage its leakage, loss, alteration, etc. could Risk management have on SuMi TRUST Holdings and its customers. Appropriate security measures are being taken. This effort involves determining the methods for method acquiring, using, managing, storing, internally communicating, taking out and disposing information assets depending on their level of importance. * For responses to cyber attacks, see page 88. Legal & Compliance Risk Definition Risk that the Group incurs losses due to uncertain legal aspects of transactions, or due to insufﬁcient compliance with laws, regulations, etc. Risk management The consistency and compatibility of internal rules and the legality and appropriateness of transactions and business operations are being verimethod ﬁed from a legal perspective (through legal checks, etc.). 087 Human Resource Risk Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Definition Risk that the Group incurs losses due to personnel and labor management issues, such as unequal or unfair management of personnel and harassment. Risk management A management system is in place to deal with personnel and labor management issues such as unfairness and inequality in personnel matters method and harassment. The system involves internal seminars, interviews and establishing consultation desks. Event Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses due to external events that impair business, such as natural disasters, crimes such as terrorism, damage to pubDefinition lic infrastructure that prevents its functioning, the spread of infectious diseases, and the inappropriate use or management of tangible assets. Preventive measures for disasters and their mitigation, crime and safe-driving management are being implemented. Business continuity manageRisk management ment systems have also been developed. The aim is to deal with a variety of incidents including ﬁres, crimes, trafﬁc accidents, natural disasters and method epidemics that can disrupt operations. * See below for information on crisis management and business continuity plans (BCP) in the event of disasters. Reputational Risk Risk that the Group incurs losses as a result of deterioration in reputation for SuMi TRUST Holdings or its subsidiaries, owing to such reasons as Definition mass media reports, rumors or speculation. Risk management A system is in place to prevent media coverage, rumors and hearsay that threaten to impair the reputation of SuMi TRUST Holdings and its submethod sidiaries. The system also provides customer care and makes prompt and appropriate public announcements in the event of reputational damage. Crisis Management and Business Continuity Plan in Emergencies Initiatives Conducted by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank have develWhen the crisis is serious and its impact is extensive, causoped contingency plans in order to quickly implement emering serious disruptions to the normal business operations of gency response measures in the event of emergencies, such SuMi TRUST Bank and the Group and making it necessary to as natural disasters, computer system breakdowns and outurgently make comprehensive and high-level management breaks of new infectious diseases. judgment, the Group will establish an emergency response Moreover, regarding important business operations, such headquarters as a company-wide response organization and as ﬁnancial settlement, SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi will quickly implement emergency response measures. TRUST Bank have developed systems to continue busiIn particular, in preparation for the possible occurrence of ness, including BCPs (business continuity plans) and backup a major earthquake, SuMi TRUST Bank, which has branches ofﬁces. In order to ensure the effectiveness of such systems, across Japan, periodically conducts exercises in order to they periodically conduct exercises and revise BCPs. make a response that gives consideration to the safety of Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 customers and employees and to business continuity and systems in the Osaka area on the assumption of a disaster ensure the effectiveness of the response. in the Tokyo area. As for company-wide response, in order to enhance the Meanwhile, branches are striving to strengthen response effectiveness of the functions of the emergency response capability through periodic exercises and are promoting headquarters, the Group is strengthening systems for disaster countermeasures in light of the location condition, information gathering and information coordination, in the status of principal facilities and individual branches’ speaddition to periodically conducting exercises, and it is ciﬁc circumstances. Branches are also developing a system also promoting the enhancement of emergency response for mutual support among them. Code of Conduct for Executives and Employees 1. Executives and employees must fully recognize and understand the importance of crisis management and prepare for emergencies. At the same time, they must strive to develop their knowledge in normal times so that they can quickly and appropriately respond in the event of an emergency. 2. In the event of an emergency, executives and employees must make judgments and take actions based on the following principles: (1) Securing the safety of life (3) Business Continuity and Early Restoration In the event of an emergency, the top priority must be In the event of an emergency, executives and employees placed on securing the safety of customers, executives and must strive to quickly restore and continue priority employees, and their families. Executives and employees business operations. must also always give priority to humanitarian considerations when taking various emergency response measures. (4) Cooperation with Local Communities 088 In the event of an emergency, executives and employees (2) Protection of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank’s Corporate Assets must strive to cooperate with local communities in rescue By taking disaster prevention and mitigation measures in and other local activities. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report preparation for the possible occurrence of emergencies, executives and employees must protect Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank’s corporate assets in the event of an emergency. They must also do their utmost to take risk mitigation measures to guard against adverse effects that may disrupt business activities. Cyber Attacks Response to Threat of Cyber Attacks The threat of cyber attacks and the damage they can inﬂict deposits from fraudulent transactions. are growing both in Japan and overseas. SuMi TRUST SuMi TRUST Holdings will continue to keep abreast of Holdings is engaged in the following activities to protect the other companies’ moves and new technologies and impleprecious assets of our customers from the attacks. ment robust security measures so that customers’ transactions remain safe. The measures include the early detection Improvement of Internal Response Systems in and prevention of unauthorized remittances. Preparation of Cyber Attacks To respond to cyber attacks, SuMi TRUST Holdings monitors computer systems of SuMi TRUST Bank around the clock. In addition, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established SuMiTRUSTCyber Security CSIRT as an internal organization for gathering information, conducting analysis and implementing measures relating to Core banking Various cyber attacks cyber attacks, and coordinates with outside expert organizaSecurity measures system of tions to strengthen its management system. SuMi TRUST Bank Enhancement of Internet Banking Illicit withdrawals Transaction Security from customers’ In terms of internet banking, SuMi TRUST Bank offers deposit accounts “Rapport,” a type of security software speciﬁcally for internet banking, free of charge to help shield customers’ precious Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Environmental and Social Considerations in Project Finance SuMi TRUST Bank became a signatory to the Equator the perspective of ESG investors, we found that “being Principles in February 2016. This set of guidelines for primindful of our investment targets’ and loan recipients’ inﬂuvate ﬁnancial institutions requires due consideration to the ence on the environment and society” to be in “the range impact on the natural environment and the regional commuwith the highest materiality” in terms of both the impact on nity when project ﬁnance is undertaken. the corporate value of SuMi TRUST Group and SuMi TRUST Group’s inﬂuence on society. Two Processes Toward the Adoption of the Equator Principles A Signatory to the Equator Principles Discussions by the ESG Risk Response Project Team Large-scale projects such as mine development, oil and gas The issue of reinforcing ESG risk responses in investdevelopment, power plants, petrochemical plants and inframents and loans was raised at the cross-sectional ESG Risk structure development may potentially have a major impact Response Project Team (see page 85), which was established on the natural environment and the regional community. SuMi in December 2013. Discussions commenced after the issue TRUST Bank is aware that project ﬁnance may indirectly have was mentioned in response to increasing civil society presan adverse effect on the natural environment and the regional sure including concerns voiced by the NGOs. community. SuMi TRUST Bank also believes it is the responsibility of a sound ﬁnancial institution to avert or mitigate risks Identification on the Materiality Map (see page 8) of deterioration of loan receivables due to suspension of projWhen we identiﬁed the priority issues (Materiality) regarding ects as a result of environmental or social problems. sustainability of SuMi TRUST Group by taking into account SuMi TRUST Bank became a signatory to the Equator Principles in February 2016, adopting them as part of a risk Being mindful of our investment targets’ and loan management framework to conﬁrm whether projects are recipients’ influence on the environment and society 089 sufﬁciently environmentally friendly and socially responsible in their decision-making processes for project ﬁnance Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report and to monitor whether applicable projects maintain those The range with the Degree of Our Group’s Impact on Society highest materiality standards once they have commenced. SuMi TRUST Bank has updated its internal rules and commenced operational structures necessary for implementation. e nc As of December 2015, 82 banks (including export credit rta po agencies) from around the world had signed the Equator Im Principles. Signatories require project proponents to comply with the Equator Principles. The signatories could refrain from providing ﬁnancing if requirements are not met, particularly in the case of large-scale projects in developing countries. Degree of Our Group’s Impact on Our Longer-term Corporate Value Creation Types of financial instruments and other criteria including financing size for the application of the Equator Principles Type Application criteria including ﬁnancing size Project finance All projects with total project capital costs equivalent to USD 10 million or more FA services*1 Same as the above If all four of the following criteria are met: 1. The majority of the borrowing amount is intended for a single project in which the Project-Related Corporate Loans borrower has effective control (either direct or indirect) of the project; (PRCL)*2 2. The total borrowing amount is equivalent to USD 100 million or more; PRCL: Project-Related Corporate Loans 3. The commitment amounts (at syndication or prior to sell-down) of the individual signatories are equivalent to USD 50 million or more; and 4. The loan term is two years or more. Bridge loans with a loan term of less than two years that are intended to be re-ﬁnanced by a Bridge loans project ﬁnance meeting the above criteria or PRCL *1 Project finance advisory services *2 PRCL includes the buyer’s credit-type export financing but does not include the supplier’s credit-type export financing. Furthermore, it does not include asset financing, M&A financing, hedging transactions, leases, L/C transactions, general funds and general working capital to maintain operations of a company. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 CSR Procurement (Procurement that Gives Consideration to the Environment and Society) All of us at the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group contribute environment and society and by cooperating with supplito sustainable development of our society as a corporate ers who care about the environment and society, based on group trusted by the public by striving to give procurement the “Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of Sumitomo priority to goods and services that give consideration to the Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy).” CSR Procurement Policy Papers, stationery goods, ﬁxtures and equipment used by procure products and services that have been designed not SuMi TRUST Holdings in its businesses have been procured to pollute the environment or cause human rights issues. through a long supply chain that begins with the mining of SuMi TRUST Group has formulated a CSR procurement polresources and extends to its processing, manufacturing and icy to promote procurement that gives consideration to the sales. Throughout this process, it is a duty of consumers to environment and society. 1. Fair Transactions give consideration to industrial safety and health and avoid We select suppliers through a fair and transparent method violations of human rights, such as unjust discrimination, by taking comprehensive account of economic rationality, apforced labor and child labor. propriate quality, delivery punctuality, compliance with social 4. Consideration for the Environment norms, consideration for social challenges and consideration We strive to conduct transactions with and procure products for the environment. and services from suppliers who promote efforts to reduce 090 We do not provide proﬁts to or impose undue disadvantages the environmental burden and contribute to mitigating and on speciﬁc clients without due reason. easing environmental problems, including climate change Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 2. Compliance with Laws, Regulations, etc. and biodiversity problems. We respect laws and social norms in procurement and never 5. Cooperation with Suppliers violate them in any case. We are not involved with antisocial We seek cooperation from and promote cooperative initiaforces in any way and reject unjust demands. tives with suppliers in order to give consideration to social 3. Consideration for Social Challenges challenges and the environment across supply chains in our We strive to conduct transactions with and procure products procurement activities. and services from suppliers who respect basic human rights, CSR Procurement in Practice SuMi TRUST Bank is promoting CSR procurement for SuMi concerned, the damage to biodiversity as a result of illegal logTRUST Group as a whole. One of the products selected for ging of tropical rainforests and its effects on global warming CSR procurement is environmentally friendly and socially have become major problems. The Corporate Administration responsible paper, which is used and disposed of in massive Department and the CSR Promotion Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning volumes in our business operations. As far as copy paper is Department, which are in charge of procurement, conducted a Initiatives in CSR Procurement Regarding Copy Paper • We began to conduct surveys on suppliers to determine whether their paper products including copy paper and stationery goods were environmentally friendly and socially responsible. • We prohibited the purchase of copy paper that was not environmentally friendly and socially responsible, including paper sourced from illegal logging of tropical rainforests. We then changed the suppliers and procured items. • In principle, we procure copy paper with a recycled content ratio of 100%. • We refer to the opinions of the Rainforest Action Network and other NGOs both in Japan and overseas regarding environmentally friendly and socially responsible products. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 survey on the manufacturers and distributors to determine how with like-minded paper-consuming companies and the World much their products reﬂect consideration to the environment Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan). SuMi TRUST Bank and society. Based on the results of this survey, SuMi TRUST shares the initiatives being taken by each company, while aimBank prohibited the purchase of paper sourced from illegal ing to spread the sustainable use of paper throughout society logging and changed the suppliers and procured items. SuMi as a whole by requesting our suppliers to provide paper that is TRUST Bank uses FSC-certiﬁed paper for its business cards. friendlier to the environment and society. The paper is sourced from well-managed forests and manufactured and sold in an environmentally friendly and socially responsible manner. Going forward, SuMi TRUST Bank plans to Policies on Paper Procurement Upheld by gradually expand its CSR procurement items to printed materithe Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use als and other items. Environmentally friendly and socially responsible products • Prioritize use of recycled paper and paper certified by reliable systems may cost more than other items when items are replaced for CSR procurement. For this reason, SuMi TRUST Bank, with the • Do not use paper from sources that destroy forests with high protection value support of its suppliers, purchases goods in bulk with its group • Use paper that has been produced through appropriate companies in order to procure them at reasonable prices. procedures, from logging of raw wood in compliance with laws in the country of origin Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use • D o n o t p ro c u re p ro d u c t s f ro m SuMi TRUST Bank is aware of the severe consequences of business operators connected to logging of tropical forests to supply raw materials for paper significant environmental or social and the ongoing destruction of the ecosystem. Accordingly, problems it participates in the Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use 091 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Dialogue with Suppliers Obtaining conﬁrmation from the user on whether procured products are environmentally friendly and socially responsible is an extremely arduous and inefﬁcient task in the practice of CSR procurement. SuMi TRUST Bank thus upholds the basic principle of cooperation with suppliers. By conducting dialogue and providing each other information on environmentally friendly and socially responsible products, it has been working to raise the suppliers’ awareness and to conduct awareness-raising activities directed toward concrete action. While suppliers and users represent different interests, we are endeavoring to mutually recognize the roles we are required to play as members of society and to realize a “sustainable society” not only for SuMi TRUST Bank but also for society as a whole. Left front The dialogue held in November 2015 focused on the following themes. Sales Division, SANKYO Co., Ltd. Mr. Koichi Nishikawa (Business card supplier) • Market trends regarding the procurement of environmentally friendly and socially responsible paper Left back • Information on the procurement of paper by overseas ﬁnancial institutions Major Account Sales Department, Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. • Consideration for human rights in the paper procurement guidelines Mr. Takayoshi Ochiai (Copy paper supplier) • Expectations for the role to be played in the supply chain as a distributor Right front • Recycling of paper waste and disposal that takes into consideration the mainteCorporate Administration Department, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank nance of conﬁdentiality Haruyo Maruyama Rules on Human Rights Policy The human rights policy formulated by SuMi TRUST Group and policies are violated, necessary measures are taken as prescribes that SuMi TRUST Group “gathers information on appropriate.” The measures include requesting the resolucases where the corporate activities of our domestic and tion of a situation where human rights are being violated and overseas suppliers and contractors (supply chain), and comsuspending transactions and refusing to purchase products panies we invest in or lend to, negatively impact human and services in case the situation is not resolved. rights” and that “in cases where relevant laws, standards Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 4 Address Environmental Issues • We aim to build a low-carbon society, a natural symbiosis society which fosters biodiversity, and a circular society, and will work to solve problems which obstruct these aims through our core businesses by cooperating with various stakeholders. 092 • We work on energy and resource conservation to reduce the direct environmental burden caused Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report by our own activities. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Environmental Burden Reduction Measures The Group utilizes an environmental management system framework to reduce the environmental impact of its daily business activities, and is working on initiatives to improve the efficiency of its operations. Further Promotion and Group-Wide Deployment of Environmental Management 1 Environmental Burden Generated by Business Activities Operating Environmental Management Systems The Group operates an integrated environmental manWe have set targets for paper consumption, electricity agement system at four sites with a large environmental consumption, waste discharge, and eco-conscious “green 093 burden—the head ofﬁce building, the Fuchu Building, the procurement,” which are vital environmental aspects in the Shiba Building, and the Senri Building. At these sites, as a banking business. Formulating an action plan for each activSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report general rule, we promote initiatives to achieve a lower enviity, we are moving forward with activities to reduce the burronmental burden, cost reductions and greater operational den we put on the environment. Our record in ﬁscal year efﬁciency at the same time by connecting environmental ini2014 is as follows. As for paper consumption, systems develtiatives to management strategy through the linkage of core opment at the Fuchu Building and Senri Building, where our business processes to environmental management systems computer centers are housed, is over the hump and the conat the level of department activities. The extension of such version of archived materials to electronic formats has proinitiatives to group companies began in earnest with the gressed. As a result, against a 10% reduction target for paper February 2014 opening of the Shiba Building, which houses consumption volume, the Fuchu Building achieved a 17.1% many group companies. decline and the Senri Building attained a 21.1% decline. The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Environmental Policy 1. Provision of Products and Services 4. Regulatory Compliance We will strive to reduce environmental risks and enhance environWe will comply with the laws, regulations, rules, and agreements mental value for the society as a whole by providing ﬁnancial prodconcerning the preservation of the environment. ucts and services that contribute to the preservation of the global 5. Monitoring environment and the realization of a sustainable society. We will strive to ensure the continuous improvement of our environ2. Environmental Burden Reduction mental activities by setting and periodically reviewing and revising We will strive to preserve the environment and realize a sustainable environmental objectives and targets. society through efforts toward energy conservation, resource conser6. Education & Training vation, and resource recycling based on the recognition of the burWe strive to ensure group-wide awareness of compliance with the Enviden imposed on the environment by the consumption of resources ronmental Policy and to provide appropriate environmental education. and the discharge of wastes involved in our business activities. 7. Information Disclosure 3. Pollution Prevention We will strive to promote activities to preserve the environment We will strive to ensure continuous veriﬁcation and improvement of through communications with external organizations by publicly disour environmental activities and make efforts to prevent pollution. closing the Environmental Policy. * The Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change (see page 11) and the Action Guidelines for Preserving Biodiversity (see page 21) are specific guidelines that were drawn up based on this Environmental Policy. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Shiba Building, where the conversion to electronic formats year 2012. For paper consumption and waste discharge, the progressed, achieved a drop in excess of the 6% reduction annualized targets are 5% each. For electricity consumptarget. At the head ofﬁce building, there has been progress tion, our real annualized target of 1.5% is above the 1.0% in reducing usage, but the reduction of 5.2% fell short of its annualized reduction target set by the Japanese Bankers 10% reduction target, so it will need even more initiatives. Association. As for green procurement, our single-year tarAs for electricity consumption, it increased 4.5% at the comget remains the 93% ratio achieved in ﬁscal year 2013, and puter center in the Fuchu Building and surged 27.1% at the our target in the medium term is to exceed the record high computer center in the Senri Building on further installations of 94.6% achieved in ﬁscal year 2012. of hosting IT equipment and UPS power sources for computers. These increases outpaced declines in the ofﬁce sections Internal Environment of these buildings, resulting in overall electricity consumpExaminations with Outside Experts tion growth of 3.0% at the Fuchu Building and 9.9% at the As part of the environmental management system’s PDCA Senri Building against the base year level. In contrast, at cycle, internal environment examinations are conducted the head ofﬁce, dedicated entirely to ofﬁce space, electricevery year for each department on a reciprocal basis by ity consumption declined 6.9% on ﬂoor space reductions, internal environment auditors. To secure a checking funcand at the Shiba Building, it fell 4.7% on the accumulation tion and ensure objectivity, the internal environment examiof an array of measures such as operating elevators on a curnations are conducted together with outside experts. There tailed schedule. As a result, both the head ofﬁce and Shiba were 53 departments subject to the most recent internal Building attained their targets. For the four sites in aggreenvironment examination in November 2014. gate, electricity consumption for ofﬁce sections declined Internal environment examinations are not only intended 3.6%. The basic overall trend in waste discharge is still one to check the status of activities and target achievement but of gradual decline, but in ﬁscal year 2014, there were one-off are also used as an opportunity for departments to exchange factors such as past head ofﬁce-related document disposal information concerning effective initiatives. Going beyond and processing form disposals related to an integration projreductions to our environmental burden, the internal envi094 ect at the Shiba Building. As a result, at the Fuchu Building ronment examinations also achieve such beneﬁts as faciliand the Senri Building, declines in waste disposal volume tating collaboration on initiatives like operational efﬁciency Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report attained the 10% reduction target, but the decline at the improvement and cost reduction. head ofﬁce was only 7.9%, and waste disposal volume at the Shiba Building rose 5.3%. As for green procurement of ofﬁce Reduction of Energy Consumption and supplies, the practice of preferentially purchasing products CO2 Emissions Related to Business Activities with the green procurement mark in the purchasing system The Group is striving to reduce the environmental burden in took root, with the green procurement ratio staying at 93%. the form of both inputs such as electricity and gas used for Like before, when formulating our policy for activities business activities and outputs such as CO2 emitted as a result related to environmental management systems in ﬁscal year of activities. As Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST 2015, we set targets for four categories: paper consumpBank”) is subject to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, it tion, electricity consumption, waste discharge, and green calculates the volume of energy consumption and CO2 emisprocurement. Our annualized environmental objectives sions at all of its sites across Japan using a common system. In and reduction targets are set against the base year of ﬁscal ﬁscal year 2014, total electricity consumption at all sites across Targets and results in FY2014 Future targets FY2015 End of FY2016 Reduction Item Building Base year FY2014 results Base year environmental environmental target target target Head ofﬁce × Down 5.2% Paper Fuchu 2012 Down 10% ○ Down 17.1% 2012 Down 15% Down 20% consumption Senri ○ Down 21.1% Shiba 2013 Down 5% ○ Down 6.0% 2013 Down 10% Down 15% Head ofﬁce ○ Down 6.9% Electricity Fuchu × 3.0% 2012 Down 3% 2012 Down 4.5% Down 6% consumption Senri × 9.9% Shiba ○ Down 4.7% Head ofﬁce × Down 7.9% Waste Fuchu 2012 Down 10% ○ Down 10.5% 2012 Down 15% Down 20% discharge Senri ○ Down 12.5% Shiba 2013 Down 5% × 5.3% 2013 Down 10% Down 15% Green Head ofﬁce, 2012 91% ○ 93.0% 2012 93% 94.6%* purchase Shiba * FY2012 results Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Energy Usage and CO2 Emissions (Domestic Bases) Energy usage FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total volume of energy usage (heating value) GJ 1,081,210 1,107,217 999,891 1,000,431 949,345 913,496 Total volume of energy usage (converted to crude oil) kl 27,895 28,567 25,797 25,811 24,493 23,568 Energy usage intensity kl/m2 0.062 0.063 0.055 0.053 0.055 0.053 Electrical power thousand kWh 95,656 96,831 87,081 85,901 79,933 76,768 City gas thousand m3 2,019 2,116 1,875 2,475 2,502 2,398 CO2 emissions FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Greenhouse gas emissions volume t-CO2 45,900 45,545 40,233 47,867 50,380 48,921 Greenhouse gas emissions after adjustment t-CO2 42,607 40,562 38,788 46,531 41,994 48,188 Emissions intensity t-CO2/m2 0.102 0.101 0.086 0.099 0.114 0.111 Emissions intensity (after adjustment) t-CO2/m2 0.095 0.090 0.083 0.096 0.095 0.110 Scope of calculation: SuMi TRUST Bank facilities in Japan subject to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Group companies are tenants in some facilities. Calculation method: The emission factors in “Ministerial Ordinance on Greenhouse Gas Emissions Produced in Conjunction with the Business Activities of Speciﬁed Emitters” were used. Emission factors and emission factors after adjustment for each electricity business were used as the electricity emission factors for calculation of emissions intensity. CO2 Emissions at Bases Subject to the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation In ﬁscal year 2014, the electricity capacity of our comFY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total puter center grew on additional equipment installaStandard emissions t-CO2 27,690 28,790 29,891 29,891 29,891 146,153 tions. Meanwhile, we also pursued a comprehensive set of measures to reduce our energy use. In the sumMandatory reduction ratio % 8 8 8 8 8 — mer, we used exhaust heat from our co-generation Maximum emissions limit t-CO2 25,476 26,488 27,501 27,501 27,501 134,467 system as a heat source for refrigeration, and in the winter, we used this exhaust heat as a heat source for Mandatory reduction t-CO2 2,214 2,302 2,390 2,390 2,390 11,686 air-conditioning humidiﬁers and heating water, reducing the amount of gas we use, etc. We also took steps CO2 emissions t-CO2 20,810 18,186 18,860 18,993 18,501 95,350 to level out our electricity demand pattern, running Emissions reduction t-CO2 6,880 10,604 11,031 10,898 11,390 50,803 our co-generation system during the day to generate heat and electricity for onsite use and idling it at night, Excess reduction t-CO2 4,666 8,302 8,641 8,508 9,000 39,117 and using utility-supplied off-peak night-time electricity to run the heat storage system. The ﬁgures in the table above show the reduction status at SuMi TRUST Bank’s Fuchu Building, Shiba Building, Chofu Building, and Meguro Building with regard to the “mandatory reductions in total greenhouse gas emissions” and the “mandatory reducSuMi TRUST Bank’s four base buildings are subject 095 to mandatory emissions reductions of the Tokyo Mettions in total greenhouse gas emissions via the emissions trading system” proscribed in the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on ropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. Environmental Preservation (Total for four bases). No emissions trades were conducted as of ﬁscal year 2014. The reductions achieved at these buildings are still in Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report excess of the mandatory amounts. Japan came to 77 million kWh, down 4.0% from 80 million kWh machines lowered electricity usage, and total energy use in the previous year. City gas consumption remained almost came to about the same level as in the previous ﬁscal year. unchanged from the previous ﬁscal year at 2.4 million m3. There are four SuMi TRUST Bank sites have been subject to Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, to give priority the obligation to reduce CO2 emissions under Metropolitan to reducing peak electricity consumption in summertime, Tokyo’s Environmental Security Ordinance: the Fuchu the Fuchu Building, which consumes the most energy, has Building, the Shiba Building, the Meguro Building and the switched the mainstay system to gas-burning cold water genChofu Building. From ﬁscal year 2015, the head ofﬁce builderators from high-efﬁciency heat source systems introduced to ing is also subject to the CO2 emission reduction obligation. reduce CO2 emissions. As a result, while electricity consumpThe aforementioned four buildings that have been subject to tion has declined since ﬁscal year 2011, city gas consumpthe ordinance have all lowered CO2 emissions in excess of the tion has increased steeply. In ﬁscal year 2014, we reduced mandatory reduction as a result of measures such as improvtotal energy consumption on a crude oil equivalent basis by ing the efﬁciency of heat source systems. Over the ﬁve years 0.3% from the previous year. At the Senri Building, electricfrom 2008-2012 of the Environmental Security Ordinance’s ity consumption volume rose year on year due to IT equipNo.1 plan, the decline in our CO2 emissions have exceeded ment installations but cutbacks on use of water heater-chiller the mandatory reduction by 39,000 tons. Performance concerning Paper Consumption, Water Use, Waste Disposal and Recycling FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Paper consumption t 898 992 808 764 861 Recycled paper t 338 377 592 524 508 Water use thousand m3 200 151 210 193 178 Total waste disposal t 1,882 1,766 1,749 1,972 1,646 Paper disposal t 1,360 1,360 1,361 1,064 1,057 Recycled amount t 1,334 1,309 1,296 1,015 1,018 % of total % 98 96 95 95 96 Other waste disposal t 471 406 387 909 589 Recycled amount t 233 207 96 357 142 % of total % 49 51 25 39 24 Tabulation scope: Site buildings (excluding some branches in the case of water use) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Other Initiatives to Reduce Our Environmental Burden As for copy paper, we have reduced our paper use over the nearly unchanged at 96%. We will reduce the volume of paper past two years but our paper use in ﬁscal year 2014 rose 11.3% disposal by continuing to implement reduction measures at year on year, approaching the level where we were at several departments disposing large amounts of paper and by doing years ago. We have adopted a series of modest measures all we can to ensure inventory control is rigorous and order to reduce our paper use such as resetting printer and copier placements are properly sized. We will also continue to condefaults to settings that reduce paper consumption, but there sider measures to raise the recycling ratio in cooperation with is a need for bold measures with greater impact. We strive to companies that recover paper waste and companies that own contribute to resource preservation in ways that reduce timber recycling technologies. The annual disposal volume of waste logging by increasing our procurement ratio of recycled paper. other than paper declined 35.2% year on year in ﬁscal year As for paper disposal volume, the overall trend is one of grad2014. This reﬂected the large amount of waste disposal on site ual decline year on year despite divergence (ups and downs) consolidation and lease cancellations in ﬁscal year 2013, some in trends at individual sites, and the recycling ratio remained of which carried over into ﬁscal year 2014. 2 Operational Improvement of Environmental Management Establishment of Mediumto Long-Term Targets The Group sets mediumto long-term targets for reducing and we plan to set our own targets based on the Basic CO2 and creating a circular society with a view to enhancEnergy Plan etc. issued by Japan’s national government. ing initiatives of the whole Group. Our targets reference the numerical targets set by the Japanese Bankers Association, Alignment with Initiatives to Improve Operational Efficiency and Reduce Costs Through our operation of an environmental management Mediumto Long-Term Environmental system, initiatives to reduce our environmental load have 096 Targets for SuMi TRUST Bank taken root at buildings housing SuMi TRUST Bank departCO2 reduction Reduce electricity consumption rate (electricity ments and Group companies. We plan to improve the effecSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report (reduction consumption/total floor area) in fiscal year 2020 by of electricity 10.5% compared to ﬁscal year 2009. tiveness and efﬁciency of our activities as a whole through consumption) (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) integration of activities to reduce our environmental burden Raise purchase rates of recycled paper and with company-wide initiatives to improve operational efﬁCreation of circular ciency and reduce costs despite differences in the aims of environmentally friendly paper to 75% or more in society ﬁscal year 2015. speciﬁc activities in view of the commonality among many (waste disposal) (Sites consisting of the head ofﬁce, Shiba, Fuchu, and Senri) of the measures. 3 Initiatives to Reduce the Environmental Burden at Group Companies We launched our environmental management system in 2008, and broaden the operational scope to encomNikko Asset Management’s pass Group companies from 2013. The Shiba Building, the Three Environmental Policies Fuchu Building, and the Senri Building have deployed the same environmental management system as the one at the Increase green investors As ﬂows of funds through socially responsible funds (SRIs) are head ofﬁce building, where SuMi TRUST Bank is housed. very signiﬁcant for preservation of the environment, Nikko Meanwhile, Nikko Asset Management Co., Ltd. (“Nikko Asset Management strives to increase green investors. AM”) and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance Co., Ltd. (“SMTPFC”) operate independent environmental manPromote office activities such as energy and resource conservation agement systems as they strive to reduce their environmenNikko Asset Management strives to promote energy and tal loads. resource conservation and recycling of waste and expand green Nikko AM pioneered SRI as exempliﬁed by its develprocurement in ofﬁces. Nikko Asset Management also strives to opment in August 1999 of Nikko Eco Fund, Japan’s ﬁrst prevent environmental pollution by complying with laws, reguSRI fund. With a strong determination to be actively lations and other requirements related to the environment. involved in global environmental and social sustainabilDevelop information disclosure ity, Nikko AM is implementing CSR initiatives at scale and Based on the recognition that it is extremely important from on an ongoing basis. As an asset manager, Nikko AM has the perspective of the preservation of the environment that information disclosure related to the environment takes hold signed up for the United Nations Environment Programme and develops as a social system, Nikko Asset Management Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and Principles for Responsible develops information disclosure by actively disclosing inforInvestment (PRI), and through its core business, is actively mation concerning its environment-related initiatives, includworking on CSR activities. ing the environmental policies. As for reducing its environmental load, it has targets to Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Environmental Performance of Nikko Asset Management FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 YoY Change thousand Electricity consumption 1,068 1,025 1,026 0.1% kWh Total energy consumption GJ 13,928 13,280 13,317 0.3% CO2 emissions t-CO2 532 508 510 0.4% Copy paper procurement amount per employee Piece 660 628 627 Down 0.2% Stationery goods green procurement ratio % 57.2 58.6 59.6 1.0% Facility covered by the above data: head ofﬁce building (Midtown) CO2 emissions: calculated based on the calculation method of speciﬁed greenhouse gas emissions under Metropolitan Tokyo’s Environmental Security Ordinance. reduce copy paper consumption, conserve electricity, and As for gasoline, SMTPFC reduced its overall consumption reduce CO2 emissions as well as a green procurement pro16.6% year on year despite higher usage volumes at some gram. Through measures to familiarize employees with these provincial branches due to an increase in their sales activiefforts, its performance on nearly all items in ﬁscal year 2014 ties. The sharp decline reﬂected the Osaka ofﬁce ending its either improved or was commensurate with that of the previuse of vehicles for sales purposes as well as efforts to switch ous ﬁscal year. to electric vehicles, public transit, and car-sharing. SMTPFC SMTPFC aims to reduce electricity consumption, copy reduced its electricity consumption 28.0% year on year. This paper consumption and gasoline consumption. With the can be attributed to ofﬁce space consolidation versus ﬁscal relocation of its head ofﬁce and branches to new ofﬁces, year 2013 and the setting of simultaneous attainment of the 097 its new ﬂoor plans are designed around compactness, and dual goals of reducing night-time electricity usage and overmeeting spaces are set up for employees to bring their PCs time work hours. Compared with ﬁscal year 2011, electricity Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report with a network environment and projectors to enable them consumption has been halved, contributing to both a small to present materials they have prepared. The head ofﬁce is environmental load and lower expenses. SMTPFC no longer working to reduce paper consumption with such measures has garbage cans for individuals in its ofﬁces, providing large as the installation of a paperless meeting system executively disposal containers for ofﬁces instead, an approach that for meetings of executives and directors, and progress in enables it to reduce waste disposal and promote effective adopting electronic approvals for automated workﬂows for use of materials. It is working to reduce conventional burnall forms. As a result, paper consumption fell a sharp 6.8% in able waste in its ofﬁces and to be thoroughgoing in ensuring ﬁscal year 2014. that all trash is properly separated and sorted. Environmental Performance of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 YoY Change Copy paper consumption piece 20,947,200 20,988,000 18,016,100 16,788,100 Down 6.8% Gasoline consumption l — 186,384 167,991 140,031 Down 16.6% Electricity consumption kWh 2,464,246 1,923,028 1,691,772 1,218,525 Down 28.0% 4 Strengthening Supply Chain Initiatives SuMi TRUST Bank makes it a priority to purchase environservices that give due consideration to the environment mentally friendly products, such as products covered by and society, and we are moving ahead with CSR procuregreen purchasing and energy-saving products, in the case ment, including at Group companies. To securely promote of purchasing of ofﬁce supplies and equipment for in-house CSR procurement, the cooperation of suppliers involved use. Beyond quantitative resource conservation, SuMi in production and sales are necessary. In cooperation with TRUST Bank believes it has an obligation as a user to ensure suppliers, we plan to expand the scope of product items the sustainable use of natural capital and prevent illegal logcovered by CSR procurement to paper products, printed ging of tropical rainforests. materials and ofﬁce supplies well as ofﬁce machinery and The CSR procurement policy devised by SuMi TRUST equipment. (As for the CSR procurement policy, please Group calls for preferential procurement of goods and refer to Page 89) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 5 Respect the Individual • We respect individual rights and diverse values, rejecting unjustifiable acts of discrimination in all our activities. • We create a safe and pleasant workplace environment, respect employees’ diverse ways of working, and strive to achieve work-life balance. • We work to develop the skills of employees and 098 strive to build sound minds and bodies. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Human Rights and SuMi TRUST Group Human resources are the most valuable resource of financial institutions. The Group endeavors to educate employees in human rights so that individuality is respected and they will not be subject to discrimination based on age, gender, nationality, etc. The Group also respects the human rights of all stakeholders involved in its business activities based on international standards, and thus fulfills its responsibility as globally operating financial institution. 1 Human Rights Management Establishment of Human Rights Policy Under the “Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of the Group respects the human rights of all stakeholders with Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy),” the whom we are involved when conducting routine business Group upholds respect for individuals’ human rights and activities and providing products and services. diverse values and rejects unjustiﬁable acts of discrimination in all its activities. Moreover, in order to ensure the execution Basic Philosophy of this policy, the Group formulated the human rights policy, The Group’s human rights management is based on the “Guiding 099 which serves as a standard for acts and judgments concernPrinciples for Business and Human Rights,” which was adopted ing human rights, in December 2013. Based on this policy, by the United Nations Human Rights Council in June 2011. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Human Rights Policy At the Group, based on the “Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy),” we strive to foster a corporate culture and workplace environment that respects the basic human rights of clients and all stakeholders, always act with a strong sense of ethics and social conscience in all aspects of our corporate activities, and achieve sustainable development as a corporate group that is trusted by society. 1. Respect International Standards and build equal relationships that allow a free exchange of opinions. We respect international standards on human rights, such as The We acknowledge that such behavior as sexual harassment and Universal Declaration of Human Rights and corporate codes of conpower harassment impair human dignity; therefore, we do not allow duct based on the United Nations Global Compact. such behavior. 2. Prohibit Discrimination 5. Ensure Fair Recruitment We implement strict and fair screening in the recruitment of employWe reject, in all our corporate activities, discrimination and infringeees and others, solely based on individual capability and suitability. ment of human rights based on race, nationality, gender, origin, social status, beliefs, religion, physical characteristics, and the like. 6. Implement Human Rights Education Training 3. Foster a Corporate Culture that Respects Human Rights With the aim of resolving all kinds of actual or potential issues relatWe regard every kind of human rights issue as one facing us and ed to human rights and encouraging all executives and employees encourage our employees to think from the other person’s point of to develop a deep appreciation of human rights that appropriately view so as to foster a corporate culture that respects human rights. reflects relevant and accurate facts and information, we work on a wide range of human rights education activities, including one 4. Establish a Pleasant Workplace Environment addressing discrimination against the Dowa caste, a specifically We establish a pleasant workplace environment by encouraging all Japanese social minority, through every kind of opportunity, mainly executives and employees to treat each other as business partners annual workplace-based human rights education training. The above-mentioned policy also applies to our overseas network, and the Group gathers information on cases where the corporate activities of our domestic and overseas suppliers and contractors (supply chain), and companies that we invest in or lend to, negatively impact human rights. In cases where relevant laws, standards, and policies are violated, necessary measures are taken as appropriate. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Human Rights Management System based on the Human Resources Department and Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights Human Rights Education Committee These organizations engage in the planning and impleCommitment Establishment of the Human Rights Policy mentation of measures including human rights education Once a year, the Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee was newly established. Prior to this, in training, based on discussions at the Human Rights Due Implementation of January 2013, the Human Rights Due Diligence Diligence Liaison Committee. Speciﬁcally, the Human Rights Self-check List*2 was distributed to all branches, human rights due departments, and afﬁliates both at home and abroad Education Committee, chaired by the executive in charge diligence*1 as a tool to check the status of respect for human rights of the Human Resources Department, plays the central role at each unit. Problems to be addressed are currently being derived based on the results of this exercise. in implementing various training programs and conducting The Personnel Consultation Desk in the Human education activities concerning human rights issues. Access to redress Resources Department will serve as a contact point. *1 Human rights due diligence refers to a series of initiatives to identify actual or potenOrganizational Structure of tial impact on human rights, resulting from the activities of the Group or related outside parties, to develop measures for the prevention or mitigation of such impacts, the Human Rights Education Committee and to continuously verify and disclose the effectiveness of such measures. *2 A check list serves to verify the progress in each department concerned with the Human Chairman Executive in charge of the Human Resources Department Rights Management System, such as the status of implementation of human rights due diligence, compliance with the Human Rights Policy, and occurrence of human rights violations. Vice Chairman General Manager of the Human Resources Department Outline of the Human Rights Members General Managers and employees responsible for personManagement System nel affairs at branches and departments The Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee Secretariat Human Resources Department chaired by the Head Ofﬁce Executive of the CSR Promotion Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning Department, was established in December 2013 as a joint organization by Sumitomo Mitsui All Branches, Departments, and Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) and Sumitomo Affiliates at Home and Abroad 100 Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”). The roles of the conEach unit veriﬁes the status of compliance with Human Rights cerned units are as follows. Policy, based on the Human Rights Due Diligence Self-check List. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee Main Items on the Human Rights Due Diligence Self-check List • Chaired by the Head Ofﬁce Executive of the CSR Promotion Ofﬁce, Corporate Planning Department, this committee Consideration for Human Rights Issues in Management engages in investigating the status in addressing human rights System to Promote Human Rights Awareness (system administration, response when human rights issues occur, etc.) at all Group companies including overseas entities, derives tasks Human Rights Education (implementation of human rights awareto be addressed, and discusses measures for improvement. ness training, etc.) • This committee conducts annual investigations into the Response to Human Rights Issues by Category status of addressing human rights by using the Human Understanding and awareness of the Dowa Issue Rights Due Diligence Self-check List. Whether recruitment and hiring are implemented fairly Companies and society (ending discriminatory expressions, Departments Forming Human Rights understanding of universal design, etc.) Due Diligence Liaison Committee Human rights in the workplace (harassment prevention, consideration for the elderly, consideration for the disabled, understanding for those with contagious diseases such as HIV, etc., understanding for LGBT community) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Balancing work and family (consideration for employment diverCorporate Planning Department, Human Resources Department, sity in personnel system, consideration for maiden name use, Corporate Administration Department, Risk Management Department, understanding for childbirth & childrearing support and for nursing case leave, etc.) Compliance Department Pursuit of job satisfaction (fairness in personnel evaluation and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank treatment, equality of opportunity, respect for the individual, safety and crisis management that take into account disabled Corporate Planning Department, Human Resources Department, Corporate and pregnant workers, etc.) Administration Department, Risk Management Department, Compliance Awareness activities about various human rights issues (discrimDepartment, Customer Satisfaction Promotion Department, Global ination on the basis of nationality, discrimination against the Business Planning and Coordination Department, Fiduciary Business elderly, child labor; discrimination against lepers, those identifyPlanning Department, and Wholesale Business Planning Department ing as LGBT, and ex-convicts, etc.) Consideration for human rights issues in loans & investments and supply chain (racial discrimination, child labor, human health, environmental destruction that affects people’s liveCorporate Planning Department lihoods, weapons and armament manufacture contrary to humanitarian concerns, fairness in hiring activities, considerThis department formulates objectives and plans for the ation for employee human rights, etc.) development and reinforcement of the framework to address Activities of those responsible for human rights awareness in human rights issues within the Group, based on discussions Human Resources Department at the Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Personnel Consultation Desk Human Rights Management based on PDCA Cycle This desk engages in various consultations concerning human Through the PDCA cycle, the Group strives to improve the rights, while promptly taking necessary measures in coordiquality of its human rights management so as to cultivate nation with concerned departments if a negative impact on a workplace environment and corporate culture where the human rights materializes. (Please refer to Page 102) basic human rights of all stakeholders are respected, unjustiIn ﬁscal year 2014, there were a total of 46 cases of consulﬁed acts of discrimination are rejected, and individual rights tation, all of which have been resolved. and diverse values are respected. Human Rights Management System Based on PDCA Cycle Human Rights Due Diligence (Plan) (Plan) Corporate Planning Department, Human Resources Department CSR Promotion Office (Do) Coordination with NGOs and NPOs Human Rights (Check & Action) Education Committee Human Rights Due (Do) Personnel Consultation Desk Diligence Liaison Committee All branches, departments and (Access to redress) affiliates both at home and abroad 2 Education concerning Respect of Human Rights 101 The Human Rights Education Committee dispatches a “Human divisional meetings, in an effort to enhance human rights Rights Awareness Tool” by e-mail to all employees on a monthly awareness among employees. In ﬁscal year 2014, 21 sessions Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report basis, which cites outstanding examples that illustrate respect of rank-based training were held for a total of 17 hours with for human rights. The Committee also organizes workplacethe participation of a total of 1,749 employees. based human rights education training for about one hour per year for each employee on average at all branches, departTraining concerning Human Rights in FY2014 ments, and afﬁliates across the Group. In ﬁscal year 2014, 22,283 Number of trainees Training hours employees out of the 23,344 employees at 290 departments who were required to receive training received a total of 580 Workplace-based human 22,283 580 rights education training hours of training (training participation ratio of 95.45%). In the meantime, human rights-related themes are taken Rank-based training 1,749 17 up in collective training such as rank-based training and in 3 Protecting Various Human Rights Initiatives to Address Dowa and Foreign Residents Issues The Group regards tackling discrimination against the Dowa new employee training. minority as a particularly important theme in the promotion of With regard to foreign residents issues, a new residency human rights education. 2015 marked the ﬁftieth anniversary management system, launched on July 9, 2012, was dissince the Dowa Council to the Cabinet issued its landmark cussed. Rank-based training was provided on giving consid“Japan’s Invisible Race” report on discrimination against the eration to the human rights of foreign residents, including Burakumin caste and the fortieth year since the discovery of the handling of personal authentication documents and secret publications naming areas where the Burakumin caste respecting privacy, envisioning such situations as identifying were once forced to live and many still reside for use in disoneself at service counters. criminating against them in employment and marriage. The origins of our Group’s efforts to be more active in human Prevention of Sexual Harassment and rights education goes back to those Dowa Issue milestones. Power Harassment The Group has continued its efforts to increase employSexual harassment and power harassment are prohibited. ees’ level of understanding based on insights from external In particular, we strictly prohibit sexual harassment. Such bodies, such as the Industrial Federation for Human Rights, behavior can both damage the character of an individual Tokyo. At the same time, we have worked toward thorough and infringe upon his or her human rights. We have taken elimination of prejudiced or discriminatory views through a particularly strict stance on prohibiting sexual harassment various training programs and education activities, including within the workplace. In terms of power harassment, we are Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 working toward the elimination of all forms of this problem. harassment by subordinates of their superiors. In the event This problem is based on advantageous positions in the harassment does occur, advice is sought and complaints are workplace. It is not limited to harassment by superiors of registered via the Harassment Prevention Committee represubordinates, but also includes harassment between senior sentative in each branch and department, or directly by the employees and junior employees, colleagues, and even Personnel Consultation Desk within the Human Resources Department. When advice is sought by a victim, a person in charge conducts an overall investigation that includes interStructure for Advice/Complaints and Response relating to Harassment views with relevant parties on the speciﬁc behavior indicated, the relationship of the people involved, the response of the Person seeking advice victim, etc. Either stringent corrective measures or punish(victim, perpetrator, or third party) ment—or both—are implemented against the perpetrators. (A) (A) Furthermore, we discuss harassment in workplace-based human rights education training, new employee training, Harassment Prevention (B) Personnel Department and training implemented for different management levCommittee representative (Personnel Consultation Desk) els. We are committed to ongoing educational activities to (C) (C) ensure that all employees are well acquainted with the principles and issues. Problem solved Problem solved Anti-discrimination Initiatives for (A) Advice is sought and complaints are registered via the Harassment LGBT Community Prevention Committee representative in each branch or department, or directly by the Personnel Consultation Desk within the Human Resources We hold study sessions and training to be thoroughgoing in Department. ensuring sexual minorities such as LGBT do not face discrim(B) The Harassment Prevention Committee representative will, where necessary, ination in hiring or in performing their work. For those with consult the Personnel Consultation Desk within the Human Resources such concerns, our Personnel Consultation Desk responds 102 Department and request advice or measures to address the case. to their concerns as an ally (supporter). (C) The Harassment Prevention Committee representative or the Personnel Consultation Desk within the Human Resources Department will, once they Moreover, in November 2015, several departments Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report understand the details of the complaint being registered by the complainant, (Corporate Planning Department, Human Resources interview the party accused of harassment, as well as other related parties as Department, Corporate Administration Department, necessary, in order to accurately understand the situation, and attempt to solve the issue via advice or other measures. Planning and Coordination Department, Retail Business Planning Department) came together to launch the LBGT Issue Information Liaison Committee. 4 Factoring Human Rights Issues into Lending and Investment Decisions Basic Policy As a result of our engagement activities calling on compaThe Group collects information on whether the business activities nies to end the manufacture of anti-personnel mines and cluster of the companies in our loan and investment portfolios, including bombs, we received a letter in November 2015 from an Asianthose based overseas, negatively impact human rights. In cases based company declaring its intent to refrain entirely from busiwhere relevant laws, standards, and policies are violated, necesness relating to the production and sale of anti-personnel mines sary measures are taken as appropriate. and cluster bombs. Investments and Loans related to Cluster Bombs Applying Equator Principles to Project Finance The Group refuses to provide loans to either domestic or Large-scale projects such as mine development and infrastrucoverseas borrowers for the purpose of ﬁnancing production ture can have substantial impacts on the natural environment and of cluster bombs, which are recognized as a weapon raising local communities. In February 2016, we became a signatory to strong humanitarian concerns. In asset management as well, the Equator Principles, international guidelines on project ﬁnance regarding active investment, the Group prohibits investment for private-sector ﬁnancial institutions, and have commenced in companies involved in the production of clusters bombs operational structures necessary for implementation (see page and anti-personnel mines in principle. Regarding passive 89). The Group has adopted this framework to check whether investment, the Group conducts engagement activities large-scale development projects adequately factor in human (please refer to Page 44). rights and local communities. 5 Human Rights in Supply Chain Management Based on the CSR procurement policy we have formulated, give consideration to industrial safety and health, and avoid we strive to conduct transactions with and procure products violations of human rights, such as unjust discrimination, and services from suppliers who respect basic human rights, forced labor and child labor (Page 90). Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Employment Conditions and Work Environment Support for International Principles regarding Work rotation interviews with employees, through an afﬁliated We support the ILO* Declaration on the Fundamental Principles company (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Business Service). SuMi and Rights at Work as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. TRUST Bank prevents labor affairs problems by grasping the * ILO: International Labor Organization circumstances of individual employees and collecting opinions and views which may be difﬁcult to express in the workImproving the Workplace Environment place through these services. The Group is conducting a broad range of initiatives to improve the workplace environment. Speciﬁcally, we have A Handbook for Overseas Employees, been working on reducing the level of overtime work by carryDomestic Employees Posted Overseas ing out thorough work-efﬁciency and time-management meaBased on discussions (please refer to Page 85) by our ESG sures. In addition, we have attempted to reduce total working Risk Response Project Team, the “Overseas Application hours by encouraging employees to take long holidays and Handbook” SuMi TRUST Bank has published notes all the by conducting promotions such as a “Go-Home-Early” month social and cultural custom risks that overseas employees and and a “Leave-the-Ofﬁce-on-Time” week. domestic employees sent overseas ought to be aware of. In drafting the handbook, we referenced reports by Specific Initiatives Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a nonproﬁt that • Set a ceiling on overtime hours for employees who habituoriginated in the United States that works with companies ally work long hours on sustainability issues, and research materials released by • Develop best management practices for implementing the Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo. efﬁcient operations Understanding the customs and taboos emanating from • Ensure a ﬂexible approach is in place for cases involving the culture, religion, national identify, and unique attributes 103 long hours by encouraging employees to take half-day of each country enable our employees to obtain a deeper paid leave or come to work later in the day understanding of the behavior and sentiments of people in Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report • Regarding the status of overtime work hours and the manother countries and thus build a foundation for smooth comagement of systems to promote employee health, we dismunication and mutual trust. The handbook covers a wide cuss these issues four times per year at meetings of the array of bases from summary data on each country such as Board of Directors and listen to the opinions of attendees, Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index* including those from external directors and external cor(country rankings), manners for various scenarios such as porate auditors, and utilize these in drawing up and exewhen doing business or sharing a meal, widely shared sencuting proposals. sibilities and basic knowledge as well as taboos, differences between Japanese culture, customs, and lifestyles and those System to Respond to of the relevant country to the human rights of women in each Complaints related to Labor Practices, etc. country and customs and rules arising from religion. With From the perspective of promoting appropriate labor affairs our Global Business Planning and Coordination Department management, SuMi TRUST Bank has established, within the and Human Resources Departments at the fore, we publicize Human Resources Department, the Personnel Consultation the handbook to encourage employees to look through it as Desk, at which employees can receive consultation witha reference before going overseas. out going through the regular reporting line when prob* Transparency International is an international NGO dedicated to fighting corruption, lems related to personnel and labor affairs management, especially corruptions among public-sector authorities. The handbook’s country ranking is based on Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index that covers 175 such as unfair and unjust labor affairs management practices countries and territories. and workplace harassment, occur. As a safety net to guard against labor affairs problems, the Personnel Consultation Desk strives to appropriately handle consultation cases while promptly cooperating with relevant persons. Regarding skilled contract employees, SuMi TRUST Bank has started personnel affairs support services, including Number of Consultations Concerning Labor Practices, etc. at SuMi TRUST Bank FY2013 39 FY2014 46 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Dialogue with Employees SuMi TRUST Bank’s labor union has a total of 8,586 membranches and departments, are periodically held to discuss bers, equivalent to 63% of all of its employees (as of the end working conditions for union members and how to maintain of March 2015). the working environment. The Company and the union have concluded a labor The union conducts organizing activities at individual workagreement and are conscientiously complying with it in places and implements surveys concerning employees’ satisorder to ensure sound development of the Company and faction level and the workplace environment in order to reﬂect enhance the status of union members. employees’ opinions in business management through manUnder the labor agreement, management consultation agement consultation meetings and branch and department meetings, which are attended by the President and other senior consultation meetings. managers as well as union representatives, and branch and At other group companies as well, there are initiatives to department consultation meetings, which are attended by repensure smooth business operation and maintain and improve resentatives of the labor and management sides at individual the workplace environment through dialogue between the companies and unions or representatives of employees. Employee Breakdown (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) As of end of March 2014 As of end of March 2015 Number of employees 13,587 (6,430 men)(7,157 women) 13,552 (6,329 men)(7,223 women) Hong Kong 35 44 Japan 13,011 12,910 104 China 129 143 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Korea 3 3 Thailand 5 6 Singapore 114 123 Indonesia 6 6 UK 129 147 USA 155 170 Average age 41.8 (Male: 42.8)(Female: 41.0) 42.2 (Male: 43.1)(Female: 41.4) Average continuous years of 12.5 (Male: 15.4)(Female: 9.9) 12.8 (Male: 15.8)(Female: 10.2) employment Average annual salary 7,246 thousand yen 7,205 thousand yen Number of temporary staff 651 536 Number of part-timers 171 128 Number of disabled persons 259 259 employed (Disabled person employment ratio: 1.86%) (Disabled person employment ratio: 2.06%) Number of employees using 542 485 the Elder Partner Program Number of absentees (annual) 390 (149 men)(241 women) 330 (131 men)(199 women) Number of employee 332 (88 men)(244 women) 318 (84 men)(234 women) turnover (annual) Number of work-related 106 90 accidents (annual) (accidents during work: 63; accidents during commuting 43) (accidents during work: 51; accidents during commuting 39) Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Toward the Realization of a Healthy Work-Life Balance Measures to Promote the Realization of a Healthy Work-Life Balance The Group actively works to establish a workplace envito prepare introductory handbooks ronment where employees can work while feeling at ease for employees and managers on and still maintain a good balance between work and their this system, various procedures, and personal lives. SuMi TRUST Bank offers childcare leave for points to be considered. fathers and up to 10 days per year (in the case of employMoreover, for employees with ees with two or more children requiring care) of additional family members who require nursleave to look after sick children, in addition to offering childing care, we offer up to 10 days (with birth and childcare leave until children reach the age of two. two or more family members requirFurthermore, we offer employees who are pregnant or who ing care) of nursing care days-off, a nursing care leave syslive with and raise children of or below the third grade of tem that provides leave for as long as a one-year period, and elementary school a system of shorter working hours and the a shortened workday system that applies for up to two years freedom to choose to refrain from working overtime or at (for each applicable family member). night. These measures have allowed us to create an enviIn addition, we hold “Family Visit Days,” when family ronment where parents can raise their children with peace members of employees are invited to the workplace in order of mind. Moreover, we plan to enable the 303 employees to deepen bonds and communication between family memtaking childcare leave as of end-March 2015 to access Web bers, and to provide an opportunity for families to consider Campus while on leave and to make forms to ﬁle for childwhat it means to work as part of society. care leave extensions, etc. available on the website. We plan 105 Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave Number of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 400 80 303 300 267 60 51 54 220 200 40 24 100 20 0 0 End of March End of March End of March End of March End of March End of March 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 SuMi TRUST Bank’s System for Childbirth and Childcare (as of end of March 2015) Until the Until third To under Before After Under 1 year child’s grade of Item Pregnancy childbirth childbirth of age second elementary elementary school age birthday school Staggered working hours ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Secure time for hospital visits, ease the burden of commuting, etc. ○ ○ ○ ○ Prenatal and postnatal leave (8 weeks before and after childbirth/paid) ○ ○ Maternity and childcare leave (ﬁrst week is paid leave) ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Childcare time (1 hour a day or two 30 minute periods a day/paid) ○ Exemption from overtime work ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Exemption from late-night work ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Shortened workday system (shorten working hours by no more than 2 hours a day) ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Nursing care leave ○ ○ ○ Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Supporting and Improving Human Capital to Enhance Corporate Value 1 Basic Policy Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management SuMi TRUST Bank provides a workplace in which individuals’ diversity and creativity are fully utilized as valued added to the organization and they can have dreams and pride and feel a sense of satisfaction when working. SuMi TRUST Bank also forms a group of personnel capable of providing total solutions by making full use of their advanced expertise and comprehensive capabilities and helps them to make successful achievements. Personnel System and Management Principles 1 SuMi TRUST Bank respects individuals’ diversity and promotes voluntary initiatives so as to exercise creativity and create value added in a broad range of fields. 2 SuMi TRUST Bank promotes friendly rivalry among employees to improve themselves as well as their autonomous growth in order to enhance its expertise and comprehensive capabilities as a trust bank. 3 SuMi TRUST Bank assigns the right person to the right job according to job capability in order to make the most of individuals’ potential. 4 SuMi TRUST Bank gives fair and just evaluation and treatment to individuals according to their capability, role and achievement so that they can have motivation and feel a sense of satisfaction at achieving self-fulfillment and contributing 106 to the Company. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 2 Recruiting Great People It goes without saying that employing capable personnel is Number of New Recruits the starting point for developing a robust corporate foundation. The recruitment section of SuMi TRUST Bank website Total (total of male and Male Female provides clear explanations of the characteristics of our perfemale) sonnel system, the function of trusts, and their importance, FY2012 312 130 182 and the business content of each of our divisions. The website is also designed to give visitors an idea of what working FY2013 334 140 194 at the company is really like with features such as employee interviews, etc. FY2014 377 152 225 Like in the previous year, we offered internships and featured CSR as a workshop theme. FY2015 377 166 211 More than 50,000 recent graduates applied via the website during the recruitment period for new entrants to join the Group in April 2016. As the number of job applicants has been increasing year after year, we pick successful applicants through a rigorous selection process. 3 Personnel Assignment System Supporting Our Business Strategy Career Course System Enabling Proactive Choice SuMi TRUST Bank has implemented a course-based system employees into four work groups based on their demonthat promotes employee career formation. Employees are strated capabilities. By adopting this system, we encourstreamed into three courses, the G Course, the R Course, or age personnel management based on ability, rather than the A Course, depending on their likelihood of being transage or gender. ferred and the nature of their work duties. All employees regularly talk with their superiors on the staThere is also a system, applied to all courses, that places tus of career formation to be evaluated and receive feedback. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Residence and Eligible business Course name Primary role workplace relocation operations G Course Nationwide All • Leaders of departmentand branch-level organizations, or Possible (General and Global) relocation type operations • High-level professionals regarding various speciﬁc operations Possible within • Leaders of retail-related departmentand branch-level R Course Operationand Retail organizations, or the speciﬁed (Retail & Region) region-speciﬁc type operation area* • High-level professionals regarding retail operation * Nationwideand regional-types (Tokyo, Kinki and Chukyo areas) A Course All • General managers of departments and branches, or Region-speciﬁc type None (Area) operations • Professions regarding various speciﬁc operations Respect for Employees’ Will in Job Assignment their own careers. Under this system, employees applying SuMi TRUST Bank determines job assignments after examfor jobs to be allocated through the internal job posting ining incoming new hires’ aptitude through interviews with system can move to the departments where the jobs are each of them before they formally join the bank. On the available if they pass the Human Resources Department’s other hand, SuMi TRUST Bank attaches importance to new selection process. hires’ will and motivation and provides them with opportunities to try acquiring qualiﬁcations hirers themselves desire Personnel Exchanges among Group Companies (pension actuary, real estate appraiser, etc.) and offer them At SuMi TRUST Bank, from the standpoint of bolstering our 107 opportunities for challenging work at their ﬁrst assignment human resources across the entire Group and bolstering (asset management and administration, market-related group-wide management, we promote seconding Group Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report operations, etc.). employees not only to afﬁliates but we also accept employees from afﬁliates at the parent bank. We offer training to Internal Job Posting System Group employees seconded to afﬁliates at Sumitomo Mitsui We have initiated an internal job posting system to encourTrust Career Partners Co., Ltd. to ensure such personnel age our employees to independently and voluntarily shape exchanges go well. 4 Promote Diversity via Personnel Utilization Our management principles call for providing a workplace employees can realize their full potential.” We make sure where the diversity and creativity of our employees are more that decisions about managerial promotions are based on fully utilized to add value to the organization and where merit. As of the end of September 2015, SuMi TRUST Bank employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fulﬁllhad nine female employees at the level of General Manager, ing their missions. Our aim is be a company where employees 193 female employees at the level of Section Manager and can on their own demonstrate their capacity to add value. 1,062 female employees at the level of Assistant Manager. We proactively promote female employees to the posiPromoting and Supporting Women tion of Section Manager or above, and carry out training for The Group ensures “the right people are placed in the right female employees who have not yet reached the Section positions based on their capabilities in order that all of our Manager level in order to foster proactive career planning and network creation. We plan continuously to hold information exchange meetings, between female Section Managers Number of Female Employees in and leaders, as a means of promoting personnel exchange Management Positions inside and outside the company, and the sharing and resoluEnd of End of End of End of March September March September tion of challenges faced in the carrying out of duties. 2014 2014 2015 2015 Moreover, from the standpoint of supporting a balance Level of General between work and private life, we endeavor to develop a Manager 6 6 10 9 variety of systems and a workplace environment in order Level of Section to make it easier for employees to choose ﬂexible ways of Manager 180 179 186 193 working so they can readily adapt to major life events such Level of Assistant as childbirth, childcare, and nursing care. Manager 1,030 1,051 1,087 1,062 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Employment of Disabled Persons Strategy for Recruiting Globally Minded The Group hires disabled people who want to work, as well Human Resources as to strive to create a more comfortable workplace for disWe offer training every year to local-country employees workabled people. As of March 31, 2015, our disabled person ing at our overseas branches and overseas subsidiaries and employment ratio was 2.06%. afﬁliates. Training is focused on deepening employee understanding of our operations and the bank. To strengthen netPostretirement Employment of the Elderly works among participants and business lines, the training SuMi TRUST Bank has a program that re-employs retirees includes a management strategy brieﬁng with an accompanywho meet certain criteria until they reach the age of sixty-ﬁve ing discussion as well as classes on Japanese business culture if they request employment (the Elder Partner Program). In and history, and overviews relating to our various operations. recent years, approximately 90% of employees that reached To further promote our global human resources strategy, retirement age use this program. we plan to increase the number of employees sent from We certify employees with advanced expertise as Fellows, Japan to work overseas to 208 as of September 30, 2015 and have adopted a system where, depending on their from 115 as of March 31, 2012. We also plan to increase the results, their beneﬁt levels do not decline. Employees that number of employees with foreign citizenship working in are eligible to become Fellows are re-employed through Japan to 34 as of September 30, 2015 from 22 as of March the age of sixty-ﬁve and, in principle, can extend their re31, 2012. Moreover, some employees hired at overseas locaemployment through the age of seventy. tions will be transferred to other overseas locations. 5 Developing Next-Generation Human Resources Employee Training and Skill Development While employee training and skill development in the Group Practical education is provided systematically are generally provided on an OJT* basis, group training is OJT and continuously in the workplace. 108 also provided. The objective is to improve employees’ operTrainees acquire knowledge and skills sysational skills and management abilities. Many opportunitematically at the SuMiTRUST University as a Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report “place of learning.” ties for self-development are also provided to encourage Various training programs employees to continue improving their skills. • Training for new employees, rank-based OFFJT For example, we established SuMiTRUST University in training, business process-based training, (various training language training (English and Chinese) May 2012. This company-wide program is aimed at realizprograms) Carefully tailored training is provided acing distinct added value that is “unique to a trust bank” and cording to the levels of experience and skill. “distinctive of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank.” The program Web Campus • Learning system using the Internet, including also develops human resources who can swiftly provide e-learning comprehensive solutions to clients. Under the operation Self-development Financial assistance to cover the cost of various principle of “building a culture of learning and developing support qualiﬁcation and examination tests human resources who can help themselves and be indepenInternal job posting Opportunities to apply for jobs desired by emdent,” we are developing a system to support employees system ployees are provided. improving their skills. Capability development training programs, inSuMi TRUST Bank’s president serves as SuMiTRUST cluding training for acquiring qualiﬁcations and language training programs, are implemented. University’s president, while SuMi TRUST Bank’s executive Various trainee <Overseas training and language training proin charge of the Human Resources Development and an programs grams (English and Chinese), business process outside expert serve as the university’s vice presidents. The trainee program (New York, London, Shanghai, Singapore, etc.)> SuMiTRUST University receives advice regarding its management from Hitotsubashi University graduate school. * OJT=On the Job-Training. OJT is a process whereby workplace supervisors and senior employees teach subordinates the knowledge, skills, and duties required of them via their daily tasks. Developing Next-Generation Leaders In cooperation with Hitotsubashi University’s Graduate program by presenting a proposal to senior executives. Programs, we offer “GL” training for Global Leaders (for Through visits to historical Mitsui and Sumitomo sites and Deputy Managers and equivalents) and SL training for exchanges with external lecturers and exchange students, Strategic Leaders (Managers, Operational Chiefs, or equivathe program aims to reafﬁrm SuMi TRUST Bank’s origins and lents) to develop the next-generation executive candidates. business spirit, broaden horizons, instill global awareness, Candidates receive instruction on the values, general liberal and enable participants to build networks within and outarts knowledge, and MBA elements they need for manageside the company. ment, and through sessions and courses, they complete the Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Concept Image of SuMiTRUST University Cultivating a climate of learning Clarification and systematization of necessary skills and intention (will) Courses organized by the Human Resources Department Courses organized by business units Seminars and learning circles [Seminars] Voluntarily and continuFostering next-generation leaders Foster personnel with Expert program ously study optional themes Foster next-generation leaders through advanced expertise [Learning circles] Form groups training for strategic thinking from a across branches and departments Deﬁne personnel with industry-leading, global perspective and company-wide advanced expertise for individual busito share and pass on knowledge, perspective knowhow and experiences nesses and foster such personnel General education program SuMiTRUST 50 lessons Rank-based college Business-based college Executives and outside experts Understand expected roles for ranks, make open-style lecture speeches. Acquire knowledge and skills necessary acquire necessary knowledge and skills for individual businesses. An open platTrainees learn about businesses, and develop capabilities suited for the work philosophy and experiences form in which trainees learn according next-level rank to their skill level and in which anybody and use lessons from the speeches for self-development. can participate. • Clarify skills and intentions (will) necessary for desirable personnel • Launch rank-based colleges managed mainly by the Human Resources Department and business-based colleges managed mainly by individual business units and enhance the curriculum by classifying them into “general education programs” in which all trainees participate and “expert programs” in which trainees acquire advanced skills and expert knowledge. • Launch an open-style lecture program in which executives and outside experts talk about businesses, work philosophy and experiences so that employees can use lessons from their talks for self-development. Data concerning Training for Human Resources Development (FY2014) 109 Training implemented by Training implemented by the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report SuMiTB Academy*2 Total business units*1 Human Resources Department 392 days (3,136 hours) 69 days (552 hours) 19 days (152 hours) 3,840 hours *1 Separately, we provided 808 hours of operational training relating to systems integration. *2 SuMiTB Academy is a program to provide various training in order to support employees willing to actively learn in a challenging environment from the perspective of fostering a culture of proactive learning. 6 Fair Evaluations and Treatment Personnel Evaluation Systems with Individual Employee Participation The purpose of our personal evaluation system is as follows. SuMi TRUST Bank’s personnel evaluation system enables 1 To maximize our performance as an organization by alignindividual employees to participate in the evaluation proing the vectors of the company and individual employees cess. At the beginning of each business term, SuMi TRUST in the same direction; Bank’s employees consult with their supervisors and deter2 To ensure goal setting and issue identiﬁcation, daily commine speciﬁc business execution tasks. munication, and face-to-face meetings to review perforAfter the end of the term, supervisors meet face to mance, etc. lead to changes in behavior and capacity face with employees and review their attainment level verdevelopment; sus issues identiﬁed and the process they went through to 3 To fairly evaluate the various achievements of employdeliver results, provide them with assessments they ﬁnd conees and the diverse capabilities they have demonvincing, and afford them capability evaluations across the strated to ensure they are assigned to appropriate jobs process they followed to achieve results. and treated justly. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Bonus System Reflecting Business Performance From the perspective of encouraging individual employreﬂecting business performance.” ees to fully exercise their capabilities, SuMi TRUST Bank has Through appropriate evaluation of personnel and the introduced a system to appropriately reﬂect the business payment of bonuses reﬂecting performance, the Group has performance of the whole of the Group and individuals’ perdeveloped an environment that enables capable personnel formances and achievements in the bonus amount with a to fully exercise their capabilities. view to realizing “incentives for building up earnings for the whole Group as well as for contributing to business units, Results of the Employee Satisfaction Survey branches and departments” and “fair and highly transparent SuMi TRUST Bank conducts an “attitude survey” of all system management through clariﬁcation of the process of employees in order to objectively identify employees’ perception of the dissemination of measures taken by the company, the personnel system and its operation, the workplace Employees to be evaluated environment and engagement. 9,811 employees in career formation courses (as of end of March 2015) Business performance indicators used to determine performance-linked bonuses FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Achievement ratio of the consolidated net business proﬁt before Vitality credit costs 60.6 63.0 62.3 62.1 level Achievement ratio of the consolidated net income Satisfaction 65.4 62.3 61.3 61.4 Evaluation method used to measure individuals’ performance level Decided through relative distribution among employees belongVitality level: Indicator of the level of expectations for the future, forward-looking ing to the same business unit based on the results of performance thinking, willingness to contribute to the organization, work motivation evaluation speciﬁed under the personnel evaluation system Satisfaction level: Indicator of how much satisfaction employees get from the contents of 110 their job duties, the working environment and personal relationships. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 7 System for Employee Health Management Employee Health Management In an effort to help our employees manage and improve their our health insurance association. health, we have appointed medical and hygiene supervisors We offer mental health counseling sessions at clinics (hygiene promoters) at each of our business locations to within our company, and our health insurance association provide detailed health management guidance. Moreover, also provides free health advice to employees by telephone. we provide health examinations every year and assistance In addition, we have activities such as training for managto employees and their families to enable them to receive ers to raise their awareness at recognizing the importance of comprehensive physical examinations at facilities through employee health management. Specific Initiatives • From the standpoint of bolstering employee health management, we thoroughly disseminate to employees their duty to manage their health, and from the standpoint of encouraging independent and voluntary health management, we offer e-learning courses. • We ensure a flexible approach is in place for cases where employees are working long hours by encouraging them to take half-day paid leave or come to work later in the day. • Regarding regular health checkups, re-examinations, and those who are unexamined but who need medical treatment, we commenced a comprehensive program for checkups in coordination with branches and departments. • We offer influenza shots at the head office building, the Shiba Building, and some branches and issue warnings to protect against the spread of influenza, norovirus, and other infectious diseases. • We encourage employees to participate in radio calisthenics at the start of the work day. • Regarding the status of overtime work hours and the management of systems to promote employee health, we report on these issues four times per year at meetings of the Board of Directors, and we listen to a broad range of opinions, including those from external directors and external corporate auditors, and utilize these in drawing up and executing proposals. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sustainability Policy 6 Participate in and Contribute to the Community • We aim to revitalize communities and build a rich living environment in cooperation with various partners in all communities where we engage in corporate activities, through our business activities and social contributions such as educational and 111 cultural activities. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 With You Activities Carried Out across Japan As a good corporate citizen that embraces the idea of acting together “With You,” Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) promotes social contribution activities rooted in local communities, known as “With You” activities, primarily through its local branch offices located across Japan. Support for the Contributions to environment and local communities Ⓡ living creatures and society Enhancement of trust through diligent efforts • Events offering financial • ESD Project (environment education & workplace education) Support for experience 112 • Conservation activities to “successful aging” • Participate in community protect and rear endangered development events species Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report • Host seminars on disaster • Donation activities Vending machines directing a preparedness, initiatives to percentage of sales to social prevent financial scams contribution programs, Bellmark, • Send seminar speakers to • Campaign to support traffic ring-pulls on cans, used stamps, organizations & local elderly-care safety recyclable books, etc. homes • Initiatives to save energy at • Lobby exhibitions with local roots • Initiatives involving dementia domestic offices • Participate in local beautification • Distribute “The Healthy & clean-up activities • Lobby exhibitions on World Centenarian’s Encyclopedia” Heritage sites, nature, and biodiversity • Lobby exhibitions supporting “Second Life” • Hold lectures and seminars for the elderly We support the activities of Natural Trusts seeP○参照 Page 36 ▲ Our Silver College seminar series see Page 31 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Initiatives to Promote “With You” Activities Initiatives Common to All Branches across Japan To build strong relationships of trust with community memattainment,” “environmental load reduction,” “brand bers, SuMi TRUST Bank engages in social contribution activiimage improvement,” and “information delivery” as well 113 ties rooted in local communities, which are known as “With as on the basis of its ingenuity in achieving sales results and You” activities. “With You” activities are promoted with a its activities to disseminate relevant information, and posts Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report focus on the following three areas: (1) support for the environon its “With You” branch blog. The branches have been ment and living creatures, (2) support for “successful aging,” steadily achieving their targets since the system began, and (3) contributions to local communities and society. and the use of “With You” activities as an effective marketWith a view to promoting these activities systematiing approach has taken hold. cally, SuMi TRUST Bank introduced a point system in ﬁsFurthermore, branches that have generated outstandcal year 2012 as a guideline that establishes standards ing results overall from “With You” activities are recogfor these activities, dividing activities into categories and nized through the “With You Excellence Award” and “With measuring their degree of difﬁculty and effectiveness. The You Special Award.” We are actively developing “With point system sets a baseline point target for each year and You” activities by sharing these award-winning initiatives at assesses each branch from the standpoint of “sales results branches nationwide. Goals of “With You” Activities Branches that achieved the Target Points (Branches) (%) 100 97 94 100 83 84 83% 80 76% 80 Achieving Reducing Business Environmental 66 63% Results Burden 74% 60 51% 60 Evaluation 40 40 points 20 20 Improving Disseminating 0 0 Brand Image Information First half Second half First half Second half First half of 2013 of 2013 of 2014 of 2014 of 2015 Branches (left) Branches that achieved the target points among all branches (right) Note: The total number of branches in each fiscal year was as follows: 130 branches in the first half and 133 branches in the second half of fiscal year 2013; 128 branches in the first half and 114 branches in the second half of fiscal year 2014; 113 branches in the fiscal half of fiscal year 2015. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Main Initiatives at Branches Support for the environment and Support for “successful aging” Contributions to local communities living creatures and society Meguro Branch Cultural experience events and lobby exThe Meguro Branch proactively engaged in “With hibits organized You” activities, including participating in local commujointly with nity events, organizing special seminars, and displaying the Meguro exhibitions in its lobby. Gakuen Culture As for local community events, branch employees School actively participated in the Meguro East Cherry Blossom Festival organized by the Meguro Tourism Association, opening a booth for the branch, playing musical instruments on stage, and helping local shopping street merchants and companies set up their booths. As for special seminars, we organized them on the theme of legal guardianship for an adult, preparing wills, and bequeathing assets at a career support cenParticipants in the Meguro Special seminar ter for reemployment of post-retirement-age workers cherry blossom festival as well as one for people receiving psychosomatic and psychiatric treatment that seek to work and rebuild their times, and these were included in a booklet the Meguro 114 social networks when they complete their treatment. Gakuen Culture School published. Together with the Meguro Gakuen Culture School, The Meguro Branch strived to increase the public Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report we organized and displayed exhibitions in our branch proﬁle of SuMi TRUST Bank through the rich variety of its lobby and held events offering cultural experiences four initiatives and the diverse advertising media it utilized. Sugito Branch The Sugito Branch is participating in a comprehensive regional care system led by Higashi Saitama General Hospital as an initiative aimed at developing the market for seniors. Speciﬁcally, the branch teamed up with the hospital to organize seminars on the following themes: the legal guardianship system for adults, key considerations in bequeathing assets, and dementia. The seminars provided local residents with information about compreSponsored a seminar on feeling secure living as a senior hensive regional care. The hospital also introduced us to the Satte City Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and through the chamber, we sponsored a citizen study group for healthy living in Saitama Prefecture. Moreover, we were the ﬁrst ﬁnancial institution to send a speaker to hold a miniseminar at Sugito-machi Salon, a senior citizen gathering sponsored by the elderly nursing care section at Sugito Town Hall and a local social welfare association. Participated in a community Sent a speaker to Sugito-machi event through the chamber Salon of commerce Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Kyoto Branch & Kyoto-Shijo Branch Shiba Business Department The branches have hosted a total Since Silver College seminars of 18 seminars since 2013. They commenced in 2012, branches invited speakers from Kawamura have organized seminars on Noh Theater, the Daitokuji subtheir own, coming up with ideas temple on the Daisenin Temple for themes. The ﬁrst attempt at grounds, and Kagome Co., Ltd., this was a seminar on how to etc. on a wide variety of themes ranging from the history of enjoy champagne that included a small participation fee and classical Japanese “Noh” theater, the use of vegetables and drew many participants. yoghurt bacteria strains, iPS cells, etc. Okayama Branch & Okayama-Chuo Branch Yao Branch The branches invited students In June 2015, the branch and to visit them for extracurricular Nippon Baratanago Takayasu classes sponsored by Mimasaka study group, a local NPO, came University on the water head in fortogether to organize a class about ested lands held by National Trusts rhodeus ocellatus kurumeus in the former Mimasaka domain in (Nippon baratanago), a local northeastern Okayama Prefecture. The classes also covered ﬁnancial matters and included a tour of endangered ﬁsh species, at Nakatakayasu Elementary School, the branches. An overview of the extracurricular classes was shown a public school in Yao City, Osaka Prefecture. The class was 115 on Mimasaka University’s website, and the branches were able to covered by many media organizations, including NHK News and Sankei Shimbun. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report raise public awareness of their CSR activities, including the environmental educational initiatives SuMi TRUST Bank carried out jointly with National Trusts the previous year. “With You” Branch Blog Website URL: http://branchblog.smtb.jp/ SuMi TRUST Bank launched the “With You” branch blog site in 2012. In addition to introducing the “With You” activities of branches around the country, the branch blog has become an important tool for communicating with clients, providing them with timely information about seminars and panel exhibitions. It has also become a tool for deepening the relationship between our branches and local communities. With the number of blog posts by each branch increasing every year, the branch blog has now emerged as an important tool for disseminating information to local communities. New Posts on the “With You” Branch Blog Website (New posts) Handing Out Branch-produced 800 692 695 620 “With You” Booklets on Branch Activities 600 529 Branch-produced “W ith You” 469 booklets have been published 400 that introduce branch blogs, contain branch employee self177 200 122 introductions, and provide an easyto-follow summary of the initiatives 0 it has implemented. The free First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half First half booklets are handed out to clients. of 2012 of 2012 of 2013 of 2013 of 2014 of 2014 of 2015 Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Activities Aimed at Forming Ecology Networks Protect natural habitats Cultivate movement volunteers: Awareness-raising initiatives The Group participates in campaigns to acquire sites with scholarly value and land In ﬁscal year 2014, 51 branches in the SuMi TRUST Bank network displayed panel exhibthat forms the habitats of endangered species that are led and organized by the its introducing the activities of the National Trusts. A movement that traces its origins Association of National Trusts in Japan. In 2015, the Sapporo Branch and Sapporoto nineteenth-century England, the National Trusts acquires sites with natural value and Chuo Branch donated funds toward the acquisition of the Utasai bog (equivalent to historical buildings via donations from citizens. Its conservation activities protect private1,500 m2 of the site), located within Kuromatsunai sector sanctuaries as “trust land”. In recognition that acquiring land in Japan via trusts town, to conserve the high-elevation wetland, one is an effective vehicle with the potential for steadfastly protecting natural capital, SuMi of the oldest in Hokkaido. In 2014, the Kagoshima TRUST Bank has long supported the activities of the Natural Trusts. The panel exhibits Branch donated funds toward the acquisition of foralso introduce our activities on this score, such as environmental education focused on est land (equivalent to 8,066 m2) in Amami Oshima the role of the trust system in our products and trust land holdings. to conserve habitat for the endangered Amami rabbit. The Nakano Branch, the Tokorozawa Branch and the Tokorozawa-Ekimae Branch installed vending machines that direct a percentage of their sales to the National Trusts, with cumulative donations through October 2015 equating to a sum sufﬁcient to acquire 1,100 m2 of forest land in Chichibu, a source region for water supply to the greater Tokyo metropolitan area. Protect natural habitats Cultivate movement 116 volunteers Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Protect Japan’s natural capital by Improve employee building ecological networks learning and knowledge Protect flora and fauna Conserve species Improve employee learning Conserve species Protect flora and fauna and knowledge One of our branches works to protect species Some of our branches work to protect species endemic to Japan as a way to support the enviendemic to the region where they do business as SuMi TRUST Bank branches nationwide carry out CSR ronment and living creatures. The Shin-Yurigaoka a way to support the environment and living creaactivities (“With You” activities). Embracing the idea Branch (Kawasaki City) is a participant in an Asao tures. Several branches have ﬁsh tanks where they that “we enjoy lives of abundance thanks to the blessWard project to promote planting of the Goldband breed endangered species such as the rhodeus ings of natural capital,” our branches promote various Lily in Yurigaoka, where it once grew naturally. Branch ocellatus kurumeus ﬁsh (Nippon baratanago) and activities with local community roots to protect familemployees take part in planting and caring for seedtypes of Japanese Medaka rice ﬁsh indigenous to iar natural capital in the region, highlighting “suplings, and are partners in spreading the word about speciﬁc regions, and other branches house lobby port for the environment and living creatures,” one activity reports and Goldband Lily photo exhibits exhibits on Japan’s designated natural treasures of the three major themes deﬁning our “With You” sponsored by associated organizations. Employees such as the Deepbody Bitterling ﬁsh. Branches activities. Among these initiatives are employees joinhave even cultivated lilies from the seedling stage across Japan are joining the growing circle with ing environmental conservation activities and hosting inside the branch. The branch’s active participation such initiatives, and many more plan to embark eco tours as well as employee participation in various is meant to appeal broadly to the Shin-Yurigaoka on their own project under the aegis of the “SuMi events that partner with local and regional authorities. community on the Goldband Lily’s place in the area’s TRUST Osakana (ﬁsh) Project.” The branches provide information for external stakenative habitat. holders via branch blogs on a dedicated website. A Japanese A Goldband Lily Medaka rice ﬁsh Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Our Activities Supporting National Trusts A movement that traces its origins to nineteenth-century England, the National Trusts acquires sites with natural value and historical buildings via donations from citizens. Its conservation activities Utasai Bog, protect private-sector sanctuaries as “trust land,” highlighting this approach as an effective way to Hokkaido’s Oldest steadfastly protect natural capital. The Natural Trusts as a movement in Japan goes back to 1960, and the scope of its activities has broadened to now include over 50 regions across Japan. SuMi TRUST Bank recognizes that increasing National Trusts Forest where landholdings is an investment in the foundation supporting our SuMi TRUST Bank joined a campaign Amami-no-kurousagi livelihoods, and through land acquisitions, environmental eduled by the Association of National Trusts in Japan to protect the Utasai (Amami Rabbit) lives cation, and our products using the trust system, we support its Bog, the oldest high-elevation marshactivities, which are rooted in the characteristics of each site. land in Hokkaido with a history that goes back 24,000 years. The donation of the Sapporo Branch and SapporoChuo Branch for the Utasai Bog is commensurate to the sum needed to SuMi TRUST Bank has joined the Trust purchase 1,500 m2 of the site. Campaign run by the Association of National Trusts in Japan to protect the rare Amami Rabbit, whose sole habiShiretoko tats are the islands of Amani Oshima Northernmost and Toku-no-shima. The Kagoshima Kushiro Wetlands Beech Forest Branch donated a sum commensurate to that needed to purchase 8,066 m2 The Grey-faced Buzzard Forest Shinorofukui Wetlands of forest lands for the rabbit. Trust, the Miyako Island Nakaikemi The Beech Forest in Kuromatsunai-cho is the most northern habitat of native 117 Wetlands beech. Moreover, the forest is valuable for awakening us to the environmental changes caused by global warmSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report ing. Employees of the Sapporo Branch and Sapporo-Chuo Branch planted beech saplings on the National Trusts site and are active in regular activities The Japanese Crested Ibis to conserve the beech trees. The roughly 25-hectare Nakaikemi wetlands, surrounded by mountains Forest Trust, Noto on three sides, are rich with nature The Mount Fuji and designated under the Ramsar Convention. SuMi TRUST Bank has Plateau Trust The Water Trust Oyatsu Forest produced a video on the wetlands The Fresh Stream Forest Trust, The Northern highlighting the 3,000 species of flora The Nagara River Goshawk Forest and fauna that call it home despite its proximity to a city center. The video Green Field in Setagaya is to be used for environmental education in Fukui Prefecture. Oyatsu Forest spreads out behind the Springs in Kakitagawa Tsurugaoka Hachimangu shrine. To Okegaya Pond protect this forest, the Kamakura Environment Conservation Society was The Zephyrus (Thechlini Butterfly) established in 1964 as the first National The Fairy Pitta Forest Trust in Mikusa-yama Trusts chapter in Japan. SuMi TRUST (Yairocho) Forest Bank sponsored an environmental education class in Kamakura City to mark the 50th anniversary of the SociThe Field of Aso ety’s founding. Forest where Tenjinzaki Water Head in Koajiro Forest Tsushima leopard Mimasaka cats live Forest Trust The Tsushima leopard cat is an endanTenjinzaki is a promontory in Tanabe The water head for the Yoshii River Koajiro Forest, located near the tip gered wildcat living exclusively on City, Wakayama Prefecture. Despite watershed is in a 62 hectare forest of the Miura Peninsula, has been Tsushima Island, Nagasaki Prefecture, its location near a city center, the where nature has been preserved in preserved by the activities of the with its population now down to just site is home to a rich natural environa pristine state. SuMi TRUST Bank National Trust chapter in Kanagawa around 100. In addition to programs for ment. SuMi TRUST Bank produced created educational materials on the Prefecture. SuMi TRUST Bank, in colKuromatsunai-cho and Amami Oshima, education videos from interviews water head forest and used them laboration with Green TV Japan, SuMi TRUST Bank administers a donaconducted by students of a nearby to teach environmental education interviewed experts for an education tion program for funding purchases of elementary school, and used these classes to elementary school stuvideo it produced for use in environNational Trusts landholdings through for environmental education classes. dents, prompting the students to mental education classes at elemensocial contribution donation trusts. think about the importance of water. tary schools. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) Projects SuMi TRUST Bank has worked on activities to raise awareness for use in local classrooms. Appealing to the audiovisual about National Trusts in collaboration with Green TV Japan, sense of children, these educational videos communicate an Internet broadcaster specializing in the environment, on a large amount of information in a short span, directing the Education for Sustainable Development* (ESD) projects interests of children toward learning, and it is hoped the vidaimed at children, from whom tomorrow’s leaders will come. eos will increase their interest in the real world around them Since 2012, this project has developed videos on nature and relevant issues. conservation activities and National Trusts sites across Japan * ESD is a United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) program. Kamakura’s Oyatsu Forest The fourth ESD Project, implemented in January 2015, is a the children “it is important for everyone to be interested in video featuring the Oyatsu Forest in Kamakura, an ancient protecting our cityscapes and nature and behaving in ways former capital of Japan. Using this video and other matethat achieve this. We need to do our best to learn what our rials, an SuMi TRUST Bank employee taught fourthand ancestors thought and work together.” ﬁfth-grade students at Shichirigahama Elementary School, a public school in Kamakura City (Kanagawa Prefecture), a class about how those seeking to protect Forest Oyatsu sparked a nature conservation movement that became the National Trusts, together with those seeking landscape protection to pass on historically important culture heritage for future generations. The students were taught this 118 movement sparked the passage of the Ancient Capitals Preservation Law that protects ancient capitals across Japan Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report such as Kyoto and Kamakura from unbridled development Ovation for Mayor Takashi Matsuo and enables these historic cities to live on as preserves of Students learn about protecting the forest traditional Japanese cityscapes. Kamakura’s mayor Takashi around the famous Tsurugaoka HachimanMatsuo came to observe the class for ﬁfth graders and told gu shrine in Kamakura Nippon Baratanago Fish in Yao City The ﬁfth ESD Project, implemented in June 2015, is a video in Yao City (Osaka Prefecture), we recruited Mr. Yoshihiko on the Nippon baratanago ﬁsh, an endangered species. The Kanoh, a director of an NPO dedicated to researching this Yao Branch has bred Nippon baratanago ﬁsh in tanks inside ﬁsh, the Nippon baratanago Takayasu study group. The the branch since 2005, and branch employees continue to instructor started the class with a video on draining an irriinform the community about the importance of their consergation pond (a periodic major cleanup to remove slime) to vation activities. As an instructor for a class of ﬁfth-grade stuconserve its living organisms as well as local nature and culdents at Nakatakayasu Elementary School, a public school ture, and the students learned that protecting the Nippon baratanago ﬁsh is the same as protecting Nakatakayasu’s rich natural endowment and culture. At the “Full of Life Yao Eco Festival” in October hosted by Yao City, we set up a special corner running videos of the ESD project in Yao on the Nippon baratanago ﬁsh. The videos were very popular, drawing crowds of children and adults at the eco-festival sponsored by “Environment Animated Yao,” a local environmental council that has set up an ofﬁce in the Yao City Ofﬁce. Students eagerly take notes as Mr. A special corner set up at the “Full The sixth ESD project on Fukui Prefecture’s Nakaikemi Kanoh dissects a freshwater mussel of Life Yao Eco Festival” Wetlands is scheduled to be implemented in 2016. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Timeline of ESD Projects on Natural Trust Themes Aiming to provide environmental education that brings nature into the classroom and energizes National Trust activities 2012 2013 2014 Local elementary school students interview An expert is interviewed about conA National Trust staffer provides viewers with a local expert at Tenjinzaki, Wakayama servation activities in Koajiro Forest in an introduction to the water head in forested Prefecture. Kanagawa Prefecture. land in Mimasaka, Okayama Prefecture. 2015 2015 SuMi TRUST Bank received an award from the Biodiversity Action Award 2015 (sponsored by the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity 20112020). 119 A video is produced on the Oyatsu A video is produced on the Nippon Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report forest in Kamakura, Kanagawa Prebaratanago fish in Yao City, Osaka fecture, for use in classrooms. Prefecture, for use in classrooms. via information sent to the entire community Promoting Public Awareness about National Trusts Children talk with their at home family about what the y learned on the The day’s video web footage is immediately uploaded Educational materials created from A SuMi TRUST Bank employee video footage serves as a facilitator for a class usat branch acti Videos on class ing educational videos lobbies shown vities, etc. are Green TV Green TV Japan has more than 1,000 videos available for viewing free of charge, including a large selection of overseas videos as well as videos originated and produced in Japan. SuMi TRUST Bank has supported Green TV Japan as a media sponsor since it was established in 2007. We have collaborated on various projects including producing environment-related video content and promoting ESD. Website URL: http://www.japangreen.tv/ Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Providing Educational Opportunities to India’s Most Underprivileged through ISAK Supporting India’s Underprivileged Children via ‘Shanti Bhavan’ The International School of Asia, Karuizawa (ISAK), opened in August 2014 as the ﬁrst international boarding school in Japan that is intended to foster next-generation leaders. Accepting foreign students mainly from the Asia-Paciﬁc region, ISAK high school provides support so that students with various backgrounds can have equal access to education. Counting both ﬁrst and second year students, there are ISA SAK sch scho hooo o oll b buiildi ldiin ng g lo lloc o ate t d iin Karuizawa now a total of 98 students at the school, which operates on a small-class system where each class comprises 10 to 18 stubefore ISAK high school opened, providing ﬁnancial assisdents. All lessons are in English. The high school’s curriculum tance to cover travel, stay and school expenses. Since 2014, is designed so students can graduate with both a Japanese we have sponsored middle-school students for the summer high school diploma and the International Baccalaureate (IB) school that come from “Shanti Bhavan,” an education proDiploma, which universities around the world recognize in gram for India’s most economically disadvantaged children. 120 their admission process or regard as conferring eligibility to In 2015, SuMi TRUST Bank acted as a foster parent for Miss sit their entry examinations. Thanuja Ramesh, a 13-year-old girl who is ﬂuent in ﬁve lanSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report As an enthusiastic proponent of ISAK’s guiding principles, guages and wants to become a systems engineer. SuMi SuMi TRUST Bank has acted as a foster parent for a foreign TRUST Bank intends to provide continued support so that middle-school student in the summer school through 2013 bright students can learn at ISAK. Scenes from summer school A Student’s Thoughts after Attending the ISAK Summer School Program I feel very thankful I could come to ISAK and be treated like everyone else, like a normal 15-yearold boy. I was able to eat delicious meals everyday with teachers, counselors, staff, and friends that interacted with me on the same level, and I spent time with them laughing and joking, and the classes were great. In my home country of Syria, the government is corrupt, and many people live without hope or freedom of expression, and they are treated unfairly and thrown into prison for no reason. They no longer feel. What I learned since I arrived at ISAK is that not taking risk is a risk in itself. Even if it appears at ﬁrst that nothing can change, if you think creatively, it is actually possible to change things. Through my freedom to choose how to react and behave in response Saad is a boy born in Aleppo, Syria that to whatever happens, I would like to change people in my homeland. is now living in Turkey as a refugee. Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 ISAK’s Vision and SuMi TRUST Bank’s Involvement Highlighted countries and regions We have hosted a summer school program for middleare the birth countries/homelands school children every year since 2010. In 2015, 80 stuof students who attended the Representative dents from 31 countries, including Japan, enrolled in the 2015 ISAK summer school program Director program. Our mission at ISAK high school is to develop Lin Kobayashi transformational leaders who explore new frontiers in service for the greater good of Asia and the global commuprogram for children from India’s most underprivileged has nity. The attributes we seek are “tolerance for diversity,” enrolled in our summer school program every year since “the capability to identify and frame problems,” and “the its launch. Two Shanti Bhavan students have been matricustrength to take on difﬁcult challenges.” Middle-school lated at ISAK high school since our August 2014 opening. It students from different social, religious, and economic is our hope that when they return home, they will contribute backgrounds as well as nationalities live together under to their communities by persevering in the face of the disthe same roof throughout our two-week summer program, advantages of their birth at the bottom of the Hindu social opening the door to interactions that enable them to learn hierarchy and change their communities. We hope their parfrom each other and gain respect for other cultures. At ticipation in our summer school program will be a formative times they are shocked when the values they have grown experience for them and enable them to be catalysts for posup with collide with different values, and at times they disitive change for the people in their lives, in keeping with the 121 cover new things about themselves as they work through ISAK mission. We appreciate the support we have received their differences with others and grow as individuals. from Mitsui Sumitomo Trust Bank over the years that enables Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report At least one of the top students from the Shanti Bhavan us to provide such opportunities to Shanti Bhavan students. Shanti Bhavan's Mission as an Education Program for India's Most Underprivileged Shanti Bhavan is an education program intended to foster at preparing them for the type of work they seek and developchildren who are the most socially and economically disading their careers and that cultivates values that enable them vantaged under the Hindu-based system of hereditary social to think, work and thrive globally. If children from these poor stratiﬁcation. Dr. Abraham George, who is the program’s communities receive a quality education and become leaders founder, believes educating children is the most important later in life, their example could inspire other outcastes, includway to improve the situation of people who are most disading their families, and create positive spillover effects for future vantaged by birth and break the negative cycle that extends generations. If many other schools adopted education proto the next generation. Learning in a boarding school envigrams like Shanti Bhavan, this could open a pathway to abolronment in a rural natural setting, the children enrolled in the ishing the Hindu-based hereditary system of social stratiﬁcation Shanti Bhavan program receive a top-notch education aimed and discrimination that goes back more than 2,000 years. A Thank-you Letter from Thanuja Dear Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Thank you very much for sponsoring my enrollment at ISAK summer school. I enjoyed making friends and the summer school program. I like meeting people from diverse cultures with different values and ways of thinking. I have discovered an interest in hearing how people with differing perspectives think about the world. The classes at ISAK are wonderful with a mix of people with different backgrounds and experiences coming together. I would like to return to ISAK as a high school student. I liked the leadership and diversity components of the classes, and enjoyed studying together and doing fun stuff with friends. I cannot fully express my feelings of gratitude. Thank you so much! Love you always, Thanuja Ramesh India Thanujas a thankk-yo ou Le tter tt Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 CSR Activities at Group Companies Nikko Asset Management Nikko Asset Management works to promote various CSR Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP activities as it places a high value on contributing to global FI), Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and Principles environment and development of a sustainable society. for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles In addition to proactively managing the Nikko AM for Financial Action for the 21st Century). In particular, Nikko Employee Charity Program, a social contribution program AM has been a member of the drafting committee for the by employees, Nikko AM strives to advance CSR activiPrinciples for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society ties through its core business as a signatory to the United since its inception. Oxfam Trailwalker Tohoku 2015 “Cooked Rice” Volunteers The Oxfam Trailwalker is a charity event in which teams of A joint effort with Second Harvest Japan Alliance, Japan’s four people strive to reach the goal line. Nikko AM particiﬁrst food bank organized as a “public-interest corporation,” pated in the July 2015 event with a 50km course that opened “cooked rice” volunteers seek to collect items from food 122 in Fukushima Prefecture and required teams to ﬁnish in less manufacturers, individuals, and others with surplus food as an than 24 hours. alternative to disposal and to use such items to prepare warm Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report The donations collected meals for homeless people living on the streets. In October through the event are used 2015, nine people from Nikko AM participated in this activity for international cooperaas “cooked rice” volunteers. tion activities such as helping people afﬂicted by poverty in developing countries and supporting reconstruction in the Tohoku region. Oxfam Trailwalker Tohoku 2015 Sufficient portions for about 300 people were prepared and distributed. FIT for Charity Run Financial Industry in Tokyo (FIT) for Charity Run is a charity event created by ﬁnancial service companies in Tokyo that draws participants from across the industry with the aim of supporting non-proﬁt organizations in Japan. Nikko AM has served as a member of the executive committee for this event since 2006 and also contributes as a corporate sponsor. In the November 2015 charity run, a total Runners and volunof 27 people with Nikko AM ties participated, centering on teers enjoyed the run employees and their family members and friends. despite rain Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Regular Gatherings for Child Wheelchair Maintenance Food Drive Nikko AM has participated in regular gatherings for child A food drive encourages families with surplus food to bring wheelchair maintenance held by a non-proﬁt organization surplus items to their workplace or school where it can be colwhich sends wheelchairs for children abroad. The NPO is a lected and donated to local social welfare organizations, facilbeneﬁciary of the Nikko AM Employee Charity Program. ities, food banks, etc. The NPO cleans and repairs second-half wheelchairs for Nikko AM collected many food products including rice, children and sends them free of charge to children overseas pasta, canned foods, and food in retort packaging in a monththat need a wheelchair. At the November 2015 regular gatherlong food drive it implemented in October-November 2015. ing, wheelchairs for disabled Thai children were tuned up and packed for shipment. 123 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report A large quality of food Volunteers cleaning and products were gathrepairing wheelchairs ered in the food drive Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty In October 2014, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty signed a contract with Nagoya City to collaborate and cooperate on the plan to regenerate Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Gardens, and has since supported this collaboration in many ways. One example of this was the Grandchildren’s Day event held at the zoo in October 2015. The event bustled with many visitors on a day with favorable weather, and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty offered commemorative People P l wait i in i line li to hhave commemphotos to families with grandchild and handed out specially preorative pictures taken with Trust-san pared calendars. Like in 2014, the specially prepared calendars were popular, and we ran out of calendars to hand out at around 15:00. Our distinctive mascot wearing his “Trust-san” outﬁt made his ﬁrst appearance at a Grandchildren’s Day event in 2015, and “Trust-san” was so popular that a line of people waited to have commemorative pictures taken with him. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty intends to continue with such activities in the future, working to cultivate employee awareness, raise our public proﬁle in the Chubu region, and improve our brand image. Pictures taken k at the h event were d delivered l d to the homes of participants the next day Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Club What is MSF? Medecins Sans Diners Club Active since its founding in 1971, Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) Frontieres (MSF) was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize Support Your Local Project in 1999. It is a medical humanitarian organization that delivers emergency aid to people around the world affected by armed conﬂict and natural disasters as a private, international non-proﬁt on the basis of need from Diner Club, administered in Japan by Sumitomo Mitsui a neutral, independent standpoint. Supported by over Trust Club, has established the “Support Your Local 38,000 health professionals and staff annually, our activiProject” to provide backing to Japanese people who ties encompass more than 60 locations in countries and are active around the world. The ﬁrst recipient of its territories worldwide where our support is necessary. Diners Club signed a member contract with MSF in support is Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF), known in 1999 and continues to accept donations through its cards. English as Doctors without Borders. In the past few years, To save people afﬂicted by myriad difﬁculties as a MSF has received over result of natural disasters or armed conﬂicts around the ¥250 million per year in world, there are many Japanese people who venture donations from Diner Club members. out to these hotspots without regard for personal danger. The initiative is the ﬁrst attempt to tap into home124 town support for active locals with a strong desire to help others. supporting these intrepid locals, drawing on the comSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report The initiative is based on the concept of locals who mon bonds the doers and their supporters share for go to hotspots overseas receiving support from hometheir hometowns. town supporters that do what they can to help within Doctors active in MSF also have local roots, and the the conﬁnes of their lives. The goal is to send a message sense of mission that propels them onward ﬁrst germito the world from their shared hometowns as a way of nated and took root in the place they come from. The plan seeks to enable people with common hometown bonds to support brave locals. (Dinner event planned in Fukuoka Locals who are active in MSF City in March 2016) The ﬁrst salvo in this initiative is a March 2016 dinner event in Kyushu’s Fukuoka City to introduce active MSF Profession: Pharmacist volunteers that come from and still reside in the Kyushu school student, my Comment: When I was an elementary incredible doctors!” while region. We plan to expand this initiative to other regions mother told me “there are some . (It was about) “Doctors showing me a newspaper article across Japan. ssed by the bravery of without Borders.” I was deeply impre MSF’s name. Overseas assignments: January 2014-August 2014: Malaw i Ongoing Social Contribution Activities a September 2014-March 2015: Ugand Kumi Matoba Artist Support Program and Fund Profession: Surgeon The Artist Support Program was launched in June 2012 with the ached mandatory retireaim of providing talented young musicians opportunities to give Comment: Eight years ago as I appro realize a dream for internament, I saw a golden opportunity to high-quality performances. The program organizes about two held since my youth. tional medical cooperation that I had concerts every month at Diners Club lounges in Ginza. In 2014, we Overseas assignments: launched a fund where Diners Club members could donate their April 2007-May 2007: Nigeria reward points to support a “music outreach program” for Tokyo December 2007: Iran of the Congo University of the Art’s School of Music. In memory of the fund’s June 2009: Democratic Republic January 2010: Sri Lanka founding, we sponsored a commemorative concert at Suntory Yoji Sugamura September 2011: Haiti Hall’s Small Hall and plan to turn this into an annual event. March 2013-April 2013: Pakistan Room to Read Since 2013, Diners Club has collected reward points from Diners Profession: Physician medicine in developing Club members who donate them to Room to Read, a global orgaComment: I’ve been interested in I After I ﬁnished training, nization that promotes literacy and gender equality in education. countries since I was a student. Institute for Tropical Medifound a position at the Research In addition, Diners Club provides prizes for Room to Read’s charity rrhagic fever epidemic cine in Nagasaki. The Ebola hemo parties, and it introduces members to the organization on the variwas the reason I joined MSF. ous media it uses to stay in contact with members. Overseas assignments: ia November 2014-March 2015: Ethiop August 2015-October 2015: Liberia Kensuke Takahashi Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 SBI Sumishin Net Bank This quiz event is billed as “economics Koshien*” and aims to make learning about ﬁnance and economics enjoyable for high school students across Japan. With 2015 marking the ninth time it has been held, a record-high 55 teams competed ﬁercely in the online preliminary. Like in 2014, SBI Sumishin Net Bank sponsored the Online Economics Competition, a preliminary apart from the prefecturebased preliminaries where high school students respond to questions via the Internet. In the online preliminary, students competed on their knowledge of basic economics, their local economies, etc. with the winner advancing to national ﬁnals. The Rakuhoku High School team Rakuhoku R S h l team won the H h School k h k High Hi h 2015 2015 won the 2015 online competition and advanced to national ﬁnals. Of Online Economics Competition the 40 teams to win in the preliminaries and go on to national ﬁnals, the Rakuhoku High School team ﬁnished a solid eleventh. “Lion Mode” team from Kyoto Winner Using its internet platform, SBI Sumishin Net Bank will continue Furitsu Rakuhoku High School 125 sending its message as an internet bank for the purpose of sharing Runner-up “Kwangakuko Rikabu” team from Kwansei Gakuin Senior High School future happiness with people and creating a society of the future. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report “Myuuzu” team from Miyazaki * Koshien is the national high-school baseball tournament held in August every year and broadThird-place Kenritsu Miyazakinishi High School cast nationally. CSR Activities at Our Overseas Branches Singapore Branch Since SuMi TRUST Bank opened a branch in Singapore in 1981, it has actively participated in local and public-sector events. With 2015 marking the ﬁftieth anniversary of Singapore’s founding, various public-private events were arranged. The Singapore Branch supported the plant-a-tree program to commemorate the country’s jubilee through donations to Garden City Fund (GCF), an institution of public character set up to conserve the environment and protect nature in Singapore. A deputy director at the National Parks Board said at a November 2015 plant-a-tree event that Singapore was once a jungle with many trees and plants, but the buildup of residential and industrial buildings has reduced greenery in urbanized districts. The deputy director also said the board was pleased to receive donations as tree-planting is seen as an important Garden City initiative at the state government level. Branch members participate in a plant-a-tree event Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Reconstruction Support for Regions Afflicted by Great East Japan Earthquake Planting Saplings for “Great Forest Wall” Project Our involvement in this sapling-planting project started with an invitation to join from Dr. Akira Miyawaki, Professor Emeritus at Yokohama National University, the lecturer at a 2012 seminar to commemorate the new locations of the Sendai Branch and Sendai-Aoba Branch with the theme “The power of forests to renew—reconstruction and regeneration in harmony with nature.” Ouur Gro Grroup up p co com omppris rise ised ed d 2277 con conc nce ccer errnned ern d members Under the plan, volunteers plant broadleaf tree saplings into an embankment that is to extend 300 kilometers along the Sanriku coast to create a forested tidal barrier embankment based on the inherent capacity of the land to foster ﬂora. When completed, the tidal barrier is expected to offset some of the power of tidal waves, with the trees that have been planted into the mounds helping to prevent slope failure. As of January 2015, a total of 16,515 volunteers have planted 138,600 saplings since the project’s inception. The Sendai and Sendai-Aoba branches have continued as project volunteers since its launch in 2013, and Group employees and members of their family participated in the 2015 tree-planting campaign. To contribute to land regeneration and protect against future natural disasters, Planting saplings 126 both branches will remain active. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Save Takata! The Yonesaki Apple Project The Group has carried out projects to support reconstruction efforts across the Tohoku region since 2013. In 2015, 40 Group employees worked as volunteers to support apple growers in Rikuzentakata City. Yonesaki apples are grown in the highlands of the Yonesaki district. Situated on slopes facing the ocean, the apple orchards are bathed in sunlight and exposed Volun lunttee eerrss com e compri pris r ssed ed d 40 40 Gr Grou to ocean breezes that contain minerals. The tidal waves caused by the Great East p employees Japan Earthquake washed up the slopes and reached some apple orchards, causing great damage and pushing some growers out of orchard management. Yet, despite living in a region struggling with depopulation and aging, many growers work hard every day to deliver an apple harvest they can take pride in. Our team of volunteers helped the growers with fruit pruning and thinning. The pruners leave the healthy, well-shaped specimens and thin out the rest from clusters of ﬁve or six immature apples. This task is said to be the most important in apple cultivation. It takes about a week to ﬁnish the thinning process, and we were called in to help in June ahead of the peak ripening season. Thinning-out immature fruit In October, the growers contacted us to let us know the apples turned out well despite searing summer heat and typhoons. When thinning does not go far enough and apple trees become too heavily loaded down with fruit, this imposes a load on the trees and can affect their harvest volumes the following year, the growers said. They again expressed their gratitude to us for helping them with the thinning work and made arrangements so interested volunteers could purchase juice and jams made from Yonesaki apples directly from them. Gift packs interestedd The apples, brimming with nectar, tasted exceptional. volunteers purchased Sustainability Policy 1 Sustainability Policy 2 Sustainability Policy 3 Sustainability Policy 4 Sustainability Policy 5 Sustainability Policy 6 Other “With You” Activities “Inheritance from Me” Series Since June 2013, SuMi TRUST Bank has invited clients to Yashiro, a well-known Japanese enka (folksong) singer, to turn share stories with an “Inheritance from Me” theme. These the story into a song. The second Grand Prize winner is a story stories, up to 400-characters in length, are on the precious entitled “The hand-wound wristwatch.” The writer looks back people, things, and matters the writer wants to pass on as to a time when he and his wife are just barely making ends an “Inheritance from Me” legacy for future generations. The meet in the immediate post-war era and he gives her a wriststories selected for the Grand Prize and the Second Grand watch as an expression of his gratitude to her. The descripPrize are published as a collection in a booklet that is availtion of the close bond between a husband and wife who have able at our branch lobbies across Japan. spent so many years together stirs up unexpected emotions In both the ﬁrst and second competitions, three works were for many readers and tugs at their heartstrings. awarded Grand Prizes. The No. 1 Grand Prize winner is a story We plan to continue to accept “Inheritance from Me” entries entitled “A life-sustaining ten-yen coin.” It describes how a from people, encouraging them to send us stories infused with ten-yen coin helped form a bond of trust between a teacher the precious memories of the most important people in their and a student. The story appealed to many, even inspiring Aki lives and of unforgettable episodes from their past. No. 1 No. 2 Grand Grand Prize: Prize: “A life“The handsustaining wound wristten-yen coin” watch” Mrs. Mr. 127 Kaoru Kiyoshi Ashida Nozaki Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Hyogo Saitama Prefecture Prefecture The Healthy Centenarian’s Encyclopedia: “With You” Booklets Data Compilation SuMi TRUST Bank engages in social contribution activities In collaboration with ILC-Japan, which studies ageing societies that are rooted in local communities, primarily through its from an international point of view, SuMi TRUST Bank has publocal business ofﬁces across Japan, in order to build a strong lished a mini-handbook with assorted information on ageing bond of trust with community members. One way we do this called “The Healthy Centenarian’s Encyclopedia.” The September is the publication of a quarterly report aimed at clients called 2014 revised edition introduces themes on population and life“SuMi TRUST With You” that features articles of particular styles as well as health, medical care, and nursing care to plainly interest to seniors and topical issues. We think the report explain the situation of the elderly in Japan using graphs, tables, also serves as a tool for communicating information. In ﬁsand pictures. The booklet is available in branch lobbies nationcal year 2015, the quarterly report ran a special series on wide and is distributed to clihousing options for the elderly and introduced speciﬁcs on ents at seminars. We also use how to think about a ﬁnal residence in a super-aging society it in dissemination activities where a shortage of nurses and nursing-care staffers is a convia branch lobby exhibitions. cern as the senior population grows and increasing numbers need long-term care. Exhibitions with graphs and charts from “The Healthy Centenarian’s Encyclopedia” are on display in the lobbies of the Shizuoka Branch, Shizuoka-Chuo Branch, and other branches. CSR of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group: Accession to International Guidelines for Corporate Conduct, etc., and Related Activities The Group has signed on to various international guidelines and principles involving corporate conduct. It has actively involved itself in the formulation of international standards in cooperation with international organizations, foreign companies and NGOs, while it implements such activities. Accession to the United Nations The Natural Capital Declaration Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) The UNEP FI is an international network that encourages financial SuMi TRUST Holdings became a signatory to the Natural Capital institutions to take action to preserve the environment and to make Declaration proposed by the United Nations Environment Programme development sustainable. The Group has proactively supported UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) at the United Nations Conference on FI ever since it became the first Japanese trust bank to sign on to it in Sustainable Development “Rio+20” held in Rio de Janeiro in June October 2003. 2012. The Group is the only financial institution in Japan to have signed the declaration. Participation in the UNEP FI Accession to the Principles for Property Working Group Responsible Investment (UNEP FI PWG) 128 The UNEP FI PWG is one of the working groups formed by signatory SuMi TRUST Bank and Nikko Asset Management became signatories institutions of the UNEP FI to promote property finance that facilitates of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which were jointly Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report sustainable development, namely Responsible Property Investment established in May 2006 by the U.N. Global Compact and the UNEP (RPI). In addition to joining the working group in June 2007, the Group FI. These principles require institutional investors and fund managebecame a member of the media team that promotes RPI and conducts ment institutions to give consideration to ESG factors when making activities as one of its leading members. investment decisions. Signing of a Leadership Declaration Membership in Business for under the Business and Biodiversity Social Responsibility (BSR) Initiative “Biodiversity in Good Company” At the ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention BSR, based in the United States, is an organization that promotes CSR, on Biological Diversity held in May 2008 in Bonn, Germany, the Group, and it is engaged in the development of sustainable business strategies together with 33 other companies from around the world, signed a through collaboration with more than 250 member companies all over leadership declaration under the Business and Biodiversity Initiative the world. In January 2010, the Group became a member of BSR and “Biodiversity in Good Company,” which was led by the German governreceives various forms of support in promoting CSR that is specific to ment. Since that time, we have been playing a role as a leading compabusiness, such as the dissemination of information on global trends ny in this field and making proactive efforts to address this issue. relating to sustainability. Signing the United Nations Global Compact Formulation and Practice of (UN Global Compact) “Principles for Financial Action toward a Sustainable Society” (Principles for Financial Action in the 21st Century) The UN Global Compact, proposed by former UN Secretary-General Kofi The Group has been actively involved in the formulation of the Annan, is a code of conduct regarding human rights, labor, the environment, and Principles for Financial Action in the 21st Century. These principles aim anti-corruption. Signatory companies are called on to take measures to impleat concrete action toward creating a sustainable society jointly taken by ment the compact. In July 2005, the Group signed the compact, becoming the Japan’s major financial institutions. As the current chair of the steering first Japanese bank to do so, and declared its resolve to act as a good corporate committee, we are pressing ahead with efforts to coordinate the signacitizen by complying with and promoting the code of conduct. The Group also tories and to ensure the widespread adoption of these principles. became a member of the Global Compact Network Japan Network (GCN-JN), in which signatory companies of the UN Global Compact participate. GRI Content Index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Established in 1997 as a joint project between the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economics (CERES), a nonprofit organization in the United States, and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the GRI aims to improve the contents of sustainability reports to the level of financial reports while attaining the basic conditions of comparability, credibility, accuracy, appropriateness of timing, and verifiability of the information included in the sustainability reports. The initial guidelines were issued in 2000, revised in fiscal year 2002, and further revised in fiscal year 2006 based on the 2002 revisions, and fourth generation guidelines were released in fiscal year 2013. ●=Required General Standard Disclosures for both ‘in accordance’ criteria options * Global Compact Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or 4.1 ● equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organizaP4,5 tion’s strategy for addressing sustainability. 4.2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. P1,82-88 Organizational Profile 129 4.3 ● Report the name of the organization. P138 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report 4.4 ● Report the primary brands, products, and services. P10-57 4.5 ● Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. P139 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either 4.6 ● the organization has signiﬁcant operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability topics P138 covered in the report. 4.7 ● Report the nature of ownership and legal form. P138 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers 4.8 ● and beneﬁciaries). P138-139 Report the scale of the organization, including: • Total number of employees • Total number of operations 4.9 ● • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) P104,137-138 • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 4.10 ● e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are leP104,106 gally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any signiﬁcant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). 4.11 ● Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. P104 4.12 ● Describe the organization’s supply chain. P8 Report any signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions 4.13 ● • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operP89-90,97 ations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* Commitments to External Initiatives 4.14 ● Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. P85-88,91,93-97 Rule 7 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to P21,42-43,57,76, 4.15 ● which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 90-91,128 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Holds a position on the governance body 4.16 ● • Participates in projects or committees P128 • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents. 4.17 ● b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for deﬁning the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 4.18 ● b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Deﬁning Report Content. 4.19 ● List all the material Aspects identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning report content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one 4.20 ● of the following two approaches and report either: – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or P6-8 – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material • Report any speciﬁc limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization 130 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report • If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or ele4.21 ● ments for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identiﬁed • Report any speciﬁc limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for 4.22 ● such restatements. 4.23 ● Report signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement 4.24 ● Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.25 ● Report the basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 4.26 ● by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertakP6-7, 59-66,90 en speciﬁcally as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.27 ● organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile 4.28 ● Reporting period (such as ﬁscal or calendar year) for information provided. 4.29 ● Date of most recent previous report (if any). Cover2,P139 4.30 ● Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 4.31 ● Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). 4.32 ● c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. P129-132 GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and 4.33 ● basis of any external assurance provided. c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Governance Structure and Composition Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 4.34 ● Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social impacts. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the 4.35 highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with respon4.36 sibility for economic, environmental, and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on econom4.37 ic, environmental, and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback 131 processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report • Executive or non-executive • Independence • Tenure on the governance body • Number of each individual’s other signiﬁcant positions and commitments, and the nature of the com4.38 mitments • Gender • Membership of under-represented social groups P68-76 • Competences relating to economic, environmental, and social impacts • Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive ofﬁcer (and, if so, his or 4.39 her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: • Whether and how diversity is considered 4.40 • Whether and how independence is considered • Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered • Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conﬂicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: • Cross-board membership 4.41 • Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders • Existence of controlling shareholder • Related party disclosures Highest Governance Body’s Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and 4.42 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals reP68-76 lated to economic, environmental, and social impacts. Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* Highest Governance Body’s Competencies and Performance Evaluation Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowl4.43 edge of economic, environmental, and social topics. a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is indeP68-76 pendent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. 4.44 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Risk Management a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in 4.45 the implementation of due diligence processes. b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. P82-88 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk man4.46 agement processes for economic, environmental, and social topics. Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental, and social im4.47 pacts, risks, and opportunities. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Sustainability Reporting Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s 4.48 P6-7,68-76 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental, and Social Performance 4.49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 132 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest goverP68-76 4.50 nance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Remuneration and Incentives a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: • Fixed pay and variable pay: (Performance-based pay, Equity-based pay, Bonuses, Deferred or vested shares) • Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments 4.51 • Termination payments • Clawbacks • Retirement beneﬁts, including the difference between beneﬁt schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental, and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are inP72 4.52 volved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including 4.53 the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each 4.54 country of signiﬁcant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest4.55 paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior such as codes of con4.56 ● duct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and 4.57 matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. P1-3,77-81 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful be4.58 havior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Generic Disclosures on Management Approach a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: 4-DMA P6-8 • The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • The results of the evaluation of the management approach • Any related adjustments to the management approach Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed P137 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations EC4 Financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations EC5 of operation EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at signiﬁcant locations of operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported P10-24 EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 133 Aspect: Procurement Practices Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operation Category: Environmental Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Aspect: Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization P93-97 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization P93-97 EN5 Energy intensity P93-97 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption P93-97 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services P94-96 Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aspect: Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiEN11 N.A. versity value outside protected areas Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas EN12 N.A. and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored P117 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affectEN14 ed by operations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) P93-97 Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) P93-97 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) P93-97 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity P93-97 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions P93-97 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) EN21 NOX, SOX, and other signiﬁcant air emissions Aspect: Effluents and Waste EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P93-97 EN24 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN25 P93-97 Basel Convention (2) Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly EN26 affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services P10-24,48-57 Rule 8,9 EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance EN29 with environmental laws and regulations 134 Aspect: Transport Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organiEN30 P92-97 Rule 8 zation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Aspect: Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria EN33 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal EN34 grievance mechanisms Category: Social Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region P104,106 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, LA2 by signiﬁcant locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender P105 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are speciﬁed in colLA4 lective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management—worker health and safety comLA5 mittees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number LA6 P104 of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* Aspect: Training and Education LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category P101,109 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of emLA10 P106-109 ployees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender LA11 P106-109 and by employee category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to P68-76, LA12 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 104-108 Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by signiﬁcant locations LA13 of operation Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria LA15 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievLA16 P103 ance mechanisms Sub-category: Human Rights Aspect: Investment 135 Total number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment agreements and contracts that include human HR1 rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human HR2 P99-103 Rule 1,2 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR4 bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures HR5 N.A. taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory laHR6 N.A. bor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that HR7 P101 are relevant to operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken N.A. Aspect: Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact HR9 P99-101 assessments Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria HR11 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievHR12 P101 ance mechanisms Indicator Core Indicators Page No. GC* Sub-category: Society Aspect: Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and SO1 development programs SO2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Aspect: Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the signiﬁcant SO3 risks identiﬁed SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures P77-81 Rule 10 SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken P80 Aspect: Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneﬁciary Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and SO7 their outcomes Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance SO8 with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 136 SO10 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken P89-90,97 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievSO11 ance mechanisms Sub-category: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are asPR1 N.A. sessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the PR2 N.A. health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and serPR3 vice information and labeling, and percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories subject to N.A. such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product PR4 N.A. and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Aspect: Marketing Communications PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products N.A. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketPR7 ing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of cusPR8 tomer data Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the proviPR9 sion and use of products and services Financial Highlights In the consolidated financial results for FY2014, net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥30.8 billion year on year to ¥316.7 billion, thanks to higher net interest income and related profit as well as net fees and commissions and related profit at SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated). Net income grew by ¥21.9 billion year on year to ¥159.6 billion, due to an improvement in total credit costs, which offset the costs of banking IT system integration recorded at SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated). Regarding our year-end dividend on common shares, we paid ¥6.50 per common share in line with our policy targeting approximately 30% as a consolidated dividend payout ratio. The annual dividend for the fiscal year increased by ¥2 per share from the previous fiscal year to ¥12.00 per common share, including the ¥5.50 interim dividend per share we paid last December. • Overview of the Financial Results in FY2014 <Consolidated> Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (Consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2014 (A) FY2013 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Proﬁt before Credit Costs 316.7 285.8 30.8 10.8% Ordinary Proﬁt 292.4 258.0 34.4 13.4% Net Income 159.6 137.6 21.9 16.0% 137 Total Credit Costs 19.3 9.1 10.1 110.4% Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Return on Equity 7.17% 7.13% 0.04% — Net Income per Common Shares (Yen) 40.38 34.48 5.90 17.1% Net Assets per Common Shares (Yen) 618.63 511.02 107.61 21.1% <Non-consolidated> Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Non-consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2014 (A) FY2013 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Proﬁt before Credit Costs 245.7 211.8 33.8 16.0% Net Interest Income and Related Proﬁt 233.4 215.7 17.6 8.2% Net Fees and Commissions and Related Proﬁt 201.0 195.7 5.3 2.7% Net Trading Proﬁt 32.4 24.3 8.0 33.0% Net Other Operating Proﬁt 27.2 25.6 1.6 6.3% General and Administrative Expenses (248.5) (249.7) 1.1 0.5% Net Non-recurring Proﬁt, etc. (15.6) (23.4) 7.7 33.2% Ordinary Proﬁt 230.0 188.4 41.5 22.1% Extraordinary Proﬁt (60.0) (2.4) (57.5) (2,333.2%) Net Income 130.5 116.0 14.5 12.5% Total Credit Costs 18.1 7.6 10.5 138.2% (Note) Amounts less than ¥100 million are rounded down. <Dividends> FY2014 (A) FY2013 (B) Change (A)–(B) Dividend per Share on Common Share (Yen) 12.00 10.00 2.00 Basic Information of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Network of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Domestic Branch Networks and Overseas Network The Group has built a balanced network focused on the Tokyo metropolitan, Kansai, and Chubu areas. The Group also has an overseas network that can provide global financial services in the loan business, asset management and administration business, as well as the Other Areas consulting business, among others. Total 21 branches Tokyo Kansai Area Metropolitan Area Total 30 branches Total 60 branches Chubu Area Total 21 branches 138 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Domestic Branch Network Consulting Plaza and (as of December 31, 2015) Branches Consulting Offices Tokyo Metropolitan Area 60 ( 45.5%) 9 Kansai Area 30 ( 22.7%) 3 Chubu Area 21 ( 15.9%) 0 Other Areas 21 ( 15.9%) 0 Total 132 (100.0%) 12 Balanced domestic branch network, focused on the Tokyo metropolitan, Kansai, and Chubu areas Overseas Network (as of December 31, 2015) [U.S.] [Asia] • New York Branch • Singapore Branch • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A.) Limited • Shanghai Branch (Banking, Trust Businesses) • Hong Kong Branch [Europe] • Beijing Representative Ofﬁce • London Branch • Beijing Representative Ofﬁce • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust International Limited (Securities Business) (Securities Business) • Zijin Trust Co., Ltd. • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. (Trust Business) (Trust, Banking, Securities Businesses) • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Hong Kong) Limited • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Ireland) Limited (Securities Business) (Trust Business) • Jakarta Representative Ofﬁce • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (UK) Limited • Seoul Representative Ofﬁce (Trust Business) • Bangkok Representative Ofﬁce • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited (Banking Business) An overseas network that can provide global financial services Basic Information of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Corporate Information (as of September 30, 2015) Registered Trade Name: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Headquarters Location: 1-4-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Date of Establishment: February 1, 2002 (Change of trade name: April 1, 2011) Main Business: With trust banking at its core, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., will focus on the management of business operations, as the holding company of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, and sets the following (1) (6) as its key functions: (1) Formulating group management strategy (2) Monitoring administration of business activities (3) Allocation of management resources (4) Supervising risk management (5) Supervising compliance management (6) Managing internal auditing Capital: 261,608,725,000 Yen Stock Exchange Listings: Tokyo, Nagoya Stock Exchanges Tokyo (Primary), Nagoya (Primary) 139 Securities Code: 8309 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 CSR Report Basic Information of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Rating Information (as of December 31, 2015) Long-term Short-term JCR AA— Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings R&I A — S&P A A-1 Moody’s A1 P-1 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Fitch AF1 JCR AA— R&I A+ a-1 Issued: February 2016 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Corporate Planning Department, CSR Promotion Office 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Telephone: +81 (3) 6256-6251 Facsimile: +81 (3) 3286-8741 URL: http://smth.jp/en/csr/index.html Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report —— Questionnaire Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Corporate Planning Department, CSR Promotion Office Facsimile: 81-3-3286-8741 What was your impression of the CSR Report as a whole? Q1 ● Content □ Substantial □ Acceptable □ Inadequate ● Readability □ Easy to read □ Normal □ Difficult to read How do you evaluate our CSR efforts described in this report? Q2 □ Very Good □ Good □ Satisfactory □ Weak □ Insufficient What items in the report interested you, or left an impression? (Feel free to check multiple items) Q3 ● □ Editorial Policy/Creating Shared Value through CSR Activities □ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group’s Basic Policy on Social Responsibility □ Management Commitment □ Identifying Materiality of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group and Initiatives Toward Creating Shared Value ● Sustainability Policy 1 □ Addressing Climate Change Using Our Financial Capabilities □ Natural Capital-related Initiatives Using Our Financial Capabilities □ Addressing the Issues of a Super-Aging Society by Using Our Financial Functions □ Various Solutions Using Trust Functions □ ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Asset Management Businesses □ ESG-themed Initiatives in Our Real Estate Businesses ● Sustainability Policy 2 □ Initiatives to Earn the Trust of Clients □ Client Protection Management □ Delivery of Reliable Financial Products and Services ● Sustainability Policy 3 □ Corporate Governance □ Compliance and Conducting Business Activities Fairly □ Risk Management □ Environmental and Social Considerations in Project Finance □ CSR Procurement (Procurement that Gives Consideration to the Environment and Society) ● Sustainability Policy 4 □ Environmental Burden Reduction Measures ● Sustainability Policy 5 □ Human Rights and SuMi TRUST Group □ Employment Conditions and Work Environment □ Toward the Realization of a Healthy Work-Life Balance □ Supporting and Improving Human Capital to Enhance Corporate Value ● Sustainability Policy 6 □ Initiatives to Promote “With You” Activities □ Activities Aimed at Forming Ecology Networks □ Our Activities Supporting National Trusts □ Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) Projects □ Providing Educational Opportunities to India’s Most Underprivileged through ISAK □ CSR Activities at Group Companies □ Reconstruction Support for Regions Afflicted by Great East Japan Earthquake Please write your impressions and comments including your positive opinions about the report and the areas that should be improved. Q4 In what capacity did you read this report? Q5 □ Retail Customer □ Corporate Customer □ Shareholder/Investor □ Corporate CSR Manager □ Researcher/Educator □ NPO/NGO Member □ Media Representative □ Government Employee □ Student □ Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Employee □ Other (please specify: ) Name: Occupation/Company (Title): Address: Tel: This questionnaire is solely for the improvement and enhancement of the content of our CSR Report. We will not use your personal information obtained through this questionnaire for any other purposes. We appropriately manage personal information.
