United Nations Global Compact We have been a signatory to the Global Compact since 2000 and we reaffirm our This annual Communication on Progress (see table) summarises the key sections of our report as they relate to the Global Compact’s principles and our business support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of strategy, culture and operations. There are links to further information such as measures, lessons learned and our future plans. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. PRINCIPLES INFORMATION IN DELIVERING OUR PURPOSE – UPDATE ON PROGRESS 2016/17 INFORMATION IN BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F 2017 AND ELSEWHERE Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of We are committed to running our business responsibly. We strive to maintain high ethical Our commitment, as an original signatory to the United Nations Global Compact principles, is internationally proclaimed human rights principles and to respect human rights. It also means doing our best to encourage high to embrace, support and respect human rights and ensure we’re not complicit in human rights standards in our supply chain and business. abuses. Respecting human rights, page 15, summarises our approach to human rights Human rights, page 37 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Respecting human rights, page 15, which summarises our approach to protecting human rights. Our commitment to the Global Compact is reinforced in our ethics code. We have to maintain a human rights abuses Our Human Rights Steering Group includes senior representatives from across the business to difficult balance of respecting rights to privacy and free expression, and supporting police and oversee the implementation of our human rights programme other government agencies in protecting the nation’s security. In December 2015, we published our thinking on achieving this balance Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and We respect rights to equal opportunities, freedom of association and collective bargaining. Our ethics code, gives guidance to our employees, suppliers and anyone working on our behalf, the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Listening to our people, page 18 on how we expect them to behave and on our values Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of We have a long-standing policy that we don’t use or accept forced, bonded or involuntary Our modern slavery statement, published in 2016, sets out our stance on modern slavery and forced and compulsory labour prison labour or child labour. Nor do we demand deposits or hold onto our workers’ identity human trafficking. We’ve also helped to set up the UK’s Modern Slavery Helpline and Resource papers, or work with businesses that do. We only work with people who choose to work freely. Centre Listening to our people, page 18 Sourcing responsibly, page 15 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child We have a long-standing policy that we don’t use or accept forced, bonded or involuntary Our Sourcing with Human Dignity standard introduced in 2001, specifies the minimum labour prison labour or child labour. We only work with people who choose to work freely. standards we expect of our suppliers Sourcing responsibly, page 16 Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination We respect the right to equal opportunity. Our Global D&I SteerCo leads our strategy on We’re an equal opportunities employer. As a Two Ticks employer, in the UK, we actively in respect of employment and occupation diversity and inclusion. encourage the recruitment, development and retention of disabled people Creating an inclusive workplace, page 20 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Our environment policy and management systems are designed to help us comply with We’ve produced our Designing Our Tomorrow checklist as a free to use resource to help ICT environmental challenges environmental legislation and continually improve our performance in these areas. product designers and others to incorporate thinking on minimising environmental impact at Managing environmental impacts, page 44 each stage of a product’s life-cycle into its design Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Managing environmental impacts, page 44, covers our approach to environmental issues, Our Better Future Supplier Forum is a collaborative, learning and development forum set up greater environmental responsibility including our environmental policy and our work to reduce the impacts of our products to identify, collect, disseminate and implement best practice and drive innovative sustainable product and proposition development Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) highlight the need to create a low-carbon We’re part of the Net Positive movement, led by Forum for the Future, WWF UK and The Climate diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies economy and to ensure sustainable consumption of our natural capital. Our ambition is to help Group, which seeks to clarify, develop and drive adoption of the Net Positive concept customers reduce their carbon footprint by at least three times our own end-to-end emissions. We can help them achieve this through our products and services. Helping customers cut carbon emissions, page 41. We work with suppliers to reduce their environmental impacts. Our online design checklist helps to ensure our product managers and suppliers consider environmental criteria in the design and specification of new products and packaging. Waste and recycling, page 44 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its BT has zero tolerance of bribery. Our anti-corruption and bribery policy forms, including extortion and bribery Doing business ethically, page 14 DELIVERING OUR PURPOSE – UPDATE ON OUR PROGRESS 2016/17 APPENDICES
