Transformation in progress 2016 Sustainability report 21 data centers in 19 countries As a result of the deployment of new technologies and services, the telecommunications industry has contributed to the transformation of the way in which we interact with each other, do business and keep in touch with the rest of the world. For over 15 years, América Móvil has been the primary driver of this transformation In Latin America through the development of the largest integrated platform in the region, which has enabled it to make the latest technologies available to millions of people. +196,000 base stations conform our infrastructure This transformation translates into progress, development opportunities and improved quality of life for individuals, organizations and communities alike. In América Móvil we are constantly evolving, which requires us to reaffirm our commitment with continuing to set the pace in our industry as we have done so far. We will continue to make investments in technology to improve the services we offer to our customers, foster the economic growth of the countries in which we operate, and create value for our stakeholders. 280.5 million mobile subscribers In addition to connecting people with the world and with their worlds, in the years to come we will connect millions of devices through the Internet of Things —the next life-changing technological advancement— which will make our everyday activities even easier given the increased level of development worldwide. This reality invites us to look to the future with optimism, in the knowledge that we will be in a position to expand our corporate footprint, consolidate our leadership and preserve our vocation for ongoing transformation. Transformation in progress At América Móvil, we are working hard to preserve Internally, we have established local and, in some our position of leadership in the telecommunicacases, regional sustainability committees to replicate tions sector by offering state-of-the-art technoloand increase our efforts across our operations and to gies and improved services while moving toward the measure and improve our sustainability performance. achievement of internal and external sustainability. In addition, our commitment to being a sustainable For several years, we have been laying the ground for organization has led us to subscribe to global initiathis transformation through various initiatives, begintives such as the United Nations Global Compact, ning with the identification of nine stakeholder groups which we joined in early 2016. We have begun anthat exert influence on our operations and productivalyzing the ways in which we can contribute to the ity and with whom we are engaged in two-way relaachievement of the 17 Sustainable Development tionships characterized by an ongoing dialogue. Goals, focusing our efforts on those such goals that most closely relate to our operations: Quality Based on these interactions, we set out to identieducation; Gender equality; Decent work and ecofy those aspects of our operations that are materinomic growth; Industry, innovation and infrastrucal to sustainability. In 2015 we conducted a survey ture; Reduced inequality; Sustainable cities and among 49 thousand employees, investors, directors, safe communities; Responsible consumption and customers and suppliers of five of our subsidiaries in production; Climate action; and Peace, justice and different countries, which we supplemented with a strong institutions. In order to provide an easier understanding of this report, materiality analysis performed by Telekom Austria, we have divided it into two large sections that best illustrate and identified 30 material aspects that we have the way in which we are having material sustainability imsince been addressing through numerous actions. pacts: Transforming our Business, which describes how we are changing internally to become an increasingly sustainable operation. Transforming our Environment, which describes the manner in which we foster the development of those who use our services and the communities where we are present. Contents 07 Message from the CEO 09 Towards Sustainable Management Materiality United Nations Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals Stakeholders Message from Towards Sustainable Scope of the report the CEO Management 14 Transforming our Business Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance 52 Transforming our Environment What we do for our customers and communities Cybersecurity and data privacy Response to natural disasters Base stations safety Road safety Transforming our Environmental protection Business Child protection Blacklisting Volunteering Bridging the digital divide Accessibility Health and sports Environmental awareness Benefits from our services Training and education Transforming our Health Financial inclusion Environment Efficiency for industry Contribution to employment Exhibits Subscribers’ empowerment 77 Exhibits Charters, principles and other initiatives subscribed Memberships GRI Content Index 2016 Sustainability Report Message from the CEO G4-1 The networks we have developed will allow us Throughout the 16 years since we began operaIn each of the countries in which we operate, we to meet the growing demand for data services tions, we have adhered to a customer-oriented are focusing our efforts to address the key issues that we expect to experience over the next years. service philosophy that requires us to engage in of concern to our industry, such as the protecan ongoing effort to develop new strategies for tion of personal data, to ensure that the use of In 2016, we joined the The global telecommunications sector is evolvimproving not only the way in which we allow our networks does not result in the infringement UN Global Compact. ing at an unprecedented pace as a result of the our customers to communicate, but also their of the rights of our customers. In addition, we deployment of new technologies and services, overall experience. have subscribed to global initiatives concerning changes in regulation, and an increasingly comchild protection, the digital inclusion of vulnerapetitive environment. We owe special recognition to the hard work and ble groups, the respect of human rights, and the dedication of our employees, to whom we entrust protection of the environment. Alongside this rapid transformation, our customthe implementation of our new strategies and who ers' preferences and consumption patterns have contribute with their talent towards our achieveWe have created internal committees to address also changed dramatically. Data services usage ment of an excellent service, consistent with our various aspects of the sustainability of our orgalevels now exceed those of voice services. Our institutional values and with our Code of Ethics. nization, and we are working to increase our sodata traffic volumes have been growing twofold cial and environmental awareness efforts. from year to year, and data usage is expected to In 2016, we faced significant macroeconomic increase at a rate of seven times per year with rechallenges that we were able to overcome sucNoteworthy actions taken in 2016 include our spect to current levels by 2020. Against this backcessfully, and we made steady progress in enjoining the United Nations Global Compact, drop, we believe that in the years to come we will suring the preservation of our efficiency and in thereby formalizing our commitment to abiding be in a position to not only continue to connect optimizing our costs without compromising the by and promoting its ten principles concernpeople as we have done so far, but also to conquality of our services. ing human rights, labor, the environment nect hundreds of thousands of devices through and anti-corruption. the Internet of Things. Telecommunications serve as a launching pad for the development of inclusive societies. To achieve this transformation, we make ongoing investments in infrastructure and to upgrade our No one can dispute that telecommunications tofixed and mobile networks in order to offer more day constitute a founding element for the overall specialized services to our customers. We have development of our society and for changing the built the largest integrated platform in Latin Amerlives of its members. Well aware of this fact, we ica, which is outfitted with fiber-optic cabling and foster the socioeconomic development of our the most recent technology available, which has communities through digital inclusion, focusing allowed us to retain our position of leadership in our efforts on providing for their increased conthe telecommunications industry in the region. nectivity and improved quality of life. 7 2016 Sustainability Report In addition, we undertook a thorough revision of arch butterfly and the marine species that inhabit the Mexican Stock Exchange, and we intend to our Code of Ethics, our Personal Data Privacy and the Sea of Cortes. keep our commitment to their advancement. Freedom of Expression in Telecommunications Policy, our Information Security Policy, our HuIn the working scene, we provided professional The future is challenging, but in América Móvil We are part of the man Rights Policy, and our Anti-corruption Poliopportunities to our more than 194 thousand we are prepared to face it. Sustainability Index of the cy, all of which will be mandatory for each of our employees through competitive salaries, ongoMexican Stock Exchange. subsidiaries and suppliers effective as of 2017. ing training, and the implementation of profesWhile we expect to face new and significant sional and personal development platforms. challenges in 2017, we possess the requisite tools We have been upgrading our base stations not to translate them into opportunities to transform only to achieve increased efficiencies in terms In terms of communities, we contributed to the and reconfigure our operations to keep up with of costs and services, but also to reduce our economic and social development, as well as technological evolution as we have done over consumption of energy to mitigate the impact education of thousands of communities locatthe past 16 years. of our operations on the environment. We also ed far from urban population centers in each of continued to encourage our customers to disthe countries in which we operate, by providing Based on our achievements so far and on our pose their old mobile devices in our Customer them with access to mobile and fixed telephony. everyday activities, we look to the future with no Service Centers for their subsequent transfer to small measure of optimism in the conviction that entities specialized in the reclaim and recycle of In each of the 25 countries in which we operwe will continue to be a detonator of growth and their components, which by reason of their naate, we sought to strengthen our relations with development in each of the markets in which we ture have a material impact on the environment, government authorities and to ensure that we participate. thereby engaging our entire value chain in our remain compliant with all of the applicable laws efforts toward reusing our resources. on the subject of free competition. In Mexico, As in previous years, I am pleased to submit to the Federal Institute of Telecommunications (Inyou América Móvil 2016 Sustainability Report, We contributed to our communities through stituto Federal de Telecomunicaciones, or IFT) Transformation in Progress, which describes in various social and environmental programs, inaudited our operations on several occasions detail our achievements in 2016 and the aspects cluding the provision of free access through our and found us in compliance with the preponon which we intend to focus in 2017. networks to Aprende.org, the digital learning platderant economic agent regulations to which we form of Fundación Carlos Slim, which offers trainare subject, for which we credit the efforts of We appreciate the unwavering trust of our invesing for employment, skills development courses, our various business units. We will continue to tors, customers, employees, suppliers and distribcertifications, diplomas, as well as information work closely with Mexican regulatory authorities utors, and we hope that they continue trusting us to foster healthcare awareness and ecoto comply with the additional regulations they to communicate them with the world. nomic development of our communities. have imposed us. Also the alliance with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to join efforts in the As a result of the aforementioned actions, we preservation of wildlife species continue to be one of the 30 companies whose Daniel Hajj Aboumrad such as the jaguar, the monshares are included in the Sustainability Index of Chief Executive Officer of América Móvil 8 2016 Sustainability Report Towards Sustainable Management Materiality The principal material aspects of our business are as follows: G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 » Fostering the adoption of good Corporate Governance practices. The transformation of our business and of our environment can » Ensuring the profitability of our company. only be conceived within a context of overall sustainability. Ac» Acting by the principles contained in our Code of Ethics. cordingly, in order to advance along the path towards becoming » Providing for customer satisfaction. an organization whose operations take into account the aspects » Disseminating anti-corruption information and mechanisms. that are material to sustainability in our industry and in the markets » Providing training and development to our employees. in which we participate, we first set out to identify such aspects » Disclosing our risk management strategy for service disruptions. through consultation process with our stakeholders. » Reporting on instances of monopolistic or anti-trust practices. » Bridging the digital divide. As part of the process, in 20151 we conducted an online survey » Ensuring the security of information. among a sample mix of our customers, employees, executive officers, investors, directors and suppliers in five countries. In the end, In 2016, some of our stakeholders requested the inclusion of cermore than 49 thousand people participated in this survey. tain additional topics in our report —such as the risks associated with the data privacy— and we are in the process of revising our The results of the survey were then reviewed by the corporate Code of Ethics and related policies accordingly. Sustainability Committee, which identified, prioritized and validated the materiality of the topics of concern. United Nations Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals To further ascertain the materiality of the topics so identified, from In 2015, América Móvil and our subsidiaries entered the process of both an internal and an external perspective, we analyzed the pracjoining the United Nations Global Compact, which calls for comtices employed by other telecommunications companies worldpanies to align with universal principles on human rights, labor right, wide and conducted a review of our processes and documentation. environmental preservation, and fight against corruption. Given the ever-changing nature of trends, we intend to update our In early 2016 the commitment became effective, and over the materiality analysis in 2017 to ensure the inclusion of all relevant course of that year we participated and invited all members of the economic, social and environmental impacts of our operations. sustainability committees of our subsidiaries, as well as certain major suppliers, to participate in various online training courses offered by this initiative. 1 For a complete list of the material aspects of our operations, see our 2015 Sustainability Report, which is available at http://www.americamovil.com/sites/default/files/2016-09/AMX-IS-2015ingles.pdf 9 2016 Sustainability Report In 2016, we undertook an assessment of the manners in which we Principles of the United Nations Global Compact can contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Human Rights Goals defined also by the United Nations. Based on the characteristics 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internaof our organization, and on our ongoing actions on sustainability, tionally proclaimed human rights within their areas of influence. we determined that we have the ability to contribute primarily to the following nine of the 17 goals: 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We provide access to quality technical and profesLabor sional education to both men and women in or3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the der to enable them to improve the skills required effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. to have better job opportunities, as well as the 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and skills needed for entrepreneurship. These opporcompulsory labor. tunities are available to our employees through Aprende.org platform and Claro Colombia University. In addi5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. tion, through the Carso Digital Fellowship and the Telmex-Telcel 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Foundation Fellowship, we provide support in the form of comrespect of employment and occupation. puters and Internet access to elementary, middle and high schoolEnvironment aged children of our employees, and financial and meal support to high-performing undergraduate and post-graduate students. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environWe also provide access to quality education opportunities to the mental challenges. members of our communities through technology platforms such 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater envias Académica, Khan Academy in Spanish, Ponte a Prueba 2015, ronmental responsibility. MIT Open Course Ware, Net Education, and Udacity. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We seek to empower working women in rural Anti-corruption communities to attain improved economic conditions through the effective use of technology and 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, telecommunications to market their products. including extortion and bribery. 10 2016 Sustainability Report We offer a number of technological options for We use technology to potentiate the digital, ecofostering economic productivity and job creation nomic and social inclusion of many, without rethrough Aprende.org platform, Training for the gard of age, religion, gender, disability, origin, ecoJob initiative, and Claro Colombia University. In nomic status, or other condition. One example of addition, we use technology as a tool for strengththis is Telcel 4GLTE-Infinitum Digital Village, an ening the ability of domestic financial institutions event at which we provide to individuals of all ages to promote the use of banking, financial, and insurance services free-of-charge access to and training on the use of information and make them increasingly accessible to all people. We have creand communication technology (ICT) through workshops, coursated in excess of 193 thousand jobs and have incorporated in our es, and conferences. In addition, through XXI Century Mexico, an supplier selection process measures designed to contribute to the event that caters to Telmex-Telcel Foundation scholars, we provide elimination of forced and child labor. We protect the rights of our a space for exchanging ideas on topics relating to politics, the employees as such, and foster the maintenance of a safe workplace economy, science, sports, culture, and human development, with environment. world-renowned lecturers. Moreover, through our digital learning spaces Digital Libraries and Telmex Hub, we reinforce the imporWe develop and upgrade on an ongoing basis our tance of digital inclusion. existing infrastructure in the countries in which we operate, to connect a growing number of people We provide support to the victims of natural disaswith the world and with their worlds as a means for ters by ensuring the continuing availability of our fostering economic development, environmental voice and data services, and by providing such sersustainability, and the wellbeing of all human bevices free-of-charge in the immediate aftermath of ings. We provide access to IT and telecommunications services to the occurrence. We have established response marginalized communities in isolated geographic regions in order protocols for both foreseeable and unforeseeable to contribute to bridging the digital divide by bringing more people events. For example, during hurricane conditions we secure our into the digital era. In addition, through Technology and Innovabase stations, deploy crews, and deliver food supplies, spare parts, tion Center (CTIN), we offer college students opportunities to deand power generators with full fuel tanks to ensure their operabilivelop hardware, software, and applications, and provide them with ty. In addition, through our Natural Disasters Support initiative, we technologically innovative design, finance, and marketing tools. provide humanitarian relief to residents of the affected areas. We also contribute to the education of talented young people who are interested in the development of content and new mobile telephony services, through Mobile Campus. 11 2016 Sustainability Report We advocate for the recycling of the equipment Stakeholders used in connection with our services in each of G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 the countries in which we operate, through our We have identified nine primary stakeholder groups based on their Salvá Lo Bonito, Claro Recycle, and Green Proinfluence on our operations and productivity, and are engaged in gram initiatives. We are strengthening our coman ongoing dialogue with each such group. mitment to sustainability by incorporating relevant policies and strategies into all aspects of our operations. Technology provides for increased resiliency to Stakeholders and means of communication the risks relating to climate change and natural disasters. In addition, through our alliance with WWF we contribute efforts toward the Protection of Jaguars, and we also support various other organizations engaged in the conservation of endangered species. Customers Media Investors Social media, market research Corporate communications, Events and presentations, quarWe are committed to keeping our entire value studies, helplines, corporate e-mail, dedicated space in our terly conference calls, operating chain free from any form of abuse, exploitation, website, chat, mobile appliwebsite, telephone calls, events, and financial reports, corporate cations, self-service modules, and in-person meetings. websites, e-mail, and dedicated trafficking, torture, and violence against children, suggestion mailboxes, mail, telephone line. and endeavor to reduce the occurrence of inciand blogs. dents of bribery and other forms of corruption. Since our joining the Global Compact, we have taken a number of actions at our subsidiaries' level to comply with the 10 principles established by the initiative. We seek to ensure the public availability of information, and respect the fundamental rights of our employees by allowing them to engage in collective Suppliers Employees Distributors bargaining. In addition, we contribute to the overall development Dedicated telephone lines, Surveys, intranet, e-mailing, E-mail, telephone calls, grievance mailboxes, events, specialized publications, of the members of our communities through ASUME (Asociación internal publications, hotlines, and in-person meetings. and grievance mailboxes. manuals, advertising materials, de Superación por México), which is engaged in the formation of and satisfaction surveys. happy and responsible men and woman of peace who are devoted to themselves, their families, their jobs, and their countries. Industry associations and Government authorities Community other participants Alliances, agreements, inSocial programs and events, as In-person meetings, special person meetings, information well as in-person meetings. events, and industry information requests, and audits. exchanges. 12 2016 Sustainability Report Through formal communications with our stakeholders, in 2016 we Plaza VIP, Editorial Contenido, Rie, CMI, Tracfone, DLA USA, DLA Argentina, identified and addressed key and other aspects of our operations Comertel, Omsasi, Inttelmex, Tecmarketing, Red Uno, Telnor, CTBR, LIMSA, that had given rise to grievances for various reasons, which helped CYCSA, IMTSA, FYCSA, Teleconstructora, SCITUM, GTA, VSYS, Multicom, us improve our relationships with our stakeholders in each country. Telmex USA, OraTV USA, HITSS USA, HITSS, ADSA, CMI, TELINT, AMCO, Edico, Transfer, Imusic+E35, and Brasil Center. We asses our channels of communication with our stakeholders Our Brazilian subsidiaries Embratel, Claro and NET merged in 2016. As a frequently in order to improve them and ensure the ongoing mainresult, our operations in Brazil are undergoing a transition period and this tenance of a transparent, close, timely, and meaningful dialogue. report does not include certain indicators that were included in our 2015 Sustainability Report. Maintaining two-way communication channels with our stakeholders allows us to hear their comments and concerns about topics In 2016, we did not reformulate any information included in previous resuch as the installation of antennas and base stations, the inclusion ports, and there was no material change in the scope, coverage, our strucof individuals with disabilities in our workforce, our waste manageture, ownership, or supply chain. We have updated our CO2 emissions data ment efforts, and our interactions with government agencies. for 2015 to include our emissions by country. Accordingly, the emissions data contained herein differs from the data contained in our 2015 SustainScope of the Report ability Report. G4-13-G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-32, G4-33 We are in our sixth year of reporting on sustainability. Our Sustainability Report contains a transparent disclosure of our operating, social, labor and environmental performance during the period from January 1st to December 31, 2016. Our Sustainability Report has been prepared following the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines in its G4 version and in accordance with the Core option, without external assurance. Unless otherwise indicated, the information contained herein encompasses the 25 countries in which we currently operate. Our total workforce includes the employees of our following subsidiaries: Telvista USA, Telvista México, Speedy Móvil, UNO TV México, 13 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Internet Transforming our Business Backbone (primary) Global network that connects all networks around the world, allowing them to share information with one another (e.g., search engines, websites, etc.). Telecommunications infrastructure for processing and carrying signals and/or Mobile network data from the point of origin to the point Headend In América Móvil we are changing Mobile access network that allows the of destination. Facility for receiving TV signals and distributing content (e.g., movies, the way we do things within our connection of user devices to the teleprogramming, etc.). organization in order to achieve a communications grid. sustainable management, preserving Reception of TV signals, the economic leadership that only has characterized us, attaining increased efficiencies in the use of Mobile services Signalour resources, and ensuring that our • Messaging/Chat processing equipment • Video Fiber optics team members posses the requisite • Internet Backbone Microwaves skills to take on the challenges in • Voice 2G | 3G | 4G our industry and to anticipate the needs of our customers. Fixed-line network Submarine cable Copper, radium or fiber-optic Fiber-optic cable system laid on the Telephone plant cable access network that conseabed or ocean floor to connect distant Equipment that nects a customer's premises (e.g., locations. ensures the transfer of home, building, etc.) to the televoice signals from the communications grid. calling number to the receiving number. Cloud Data centers located around Corporate Residential the world for the provision services services of computing, informatics • Voice • Voice and application services. • Data • Video • Internet • Internet • Data centers • Over the Top • Security (OTT) 14 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance 25 countries in Latin America and Europe with access to our services Profile We are transforming the provision of integrated telecommunications services to enable millions of people to communicate with the world and with 363.4 million access lines their worlds, and to access content, information and knowledge as a means for improving their quality of life. At the end of 2016 we maintain our position as the world's second largest telecommunications company (excluding China) in terms of number of access lines 15 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Profile Principal brands and services by country G4-4, G4-6, G4-8 Country or region Principal brands Principal services Equity No. of access(3) Percentage of the operations We are the leading provider of integrated mobile, participation (thousands) (millions of access) fixed-line, broadband, and Pay TV services to milTelcel 100% lions of people in Mexico, Brazil, Central America Telmex 98.70% Mexico Sección Amarilla(1) 98.40% 95,131 26% and the Caribbean, United States, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, Chile, Telvista 89.40% Austria, and Eastern Europe. Brazil Claro 97.70% 96,887 27% Claro 99.40% Colombia 35,258 9.70% Telmex 99.30% We offer our communications services under our United States TracFone 100% 26,070 7% proprietary brands Telcel, Telmex, Claro, Embratel, Southern Cone Net, TracFone, Straight Talk, A1, Velcom, Mobitel, Claro 100% Argentina Vipnet, Vip Operator, Vip Mobile, and Si.mobil. Telmex 99.70% Paraguay Claro 100% 32,319 8.89% Uruguay Claro 100% Claro 100% Chile Telmex(1) 100% Andean Region Peru Claro 100% 22,621 6.22% Ecuador Claro(2) 100% Mobile services Central America Costa Rica Claro 100% El Salvador Claro 95.80% Fixed-line services Guatemala Claro 99.30% 20,477 5.63% Honduras Claro 100% Pay TV Nicaragua Claro 99.60% Panama Claro 100% Caribbean Other Puerto Rico Claro 100% 8,116 2.23% Dominican Republic Claro 100% Austria & Eastern Europe Austria A1 (1) Equity participation held by Telmex Internacional, in Belarus Velcom which América Móvil holds a 97.86% interest. Bulgaria Mobitel (2) In November 2016, our fixed-line operations in 51% 26,608 7.32% Ecuador were merged into our mobile operations in Croatia Vipnet that country. Slovenia Si.mobil (3) Includes our mobile, fixed-line, broadband, and Pay Macedonia Vip Operator TV (including DTH) subscribers. The Netherlands Kpn 21.10% Total 363,487 100% 16 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Company presence Austria Belarus Slovenia Serbia Bulgaria Croatia United Macedonia States Dominican Republic Mexico Puerto Rico Guatemala Honduras El Salvador Colombia Nicaragua Costa Rica Panama Brazil Ecuador Peru Chile Paraguay Uruguay Argentina 17 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Infrastructure We launched this project in 2014, and it is expected to be completG4-EC7 ed in 2018. As of the end of 2016, the percentage of completion We are transforming our operations to preserve our position of leadstood at 46%. SingleRAN allows base stations to be reconfigured ership and to continue to provide our customers with the best teleremotely as new technologies are developed, thus eliminating the need for individual, on-site upgrades, which translates into cost 62% of our base stations are communications experience in the market. To achieve this transand time efficiencies. equipped with 3G and 4G formation, we make ongoing investments in the improvement and technologies. upgrading of our infrastructure. While evolving towards an enhanced service, we have used servWe are transforming our internal operations through the impleers designed to take into account performance, availability, scalmentation of technological changes in our networks, IT systems, ability, flexibility, cost factors, and redundant, resilient networks and processes, in order to deliver the best customer experience, with sufficient capacity to accommodate unexpected surges in offer new products, and service new markets. demand, all of which are capable of supporting large volumes of data in real time. The investment plan for 2016 was of 155,024 million pesos1, in upgrades to our infrastructure and in the development of new projects. The above has had a positive impact on our revenues, customers’ experience, CAPEX, OPEX, quality and efficiency. One of our most significant infrastructure development projects is the upgrade of our base stations through Single RAN. In addition, since 2014 we provide international connectivity through our submarine cable to the subsidiaries in the United States3, Central Benefits of the base stations upgrade: and South America with more than 168 thousand km of submarine » Increased network flexibility and efficiency. cable, which includes the AMX-1 system of 17,500 km length with 12 » Enhanced network capacity and coverage. landing points. » 50% site space reduction, 60% weight reduction, and 40% energy consumption reduction2. This cable has the capacity for the transmission of 85 terabits per » Service synergies to speed up the expansion of network casecond, of which only two terabits are currently being used. When pacity (3G) and coverage (LTE). operating at full capacity, the cable is able to process 846 million » Simplified migration of traffic between 2G, 3G, and 4G calls simultaneously, and to transfer 53 million images per second technologies. and download 2.2 million songs per second. 1 CAPEX. 3 In the United States, we do not own any mobile telecommunications facilities or hold any 2 This is the expected reduction upon the project is 100% completed. mobile spectrum licenses. Instead, we purchase airtime through agreements with mobile service providers and resell airtime to customers. 18 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance As support to our complex infrastructure, we have a Satellite Fleet operated by Star One, constituting the largest satellite network in Latin America. Data Centers by country Our Vision In December 2016, we launched the Star One D1 satellite to reTo be the fastest-growing place the Star One B4 satellite, which had reached the end of its telecommunications useful life. The Star One D1 satellite, which has life expectancy company and preserve of 15 years, supplies capacity in Mexico, and Central and South our leadership in the America. When operating at full capacity, it has the ability to telecommunications broadcast 1,300 standard or 780 high definition channels, and 2 Argentina Austria Brazil industry. million songs, simultaneously. With the deployment of this satel1 Data Center 3 Data Centers 3 Data Centers lite, we increased the size of our operating satellite fleet to a total Tier II+ IVe ITIL v3 Tier II, II+ y III of nine, and strengthened our commitment to providing to our customers the best telecommunication experience. We also own and operate 21 data centers located in nine countries (including 18 in Latin America, and 3 in Austria), which have an aggregate area of 31 thousand square meters, which we use to manage a number of cloud solutions. Chile Colombia Ecuador Economic Performance 4 Data Centers 2 Data Centers 1 Data Center G4-9, G4-56, G4-EC1 Tier II, II+ y III Tier II, ICREA 5 Tier II, ICREA 5 We seek to maximize our economic performance in order to offer to our customers and strategic partners the security of a stable organization while creating value for our shareholders and investors. To that end, we make ongoing investments in infrastructure, incorporate innovative, more efficient internal processes throughout our organization, and address those aspects of our operations that are material to our stakeholders. Mexico Peru Dominican Republic 2 Data Centers 4 Data Centers 1 Data Center ICREA 5 Tier I 19 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance As of December 31, 2016, we had: Million access lines » 363.4 million access lines. » 280.5 million mobile subscribers. 368 366 363 » 82.9 millions RGUs4. 326 339 78 81 83 69 64 To that same end, and in that same conviction, we endeavor to offer a broad range of telecommunications services that are at Mobile the forefront of global trends, in order to address the commu262 270 289 286 281 Fixed, broadband and Pay TV nications needs of our customers. We are also engaged in significant efforts to build a sustainable organization that focuses not only on generating economic value, but also on procuring benefits for society and for the environment. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 As in prior years, our operating results for 2016 were a reflection of the ambitious goals that we set out to achieve at the beginning of the year. Economic Performance 2016 (+) (-) Direct Economic Value Generated (EVG) Service revenues 2016 $979,605,083 Economic Value Distributed (EVD) $579,636,043 31.6% Mobile data Economic Value Retained (EVG-EVD) 30.6% Mobile voice $399,969,040 15.5% Fixed data Thousands of Mexican pesos. EVG = Operating revenues + interest income. 12.7% Fixed voice EVD = Operating costs + other expenses + income tax expense + interest expense + dividends paid. 9.6% Pay TV 4 RGUs: Revenue Generating Units, which include our mobile, fixed-line, broadband, and Pay TV subscribers. 20 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Highlights +727,000 km of fiber-optic cable Institutional goals • Increasing our NPS. We monitor our customer sat196,159 base stations isfaction levels using the Net Promoter Score (NPS)*, because satisfied customers are likely to recommend 85 terabits per second of transmission capacity our services. • Maintaining our current CHURN rate. We aim to rethrough our submarine cable system tain our customers' loyalty and continuously monitor our CHURN rate to determine the percentage of cus21 data centers Customer satisfaction tomers disconnected during a given period. • Improving the quality of our services. We make on9 satellites going investments in network infrastructure to improve our customers' mobile communications and browsing experience. • Increasing our number of subscribers. We believe that the products and services we offer will allow us to attract a growing number of subscribers. • Meeting our revenue budget. We constantly introGrowth duce innovations and seek to identify new opportunities to improve our customer service. • Retaining our Market share. We engage in teamwork throughout our organization, which is critical to reLeadership taining our long-standing market leadership. • Keeping our operations within budget. We endeavor to manage our resources efficiently as a means for achieving our projected results for a given period. Profitability * Index that measures the difference between the number of subscribers who are willing to recommend our services, and those who are not 21 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance 1,107 evaluated suppliers Service Excellence We make service excellence a priority to satisfy our customers by transforming their telecommunications experience through innovations in technology, 807,205customer satisfaction coverage, and infrastructure. surveys in 10 countries 36 customer service executives trained in the use of sign language 22 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Service excellence We believe that the transformation of our operations must necessarily begin at the root of the very reason for our existence: our customers. Accordingly, we are transforming the products and serMore and Multi-device We serve people, vices we offer, to make them more flexible and far reaching, and improved services services businesses, government we are changing our internal processes to create an interconnectand companies. ed operating system that may enable us to deliver a unique experience to our customers. The technological changes that we have implemented have allowed us to keep up with the exponential growth of data traffic, the increased consumption of video content, and the new trends concerning the use of smartphones and Cloud services. Integrated services Convergence Customer support Customer satisfaction G4-27, G4-PR5 In 2015, we redefined our strategic goals in order to make customer satisfaction our top priority and place it at the center of our business decisions. Since then, we have experienced a material improvement in our direct interactions with our customers given the level of care and cordiality displayed by our customer service staff. Customer-oriented Service continuity services and ubiquity 23 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance We provide all of our customers with access to in-person, teleTo further improve our level of customer satisfaction, we have imphone, and/or online support, depending on the country where plemented several self-assessment tools and various corrective acthey are located. tions. In 2016, we surveyed 807,205 customers in 10 countries1, and received positive feedback about our Internet service, the quality of our signal in terms of availability and call continuity, the performance Customer support channels of our data services, our sales processes, the cost of our service plans In-person Telephone Online and equipment, the timeliness of our billing processes, the availabil• Customer Service • Special service • Chat ity of airtime recharges, and the resolution of grievances. Centers (CSC) numbers, such as *111 • Social media • Authorized distributors and *264 • Website By the same token, we identified various opportunities for improve• Self-help modules • Call centers • Mi Telcel ment, including the supply of information on new products and ser• Mi Telmex vices, our range of online and automated post-sale transactions, our • Mi Claro response times and level of first contact resolution, the positiveness and memorableness of the experience we deliver, the waiting times of our call centers and Customer Service Centers, the clarity of the Customer interaction 2016 information we supply, the size of our customer service network, our technical support capabilities, our post-sale service, and the level of coordination with our technical area to address deep-rooted 81% 18% 1% issues that affect our customers' service. We also identified certain grievances with respect to WiFi coverage and stability, the insufficiency of the amount of megabytes of data In-person Telephone E-mail included in our service plans, and service disruptions. We have adopted the Net Promoter Score (NPS) index, which allows us to measure the monthly value generated by our customers Given the large number of requests submitted through these and to determine whether we are actually meeting their needs and channels, in recent years we have sought to diversify our customer expectations. The NPS measures the likelihood that a customer support resources through the inclusion of additional options in will recommend us based on his or her experience. In 2016, we our websites and the deployment of the Mi Telcel, Mi Telmex, and achieved NPS scores above 50% in several countries, including 81% Mi Claro applications. Notwithstanding the above, in-person and in Peru, 65% in the Dominican Republic, 60% in Paraguay, 55% in telephone support remain our customers' preferred options and, Mexico (Telcel), and 54% in Uruguay. accordingly, we strive to upgrade them continuously in order to improve our customer ratings. 1 Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, United States, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, and Uruguay. 24 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance In addition, in 2013 we began developing a tool for introducing Given the importance assigned by our customers and users to technological innovations in our Big Data analysis as a means for the maintenance of sound marketing practices, we are in the prounderstanding our customers' experience with the use of our decess of developing a responsible marketing policy that we will vices and customer support channels, and for identifying potential release in 2017. areas of improvement. Supply chain This tool helps us improve our customers' experience by allowing G4-12, G4-EC9, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-LA16, G4-EN32, G4-EN33 us to get to the bottom of service disruptions (which we cannot All of the products and services required for our operations are accomplish through the NPS), to improve our revenues through purchased locally using a strategic, centralized model that maxithe prevention or early resolution of issues, and, more importantly, mizes the use of our subsidiaries' synergies. As a result, 43% of our to reduce the number of customer grievances. procurement budget is used with strategic suppliers, and 55% is used in Mexico and Brazil, which allows us to achieve significant We are a proud pioneer in the use of this tool —that is fully cuseconomies of scale while optimizing our budget and expenditures. tomer oriented— and expect to implement it in all countries within In each of the countries in which we operate, we retain strategic two years. suppliers for services that are of a local nature, which relate primarily to the maintenance of our networks, and to our customer Highlights service platforms and call centers. 22,356,413 followers on Facebook* At each of our mobile and fixed-line business units that serves to the mass residential and corporate markets, we maintain com3,717,409 followers on Twitter* mercial relationships with all of the leading suppliers of products and services to the technology and telecommunications indus807,205 customer satisfaction surveys tries, which allows us to remain at the forefront of technology and to deliver value propositions to our customers. We currently Responsible marketing have more than 21 thousand suppliers worldwide. G4-PR7 All of our communications and marketing strategies for the dissemination of service and product information, and all of our communications with our stakeholders, reflect the corporate principles and values set in our Corporate Governance Policies and our Code of Ethics, and comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. *In Argentina, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Puerto Rico, and Uruguay. 25 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Procurement Support and Labor Relations We currently have contracts with more Involves multiple areas of our organization than 21,000 suppliers. Supplier recruitment Hiring and contract Contract execution Operating/ and selection assignment process and management commercial closing Ongoing cycle Registration, Contractor Performance pre-screening management review and selection • Quality • Safety • Delivery Based on risk • Planning Labor HSE • Performance • Other Aims to ensure compliance by the supplier's staff, consistent with our Corporate Social Responsibility policies. Integrated solution 26 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Success story We believe in the importance of entering into commercial reWe review our suppliers' environmental manageWe review our suppliers' occupational health lationships based on mutual adherence to the highest global ment based on the compliance of the following aspects: and safety management based on the compliance of the standards. Consistent with this belief, we have implemented » Environmental protection policies and procedures. following aspects: a Supplier Review program in Colombia through a world-re» Environmental aspects and impacts matrix. » Documented occupational health and safety policy and nowned vendor screening and compliance management firm. » Definition and implementation of environmental manmanual published by the management and communicated agement programs (water, waste, and energy). to the workers. This process entails a comprehensive assessment of each » Environmental Management System (EMS) implemented. » Identification and prioritization of occupational risks and of our suppliers across a broad range of aspects, taking into » Identification of statutory requirements in environmental hazards. consideration our needs and our commitment to environtopics. » Supply of personal protection equipment. mental, social and labor issues. » Documented, updated contingency plan. » Crew deployment plans and drills. We are changing the way in which we interact with the » Internal workplace and industrial health and safety members of our supply chain, in order to establish relationregulations. ships characterized by an increased awareness and ownerRegarding human resources management, we » Defined health and safety indicators, and review processes. ship of social and environmental impacts in the telecomare reviewing our suppliers' compliance with: munications sector. » Properly defined and documented organizational structure. We intend to make this program extensive to all of our sub» Position profiles and job description manuals. sidiaries within three years. The program's platform includes » Properly defined and documented recruitment and selecan online information system that will allow us to monitor our tion processes. suppliers' compliance and to generate performance reports in » Background and reference checks. order to ensure the ongoing improvement of the aforemen» Induction requirements and procedures. tioned aspects. » Training and education programs. » Attendance records and reviews. » Performance measurements. » Joint management-worker committees. 27 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance In Mexico, we purchase in excess of 90% of our supplies locally. Additionally in 2016, we conducted performance reviews for 1,137 suppliers2, which represent 5.6% of our total number of suppliers, in order to identify irregularities, best practices, and potential areas of opportunity. For example, in Telmex we provided advice on anti-corruption practices to the 100% of our suppliers (1,487), as well as an aggregate of 1,032 hours of training on such practices to 156 suppliers. We also reviewed 80 suppliers for environmental performance in Colombia and Ecuador, to identify their impacts for the generation of waste and pollution, and for water, energy, and fuel consumption. In both countries, we identified increases in the generation of regular and special waste, fuel spillages and leakages, excessive levels of water and oil consumption, instances of air and soil pollution due to fuel and coolant spillages, and inadequate hazardous waste management practices. Highlights 1,137 suppliers assessed for performance +90% of supplies for our Mexican operations purchased locally 2 Suppliers evaluated in Argentina, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Chile, Colombia, and Ecuador. 28 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Success stories Chile Colombia Mexico Sign language Sustainable management Mi Telcel for customer care of the supply chain We provided training on the use of sign language to an aggregate of In order to foster the adoption of our sustainability strategy by We strengthened the Mi Telcel application as a channel of self-at36 CSC1 staff and customer service supervisors for the Metropolitan its supply chain, Claro Colombia, through an alliance with the tention, which is available for iOS and Android devices. Region. We implemented this initiative through an alliance with UN Global Compact Network, conducted a Sustainable ManFundación Ronda Chile, Asociación de Sordos de Chile (ASOCH), agement of the Supply Chain workshop that focused on the 10 In 2016, Mi Telcel was used more than 130 million times by 11 Servicio Nacional de Capacitación y Empleo (Sence), Servicio principles of the UN Global Compact, the SDGs, and Colombia's million customers to check their account balances and usage, Nacional de la Discapacidad (Senadis), and Estudio e Investigación Anti-money Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing Risk purchase airtime and blocks of data, view their statements, and de la Lengua de Señas Chilena (Esilence), which provided our Management System (SAGRLAFT). pay their bills. employees with the basic elements for communicating with individuals with hearing impairments, in order to foster a culture of inclusiveness. We processed more than 520 million transactions through Mi Telcel, which can We invested over 200 thousand pesos in the 62 employees of our 56 engineering and be accessed from any computer, tablet, or provision of 48 hours of training on the use of customer support allies attended the smartphone. sign language. workshop. 1 CSC: Customer Service Centers. 29 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance 194,193 jobs created Employees We seek to maintain a workplace environment where our employees' talent, dedication and knowledge can contribute to the transformation of our relations 28 average hours of training with our customers, suppliers, distributors and other stakeholders. per year per employee 81,663employees receive performance evaluations 30 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Employees Our employees are at liberty to engage in collective bargaining Number of employees G4-9, G4-10, G4-11, G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA12 and to unionize in accordance with the laws of the relevant country, although unions do not exist in some of our operations. Our 195,475 194,193 Our employees, with their spirit of service and collaboration, are 191,156 the face of our organization and allow us to service million of cuspercentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreeWe employ ments is 100% in Brazil, 91% in Mexico, 70% in Puerto Rico, and tomers. They are the primary drivers of our transformation given 173,174 194,193 individuals nearly 50% in each of Chile and Argentina. their talent, skill, professionalism, and commitment, which are all 169,143 in 25 countries. reflected in their daily duties. Employees by region, country and gender 2016 Region Country Women Men Total Employees by region 2016 Mexico 32,510 57,796 90,306 United States 366 482 848 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 47% Mexico Argentina 1,577 2,076 3,653 34% South America Brazil 17,360 23,907 41,267 9% Europe Chile 1,462 2,064 3,526 Colombia 4,297 5,558 9,855 5% Central America South America Ecuador 1,234 1,635 2,869 4.5% Caribbean Paraguay 169 224 393 0.5% United States Peru 1,733 2,274 4,007 Uruguay 131 116 247 Costa Rica 256 385 641 All of our employees —regardless of work shift— receive fair salaEl Salvador 713 1,449 2,162 ries and statutory benefits, including, among others, life insurance, Central Guatemala 837 2,804 3,641 private health insurance, temporary or permanent disability insurAmerica Honduras 309 574 883 ance, dental insurance, parental leave, support for the purchase of school supplies, price discounts on our devices, shuttle service Nicaragua 796 1,145 1,941 to and from the workplace, financial aid for funeral expenses, and Panama 274 225 499 paid bereavement leave in the event of death of a family member. Caribbean Puerto Rico 1,256 2,138 3,394 These benefits vary from one country to another. Dominican 2,287 3,807 6,094 Republic Europe 17,967 Total full-time employees 194,193 Total temporary employees 89,269 31 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance In addition to transforming our operations, we seek to foster the Training and development development of the communities of which are a member, through G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11 job creation. In 2016, we hired 19,623 new employees (in net The reason for our success lies with the very essence of our orgaterms), of which 8,601 were women and 11,022 were men. nization: our employees. To reciprocate, we provide them with a In 2016, each of our number of tools for the development of the requisite knowledge employees received an Hires and employee turnover by age and gender 2016 and skills to succeed at both the professional and personal levels. average of 28 hours Age Hires Turnover of training. In 2016, we provided to our employees an aggregate of 4,966,587 Women Men Women Men hours of training on aspects such as customer service, customer <30 years 5,726 6,352 4,258 4,173 satisfaction, leadership, communications, coaching, negotiation, 30-50 years 2,822 4,521 4,542 5,596 persuasion, dispute resolution, project management, effective con>50 years 53 149 856 2,111 versation, time management, personal organization, sales, ethics, Total by gender 8,601 11,022 9,656 11,880 foreign languages, telecommunications, team work, emotional intelTotal 19,623 21,536 ligence, approach to change, flexibility, and cultural transformation. Does not include our operations in Europe, it comprises approximately 93% of our operations. Another example of our efforts to foster the development of our In each of the countries in which we operate, we provide to our employees is the Performance Survey conducted by Telcel for its employees statutory severance pay or other compensation and administrative and unionized personnel. For the fourth year in a benefits for termination, resignation or retirement. For example, in row, through this survey Telcel reviewed 97% of its administrative 2016 we made Right Management's Career Transition Workshop staff and 100% of its unionized workers. The results of the survey are available to 94 former employees in the United States, and the Vida used by Telcel as a basis for the promotion of deserving employees. Plena of Telmex workshop to 3,003 Telmex employees who were In addition, we applied more than of 1,000 Potential Evaluations, approaching retirement. as a basis for their promotion to more senior positions. 32 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Average hours of training Average hours of training per year by region and gender 2016 per employee Region Women Men Average hours 28 Hours of Average hours Hours of Average hours of training 26 Employees training of training Employees training of training per employee Mexico 32,510 638,991 20 57,796 1,859,706 32 28 United States 366 1,438 4 482 1,678 3 4 South America 27,963 769,241 28 37,854 667,547 18 22 Central America 3,185 106,486 33 6,582 267,155 41 38 Caribbean 3,543 338,398 96 5,945 315,947 53 69 Total 67,567 1,854,554 27 108,659 3,112,033 29 28 Does not include Europe and Uruguay, it comprises approximately 93% of our operations. 2015 2016 Moreover, in nearly all of the countries in which we operate, evNumber and percentage of employees who received ery year we review our employees' performance and identify opperformance reviews by region and gender 2016 portunities for improvement at the subsidiary level. In 2016, 72,103 Region Women Men Percentage of employees employees, 55% of our total number of employees, received PerNumber of Percentage of Number of Percentage of who received performance formance and Development Evaluations, 360o Evaluations, and employees employees employees employees evaluations participated in Organizational Environment surveys. Mexico 13,796 42 20,614 36 United States 352 96 462 96 55% None of what we offer to our customers would be possible without South America 7,891 89 10,679 91 the permanence and commitment of our employees, who have Central America 3,037 95 6,356 97 accumulated 10, 15, 20 and, for the first time, 25 years of seniority Caribbean 3,543 100 5,373 90 29% at our company, thereby strengthening our organization and busiTotal 28,619 59 43,484 53 ness operations at the core in each of the countries in which we Does not include Europe, Brazil, and Uruguay, it comprises approximately 62% of our operate. In 2016, we recognized 1,983 employees across a number operations. of business units and countries, for their efforts on our behalf. 2015 2016 33 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Occupational health and safety G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA8 simulation, development of operational continuity plans, accident We endeavor to create, maintain and provide assurance of a safe and investigations, and statistics, among others. healthy workplace environment where our employees are able to perform to their fullest potential, our contractors can do their job in In addition, our collective bargaining agreements in Brazil, Guathe knowledge that they are not in jeopardy, and our customers can temala, Nicaragua, Mexico, and Puerto Rico, contain provisions feel at ease while visiting our facilities. that address occupational health and safety aspects such as accident prevention, hazardous labor, potable water, sanitation, first We strictly abide by the occupational health and safety laws of each of aid, emergency crews, personal protection equipment, ventilation, the countries in which we operate, and have implemented a number of lighting, odor extraction, the environment, fire extinguishers, and awareness and other training programs across our entire organization vaccination campaigns. in order to prevent the occurrence of injuries, diseases, and fatalities. Notwithstanding our occupational health and safety efforts, in For example, in 2016 we provided training on aspects such as the 2016 we recorded several instances of work-related injuries, disuse of fire extinguishers, risk identification and mapping, emergency eases, and fatalities. Injuries, occupational diseases and fatalities 2016 Region Injuries Occupational diseases Fatalities Women Men Women Men Women Men Mexico 581 1,207 14 18 3 3 United States 4 0 0 0 0 0 South America 249 328 9 1 0 1 Central America 98 167 2 1 0 3 Caribbean 103 203 63 89 0 0 Europe 50 127 0 0 0 1 Total 1,085 2,032 88 109 3 8 This information comprises 100% of our operations. Of the 11 reported fatalities, 9 died in commuting accidents. 34 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Injuries, occupational diseases and fatalities (subcontractors) 2016 Region Injuries Occupational diseases Fatalities Women Men Women Men Women Men Chile 16 28 0 0 0 0 Colombia 26 1,343 0 0 0 0 Honduras 3 6 20 12 0 1 Peru 1 1 0 0 0 0 Total 46 1,378 20 12 0 1 No occurrence involving subcontractors was reported in any of the other countries in which we operate. Success stories Colombia Colombia Labor inclusion Claro of individuals with intellectual disabilities University For over three years now, we have partnered with the Best In 2012, Claro University established its School of ExperiBuddies Foundation to foster the labor inclusion of indiences to further the education of Claro's employees in viduals with intellectual disabilities and their recognition as terms of values, service attitude, and teamwork through the productive members of society. In 2016, we hired additional reinforcement of the four main pillars of customer service: individuals with intellectual disabilities as customer service customer perspective, communication, elimination of frusand sales representatives at six locations in Bogota, allowtrations, and delivery of a memorable experience. ing them to maximize the development of their potential and to serve as an example for all. More than 35 thousand employees in 30 cities have benefited from the School of We integrated six young adults into the Experiences. economically active population. 35 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance 1,417,209 GJ of clean energy consumed Environmental Performance We are committed to improving our environmental performance by taking care of natural resources, reducing our energy and fuel consumption, and 178,533 tons of CO2e not released adopting renewable, more efficient sources of energy into the atmosphere that have a reduced impact on our planet. due to environmental improvement initiatives 2,509tons of copper cable recycled 36 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance In this day and time, in which climate change posses a major chalEnergy and emissions lenge for all human beings, companies must pay regard to the deG4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN19 mand for the resources required for their operations, and must find As a telecommunications company, we consume significant amounts new ways for increasing their efficiency, primarily as it relates to of energy and certain types of fuel to provide the highest possible dethose resources that are most in demand. gree of connectivity to all of our customers worldwide. With this in mind, we have incorporated new technologies into our Energy consumption 2016 infrastructure, and have implemented external actions and initiatives to reduce our impacts on the environment and contribute to Country kWh GJ the wellbeing of our communities. Argentina 223,024,007 802,886 Brazil 660,476,454 2,377,715 Chile 206,287,146 742,634 Colombia 439,196,868 1,581,109 Costa Rica 45,002,991 162,011 Ecuador 94,521,995 340,279 El Salvador 67,832,211 244,196 United States 9,173,600 33,025 Europe 646,350,000 2,326,860 Guatemala 100,761,033 362,740 Honduras 45,373,367 163,344 Mexico 2,144,293,168 7,719,455 Nicaragua 53,252,610 191,709 Panama 22,938,376 82,578 Paraguay 5,341,000 19,228 Peru 112,753,307 405,912 Puerto Rico 153,751,785 553,506 Dominican Republic 130,330,834 469,191 Uruguay 16,627,556 59,859 Total 5,177,288,308 18,638,237 This information comprises 100% of our operations. 37 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance External energy consumption* 2016 Renewable energy consumption 2016 Country kWh GJ Fuel (liters) Country kWh GJ Argentina 52,702 190 20,580 Brazil 685,989 2,470 Chile 589,107 Chile 83,141 299 Costa Rica 1,033,515 3,721 1,033,515 Ecuador 154,688 557 Ecuador 5,770,330 20,773 Europe 390,386,000 1,405,390 El Salvador 3,329,072 11,985 3,329,072 Guatemala 760,000 2,736 Guatemala 20,443,154 73,595 Honduras 607,068 2,185 Honduras 2,810,785 10,119 2,810,785 Mexico 38,983 140 Nicaragua 5,676,663 20,436 5,676,663 Nicaragua 243,178 875 Panama 2,394,092 8,619 2,394,092 Peru 604,738 2,177 Peru 3,852,724 13,870 Dominican Republic 105,484 380 Dominican Republic 2,935,063 10,566 3,269,304 Total 393,669,269 1,417,209 Total 48,298,100 173,873 19,123,118 Includes primarily solar and, to a lesser extent, wind and other resources. This information comprises approximately 73% of our operations. Our Customer Service Centers and Logistics Facilities account for the largest portion of our energy consumption. No data available for Brazil, Colombia, United States, Europe, Mexico, Paraguay, Puerto Rico, and Uruguay. This information comprises approximately 20% of our operations. In addition, as an expression of our commitment to sustainability, in * External energy consumption is that which occurs at locations outside our own facilities some of the countries in which we operate we supplement our enand those of our subsidiaries (e.g., CSCs located within shopping malls); and external fuel consumption is that which is associated with the use of personal vehicles and taxi and air ergy consumption with the use of wind and solar resources. In 2016, transportation services by our employees. we consumed an aggregate of 1,417,209 GJ of renewable energies. Our fuel consumption derives from the use of vehicle fleets in conIn 2016, we consumed 18,638,237 gigajoules (GJ) of energy from nection with the services that we offer to our customers, and of pownon-renewable sources. One of the most significant projects that er generators to run our radio bases in isolated locations that are not we have been working on is the implementation of the Single RAN connected to the power grid. In 2016, we consumed an aggregate of technology, which will have a material positive direct impact on 105,092,597 liters of gasoline and diesel. our energy consumption. For additional information on this project, see infrastructure. We anticipate that, upon completion of the Each of our subsidiaries has implemented programs and initiatives project, this technology will allow us to achieve a 40% reduction in that are aimed at reducing the consumption of energy and fuel and our energy consumption. at achieving increased operating and cost efficiencies. 38 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Fuel consumption 2016 Emissions (Tons CO₂e) 2016 Country Gasoline (liters) Diesel (liters) Country Direct emissions Indirect emissions Argentina 20,580 631,040 (scope 1) (scope 2) Brazil 3,929,030 581,442 Argentina 1,736 83,411 Chile 196,492 Brazil 10,482 42,356 Colombia 148,565 8,946,620 Chile 526 81,896 Costa Rica 45,157 76,957 Colombia 24,283 87,839 Ecuador 206,129 570,986 Costa Rica 309 2,385 El Salvador 260,961 923,827 Ecuador 1,997 62,649 Europe 501,722 6,210,779 El Salvador 3,065 47,174 Guatemala 447,476 3,819,206 United States 4,715 Honduras 25,054 1,129,236 Europe 27,418 178,038 Mexico 37,175,574 20,101,191 Guatemala 11,239 30,934 Nicaragua 282,673 2,053,758 Honduras 3,079 15,881 Panama 8,498 244,158 Mexico 138,256 1,071,932 Paraguay 14,563 161,658 Nicaragua 6,139 10,777 Peru 211,512 2,658,452 Panama 673 7,340 Puerto Rico 2,995,502 685,394 Paraguay 466 1,081 Dominican Republic 9,746,766 Peru 7,596 31,571 Uruguay 45,751 35,885 Puerto Rico 8,640 31,116 Total 46,318,748 58,773,849 Dominican Republic 26,087 82,982 At the end of this report, data was not available for the United States, which comprises Uruguay 200 5,304 approximately 93% of our operations. Total 272,191 1,879,381 This information comprises 100% of our operations. The calculation of direct emissions (scope 1) does not consider all sources. Natural gas and LP gas consumption 2016 Natural gas (m³) LP gas (m³) Emissions (2015 and 2016) 1,182,017 281,328 Tons CO₂e Direct emissions Indirect emissions Represents the consumption of our subsidiaries (scope 1) (scope 2) in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Europe, Mexico 2015 243,887 1,482,029 (Telmex) and the Dominican Republic, the rest does not use these resources. 2016 272,191 1,879,381 Change +10.30% +21.14% The increase in emissions with respect to the previous year was due to the expansion of our infrastructure, including a 13% increase in our number of base stations from 173 thousand in 2015 to more than 196 thousand in 2016. 39 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Initiatives to reduce energy and fuel consumption 2016 Brazil Guatemala Peru Replacement of conventional luminaires with more Implementation of maintenance cost-saving meaDeployment of a campaign to encourage our adefficient LED solutions. sures and energy audits at our 20 largest facilities in ministrative staff to turn off their computers beEnergy reduction: 2,579,018 kWh / 9,284 GJ terms of energy consumption. fore leaving the office. Emissions reduction: 634 Tons CO₂e Energy reduction: 641,553 kWh / 2,310 GJ Energy reduction: 1,142,857 kWh / 4,114 GJ Implementation of line extensions at sites with conImplementation of the 2016 Energy Savings Plan, tinuous MG. which entailed the installation of shared power Chile Fuel reduction: 11,680 liters lines and the establishment of co-locations with Replacement of EAA setpoint in 29 HUB nodes and Emissions reduction: 1,999 Tons CO₂e other operators. 865 BTS sites. Fuel reduction: 215,291 liters Energy reduction: 560,805 kWh / 2,018 GJ Emissions reduction: 3,738 Tons CO₂e Emissions reduction: 2,226 Tons CO₂e Mexico Replacement of luminaires with more efficient Dominican LED solutions; turn-off of ATM ports; automation Republic Costa Rica Improvements in our distribution networks and of HVAC units; implementation of no-cost savings Replacement of luminaires at 50 locations in the national energy system; reduction of the measures, which were made extensive to the TRIMore efficient LED amount of unaccounted-for fuel. ARA data center. Energy reduction: 25,533 kWh / 92 GJ Fuel reduction: 1,457,597 liters Energy reduction: 32,754,290 kWh / 117,915 GJ Emissions reduction: 3,644 Tons CO₂e Improvement of the HVAC system at our office Retirement of emergency power generators; imthrough the installation of three stand-alone units, plementation of diesel theft-prevention measures to avoid the need to power our larger, central HVAC by our operating and security areas; installation of Nicaragua unit. solar heaters; replacement of more expensive, lowEnergy reduction: 597,058 kWh / 2,149 GJ er performance vehicles; permanent retirement of Space confinement; migration of equipment to Emissions reduction: 26 Tons CO₂e underused vehicles. new technologies; replacement of luminaries with Fuel reduction: 1,834,874 liters more efficient LED solutions. Emissions reduction: 154,602 Tons CO₂e Energy reduction: 3,640,048 kWh / 13,104 GJ El Salvador Emissions reduction: 7,367 Tons CO₂e Space confinement; migration of equipment to new technologies; replacement of luminaries with Puerto Rico more efficient LED solutions. Replacement of cooling towers; operational Energy reduction: 597,058 kWh / 2,149 GJ changes. Energy Fuel Emissions reduction: 4,152 Tons CO₂e Energy reduction: 71,679 kWh / 258 GJ Emissions reduction: 145 Tons CO₂e 40 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance We are working to improve our methods for measuring our energy We are working to improve our waste disposal methods in order to and fuel consumption as a basis for the establishment of consumptake advantage of internal and external reuse, and external recycling, tion reduction goals, and for reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) confinement and/or reclaiming opportunities. emissions accordingly. In 2016, Telcel launched a project to redefine and improve its Telcel's Sustainability Waste waste management practices using a preventive approach. Committee invested G4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN23, G4-EN27 Telcel's Sustainability Committee invested more than 300 man300 man-hours in the Given the nature of our business, a majority of the waste that we hours in the analysis of the company's waste-generating processanalysis of the company's generate is attributable primarily to the operation of our infraes as a basis for the design of prevention mechanisms. We believe waste-generating processes. structure and, to a lesser extent, to our services. that the above will allow for significant waste reductions over the next several years, consistent with the trend toward the maximization of reuse and recycling. Non-hazardous waste by disposal method 2016 Country or region Landfill Reuse Recycling On-site storage Total (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) Mexico 15 3,480 3,836 1 7,332 South America 7,332 83 3,907 175 11,578 Central America 1,210 1,210 Caribbean 135 67 202 Total 7,563 3,564 9,020 176 20,323 Data not available for Brazil, Dominican Republic, Europe, Panama, and the United States. This information comprises 57% of our operations. Hazardous waste by disposal method 2016 Country or region Landfill Reuse Recycling On-site storage Total (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) Mexico 0 0 2,260 0 2,260 South America 20,926 2,270 22,451 1 45,648 Central America 0 0 592 0 592 Caribbean 0 0 88 0 88 Total 20,926 2,270 25,392 1 48,588 Data not available for Brazil, Dominican Republic, Europe, Panama, and the United States. This information comprises 57% of our operations. 41 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance In 2016, Telcel classified its waste as follows: Water G4-EN8 Although water is not one of the primary resources used in our 110 tons 24 tons 17 tons operations, it is critical to life. Accordingly, we foster awareness electronic of PVC of other plastic waste materials about its protection, rationalization and efficient use among our employees, and have implemented various initiatives aimed at reducing its consumption. 41 tons 13 tons 9 tons of non-ferrous of wood of ferrous metals metals Total water consumption 2016 Country m3 6 tons 0.5 tons 0.5 tons Argentina 12,019 of fiberglass of foam of synthetic Chile 318,868 rubber fabrics Colombia 103,386 Ecuador 64,974 15 tons United States 9,887 of aluminum This represents the waste generated by Telcel's Pachuca and Tlalnepantla warehouses, only. Honduras 10,620 Mexico 769,392 Nicaragua 144,000 In 2016, Telmex recycled and reused the following materials: Paraguay 1,350 Peru 79,849 188 tons 2,509 tons 132 tons Puerto Rico 218,879 of aluminum of copper wire of electronic Dominican Republic 3,206,407 waste Uruguay 2,463 Total 4,942,094 700 tons 911 tons 3,689 tons Data not available for Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Europe, Guatemala, and Panama. This of ferrous of modems of paper and information comprises approximately 53% of our operations. metals cardboard 9 tons 10 tons 1,207 tons of PET of lubricants of batteries For additional information concerning our electronic waste recycling efforts, see Transforming our Environment 42 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Success story Telcel Use of energy storage facilities that are not connected to the power grid In order to improve our environmental performance, reduce our consumption of diesel, ensure the availability of mobile services in isolated communities, and reduce the potential for negative environmental impacts from our operations, in 2016 we began implementing a new energy storage technology at two pilot locations in Mexico that are not connected to the power grid. We anticipate that this technology will allow us to reduce our diesel consumption by more than 60%, and our GHG emissions by more than 66%. This technology involves the use of large-capacity batteries and photovoltaic energy to achieve improvements in environmental performance. 43 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance We believe that the successful transformation of our operations is contingent upon the soundness of our governance practices, this is why we are working on the implementation of internal policies and the incorporation of provisions in our contracts with our suppliers towards a more sustainable management. 44 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Corporate structure For a detailed list of our subsidiaries, their jurisdictions, and our G4-3, G4-7, G4-17 ownership interests, see our 2016 Annual Report on Form 20-F. América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. is a sociedad anónima bursátil de capital variable organized under the laws of Mexico. Our shares Corporate Governance See our G4-34, G4-36, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-51, G4-52 Our shares are registered in 2016 Annual Report. are currently listed for trading in Mexico, on the Mexican Stock ExWe are transforming our operations by adhering to the best govMexico, the United States, change (BMV:AMX); in the United States, on the New York Stock ernance practices, which serve as a benchmark for our shareand Spain. Exchange (NYSE: AMX); and in Spain, on the Mercado de Valores Latinoamericanos in Euros (LATIBEX:XAMXL). holders' and our Board of Directors' decision-making processes. According to beneficial ownership reports filed with the United We conduct ourselves and our operations in an ethical, honest and States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as of December transparent manner, consistent with our corporate mission, vision, 31, 2016, our ownership structure was as follows: values, and philosophy. In addition, we abide by the governance provisions contained in: » Our bylaws1. América Móvil ownership structure » Mexican securities laws and regulations, including, without limShareholder Number of shares Percent of itation, the Ley de Mercado de Valores, the Circular Única de Emi(millions) class(1) soras, the Reglamento Interior de la Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, AA Shares and the Código de Mejores Prácticas Corporativas published by Family Trust(2) 10,894 52.8% the Consejo Coordinador Empresarial. Inversora Carso (3) 4,381 21.2% » The securities laws and regulations of each of the international Carlos Slim Helú 1,879 9.1% securities markets in which our shares are listed for trading. L Shares » Our Corporate Governance Policies, and our Code of Ethics2. Inversora Carso(3) 6,020 13.5% » Our Policies Relating to Trading in the Shares of Stock of and Family Trust (2) 5,998 13.5% Other Securities Issued by AMX3. Carlos Slim Helú 3,072 6.9% (1) Percentage figures are based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2016. (2) The Family Trust holds AA Shares and L Shares for the benefit of members of the Slim family. In addition to shares held by the Family Trust, members of the Slim Family, including Carlos Slim Helú, directly own an 1 Available at: http://www.americamovil.com/sites/default/files/2016-08/bylaws.pdf aggregate of 3,558 million AA Shares and 9,570 million L Shares representing 17.2% and 21.5%, respectively, 2 Available at: http://www.americamovil.com/sites/default/files/2016-08/bylaws.pdf of each series. According to beneficial ownership reports filed with the SEC, none of these members of the Slim Family, other than Carlos Slim Helú, individually directly own more than 5.0% of any class of our shares. 3 Available at: http://www.americamovil.com/sites/default/files/2016-08/politicas.pdf (3) Formerly known as Inmobiliaria Carso. Includes shares owned by subsidiaries of Inversora Carso. Based on beneficial ownership reports filed with the SEC, Inversora Carso may be deemed to be controlled by the Slim Family. 45 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance To ensure the maintenance of adequate decision-making processAmérica Móvil Board of Directors es, and of the course of our organization, we are required to call a Name Age Member since Type Shareholders' Meeting —which is our highest governance body— Board members elected by holders of Series AA and Series A shares within the first four months of each year, to elect or re-elect the Carlos Slim Domit(1) 49 2011 Stakeholder members and/or alternate members of our Board of Directors for one-year terms, determine their compensations4 and the compenPatrick Slim Domit (2)(3) 47 2004 Stakeholder sations of the members of the Board of Directors' ancillary commitDaniel Hajj Aboumrad*(3) 50 2000 Stakeholder tees for attending the meetings thereof, and address other matters. Carlos Slim Helú 76 2015 Stakeholder Luis Alejandro Soberón Kuri 56 2000 Independent Our Shareholders' Meeting provides follow-up in connection with Carlos Bremer Gutiérrez (4) 56 2004 Independent the decisions of our Board of Directors, which is comprised of 14 Juan Antonio Pérez Simón 75 2012 Related directors nominated by the holders of our Series AA and Series A Ernesto Vega Velasco (5) 79 2007 Independent shares, voting together, and two directors nominated by the holdRafael Moisés Kalach Mizrahi (4) 70 2012 Independent ers of our Series L shares. Carlos Slim Domit and Patrick Slim Domit, Antonio Cosío Pando 49 2015 Independent neither of whom is a member of our senior management, serve as Arturo Elías Ayub 50 2011 Stakeholder the Chairman and Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors. Oscar Von Hauske Solís 59 2011 Related Louis C. Camilleri 61 2011 Independent Board members elected by holders of Series L shares 4 The aggregate compensation paid to our directors (including compensation paid to members Pablo Roberto González Guajardo(4) 49 2007 Independent of our Audit and Corporate Practices Committee) and senior management in 2016 was approximately $4 million pesos and $64 million pesos, respectively. David Ibarra Muñoz 86 2000 Independent María José Pérez Simón Carrera serves as alternate director for Juan Antonio Pérez Simón. (1) Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Executive Committee. (2) Vice Chairman of the Board. (3) Member of the Executive Committee. (4) Member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee. (5) Chairman of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee. * Chief Executive Officer of América Móvil. Our bylaws provide that our Board of Directors must hold a meeting thereof at least once every three months. For information regarding the number of meetings held by our Board of Directors in a given year, including the directors’ attendance records, see the corporate practices questionnaires that we have filed with the Mexican Stock Exchange, which are accessible through the latter’s website. Our Annual Report under Form 20-F, as filed with the SEC, the Mexican Stock Exchange, and the National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores), contains certain biographical information about the members of our Board of Directors. Fuente: 20-F: http://www.americamovil.com/sites/default/files/2017-04/reporte-annual-2016.pdf 46 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance In connection with its decision-making process, our Board of DirecGiven our aim to attain sustainability through the transformation tors receives support from our Internal Audit Department and from of our operations, and the size of our organization, all material two committees: decisions concerning economic, social and environmental topics » Executive Committee, which provides opinions and makes recare taken by our senior management at Corporate Level. These We have identified ommendations to our Board of Directors on certain matters topics are reviewed and validated by our General Counsel, who risks at 100% of set forth in our bylaws. The current members of the Executive reports to our Chief Executive Officer. In 2016, we began estabour facilities. Committee are Messrs. Carlos Slim Domit, Patrick Slim Domit, lishing sustainability committees at each of our subsidiaries, which and Daniel Hajj Aboumrad. are responsible for addressing and providing follow-up in connec» Audit and Corporate Practices Committee, which reports on tion with sustainability-related matters under the direction of local our internal audit and control procedures and their adequacy, management. including those of our subsidiaries; determines which transactions may create the potential for conflicts of interest; and In addition, throughout the past year we continued to work on the approves extraordinary compensation and/or bonuses to exdevelopment of our sustainability strategy and of the policies from ecutives. The current members of this committee are Messrs. which it stems, as a basis for changing the way in which we apErnesto Vega Velasco, Rafael Moisés Kalach Mizrahi, Pablo Roproach the subject internally and with our stakeholders. berto González Guajardo, and Carlos Bremer Gutiérrez, each of whom is an independent director. Operational Risks G4-2, G4-14, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-SO3 Our Internal Audit Department is primarily responsible for perAny corporate sustainability strategy must seek to anticipate the forming three types of audits: Risk Management Audits, which potential risks to which the company is exposed. Accordingly, we focus on various operating processes, and on the integrity of our have identified the risks relating to our activities and goals at 100% operations; SOX Audits, which seek to ascertain our compliance of our facilities, including those associated with macroeconomic, with the financial information accuracy and disclosure requiresocial or market conditions, changes in regulation, and corrupments set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and Special Audits, tion, and have taken mitigation actions through internal and exwhich focus on specific processes or activities. ternal mechanisms such as the review of our senior management and risk management, ethics, and security committees for perforThe actions taken by our Board of Directors and its committees, mance, internal audits at both the parent company and local levand the annual reports of activities of such governance bodies els, and external audits. for any given year, are subject to ongoing review by our Shareholders' Meeting and must comply with the securities laws and regulations of Mexico, which is our jurisdiction of incorporation. 47 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Our Internal Audit Department identifies the aspects of our subsidEthics and Human Rights iaries' operations that carry the risk of fraud in order to incorporate G4-50, G4-56, G4-57, G4-58, G4-HR2, G4-HR3, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR7, their review and assessment into the relevant subsidiaries' annual G4-HR9, G4-HR12, G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-SO11 auditing plan, monitor such risks, and ensure that they do not inThe manner in which we conduct ourselves and our operations, terfere with the achievement of our goals. make our business decisions, and interact with our stakeholders in each of the countries in which we operate, is reflective of the We classify fraud into three large categories: values, principles and philosophy that have characterized our 1) Corruption⁵. company over the years. 2) Improper use of our assets. 3) Inaccurate or false information. We understand that in seeking to evolve continuously in order to adapt to global conditions and to changes in our industry, we We have also identified the risks that could have a direct impact on must stick to our core values and principles, and comply with our sustainability. These include: stringent internal policies to ensure that all of our operations are » Failure of or physical damage to our access lines and fixed-line conducted in an ethical manner, comply with the law, and pronetworks, power outages and surges, natural disasters, malitect human rights. cious acts, limitations concerning the use of radio bases, software defects, human error, and interferences beyond our conGiven the materiality of these aspects, in 2016 we undertook a thorFor detailed information concerntrol that may give rise to service delays or disruptions. ough revision of our Code of Ethics, which addresses topics such ing the risks that we have identi» Non-performance by our manufacturers and suppliers. fied, see our Annual Report under as the privacy of information, human rights, and the environment, Form 20-F, which is available at: » Concerns about health risks relating to the use of mobile handsets among others. Currently, we conduct all of our internal and external http://www.americamovil.com/ and base stations. activities in accordance with the guidelines contained in our Corposites/default/files/2017-04/ rate Governance Policies and our Code of Ethics6. reporte-annual-2016.pdf 5 Corruption: The abuse of one's influence or position to obtain a benefit for one's own self or for 6 Available at: http://www.americamovil.com/sites/default/files/2016-08/Politicas_de_Gobierothers to the detriment of our organization. It includes conflicts of interest, unlawful payments no_Corporativo_Es.pdf or other compensation, bribery, and extortion. 48 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance We have established several channels through which our employ1) Our stakeholders can report these occurrences via e-mail to ees and stakeholders can contact us to report —on a confidential lineadedenuncia@americamovil.com basis— conducts, attitudes, or acts which are unlawful, inappropri2) Our employees can approach their respective supervisors. ate, or contrary to our corporate values and philosophy: 3) All can call our subsidiaries' hotlines. We undertook to We are in the process of developing a centralized whistleblowing revise and update portal that we plan to launch in 2017, which will make it possible our Code of Ethics. to report any instance of corruption not only confidentially but also Our Values Human development anonymously, if desired. and creativity We foster creativity in finding solutions to All complaints of corruption at our subsidiaries' level are forwarded the issues that affect to our Internal Audit Department for review and consultation with our communities. our Legal Department and other relevant areas. Upon corroboration Social Responsibility of the complaint, the case is turned over to the relevant subsidiary's We have been entrusted ethics committee —that is comprised of the heads of our local legal, Honesty with the task of communicataudit, fraud and human resources departments— for determination We do what ing as a means for fostering we say. the present and future of the applicable internal, administrative, or legal penalties. In addiwell-being of our tion, we have established a mirror committee at Corporate level, to communities. address complaints of misconduct by our senior management. Substantiated complaints are investigated by the relevant subsidiary Respect and optimism through the internal oversight body designated by us to such effect, Productivity which may convey the allegations to our Board of Directors' Audit We believe that each We upgrade, expand, simplify, and optimize our individual has unlimited and Corporate Practices Committee. potential and the intrinsic processes. ability and desire to succeed. We seek to ensure that all of our suppliers comply with the provisions contained in our Code of Ethics, and with all of our policies. In Legality Austerity 2016, we incorporated new provisions in the procurement contracts We conduct ourselves in We abide by that were due for renewal, in order to strengthen our commitment a non-ostentatious the law. manner. to sustainability across our entire value chain. As of the end of 2016, 91% of our procurement contracts contained provisions designed to ensure the lawful provenance of all of our raw materials, as well as the protection of human rights and the environment. 49 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance Any supplier who is found to have incurred in misconduct is Flow of complaints in the subsidiaries of América Móvil blacklisted and precluded from rendering any future service to any of our subsidiaries. Incoming complaint As a measure for preventing the occurrence of instances of fraud or (telephone, mailbox, e-mail) corruption, and/or the violation of our Code of Ethics, we retrain our employees annually on the enforcement of our policies and procedures. In 2016, we provided an aggregate of 1,780 hours of training to our employees, including refresher courses to 25 thousand Initialdereview Evaluación la denuncia employees in all of the countries in which we operate, and formal induction courses to an additional 2,852 employees. Labor-related For Corporate attention Notwithstanding these efforts, in 2016 we received and addressed 575 complaints of fraud and 194 complaints of labor-related violations. We and our subsidiaries respect the human rights of all the individHuman Dismissed Requiring action Analysis Resources uals with whom we come into contact, whether it be our employees, distributors, customers, investors, or shareholders, or others. For instance, all of our employees, regardless of their jurisdiction of employment, are at liberty to engage in collective bargaining. Corroborated Dismissed Corroborated Dismissed Ethics End Committee Investigation 50 2016 Sustainability Report Profile Service Excellence Employees Environmental Performance Corporate Governance In addition, our recruitment practices, employment contracts, and Allegations of fraud human resources policies are designed to ensure that all of our operations are free from forced or compulsory labor, and child labor. 1 Bribery 2 Improper payments We are also engaged in material efforts to foster awareness and 4 Extortion encourage the adoption and observance of the same practices by 5 Inaccurate information our suppliers. For example, in Colombia and Ecuador, we provided 17 Conflicts of interest formal training on human rights issues to 95% and 65%, respectively, of our security companies' staff. 23 Theft 37 Disclosure of sensitive information Internally, in Colombia and Puerto Rico, we provided an average 189 Improper use of our assets of 4 hours and 2.5 hours of training on human rights issues per 297 Other employee, respectively, to an aggregate of 802 employees. In addition, we conducted performance reviews at each of our Colombian facilities. Labor-related complaints 5 Job abandonment 6 Sexual harassment 12 Unsafe conditions 19 Discrimination 22 Physical or verbal abuse 46 Other 84 Abuse of power Labor-related reports do not include our operations in Europe or Mexico, for which no data was available as of the date hereof. 51 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services Cybersecurity and data privacy Base stations Transforming our Environment safety Response to Road safety natural disasters We are transforming the lives of many people, communities and wildlife species around the world what through technology, with the same dedication we do for and commitment with which we approach our our customers Bridging the and communities digital divide Blacklisting internal operations. We are working to ensure that Child Environmental protection our infrastructure and services contribute to social, protection economic and environmental development, and to digital inclusion in each of the countries in which we operate. Health and sports Accessibility Volunteering Environmental awareness Subscribers’ benefits Contribution to employment empowerment from our services Training and education Health Efficiency for Financial inclusion industry 52 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services What we do for our customers So far, our subsidiaries have participated in the and communities following We Care initiatives: G4-15, G4-56 » Blacklisting: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Consistent with our mission, we seek to ensure Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Our Mission Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, In 2016, more than that our customers and subscribers in each of To ensure that population, Panama, and Peru. 23 thousand people in the countries in which we operate are able to enin every country where we » Child protection: Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Mexico visited the We Care joy to the fullest extent —at any given time, and provide services, has access El Salvador, Mexico, and Nicaragua. website to learn more under any given circumstances— our networks, to products and services » Digital inclusion: Honduras and Mexico. about its initiatives. technology, and services. with the most advanced » GARI initiative: Costa Rica and Mexico. telecommunications » Disaster response: Colombia and Honduras. We have taken a number of actions and have technology, at accessible » Protection of the environment: Colombia and joined various global and local initiatives to proprices, in order to bring more Mexico. tect those who use our networks, maximize our people closer every day. » Reduction of SMS Spam: Brazil. customers' experience, and eliminate any issue or condition that may hinder or disrupt our services. We Care searches Since 2015 we have been actively involved in We Care, an international initiative developed by Groupe Speciale Mobile Association (GSMA) to 92% We Care ensure that mobile users can enjoy the transformative benefits of technology in a safe and reliable 4% Handset theft environment through six key initiatives: digital in2% Digital inclusion clusion, child protection, environmental care, re1% Green program sponse to natural disasters, contribution to public 1% Child protection safety, and reduction of terminal theft. 53 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services As operators of one of the world's largest networks —which is used We have developed an Information Security Strategy using a hoby millions of people of all ages— we aim to provide a safe and relilistic approach that includes the establishment of general guideable space for communicating, browsing, exchanging information, lines for all of our projects, programs and actions, to ensure that and conducting all kinds of transactions without the risk of expoall of our information assets and support systems are used in a reasure to criminal activity, viruses, malware, or cyberattacks. sonable, reliable and safe manner. Our Information Security Strategy allowed us to repel Cybersecurity We endeavor to protect the information of our customers and emInformation Security Strategy 23.8 million cyberattacks in connection with the Rio and data privacy ployees, and all the information pertaining to web, LTE, Telco, and 2016 Olympic Games. other technologies in order to preserve its confidentiality, availabilG4-2, G4-14, G445, G4-46, G4-PR8, PR3 Detection: Identification of existing information (Telecommunications Sector Supplement) ity, and integrity. We respect the rights to privacy and to the protecsecurity issues 2016 2016 tion of personal data of those who use our networks, complying Strategy Goals with the laws of the countries in which we operate. Prevention: Development of policies and procedures We have established a series of operating and maintenance processes intended to achieve full mobile and fixed-line network functionality —and, thus, Operational Excellence— at each of Preserving the security of our customer's information is a critical our subsidiaries, including time and resource optimization, inforaspect of our operations. Consistent with this belief, in 2014 we esmation security systems homologation, and service disruption tablished a Security Committee1 at each of our subsidiaries, which prevention processes. has allowed us to identify 917 critical and high, medium, and lowrisk vulnerabilities, 90% of which have already been addressed. The principal risks relating to our information security processes include fraudulent browsing, cyberattacks, leaks, unauthorized acIn 2016, we consolidated our Global Security Management Comcess, service configuration issues, attempts on the security of our mittee, which held its first meeting on April 29 and is responsible networks and IT systems, and advanced threats. for determining the information security strategies that will be implemented and overseen by our local security committee for In order to manage these risks, we have invested in the acquisition each country. Moreover, we developed an Information Security and development of several tools and initiatives, including the imPolicy that serves as the basis for all of our security-related strateplementation of ISO 27002-2013 – Information Technology – Segies and initiatives at both the parent company and the operating curity Techniques in Mexico, Colombia and Chile, which we plan subsidiaries levels. to make extensive to the rest of our operations in Latin America and Europe over the course of 2017 and 2018. 1 This committee is comprised of the members of the local management committee, and the mirror committee at Corporate level. 54 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We were also able to identify our critical information security vulThese policies relate to topics such as the handling, classification nerabilities by country, and to develop an information security porand encryption of information; the prevention of leaks via external tal for sharing information on our security information-related polunits, the Internet, or e-mail; the protection of our networks; the icies, procedures and mitigation actions. In addition, we provided establishment of access controls and physical security measures; to our subsidiaries support and assistance in connection with the risk and anti-virus management; and business continuity assurWe reduced the amount development of local policies and procedures. ance, among others. of fraudulent browsing by monitoring our networks’ We strengthened and automated our processes for the detection Notwithstanding our information security efforts, in 2016 we redata traffic, thus avoiding of fraudulent browsing, established guidelines for the development ceived several complaints for privacy breaches involving our cuslosses of US $2.7 million. of information security awareness campaigns, provided follow-up tomers' and employees' data. in connection with security breaches and with our risk management processes and access controls, and defined our strategy Number of incidents Number of grievances Country involving the theft or for mitigating advanced persistent threats (APTs)². We conducted for privacy breaches loss of personal data hacking tests, and identified and addressed through a preventive Argentina 25 0 approach our vulnerabilities with respect to the confidentiality of Colombia 1,175 3 information, inadequacies in our platform configurations, the lack Costa Rica 1 0 of a methodology for the safe development of applications and Dominican Republic 39 4 software, and the absence of guidelines for the creation of strong Mexico 3 0 access passwords for our critical platforms. Panama 0 1 In addition to the guidelines contained in our Code of Ethics, and Total 1,243 8 No grievance or loss of data was reported in Chile, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, to our global procedures for addressing these issues, we have esNicaragua, Paraguay, Puerto Rico, or Uruguay. Data not available for Brazil, Ecuador, Europe tablished individual policies and procedures for each of our suband Peru. Not applicable in the United States, where we only provide prepaid services. This information comprises approximately 60% of our operations. sidiaries based on their obligations concerning the privacy of The number of grievances reported in all cases are those substantiated, except in Colombia customers' and employees' data under the laws of their rewhere the data corresponds to the total grievances received because disaggregated informaspective jurisdictions. tion is not available. 2 APT: Advanced Persistent Threat. 55 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services In 2016, we held two information security symposiums for members of our subsidiaries' senior management in order to align our response strategies for the risks identified, and to develop joint risk management and mitigation initiatives. We updated our In addition, we updated our global Personal Data Privacy Policy, which addresses topics such as the Personal Data respect of our customers', employees', suppliers', distributors', and other stakeholders' privacy, and the Privacy Policy. protection of their personal data. Success stories Latin America / Brazil Latin America / Mexico Rio 2016 Olympic Games Cybersecurity Center During the Rio 2016 Olympic Games, the strength of our networks and techOur Cybersecurity Center monitors and analyzes information constantly in ornology allowed us to deliver to our customers and viewers all of the relevant der to prevent cyberattacks and the commission of cyber crimes against our content, preserve its integrity both before and throughout the event, and repel subscribers. In the event of a contingency or potential threat, we coordinate over 350 cyberattacks per day while maintaining average and peak traffic with all of the relevant groups as with respect to alerting our customers and volumes of 30 Gbps and 500 Gbps, respectively. preventing the occurrence of cyberattacks. 56 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services All of our subsidiaries have adopted preventive Telcel has its own separate protocol for ensurrepair process, we resorted to the use of temmeasures to minimize the impact of contingening the continuity of our mobile services during porary infrastructure to provide services to our cies and disasters, and response procedures to disaster situations. For example, in response to customers and allow them to communicate ensure that our services are restored as promptly hurricane forecasts we monitor on a 24-hour with relatives, as well as to allow humanitarian as practicable. In addition, we subscribe to GSbasis the conditions at the locations that are exaid and other organizations to connect to the MA's disaster response initiative, and are engaged pected to be impacted, issue periodic reports telecommunications grid. Response to in collaborative efforts with government authorthereon, secure our radio bases to provide for natural disasters ities and other operators toward the definition of an expedited service restoration process, deploy international contingency and disaster response crews to strategic locations in the area where Foreseeable events G4-2, G4-14, G4-45, G4-46, PA6 (Telecommunications Sector Supplement) protocols and best practices. the hurricane is expected to make landfall, and deliver food supplies, spare parts, and portable We have classified some of the risks associated power generators with fuel for their operation. with these events into foreseeable and unforeAfter the contingency subsides, we assign priorseeable, the latter of which relate primarily to ity to the restoration of our services in the areas Weather Summits Social natural disasters. where they are most needed. Hurricanes Visiting world leaders Elections, massparticipation events, marches, In collaboration with the Carlos Slim Foundation, We encourage the use of SMS as a means of demonstrations Unforeseeable events we have established a Disaster Relief Program in communication during disaster conditions — Mexico to provide immediate support in the form particularly where networks are overburdened of food supplies, roll-up mattresses, blankets, and Internet service is not available— since We encourage the use water purification plants, and electricity to comthe SMS technology arranges and processes of SMS as a means of munities affected by natural disasters. In 2016, messages in the order in which they are sent. Geological Technological Weather communication in the Telmex, through its volunteer network delivered Volcanic eruptions, Fire, explosions, Storms, tornadoes event of a disaster. an aggregate of 28,986 tons of humanitarian aid In April 2016, a 7.8 Richter-scale magnitude earthquakes chemical releases supplies and 26,476,364 liters of potable water, earthquake that struck the coast of Ecuador left and installed 136 water purification plants. behind hundreds of victims and collapsed structures. The communities that were most affected One example of our service continuity protocols were those of Pedernales, Portoviejo, and Manfor emergency or disaster situations is Telmex's ta, in the Manabí province, and Muisne and CaPlan C. In 2016, we implemented this plan on 44 noa, in the Esmeraldas province. separate occasions in connection with several tropical storms, tower collapses, floods, sinkholes, The earthquake damaged Claro's network infrawinter storms, national coastal station verifications, structure, including 167 base stations (or 4.7% and social conflicts. of its total number of base stations). During the 57 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We comply with international standards and practices, and with the laws of each of the countries in which we operate as they relate to the minimum distance requirements for the installation of base stations, and to their radiated power. We keep track of scientific research on this regard, which —according Base to the World Health Organization— demonstrates that is becoming stations safety increasingly less likely that the exposure to electromagnetic fields is IO4, IO5 hazardous to human health, but there is still a level of uncertainty. (Telecommunications Sector Supplement) We have developed several programs for fostering awareness of movil Club del Perú, an association dedicated to the promotion of the safety risks associated with the use of mobile devices while tourism, automobilism, recreation, and other related activities. The driving. Below is a description of some of the initiatives that we campaign, which is scheduled to run through January 2018, was first implemented in 2016 in connection with this regard. implemented in Lima in January 2016, and by the end of the year had had a direct impact on more than 50 thousand youth and adults. Ecuador. Through an alliance with the Agencia Nacional de Tránsito, we implemented the #PorUnBuenCamino campaign deMexico. We contributed to the development of a responsible drivRoad safety veloped by the Hands On The Wheel initiative to encourage the ing culture through Auto Racing Drivers in Pro of Road Safety, an responsible use of mobile devices while driving as a means for reinitiative sponsored by the Carlos Slim Foundation and various othducing the number of traffic accidents. er private and public sector institutions. In 2016, a group of Mexican race car drivers embarked on a speaking tour around the country Peru. In order to reinforce drivers' education and foster awareness and delivered 489 lectures on driver, passenger and pedestrian of the risks associated with texting and driving, we launched the No awareness to an aggregate of 116,802 high school and colTexting and Driving campaign sponsored by the Touring y Autolege students. 58 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We sell mobile and electronic devices, but do not manufacture any paign representative per school, who was responsible for reporting such item. Nevertheless, we have joined our suppliers' recycling to us the number of items collected each week, and for distributing efforts by encouraging our subscribers to surrender their devices campaign t-shirts to participating students. At the end of the year, at one of our customer service centers at the end of their useful we rewarded each of our top-50 campaign representatives with a lives, for their subsequent transfer to electronic waste processing smartphone. companies or facilities for the recovery of certain components and the adequate disposal of those which are non-recyclable. Through an alliance between Claro Chile and the Metropolitan Environmental Intendancy (Intendencia de la Región Metropolitana), we are enprotection For example, in 2016 several of our subsidiaries that participated in gaged in efforts to retire and rearrange old telephone cables in orGSMA’s We Care Green Program collected an aggregate of 121,854 der to improve the quality of life in the region. In 2016, we retired mobile handsets and 47 tons of accessories for recycling. an aggregate of 19,981 meters, or 1,499 kilos of wire in 21 municipalities, and rearranged an additional 47,820 meters by securing In Colombia, as part of the I Love My World campaign we recovthem properly to the poles. ered smartcards and customer premises equipment through 195 collection centers in 65 municipalities, for remanufacturing purHighlights poses, thereby reducing our new equipment procurement requirements and, accordingly, our carbon monoxide footprint. In 2016, 2,711,447 items of equipment remanufactured we delivered 2,711,447 remanufactured items of equipment to our in Colombia procurement department, or 35,216 items which exceeded our requirements, which represented a 32% increase with respect to 2015. 121,854 handsets and 47 tons of accessories recycled through the Green Program In Ecuador, pursuant to a policy enacted in 2013 by the Ministry for the Environment (Ministerio del Ambiente), we must recycle a 19,981 meters of cable retired in Chile number of old handsets equal to the number of new handsets we import each year, plus 3%. In order to meet this threshold, as part of 2,034 participants in the Galápagos decides to our Galapagos decides to Recycle campaign we collect old handRecycle campaign sets and accessories through the municipality of Isla Santa Cruz's school system. In 2016, an aggregate of 2,034 students from 10 schools participated in this initiative and had the opportunity to win prices based on the number of items collected by them. We designated one cam59 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We seek to ensure that children are able to take advantage of GSMA is engaged in the fight against handset theft and the the benefits of mobile technology in a positive, safe and reuse of mobile devices in connection with criminal activiliable environment. To achieve this end, we have subscribed ty —primarily, extortion and kidnapping— in Latin America. to the global initiatives for the protection of children's rights In 2016, GSMA's stolen handset database grew by 1,758,281 in the digital age developed by the United Nations Children's devices or 1,148,734 more devices than in 2015, which is inFund (UNICEF), and by GSMA. dicative of the development of a culture of reporting handset theft through the appropriate channels for the determent of Child In some of the countries in which we operate, we also collabBlacklisting related crime. protection orate with local child protection organizations. In Mexico, for example, we have joined efforts with the National TelecomIn Mexico, along with GSMA, the IFT and the ANATEL, we are munications Association (Asociación Nacional de Telecomumembers of the National Campaign to Report and Block the nicaciones, or ANATEL) toward the identification of websites Use of Lost or Stolen Devices (Campaña Nacional para el Rethat contain child pornography, promote sex tourism, or foster porte y Bloqueo de Teléfonos Celulares Robados o Extraviabullying or harassment, which are reported to the Alliance for dos), which encourages mobile users to know their terminal's Internet Safety (Alianza por la Seguridad en Internet, or ASI). IMEI1 in order to enable the relevant operator to block the device in the event of loss or theft. In addition, through GSMA's In 2016, we adopted a Human Rights Policy that addresses IMEI Device Check service, mobile users can access the global the topic of the rights of children in the telecommunications IMEI database to identify suspect or blacklisted devices. sector, and we endeavor to ensure that our services and technology provide children with an enriching experience. 1 IMEI: International Mobile Equipment Identity. 60 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services Through Telmex's volunteer network, which as of 2016 was comprised of more than 5,000 individuals, we performed 739,300 hours of community service to implement various assistance, promotional and informational initiatives that benefited 1,338,897 people in Mexico. In addition, as part of the efforts of the WWF-Telmex Telcel FoundaVolunteering tion Alliance, 800 volunteers, including Telcel employees and members of the community at large, planted 5,000 trees in Angangueo, Michoacán, to help reforest the Monarch butterfly's protected area. In Ecuador, through our Hands On employee volunteering program, we have engaged efforts in several regions in collaboration with Fundación La Iguana, which focuses on the conservation of endemic and native tree species. In 2016, we deployed tree-planting expeditions to the municipalities of Playas and Guayaquil, in the Guayas province, and the municipality of Cuenca, in the Azuay province. In Colombia, we shared the benefits of technology with children through the efforts of 12 members of our Executive Committee, who benefited 17 students from Colegio Simón Rodríguez, in Bogota, and we donated 20 used laptop computers to the school. In Medellin, a group of 11 volunteers worked with 20 victims of sexual abuse and exploitation at Institución Casa Vida, reinforcing their values through games and group activities, and we donated 30 used laptop computers to aid the institution's efforts to provide for their education and inclusion. Highlights 1,338,897 beneficiaries of Telmex Volunteering Network 50 laptop computers donated to children in Colombia 61 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We have implemented a number of initiatives to foster digital incluplan to start a business, or wish to better themselves in the intersion and make the benefits of technology known and available to est of their families. This program, which has been accredited by more and more people. Chile's National Training and Employment Service (Servicio Nacional de Capacitación y Empleo, or SENCE), aims to benefit in excess In Mexico, through Telcel 4GLTE-Infinitum Digital Village we carof 1,000 people between November 2016 and October 2017. ry out our digital inclusion event —the largest such event worldBridging the wide— we provide ICT access and training to people of all ages, Since first launched, it has reached 318 people between the ages of digital divide regardless of academic education or technology skill, through var18 and 65, including people looking to switch careers, job seekers, ious workshops, courses and conferences. homemakers, entrepreneurs, and residents who have registered PA2, PA7 with the municipal labor inclusion board. (Telecommunications Sector Supplement) In 2016, this event was attended by 420,848 people, breaking the Guinness World Record for largest digital inclusion event. Highlights Our Telmex Digital Libraries provide free access to computers, Infinitum WiFi connection, tools designed to foster ICT inclusion, 3,600 Telmex Digital Libraries and various supplemental education opportunities to the Mexican population. In 2016, we provided ICT training to more than 7 mil2,464 Telmex Hub in-person and online events lion children, teenagers, and adults through 3,600 digital libraries. 318 beneficiaries of Mobile Classroom in Chile We contribute to the development of productive projects that have a positive impact on Mexico and Latin America through Telmex 11 Guinness World Records (in educationand technology-related categories) set by Telcel 4GLTEHub —a physical and virtual space for creating knowledge through Infinitum Digital Village collaborative work and the use of technological tools—. In 2016, this space, which is outfitted with computers, and Ethernet and WiFi connectivity, attracted 693,767 gamers, designers, programmers, students, publicists, editors, journalists, and representatives of social media seeking to learn from each other. In addition, through Mobile Classroom, a digital literacy on wheels program, we provide training on the use of computers to young people and adults throughout Chile who are seeking employment, 62 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services Marginalized communities with access to We define marginalized community as that which has a populatelecommunications services tion of less than 2,500 and is not easily reachable. As of the end of As one of the world's largest telecommunications operators, we 2016, we had identified 383,565 marginalized communities with have the responsibility of making our services increasingly accessible a combined population more than 75 million in 12 countries in through the installation of infrastructure in remote regions and marLatin America. ginalized communities in each of the countries in which we operate. Accessibility Individuals with disabilities We understand excellence in service to mean the provision of We foster the digital inclusion of, and the provision of increased PR1, IO2 (Telecommunications Sector Supplement) access to our services in remote regions where communications accessibility to individuals with disabilities. Through the Global and telecommunications services are not otherwise available. We Accessibility Reporting Initiative (GARI), we help our customers are constantly engaged in the installation of the infrastructure and identify mobile devices with accessibility features that may assist equipment required to make technology available to marginalized them with their particular needs. communities located far away from urban population centers. In addition, we have implemented various accessibility-related measures at our customer service centers, including: Facilities in marginalized regions » Incorporation of accessible elements (e.g., ramps, elevators). that have access to our services » Priority customer service. » Catalog of mobile devices with accessibility features. » Installation of lower display units at certain points of sale. » Installation of interior signage. 8,479 3,136 » Availability of service contracts in audio format, through schools libraries http://www.telcel.com/mundo_telcel/quienes-somos/ corporativo/accesibilidad-telefonos 39 1,890 359 community healthcare other centers facilities facilities 63 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We are engaged in various health and sports related initiatives that Through our Telmex-Telcel Ring initiative, we provide financial assisare aimed at contributing to the well-being of our communities in tance to boxers in the early stages of their careers, to help them focus each of the countries in which we operate. on their sport without having to also hold a paying job. We also award pensions to former, retired champions in order to allow them to enjoy We distribute Dulce Nutritivo —a soft candy enriched with iron and of a decent quality of life. Since 2008, we have awarded 47 scholarzinc that comes in several flavors— to contribute to the adequate ships to active boxers and pensions to retired pugilists. Health nutrition of children, pregnant women, and the elderly in rural areas. In 2016, we delivered 16,921,352 one-kg bags of Dulce Nutritivo. Our From the Street to the Court With Telmex-Telcel program, and sports which we launched in 2009, seeks to provide development opporIn 2011, Telcel joined the efforts of The Global Fund (RED) to pretunities through the practice of sports to vulnerable young people vent the mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS and get down who have been living in unhealthy social environments, reintegratthe number of babies born each day with this disease —also one ing them to productive society and restoring them to a life that is of the United Nations SDGs. In November, within the framework free of addictions, gang-related activity, and extreme poverty. of the World AIDS Day and with Alcatel's support, we held the (Telcel)RED Run in Mexico City, which attracted 4,000 runners. Through our Telmex-Telcel Football Cup, which was first held 16 years ago and has grown to become the largest event of its kind In 2016, we sponsored the Telcel Mexico’s City Marathon, in which worldwide, we encourage young people to engage in physical ac35 thousand people —including 25,550 men and 9,450 women— tivity through the practice of soccer, keeping them free from adparticipated. We credit the success of this event to the efforts of dictions, fostering family unity, and providing for their increased 2,000 volunteers, over 3,000 public security personnel, more than physical and mental wellness as a means for attaining a better 2,000 medical care providers, and 30 government agencies. quality of life. It has broken the Guinness World Record for largest football (soccer) tournament on nine consecutive occasions, last In February, the 23rd edition of the Telcel Mexican Open tennis attracting 3,446,812 participants distributed in 199,985 teams. tournament in Acapulco, Guerrero, in which 36 singles players and 16 doubles pairs participated, was attended by 58,700 spectators. In Colombia, through the Claro Football Cup2 we recruit young people to the sport of soccer in an effort to keep them away Our Telmex-Telcel Auto Racing Team has become one of the from drugs, crime, and gangs by providing them with a space world's most successful by focusing on the development of Mexfor achieving reconciliation, developing skills and values, ican racing driver talent from the earliest stages to competing in putting their spare time to good use, and sharing experithe most prestigious events worldwide. Since the team's inception ences in an environment that fosters integration and in 2002, our drivers have been on the podium 793 times, won 358 healthy relationships to strengthen social fabric. races, secured 240 pole positions, earned 45 championship titles, and finished second 17 times. 2 This initiative is organized by our local subsidiary, without support from the Carlos Slim Foundation. 64 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services The tournament is comprised of three separate phases: municipal, household income; 38% identify themselves as victims of the departmental, and national, with the latter involving the participation armed conflict in Colombia and say they have received threats or of 34 teams in a one-week final quest for the championship. have been displaced or forced to relinquish or abandon their land; and 13% have been exposed to domestic violence. In addition to organizing and managing the event, Claro ColomIn addition to its sports bia provides soccer balls, referees, and overall logistics during the The above indicators make it clear that the Claro Cup provides an awards, the Claro Football municipal phase; soccer balls, uniforms and financial aid during inclusive environment that maximizes the potential and skills of the Cup recognizes those the departmental phase; and transportation to and from the host Colombian youth through sports, eradicating the social stigmas players, teams and city and various sporting venues and hotels, a league registration that hamper the development of the new generations. delegations that best kit, insurance coverage, medical services, drinking fluids, housing, embody the values of meals, and awards, during the national/final phase. The Telmex-Telcel Taekwondo Cup offers to young people the leadership, teamwork opportunity to improve their taekwondo skills at the green and and discipline. Since 2009, more than 300 thousand youth —including 63 thoublue belt ranks by participating for free in intermediate-level comsand women— from all over the country have participated in the petitions at the national level. As of the date hereof, an aggregate tournament, and a few have achieved their dream of being named of 6,236 people have participated in this event. to Colombia's national team and taking part in the Olympics. In addition, over 120 male players have been recruited by domestic In 2014, we organized the Telmex-Telcel Adrián González Baseprofessional soccer teams. ball League for 14and 15-year olds. Since then, the league has housed 21,639 players across a number of teams. The league's In 2016, we provided transportation to and from the Claro Cup finals championship title has gone to Mexico City in 2015, Sonora in in Cali-Valle del Cauca, to 1,200 of the more than 46,000 participants 2015, and Coahuila in 2016. in the tournament. For many of these young people, this was the first time they had left their home municipalities and had had the opporWe also hold Beach Volleyball and Football Tournaments for chiltunity to interact with people from other parts of the country. dren and teenagers in Acapulco, Guerrero, in order to get them to engage in physical activity and keep them away from insecurity Of the total number of participants in the 2016 Claro Cup, and violence. As of the date hereof, 6,197 people have participated 16% are not enrolled in school because they either canin our volleyball tournaments, and 6,423 in our football (soccer) not afford it or need to work; 11% contribute to their tournaments. 65 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We sponsor the Mexico Telmex-Telcel Tour —Mexico's largest cycling event— which attracts high-performance athletes from all over the world. In 2016, 816 riders distributed in 102 teams from various Latin American and European countries, and from the United States, participated in this event. In 2007, we launched the Running to Change Stories series, which is held 14 times per year across nine different cities, to benefit people in the low-income population segment who do not have access to healthcare services. Within the framework of this event, in 2016 we donated computers, wheelchairs, and hearing aid devices, and also provided support for the performance of organ and tissue transplants. Highlights 16,921,352 one-kg bags of Dulce Nutritivo delivered 5,674,550 clikisalud.net visitors over the past three years 147,085 from the Street to the Court With Telmex-Telcel participants, distributed in 20,789 teams 816 riders from across Latin America, Europe, and the United States, participated in the Mexico Telmex-Telcel Tour 66 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We contribute to the conservation of the environment through varSo far, it is comprised of 10 volumes featuring pictures of wildlife and ious initiatives in collaboration with the Carlos Slim Foundation and protected natural areas in Mexico and elsewhere. In 2016, we pubother organizations. lished the tenth volume under the title Mexico's Wealth of Natural Resources, Environmental Services, and Conservation. In 2016, the Museo Sumaya in Mexico City held the Megatravelers The works of art exhibit featuring 60 works of art created by middle and high school Through the Pé de Pincha2, initiative, in 2016 the Embratel Claro entered into the Institute in Brazil provided training on the protection, preservation La Naturaleza en tu Escuela Environmental students from 14 states in Mexico to encourage the conservation of the gray whale. and release into their natural habitat of 1,373 newly hatched turtles, program were published in Awareness to 350 members of the community of Igapó-Açu. We also released lanaturalezanosllama.com, These young artists entered 345 works of art created from recyan additional 200 turtles in Mexico through the WWF-Telmex Telcel where more than 40,000 cled materials into a contest organized by the WWF-Telmex Telcel Foundation Alliance. visitors voted to select Foundation Alliance. under the title La Naturaleza en tu Escuela. the winners. Our Salvá lo Bonito2 initiative, developed by Claro Nicaragua as part In addition, with the support of the Mexican Ministry of Public Eduof its social responsibility strategy, fosters the development of a culcation (Secretaría de Educación Pública), a group of scientists, comture of responsibility toward the environment. In 2016, we provided municators and biologists lectured 15 thousand students from 140 an environmental bonus in the form of trees to the Office of the public and privates schools from across the country on the imporMayor of Managua. tance of preserving Mexico's natural resources. Highlights Since 2005, WWF-Telmex Telcel Foundation Alliance joined the collective effort of the Ecological Institute of the Universidad Nacional 15,000 students educated on the importance of Autónoma de México (UNAM) and the National Commission for Propreserving Mexico's natural resources tected Natural Areas (Comisión Nacional de Áreas Naturales Protegidas) to support Mexico's strategy for the Conservation of the Jaguar, 350 people provided with training on the protection, and to reduce the impacts that affect that species, based on policies preservation, and release of turtles in Brazil consistent with the sustainable development of the relevant region. 345 works of art created in connection with the Colección Biodiversidad Mexicana is a series of books intended to La Naturaleza en tu Escuela program disseminate information about Mexico's biological diversity, wealth of natural resources, and their importance, the impacts that threaten 9 local and one international symposiums for the them, and their conservation potential in the long run. This collecdevelopment of proposals for the Conservation of the tion is part of the programs sponsored by the Carlos Slim FoundaJaguar in Mexico tion to foster the protection and conservation of biodiversity as well as Mexico's sustainable development. 2 This initiative is organized by our local subsidiary, without support from the Carlos Slim Foundation. 67 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services Benefits from our services G4-SO1 We aim to ensure that our customers are able to enjoy all of the benefits offered by technology and connectivity. Accordingly, in addition to addressing the issues and conditions that could have an impact on our services, we endeavor to provide to our customers a broad set of tools for improving their day-to-day lives. We are joined in these efforts by the Carlos Slim Foundation, our subsidiaries, other corporations, and members of the society at large. Together, we are engaged in a quest for new technological horizons to further advance the causes of education, training, health, sports and environmental protection, as well the financial inclusion of our customers and employees, and that of the communities of which we are a member. Proximity with the world Today, technology allows us to get in touch with the rest of the world at any time, from anywhere, whether to engage in communication, work, make purchases, execute transactions, learn, advocate in favor of health, preserve the environment, and have fun. The next several pages contain a few examples of what technology can do for people and for our planet. 68 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services Technology fosters, facilitates, and supplements education. In view of this fact, we devote significant network and other resources to the provision of free access through our networks to our education and training initiatives to children, youth, and adults. Aprende.org downloads: In 2016, our platform was accessed by 4,108,409 people, of which 2,397 through the iOS Training and 194,699 became registered users. These included 96,234 visitors platform (launched in October 2016), and education and 4,374 users from Panama, where we deployed the platform in July. From June to December 2016, the platform reported 69,999 through the G4-LA10, G4-HR2, PA2 5,215,160 hits. Android platform (launched in July 2016). Through our Training for the Job initiative, we provide free online training on various vocational and technical-operational skills to people of all ages, without the pressure of deadlines and regardless of prior academic education. The platform offers 105 different courses that have been taken nearly two million times by 868,620 people from 175 countries. We also offer a free online tool called Innovative Teacher, which is designed to encourage elementary school teachers, students, and parents, to test their mathematical, reading, and scienceIn 2016, we deployed our App-prende digital platrelated skills. form through the Aprende.org portal. Each of these tools provide access and the usage of our networks Soon, Aprende.org will The Khan Academy's online platform provides free access to at no cost to various types of educational, training, undergo a material world-class specialized and personalized education —primarily cultural, and health-related content and contains a expansion into each of the on mathematics and science— to students, teachers, parents, and compilation of the most important features of our Latin American countries in professionals. In 2016, this platform registered 13,563,199 accesses, Training for the Job, Innovative Teacher, Khan Acadwhich we operate. and published 5,899 educational videos and more than 100 thouemy in Spanish, Académica, MIT, Udacity, and CLICKsand exercises that benefited approximately three million people. Isalud initiatives. 69 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services Académica is a digital knowledge community that encourages inin the selection of 51 winning projects. The winner in each category1 teraction among university students, professors, and investigators received financial incentives and a trip to Silicon Valley to visit Stanford as a means for developing, sharing, and exchanging free-access University and companies including Google and Facebook. knowledge. As of 2016, it had entered into 498 formal arrangeClaro Colombia promotes ments with a number of local and international education instituIn Ecuador, through our Goal to Educate2, initiative we contribThe Goal to Educate the vallenata music tions, had 208,846 registered users, provided access to more than ute to the provision of access to education to more children with scholarships are awarded —which has been 440 thousand items of digital content, and offered 163 courses. Fe y Alegría, a public integrated education movement that awards for each goal scored by declared an intangible scholarships to a fund that covers the annual cost of school unithe Ecuadorean National cultural heritage of Since 2000, Open Course Ware (OCW) initiative is developed in forms, supplies, and materials, as well as a portion of the adminFootball Team, whose humanity by UNESCO— alliance with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). istrative expenses associated with students between the ages of 5 official sponsor is Claro. among the children of the This program offers courses from the world's leading universities and 14. In 2016, we awarded scholarships to 200 children in the Valledupar municipality. —including Harvard and Berkeley— and promotes the provision cities of Quito, Guayaquil and Manabí, which were affected by an of free and open access to education and to the projects develearthquake, occurred earlier that year. oped by the OCW initiative, to all Mexican students, professors, and investigators in coordination with the Edx platform. In 2016, Through an alliance with Fundación Festival de la Leyenda Vallethe MIT's Media Lab awarded scholarships to 50 Mexican students nata, Claro for Colombia —Claro's social responsibility program in pursuing Masters and Ph.D. degrees. Colombia— sponsors the Vallenato Music Education Program², which awards music scholarships to vulnerable boys and girls from Udacity is an avant-garde education platform that provides access the Valledupar municipality, the birthplace of vallenato, to contribto education opportunities centered on the use of new technolute to their music education and overall values. This includes accorogies, from basic courses to post-graduate degrees on subjects dion and guacharaca instruction, and vallenato and piquería voice such as artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, and virtual reality lessons, supplemented with the reinforcement of values through development. Through an alliance with Udacity, the Carlos Slim the Rafael Escalona School for Vallenato Talent. Foundation has translated some of these courses in order to make them available to the Spanish-speaking population. Since its inception in 2013, more than 600 children —of which 42% are girls, 9% are members of indigenous peoples, and 12% are of In Brazil, in collaboration with the Embratel Claro Institute and the AsAfrican descent— have participated in this program, allowing sociação do Laboratório de Sistemas Integráveis Tecnológico, we deit to serve the dual purpose of fostering the music educaveloped the Mobile Campus initiative, which provides incentives for tion of vulnerable children, and reinforcing their cultural the development of education, utilities, and gaming applications. In roots and traditions. 2016, the fifth edition of this event attracted 99 students and resulted 1 The categories are: Education: Ducante, a platform to foster education through technology; Utilities: Reading Map, an application that provides directions to community libraries; Gaming: League of Kites, an e-game involving kite battles. 2 This initiative is organized by our local subsidiary, without support from the Carlos Slim Foundation. 70 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services In addition, consistent with our corporate philosophy, we pay special Highlights attention to the personal development of our employees, their families, and the members of our communities through ASUME 4,108,409 visitors to and 143,059 registered users of (Asociación de Superación por México), an initiative developed in Aprende.org in 2016 ASUME fosters overall Mexico in coordination with the Carlos Slim Foundation that has personal improvement through the development been made extensive to all of the Latin American countries in which 751,180 people trained by ASUME in over 267 cities we operate. In 2016, 20,321 volunteers provided training to 751,180 of values for the formation of responsible, happy, people distributed in 24,848 groups across 267 cities. 20,321 ASUME volunteer facilitators shared their knowledge peaceful individuals who are committed to themselves, In Mexico, through the Carso Digital Scholarship we provide a 200 scholarships awarded to Ecuadorean children through computer and free access to our Infinitum service to elementary, Goal to Educate their families, their work, middle, and high school-aged children of Grupo Carso employees, and their country. to boost their academic performance. In 2016, we awarded 109,051 99 students participated in the fifth edition of Mobile Campus digital scholarships. +70 projects developed at the CTIN In addition, the Telmex-Telcel Foundation Scholarships foster the development of undergraduate and post-graduate students with outstanding academic performance records nationwide by providing them with monthly stipends, computers, and access to Infinitum, and by involving them in educational and cultural activities. Our Technology and Innovation Center (CTIN) provides a space for achieving professional growth, and nourishes the entrepreneurial spirit of its 579 scholars using a multi-discipline integration approach to all projects. In 2016, the center developed more than 70 creative technological solutions to positively impact society. 71 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We promote self-health awareness and the adoption of healthy lifestyles though our CLIKIsalud portal, which contains reliable information and incorporates interactive features concerning topics such as lifeline, nutrition, diabetes, obesity, addiction, autism, and depression. The portal's content is designed to facilitate the work of parents, teachers and healthcare providers alike by providing them with tools such as health calculators and video series, including the One's Health capsules. Health In order to contribute to the financial inclusion of more and more The Transfer app offers, among others, the following benefits: people in Mexico, Telcel, through an alliance with Banamex, devel» Simple activation process. oped the Transfer app, which allows users to make payments and » Eliminates the need to carry cash. to send and receive money from their Telcel handset irrespective » Users can make payments and transfers 24/7. of whether they have a smartphone or not. » Transactions do not require but the user's handset and PIN. During the period » Delivery of transaction alerts free of charge. from 2012 to 2016, Transfer acquired Financial As a matter of convenience, users can perform transactions 24 » Funds in the user's account remain protected and cannot be 250,000 users. hours a day via the app's SMS feature, or at participating locations. withdrawn if the user loses his or her handset. inclusion This is one additional example of the many ways in which technol» Any owner of a Telcel handset can receive transfers irrespective ogy contributes to economic development and to the improveof whether he or she has activated the service. ment of people's quality of life. » The app is free and does not require Internet connection. 72 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services To make our individual customers' lives easier, and allow our corporate customers to develop more efficient business processes and achieve cost reductions, we are migrating from the provision Business solutions of traditional telecommunications services (i.e., integrated voice, data and Pay TV) to the provision of integrated digital solutions to Process Service channels and both the mass and business markets. automation salesforce Efficiency The broad range of services we offer allows us to address the needs • Online support • Contact center as a service • Security video • Direct link for industry of individuals, small businesses, large companies, and government • Salesforce agencies alike. • Internet hotspot • MEC For example, we offer mobile, fixed-line, Internet, and Pay TV ser• Dynamic marketing Optimization and vices to the individual customer segment; and process automa• Web presence internal processes tion solutions, M2M (machine-to-machine) solutions, high-perfor• Claro Audio Conference • Customer service management mance platforms, and IT outsourced services to the corporate and software • Business Web Conference government segments. • Machine-to-machine • MDM • Office 365 • Robust SIM card • Telepresence Logistics and High-performance procurement platform • Task management • Claro Directo • Fleet management • Internet Mobile Internet Pay TV Telephony • Domestic and international long distance Outsourced IT • Metro Ethernet • LAN administration • Advanced MPLS • Computing and professional IT • Distributed PBX services • Transactional plans • Virtual Data Center • Mobile services • Security • Virtual servers 73 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services As a result of our service coverage in remote locations, and of the In La Lagunita Landa de Matamoros, Querétaro, the availability of technology we offer to our users and subscribers, an ever growing mobile services allows veterinarians specialized in farm animal care number of people are able to connect with others and to improve to address both routine situations and emergencies requiring imtheir living conditions. Below are a few examples of the ways in mediate response. which Mexican communities have benefited from our connectivity to achieve economic growth since 2013. Our infrastructure, networks and capacity have allowed us to transContribution to The members of a Menonite community located in Chihuaha that form these and other stories into reality, and to become an ally in the economic development of the communities we serve in each employment is engaged in agriculture using irrigation systems and pluvial waof the countries in which we operate. ter supplies consider mobile handsets and the Internet as working tools that facilitate communication among workers. Artisans and microbusiness owners from the village of San Martín Tilcajete, Oaxaca, rely on the availability of mobile services and access to social networks to promote their artwork and increase their domestic and international customer bases. Women from the village of Santo Tomás, Oaxaca, who are engaged in weaving on a handloom tied to the waist, rely on their mobile handsets and on our service coverage to keep in touch with their customers via the Internet, and to take purchase orders via social networks, thereby increasing their sales volumes. Small and midsize business owners in Vigas de Ramírez, Veracruz, received support from Telcel to enable an inter-plant communications system, which has allowed them to increase their production and, accordingly, their sales volumes. A purified ice company in Veracruz that subscribed to Telcel's automatic vehicle location (AVL) service is now able to monitor its fleet as it travels across cities and highways, and to communicate with vehicles located in areas where otherwise service is otherwise unreliable. 74 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services Today, as a result of the connectivity that we offer, our subscribers have access to a broad range of content through numerous platforms, and have the power to decide what they want to watch —and through which type of device— at any given time. Subscribers’ Success story empowerment Rio 2016 Olympics the most connected in history The Rio 2016 Olympic Games were the first global event to be broadcast both in real time and on demand through the official Claro sports network, which allowed viewers to choose what sport to watch through the platform at any given time, from any location. Viewers had the option of watching the games through the Claro Sports app, which could be downloaded using any iOS or Android device, or through www.clarosports.com, in each case free of charge. We deployed the requisite infrastructure to ensure the safety, redundancy and strength of our systems, including: 8 2 100,000 17,500 3,000+ 132,000 8,000+ 150 77,000 40 satellites data hours km of telecommunications km of dedicated WiFi access Service Desk Internet access Internet channels centers of video submarine cable operations fiber-optic cable points positions locations (Sport TV) personnel As a result of the above, 5 billion viewers from the 200 countries in which we distributed our signal through the International Broadcast Centre, including the 17 countries where Claro sports is available, were able to watch in real time the accomplishments of more than 10 thousand athletes from 206 countries, over approximately 3,000 hours. 75 2016 Sustainability Report What we do for our customers and communities Benefits from our services We built our infrastructure upon the Embratel Olympic Backbone —a modern network outfitted with more than 370 km of dedicated fiber-optic cable that allows users to browse the Internet at a speed of 40 GB per second— that we bequeathed to Rio de Janeiro and to Brazil. The website and the application that we developed in connection with this event were both well received by our customers and by viewers from all over the world: 1.6 91 14.6 151,000 25 34 9.4 million apps million million users connected million million people in million users installed per user Claro video Claro sports simultaneously at any on-demand Latin America tuned connected reproductions reproductions one time (in average) viewers Claro sports live through the website Countries by traffic volume In Brazil, as the leading provider of fixed-line broadband, mobile Internet, and Pay TV services, Mexico we brought the excitement of the Rio 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games to millions of Bra62.3% zilians through 25 over-the-air and high-definition pay television channels. While we provided live coverage, our Claro HDTV and Net subscribers had the option of rewatching any event Colombia through our NOW on-demand video service. 11.3% Argentina 9.4% Peru 3.6% Ecuador 3.5% 76 2016 Sustainability Report Exhibits Charters, principles and other initiatives Memberships subscribed G4-16 G4-15 We are members of a number of industry and community-oriented » UN Global Compact associations and organizations. » Nos Importa, GSMA » Teletón América Móvil » Earth Hour, World Wildlife Foundation (WWF) Groupe Speciale Mobile Association (GSMA) » Hackathon Telmex Hub, Microsoft Internet of Things International Telecommunication Union (ITU) » Alianza por la Educación Telmex-SEDENA 5G Américas » Jornada de Salud 2016 PrevenIMSS Asociación Interamericana de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ASIET) » CDMX Digital CIAPE 40 Argentina » Semana Nacional del Emprendedor Cámara de Comercio Argentina Mexicana (CCAM) » Amigos de las Ecobicis Cámara de Informática y Comunicaciones de Argentina (CICOMRA) » Instituto de Hematología y Hemoterapia de la Universidad Cámara Argentina de Internet (CABASE) Nacional de Córdoba's Blood Drive Cámara de Comercio de los Estados Unidos en Argentina (AMCHAM) » Internet Segura, Undersecretariat of Telecommunications Austria (Subsecretaría de Telecomunicaciones) Next Generation Mobile Networks Alliance » Humanitarian Connectivity Charter, GSMA respACT » Klimaaktiv mobil project partner » Austrian Cyber Security Forum ETNO » Bulgarian Red Cross GSM Memorrandum of Understanding » Bulgarian Charity Aid Foundation Brazil » Saferinternet Associação Brasileira de TV por Assinatura » Responsible Business Forum Associação Brasileira de Recursos Telecom » Bandera Azul Ecológica Associação Nacional de Operadores de Celulares » Bandera Ecológica Salvá Lo Bonito Conselho de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social » Feria de Responsabilidad Social, UNIRSE » Feria Escolar, AMCHAM » Semana Nacional de la Ciencia » Telehablatón 77 2016 Sustainability Report Chile Guatemala Dominican Republic Asociación de empresas de telefonía móvil (ATELMO) Cámara de Comercio de Guatemala Acción Empresarial por la Educación (EDUCA) ICARE Cámara de Industria de Guatemala Acción Pro Educación y Cultura (APEC) Cámara de Integración Chileno Mexicana (CICMEX) Cámara de Comercio e Industria Guatemalteco Mexicana Asociación de Comerciantes e Industriales de Santiago (ACIS) Acción RSE Honduras Asociación de Empresas Industriales de Herrera (AEIH) Asociación de Exportadores y Manufacturas (ASEXMA) Cámara Empresarial Honduras-México Asociación de Industrias de la Región Norte (AIREN) Colombia Comité Ejecutivo del Punto de Intercambio de Tráfico de Internet en Honduras Asociación de Industrias de la República Dominicana (AIRD) Asociación de Exportadores y Manufacturas (ASEXMA) Mexico Asociación Dominicana de Constructores y Promotores de la Vivienda (ACOPROVI) Andesco Consejo Coordinador Empresarial (CCE) Asociación Dominicana de Empresas de Exportación (ADOEXPO) Reconciliación Colombia Asociación Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ANATEL) Asociación Dominicana de Empresas de Inversión Extranjera (ASIEX) Cámara Colombiana de Informática y Telecomunicaciones (CCIT) Telecom CIDE Asociación Dominicana de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ADOMTEL) Cámara de Comercio Colombo Mexicana Nicaragua Asociación Hoteles y Turismo de la República Dominicana (ASONAHORES) Asociación de Industriales de Colombia (ANDI) Consejo Superior de la Empresa Privada (COSEP) Asociación Nacional de Jóvenes Empresarios (ANJE) Costa Rica Cámara de Comercio Americana de Nicaragua (AMCHAM) Asociación Nacional de Usuarios No Regulados (ANUNR) Cámara de Tecnologías de Información y Comunicación Unión Nicaragüense de Responsabilidad Social Empresarial (UNIRSE) Cámara Americana de Comercio de la República Dominicana (AMCHAM) Cámara de Infocomunicación y Tecnología Cámara Empresarial Mexicana Nicaragüense Cámara de Comercio Dominico Mexicana (CADOMEX) Ucaep Cámara Nicaragüense de Internet y Telecomunicaciones Cámara de Comercio y Producción de la Vega, Inc. Cámara de Comercio de los Estados Unidos en Costa Rica (AMCHAM) Paraguay Cámara de Comercio y Producción de Santiago (CCPS) Cámara Empresarial México-Costa Rica Cámara de Operadores Móviles del Paraguay (COMPy) Cámara de Comercio y Producción de Santo Domingo (CCPSD) Ecuador Unión Industrial del Paraguay (UIP) Cámara Dominicana de las Tecnologías de la Información y la Comunicación Asociación de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ASETEL) Centro de Regulación, Normas y Estudios de la Comunicación (CERNECO) (CAMARATIC) Cámara de Comercio de Guayaquil Cámara de Anunciantes del Paraguay Confederación Patronal de la República Dominicana (COPARDOM) Cámara de Comercio de Quito Peru Consejo Nacional Empresa Privada (CONEP) Cámara de Industrias de Guayaquil Asociación para el Fomento de la Infraestructura Nacional (AFIN) Fundación Institucionalidad y Justicia (FINJUS) Cámara Binacional Ecuador-México United Way Perú Red Nacional de Apoyo Empresarial a la Protección Ambiental (ECORED) Cámara de Comercio Ecuatoriano Americana de Guayaquil Uruguay Puerto Rico Alianza Antipiratería en DTH Asociación de Industriales Cámara Uruguaya de Tecnologías de la Información El Salvador Asociación de Ejecutivos de Ventas y Mercadeo Cámara de Telecomunicaciones del Uruguay We are not members of any association in Panama. Asociación Nacional de la Empresa Privada (ANEP) Cámara de Comercio de Puerto Rico Cámara Americana de Comercio de El Salvador (AMCHAM) Alianza de Proveedores de Telecomunicaciones Cámara de Comercio Salvadoreña (CAMARASAL) Centro Unido de Detallistas Cámara Salvadoreña de Telecomunicaciones (CASATEL) Puerto Rico Hotel and Tourism Association Cámara Salvadoreña Mexicana de Comercio (CASALMEX) United States The Wireless Association (CTIA) 78 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index G4-32 G4 Page Description Response Strategy and analysis G4-1 7 Statement of the most senior decision-maker of the organization. G4-2 47, 54, 57 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Organizational profile G4-3 45 Name of the organization. G4-4 16 Brands, products and services. G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters. Mexico City, Mexico. G4-6 16 Countries where the organization operates. G4-7 45 Nature of ownership and legal form. G4-8 16 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 19, 31 Scale of the organization. G4-10 31 Number of employees. G4-11 31 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 25 Description of the organization's supply chain. G4-13 13 Significant changes during the reporting period. Commitments to external initiatives G4-14 47, 54, 57 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. G4-15 53, 77 Economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other external initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 77 Economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other external initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. Material aspects and boundaries G4-17 45 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements. G4-18 9 Process for defining the report content. G4-19 9 List of material aspects. 79 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response G4-20 9 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. G4-21 9 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. G4-22 13 Effect of any restatement of information provided in previous reports. G4-23 13 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 12 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. G4-25 12 Basis for the selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 12 Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement. G4-27 12, 23 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those topics and concerns. Report profile G4-28 13 Reporting period. G4-29 13 Date of most recent previous report. G4-30 13 Reporting cycle (such as annual biennial). G4-31 89 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. GRI Content Index G4-32 13, 79 In accordance option (Core or Comprehensive) the organization has chosen. G4-33 13 Organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Governance G4-34 45 Governance structure of the organization. G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and Our shareholders, through our Board of Directors, define our stratother employees. egies and convey them to our senior executives for implementation during the course of the performance of the latter's duties. G4-36 45 Executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report to the highest governance body. G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. Consultation takes place during board meetings, which are attended by members of our senior management. G4-38 45 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 80 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response G4-39 45 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. G4-40 45 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting governance body members. G4-41 45 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Highest governance body's role in setting purpose, values, and strategy G4-42 45 Highest governance body's and senior executives' roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organizations purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Highest governance body's competence and performance evaluation G4-43 45 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 45 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance. Highest governance body's role in risk management G4-45 47, 54, 57 Highest governance body's role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities. G4-46 47, 54, 57 Highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 47 Frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities. Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting G4-48 Highest committee or position that reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. América Móvil's Sustainability Committee, which is comprised of the heads of our Legal, Finance, Operations, Marketing, and Human Resources departments. Highest governance body's role in evaluating economic, environmental and social performance G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. Senior executives are responsible for gathering information on critical concerns and for conveying such information to our Board of Directors. G4-50 48 Nature and number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body. Remuneration and incentives G4-51 45 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. G4-52 45 Process for determining remuneration. G4-53 Report how stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration. We have established multiple contact points though which our stakeholders can convey to us their concerns. 81 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median Confidential information. annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations Confidential information. to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and integrity G4-56 19, 48, 53 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-57 48 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 48 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as hotlines. Economic performance G4-EC1 19 Direct economic value generated and distributed. G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. Not available. G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Not available. G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Not available. Aspect: Market presence G4-EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. All of our subsidiaries comply with the statutory minimum wage requirements; and wage levels at a majority of our subsidiaries exceed the local statutory minimum. G4-EC6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Not available. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro Not available. bono engagement. G4-EC8 18 Significant indirect economic impacts. Aspect: Procurement practices G4-EC9 25 Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operations spent on suppliers local to that operation. 82 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response Environmental performance Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 41 Materials used by weight or volume. Partial data concerning this item is included herein under Environmental performance . G4-EN2 41 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Partial data concerning this item is included herein under Environmental performance . Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 37 Internal energy consumption (direct and indirect). G4-EN4 37 External energy consumption. G4-EN5 Energy intensity. Not available. G4-EN6 37 Reduction of energy consumption. G4-EN7 37 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Aspect: Water G4-EN8 42 Total water withdrawal by source. G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not material. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not material. Aspect: Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites located in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Not material. G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Not material. outside protected areas. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not material. G4-EN14 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Not material. Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 37 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1). G4-EN16 37 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope 2). G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3). Not available. G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity. Not available. 83 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response G4-EN19 37 Reduction of GHG emissions. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Not material. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions. Not material. Aspect: Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by type and destination. Not material. G4-EN23 41 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. G4-EN24 Number and volume of significant spills. Not material. G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and Not material. VIII, and percentage of transported wasted shipped internationally. G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's Not material. discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and services G4-EN27 41 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. For additional information, see: http://www.americamovil.com/sites/ default/files/2016-09/form-20-f-filing-version.pdf G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not available. Aspect: Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of fines and number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. In 2016, we were imposed a total of 1,143 environmental-related fines whose monetary value is deemed immaterial. Data for Europe, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay is not available. Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting products, materials and members of the workforce. Not material. Aspect: Overall G4-EN31 Environmental protection investments. Not available. Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN32 25 Percentage of suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. All of our suppliers are screened through a process that in certain cases incorporates economic, social, environmental and anti-corruption aspects, before entering into and executing any agreement with them. 84 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response G4-EN33 25 Actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. Not material. Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. In 2016 we received 711 grievances about environmental impacts, of which 128 were determined to be valid and 137 were resolved by our subsidiaries. Some of these grievances related to impacts occurred in previous years. Data for Europe, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay is not available. Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 31 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. G4-LA2 31 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Not available. Aspect: Labor/Management relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Minimum notice periods regarding consultation and changes in collective agreements range from 30 to 60 days, depending on the location of the operation. Aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Not available. programs. G4-LA6 34 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. G4-LA7 34 Workers with high incidence or risk of incidence of diseases related to their occupation. We have identified certain potentially hazardous operations where 3% of our employees may be at risk of developing hypoacusis, osteo-muscular disorders, epicondylitis, and traumatism due to falls and blows. To manage these risks, we have established and continuously monitor a number of preventive measures and procedures. G4-LA8 34 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Aspect: Training and education G4-LA9 32 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. G4-LA10 32, 69 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. G4-LA11 32 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. 85 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunities G4-LA12 31 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category. Not available. Aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices G4-LA14 25 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. G4-LA15 25 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. G4-LA16 25 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Human rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns. Not available. G4-HR2 48, 69 Employee training on aspects of human rights, including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 48 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 48 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association may be violated or at risk, and actions taken to support this right. Aspect: Child labor G4-HR5 48 Measures to contribute to the abolition of child labor. Aspect: Forced or compulsory labor G4-HR6 48 Measures to contribute to the elimination of forced labor. Aspect: Security practices G4-HR7 48 Security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning human rights. Aspect: Indigenous rights G4-HR8 Number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. In 2016, we did not receive notice of any violation involving rights of indigenous people. As part of our business philosophy, we endeavor to support indigenous people and rural communities and to bring them closer together through our services and social initiatives, thereby fostering an increased social and economic development. 86 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9 48 Percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews. Aspect: Suppliers human rights assessment G4-HR10 New suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. Not available. G4-HR11 Significant potential or actual negative impacts on human rights along the supply chain and actions taken. Not available. Aspect: Mechanisms for claiming human rights G4-HR12 48 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Society Aspect: Local communities G4-SO1 68 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Not material. Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 47 Number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. G4-SO4 48 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. G4-SO5 48 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. G4-SO6 Political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. As a general rule, América Móvil does not make political contributions whether in cash or kind. Exceptions may apply where a contribution has been approved by the competent governing bodies and is made in accordance with the applicable laws of the relevant country. Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Some of our operations are being investigated for alleged monopolistic practices. For additional information concerning material anti-trust investigations, see: http://www.americamovil.com/sites/ default/files/2016-09/form-20-f-filing-version.pdf Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of fines and number of sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Not available. 87 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response Aspect: Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. Not material. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. Not material. Aspect: Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4-SO11 48 Number of grievances about social impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Product responsibility Aspect: Customer health and safety G4-PR1 Percentage of products and services categories subject to assessment of health and safety impacts for improvement. Not material. G4-PR2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services Not material. during their life cycle. Aspect: Product and service labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling. Not material. G4-PR4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning labeling. Not material. G4-PR5 23 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. Not material. G4-PR7 25 Number of cases of non-compliance with marketing communication regulations such as advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Aspect: Customer privacy G4-PR8 54 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Not material. 88 2016 Sustainability Report G4 Page Description Response Sector supplement IO2 63, 74 Extension of communications services to segregated geographic areas and communities. IO4,IO5 58 Compliance with standards related to radiofrequency emissions of handsets and base stations. PR1 63 Provision of communications solutions to individuals with disabilities or special needs. PR3 54 Protection of customer and employee personal data privacy and security. PA2 62, 69 Contributions to the population through education and digital inclusion. PA6 57 Programs to provide and maintain telecommunications services and products in emergency situations and for disaster relief. PA7 62 Provision of technological solutions and training at schools in furtherance of education. Contact G4-31 Additional information regarding the contents of this report is available to our stakeholders upon request through: E-mail: contacto_rse@americamovil.com Telephone: +52 (55) 2581 3700 ext. 5162 Website: http://www.americamovil.com 89
