Sustainability Report 2016 Contents Highlights Foreword by the CEO 2 Our company 4 Our corporate responsibility approach 6 Corporate governance 10 Risk management 12 »» Welcoming the Paris Compliance, anti-corruption and Agreement on climate change whistleblowing 14 Our people 16 »» Industry collaboration on Health and safety 18 carbon efficiency Safe operations 20 Environment 24 »» Promoting innovation through Long-term ambitions in the southern R&D Barents Sea 26 Climate change 28 »» Sustainability engagement Human rights 32 with banks on USD 5 billion Stakeholder engagement 33 lending facility Innovation through R&D projects 36 Sustainable investments 39 »» Scandinavian focus for Promoting excellence in youth Lundin Foundation projects through sport 43 Sustainability data 44 GRI index 48 Tell us what you think 51 Our Global Compact Our vision is to provide commitment society with oil and Lundin Petroleum has been a participant of the United Nations gas that has been Global Compact since 2010. We support the 10 Principles on human rights, labour standards, produced responsibly environment and anti-corruption and participate in the UN Global Compact Nordic Network. Recognising climate change as a We communicate on a yearly basis on our global challenge, we want to be progress in implementing the 10 Principles. part of the solution by providing This 2016 Sustainability Report also constitutes low carbon intensity energy our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. Aligning with the SDGs Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) We promote the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Lundin Petroleum’s 2016 Sustainability Report throughout our value chain and is the second report in accordance with the within our sphere of influence. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. 2016 Revenue Carbon intensity $ MUSD 1,159.9 8.5 CO e kg/boe CO2 for 2 operating revenue Edvard Grieg production & drilling Cash flow Oil spills $ MUSD 1,010.8 operating cash flow 0 recordable oil spills Expenditure $ Safe operations MUSD 1,055.7 investments 0.67 lost time incident rate Research & Development Workforce MUSD 10.8 spending 542 employees worldwide Lundin Foundation Diversity TUSD 569.3 contribution 34% of women in the Group Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 1 Foreword by the CEO This Sustainability Report is the second of its kind This very active exploration and production programme for Lundin Petroleum. Stakeholder feedback has was carried out without any major incidents or spills in confirmed the usefulness of such a report to gain a Norway and with an improved overall health, safety and better understanding on how we integrate our values environmental (HSE) performance. Thanks to carbon and principles in our day to day activities. I take this efficient equipment and technologies installed in our opportunity to reaffirm our continued support to the facilities at Edvard Grieg, we achieved a carbon intensity Global Compact’s 10 Principles on human rights, labour rate lower than the industry average in Norway, which standards, environment and anti-corruption. itself is close to half of industry world average. This confirms our view that good business goes hand in 2016 has been an outstanding year for Lundin hand with a robust management of HSE and corporate Petroleum. We achieved record high production levels responsibility issues. with over 72,000 boepd produced for the year at a record low cash operating cost of USD 7.80 per barrel. There were other positive developments in 2016. By This is primarily due to the excellent performance of acquiring an additional 15 percent equity in Edvard the Edvard Grieg field that came on stream in November Grieg, we not only increased our production and 2015, but also to the continued robust performance reserves but we also strengthened our financial position from our operated assets in Malaysia and France, which by improving an already solid liquidity position delivered above expectations. We have also pursued an following the signing of the USD 5.0 billion reserveambitious drilling programme in Norway, in particular based lending facility earlier in the year. in the southern Barents Sea. 2 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 At the same time, our largest development project Johan Such great results would not be possible without Sverdrup continues to deliver good news with lower strong values, the enthusiasm, professionalism and project costs, higher production capacity and a reserves entrepreneurship from my colleagues. My first year increase when compared to the original PDO estimates. as the new CEO of Lundin Petroleum has been a very rewarding one thanks to our shared values and great We have also seen our southern Barents Sea exploration team work. strategy unfolding with the highly anticipated 23rd licensing round awards. We were very pleased to be one Yours Sincerely, of the most successful companies in this 23rd round as this lays the foundation of future exploration activities and continued growth. Alex Schneiter President and CEO Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 3 Our Company Finding and developing oil and gas resources Exploration and Appraisal In 2016, Lundin Petroleum (the ‘Company’ or the ‘Group’) had exploration and production assets focused Lundin Petroleum focuses on building on two core areas, Norway and Malaysia, as well as core exploration areas and on assembling assets in France, the Netherlands and Russia, and ofﬁces integrated teams of geoscientists and in Stockholm and Geneva. In 2017, due to the technical experts that have a creative and spin-off of the Company’s non-Norwegian assets into visionary approach to finding oil and gas the newly formed company International Petroleum resources. Lundin Petroleum will focus its Corporation (IPC), Lundin Petroleum will maintain an near-term exploration and appraisal activity exploration focus seeking to generate sustainable value in the southern Barents Sea, appraising the from exploration to production in Norway. Alta and Gohta discoveries and exploring some high impact exploration targets. Our vision is to grow a proﬁtable upstream exploration and production company, focused on core areas in a safe and environmentally responsible manner for the long-term beneﬁt of our shareholders and society. Lundin Petroleum is pursuing the following strategy: Development • Proactively investing in exploration to organically grow its reserve base. Lundin Petroleum has an Following exploration and appraisal, the inventory of drillable prospects with large upside strategy is to convert discoveries into reserves potential and continues to actively pursue new and production. After a development plan exploration acreage in core areas. has been approved, construction of facilities can start, to which wells and infrastructure • Growing its existing asset base with a proactive are connected so that production can begin. subsurface strategy to enhance ultimate As a partner, Lundin Petroleum is involved hydrocarbon recovery. in the ongoing construction of oil and gas • Acquiring new hydrocarbon reserves, resources and production facilities on the giant Johan exploration acreage where opportunities exist to Sverdrup project in Norway. enhance value. Lundin Petroleum is responsible towards: • shareholders, to realise and sustain a good return Reserves end 2016 on investment and a continuing growth of its asset base. 743.5 MMboe net • employees, to provide a safe and rewarding working IPC assets 29.4 environment. Norway other • host countries, owners of the resources, to find and produce oil and gas professionally, efficiently and 162.7 responsibly. • local communities, to contribute to local NORWAY development and sustain the well-being of local communities. 95% Johan Sverdrup 551.4 • society, to contribute to wealth generation while minimising the impact of our activities on the environment. 4 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Production The production phase is defined as everything from extraction and processing to delivering the oil or gas for sale. Lundin Petroleum significantly increased its production in 2016, due to the ramp-up of production from its Edvard Grieg facility and strong ongoing performance at the Alvheim area in Norway and the Bertam field in Malaysia. Sales and Marketing Lundin Petroleum sells and delivers its produced crude oil directly to customers, generally to their own refineries. The sales and marketing activity within Lundin Petroleum, which was established for first oil from Edvard Grieg, is the last part of the crude oil supply chain. The first cargo was sold on 14 January 2016 and by end of year, Lundin Petroleum had sold directly a total of 25 cargoes. Production performance 2016 72,600 boepd net IPC assets 13,300 Norway other 17,300 NORWAY Edvard Grieg 83% 42,000 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 5 Our Corporate Responsibility Approach A ground breaking year 2016 was an exceptional year for Lundin Petroleum in many respects, including from a Corporate Responsibility perspective. For the first time we published a standalone Sustainability Report. Our Corporate Responsibility work has been reflected in our Annual Reports from the start, but publishing a Sustainability Report based on the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines brought the active participation of everyone in the Company, from our Board of Directors to our corporate and country based management and our operational staff. Over time, various sustainability standards and reporting procedures have been developed and we decided to align ourselves with standards which have been recognised internationally as to provide the information in a format that enables stakeholders to assess the Company’s sustainability performance. With this Sustainability Report, Lundin Petroleum’s Corporate Responsibility work can now be measured “ We provide the market with oil against our peers leading to a more constructive dialogue with our stakeholders. that is produced responsibly ” This year was also exceptional from a global Christine Batruch Vice President Corporate Responsibility sustainability perspective. The year culminated with the Paris Agreement entering into force, marking a turning point in the global understanding of the climate change issue and the challenge it represents. HSE challenges We engaged throughout the year with stakeholders 2016 was a very active year from an operational on this issue, understanding the implications of the perspective. In February 2016, we tragically lost one Agreement. Working closely with the oil and gas of our sub-contractors working on the Bertam field in industry, we want to be part of the solution for a more Malaysia. We have undertaken thorough investigations energy efficient and low carbon society. and have initiated a safety leadership programme in order to reinforce our HSE culture and systems. We We conducted a thorough analysis of our emission nonetheless managed to secure an overall improved sources and levels, with a view to identify potential safety performance, with better Key Performance reductions and further energy efficiency measures. We Indicators compared to 2015. achieved our goal to a low carbon intensity level for Lundin Petroleum in 2016. In 2017, we will continue to place a strong emphasis on the health and safety of all the people working for us, staff and contractors, and we will thoroughly analyse potential risks associated with our activities so as to prevent incidents and ensure we have the ability to respond to any potential unexpected situation. 6 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 We are committed to ensure Our sustainability management our operations are conducted Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to responsible conduct is an integral part of managing our business. Our Code in a responsible manner, which of Conduct and speciﬁcally tailored Group policies, guidelines, processes and procedures apply to all our ultimately secures social, activities. Our countries of operations are required to environmental as well as integrate Corporate Responsibility into their strategic thinking and activities to protect people’s rights, health, economic beneﬁts for all our safety and security, to preserve the environment and to maintain ethical integrity. stakeholders We assess implementation of these commitments in the organisation through annual Corporate Responsibility management system audits and reviews, covering compliance with our Code of Conduct as well as with the Company’s policies and guidelines on anti-corruption, human rights, labour standards, environment and stakeholder engagement. The 2017 Goals management of health, safety and the environment is the subject of separate internal, third party and regulatory audits. Promote These reviews and audits enable us to assess on a ethical continuous basis the level of integration of Corporate Responsibility principles throughout our operations. conduct Looking ahead 2017 will be another transformative year for Lundin Uphold Petroleum, as its strategic focus will be centred on Norway. In February 2017, Lundin Petroleum health and announced the spin-off of its non-Norwegian assets (Malaysia, France and the Netherlands) into a newly safety formed company called International Petroleum Corporation (IPC). The spin-off will allow Lundin Petroleum’s management to focus exclusively on the Minimise Norwegian assets which have continuously grown in size and value since Lundin Petroleum began its environmental activities there in 2004. impact Focus on CO2 carbon efficiency Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 7 Our Corporate Responsibility Approach Responsible value chain Our sustainable investments Lundin Petroleum’s direct sales and marketing Our work on environmental preservation in partnership activity started with our production from the Edvard with the Lundin Foundation has continued in 2016. Grieg field. We comply with the highest business We expanded our work in this sphere by supporting standards. We have well established processes in place young entrepreneurs from northern Norway engaged to conduct checks throughout the selling process in in environmental innovation. We have also launched order to comply with regulations and our corporate pilot projects in both Norway and Sweden aiming at responsibility commitments, as well as to assess and assisting the integration of refugees and migrants into manage associated risks involved. We conduct on a the workforce, addressing one of the most important regular basis a due diligence process through “Know current social issues in the world. Early indications Your Customer” questionnaires to parties we are show that these projects are reaching their targets and dealing with, whether an end-user or a carrier of we look forward to expanding this work in 2017. our crude. Anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, ultimate beneficiary owner or destination restrictions The Sustainable Development Goals are key elements of our due diligence process. Lundin The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Petroleum conducts its business with well-established (SDGs) commonly called the Global Goals, set priorities partners who have similar business standards and for sustainable development through to 2030. The values. 17 goals require action in the economic, environmental, social and political sphere in order to address global challenges. It is a core value of Lundin Petroleum not only to produce oil and gas in an economically, environmentally and socially responsible way, but to promote this commitment within our sphere of influence, as we consider that solutions can only be found through collaborative efforts by different societal actors. 8 Art on the Edvard Grieg platform Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Our starting point is to conduct our operations in line About this report with the ten principles of the Global Compact. We also The objective of this Sustainability Report is to explain engage with our business partners, contractors and to our stakeholders how we carry out our activities, suppliers on ensuring that the principles are adhered to disclose our management approach and provide through our value chain. In addition, we take an active qualitative and quantitative data. part in the wider discussion on societal challenges, the roles and responsibilities of different societal actors in The report has been prepared in accordance with the promoting positive change. GRI G4 Guidelines’ core level, the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement and the UN Global Compact. In 2016, we integrated elements of the SDGs in our operations in particular as regards our environmental It focuses on issues that are determined as material footprint. We partnered with industry and academia to Lundin Petroleum and its stakeholders, as well as in R&D projects on innovative solutions, we initiated those deemed to be relevant in terms of potential new projects with the Lundin Foundation aimed at risks and impacts. The material issues we report on addressing challenges related to the refugee crisis for 2016 are essentially those which had emerged and by holding dedicated sessions with students, from our materiality assessment described in our 2015 institutional shareholders and the financial community Sustainability Report. The main difference we identified on the need to address social and environmental global in our review process is the increased importance of challenges, individually and through partnerships. climate change. This issue is thus more thoroughly addressed in this report. Throughout this report, you will find information on Lundin Petroleum’s work in 2016 to contribute to the Lundin Petroleum’s first Sustainability Report, which SDGs. was published in May 2016, has triggered further engagement with stakeholders. We would like to thank them for their positive comments and feedback, as it helps us to improve our reporting. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 9 Corporate Governance Integrity and responsibility are core values at Lundin A summary of payments to governments done by Petroleum and central to our reputation as Europe’s Lundin Petroleum can be found on page 47. The leading independent oil and gas company. Our Code report with details of payments is available on of Conduct sets our commitment to work responsibly, www.lundin-petroleum.com with integrity and respect, and provides guidance for everyone working for or on behalf of Lundin Petroleum. Board of Directors We are committed to ethical business practices and high Our Board of Directors is responsible for the standards of corporate governance. organisation of the Company and management of the operations in the interests of the Company and all We believe that our business can only be successful in shareholders. The Board should at all times have an the long-term if corporate responsibility commitments appropriate composition considering the current and are shared by everyone working for the Company. expected development of the operations. Our Board Strong corporate governance, comprehensive risk members come from a wide range of backgrounds management and robust internal controls are key to and possess both individually and collectively the achieving our goals. necessary experience and expertise. Currently three out of eight of the members of the Board of Directors Lundin Petroleum seeks to generate long-term are women. sustainable value for all its stakeholders. Since its creation in 2001 we have been guided by general principles of corporate governance to: • Protect shareholder rights • Provide a safe and rewarding working environment to all employees • Abide by applicable laws and best industry practice • Carry out activities competently and sustainably • Sustain the well-being of local communities in areas of operations Our corporate governance Lundin Petroleum is an independent Swedish oil and gas exploration and production company. Following the spin-off of its Malaysian, French and Dutch assets into International Petroleum Corporation in April 2017, our core area of business is Norway. The Swedish public limited liability company Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) is the parent company operating in Norway through its subsidiary Lundin Norway AS. As a Swedish public company listed on NASDAQ Stockholm, Lundin Petroleum is subject to the Swedish Companies Act and the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, as well as the Rule Book for Issuers of NASDAQ Stockholm. In addition, the Company abides by principles of corporate governance found in a number of internal and external documents, developed in accordance with relevant international standards. Lundin Petroleum has issued for the first time a standalone report on payments to governments in accordance with Swedish regulations implementing the EU Directive 2013/34 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and Lundin Norway office, Lysaker related reports of certain types of undertakings. 10 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Lundin Petroleum’s Governance Structure Shareholders Nomination Articles of Association Shareholders’ Committee Process Meeting Compensation Committee Nomination Committee Terms of Reference Statutory Auditor Audit Committee Board of Independent Qualified Directors Reserves Auditor Internal Control and Audit Investment Committee Code of Internal Audit Activity Rules of Procedure Investment CR/HSE Board representative Committee Charter President and CEO Code of Conduct Policies, Procedures, Guidelines and Management System Group Management Policies, procedures, guidelines Code of Conduct and management system Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct is a set of values While our Code of Conduct provides Lundin and principles formulated by the Board of Directors, Petroleum’s ethical framework, dedicated Group to give overall guidance to employees, contractors and policies, procedures and guidelines have been partners on how the Company is to conduct its activities developed to outline speciﬁc rules and controls. The in an economically, socially and environmentally policies, guidelines and procedures cover areas such responsible way, for the beneﬁt of all stakeholders, as Operations, Accounting and Finance, Health and including shareholders, employees, business partners, Safety, Environment, Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, host and home governments and local communities. Stakeholder Relations, Legal, Information Systems, Insurance & Risk Management, Human Resources, As a responsible company, we carry out our operations Inside Information and Corporate Communications. with high standards of ethical business conduct and They are continuously reviewed and updated strive for continuous improvement to ensure safe according to our Group management system. operations while preserving the environment. In addition, Lundin Petroleum has a dedicated We also recognise the importance of contractors’ Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management performance in matters related to Corporate System (the Green Book), modelled after the Responsibility and aim to ensure that our contractors, ISO 14001 standard, which gives guidance to suppliers and other business partners abide by the management, employees and contractors regarding same ethical standards by including our Contractor the Company’s intentions and expectations in HSE Declaration in our main contracts. In this process matters. The Green Book serves to ensure that all we also seek to increase awareness of Corporate operations meet our legal and ethical obligations, our Responsibility among our contractors. responsibilities and HSE commitments. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 11 Risk Management Our risk management creates value by enabling us to effectively identify, mitigate and monitor potential events affecting our business and the environment in which we operate Today’s business landscape is dynamic, fluid and often characterised by rapid change, regional differences and RE cultural practices that lead to business risks. The oil TIFICAT and gas industry faces operational and financial risks, EN SPON ID which even the combination of our robust processes, ION experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not fully eliminate or which are beyond the Company’s control. S IB CONTR ILITY Risk management creates value by enabling management to deal effectively with potential OL events in the Company’s operations and its business RING environment. Risk management is a process driven TO by the Company’s Board of Directors to encourage MONI foresight, pro-activeness and informed decision making. Risk management brings together the assessment and review of possible events and scenarios resulting in an increased awareness throughout the Company. It also gives management the ability to take informed decisions internally to face the challenges of the business environment and encourage and maintain a proactive risk management. Lundin Petroleum bases its risk approach on the internal control framework COSO 2013 in order to have a robust risk assessment methodology which covers all aspects of the Company’s operations, not only financial reporting. Risk identification Risk identification and assessments are related to our business strategy. A proper risk assessment forms the basis for highlighting which risks should be prioritised by local and Group management. As part of the risk identification and assessment process Lundin Petroleum reviews and analyses the risks that affect the business in each area of operations. The Company identifies strategic, operational, corporate responsibility, HSE, financial, security and external risks affecting its activities and this identification involves an analysis of interrelated internal and external factors. 12 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Employees in Geneva The risks are assessed on a quarterly basis, through a standardised methodology based on likelihood and “ Lundin Petroleum places impact. Regular reviews are conducted to focus on risk responsibility at all levels which risks may be reduced or eliminated; internal audits focus on risks identified in this process. to continually manage threats After identifying and assessing the significance of risks and opportunities affecting our and opportunities, management also considers control business ” measures. The prioritisation of control measures is based on high risks that could affect the business. Erin Link Group Risk Manager Control Controlling risk through effective management is achieved by creating a mandate and commitment to managing risk at all levels of our business. Risk The Company provides oversight through regular risk mitigation is an integral and continual part of the reporting which enables the continual review of factors control activities and decision making within Lundin such as: Petroleum. • Identifying new risks and opportunities Our robust policies and procedures allow for the • Maintaining ongoing awareness of the Company’s establishment of clear responsibilities and business risk environment, risk management programme, principles to reduce risk exposure. Controlling risk may and associated activities to support risk decisions also involve risk acceptance, avoidance, or transferring • Reviewing reported risks and incidents to ensure the impact and management of the risk to a third-party that adequate insurance coverage is in place by, for example, purchasing insurance or having risk transferred by contract. • Reviewing the internal audit plan based on reported risks Monitoring Monitoring risk is an important part of our continuous risk management process. It involves local operational accountability and clear responsibility for continuous identification of risks by risk owners. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 13 Compliance, Anti-Corruption and Whistleblowing Regulatory compliance As EITI’s mission is to combat corruption in all its forms Our minimum requirement throughout the Group is to in the extractive industry, it is a partner of choice for conduct our activities in full compliance with applicable Lundin Petroleum. laws and regulations that govern our industry. At the end of 2016, the EITI had 51 implementing In 2016, Lundin Petroleum had no signiﬁcant ﬁnes countries, disclosing USD 2 trillion of taxes and royalties or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with through EITI reports, a demonstration of increased environmental or other laws and regulations in the transparency of payments in the sector. Group. As in previous years, there were no cases of corruption throughout the Group. Regular meetings are held with the EITI Secretariat, based in Oslo, as well as with the head of its multiLundin Petroleum compliance stakeholder group. In 2016, we had a meeting with its Starting with legal compliance, Lundin Petroleum newly appointed Chairman, Fredrik Reinfeldt, in order has formalised its commitment to combat corruption to discuss the activities undertaken by the EITI. in its Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines and looks not only at its own conduct but that of its We see the EITI as an initiative that provides benefits to partners, contractors and suppliers. This is formalised governments, such as trust and accountability, as well through the inclusion of anti-corruption clauses as to our Company in terms of managing risks, enhance in main contracts and our Contractor Declaration. reputation and giving us the opportunity to be part of The Contractor Declaration, which describes Lundin efforts to combat corruption in all its forms. Petroleum’s expectations in relation to corruption, is a means to engage with partners on this issue as well Whistleblowing as to obtain their commitment in this respect. Should We encourage people working for us to raise concerns corruption take place at any of our contractors, it could regarding potential unethical or illegal conduct result in the termination of the contract. that may arise in the course of their professional engagements at any time in an open and direct manner. Commitment to combat corruption Compliance with national laws and internal rules and Lundin Petroleum’s Whistleblowing Policy and processes are a starting point for Lundin Petroleum, as Procedure empowers anyone working directly it is important to ensure that the Company abides by its or indirectly for the Company to raise concerns own rules before requiring the same from its partners regarding inappropriate conduct by raising and the industry in general. them with line managers or supervisors, or via whistleblowing@lundin.ch. Lundin Petroleum also actively promotes anticorruption through participation in various forums: In the course of 2016, the whistleblowing procedure was invoked once, by a former employee raising concerns • Participant company to the United Nations Global regarding an internal process. After a thorough Compact internal investigation, it was found that the Company’s • Member of the United Nations Global Compact conduct was in line with documented processes, laws Nordic Network and regulations, and industry practice. A detailed response was sent to the whistleblower who did not • Signatory of the United Nations Global Compact’s pursue the matter further. This case demonstrates that Call to Action on Anti-Corruption people working for us are aware of our commitment • Supporting company of the Extractive Industries to rigorous ethical conduct, that we are open to be Transparency Initiative (EITI) challenged, ready to review our documents to clarify issues which may give rise to misunderstanding and that we have the ability to deal with such claims. 14 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Edvard Grieg platform, North Sea (Norway) 15 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Our People The challenging oil market environment that has dominated over the past two years has had a major “ Our outstanding performance impact on the oil and gas industry. A continuation of would not be possible without low oil prices has led to a significant underinvestment during this period in the offshore industry and reduced the great team work and team activity levels have resulted in some difficult years for many oil and gas companies, suppliers and contractors spirit that exists within Lundin operating across the world. Petroleum ” Lundin Petroleum has adapted to the higher pressure Alex Schneiter on the industry through a continued focus on cost President and CEO efficiency and operational excellence and as a result, was one of the few oil and gas companies to increase its employee base in Norway in 2016. World class employees Maintaining an inclusive working environment and a high focus on performance has been the key to our success in attracting and retaining the best possible talent in the industry over the years. We will continue to build on this base of world class employees through our commitment to develop and invest in them as we believe that our people are our greatest single asset and the foundation for our future success. At the end of 2016, Lundin Petroleum had a total of 542 employees directly employed by the Group in seven different countries. The workforce increased in Norway, the organisation in Malaysia was restructured to adapt to the reduced level of activities and the divestment of the Indonesian assets was finalised. Lundin Petroleum also employs a large number of consultants and contractors who provide services for and on behalf of Lundin Petroleum. A total of 74 consultants were engaged for services related to exploration, project development and other operational activities. Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 4: Promote life-long learning GOAL 8: Ensure decent work Employees in Lundin Norway office, Lysaker 16 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 A diverse workforce We value an open and inclusive working environment and strive to maintain a competent, engaged and experienced workforce. Acting locally and thinking 542 employees globally is a guiding principle in our approach to the selection, recruitment and management of our employee base, by ensuring that all employment opportunities are offered on the basis of skills and experience. We recruit based on qualifications and irrespective of gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, etc. Women We are committed to promote equal opportunity and do 34% not accept any kind of discrimination. Wherever we operate, we actively strive to employ Employees locally so that we can benefit from local knowledge and experience. Our employees have the necessary skills, Men knowledge and motivation to be successful in their 66% work, and this contributed to the ongoing success of the Company in 2016, as demonstrated by its strong results and low levels of employee turnover compared Women to industry norms. 20% In 2016, a total of 29 different nationalities were employed throughout Lundin Petroleum’s global Management operations. Women represented 34 percent of the total workforce and 20 percent of managerial positions. The proportion of women in the Board of Directors was 38 Men percent. 80% Labour relations We actively engage and promote good employee Women relations and sound employment practices wherever we 38% operate, offering attractive and safe working conditions. Board of Norway, which is our largest operating area, enjoys Directors freedom of association. Lundin Norway is a member of Norwegian Oil and Gas, an employers association for oil Men and supplier companies, whilst union members among 62% staff are currently represented by either Tekna, Industri Energy, Safe or Lederne. Shaping the work environment Lundin International (France) dedicated its teambuilding day to modify the appearance of its buildings. Staff and management joined in creating street art on the walls of the main building and workshop of the Villeperdue production centre. All staff participated in this one-day event and produced paintings that not only improved the appearance of the working environment, but will also remind them of this creative and collaborative day. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 17 Health and Safety Our goal is zero injuries to people Safe and responsible operations The cornerstone of safe operations relies on having a “ Safety is part of our robust safety culture and competent people. It is our operational culture ” duty to provide staff and contractors with safe and healthy working conditions. We do so in a number of Kari Nielsen ways. At the outset there must be a clear understanding Operations Manager at Lundin Norway of the activities to be carried out, followed by risk analyses and rigorous planning. Policies, processes, procedures, work practices and equipment provide the framework for carrying out activities safely. In addition, Contractor management as safety requires people’s personal involvement, we Responsible contractor management starts with a due focus through training and toolbox talks on everyone’s diligence process at pre-qualiﬁcation stage, during role and responsibility to contribute to a safe working which contractors are screened on their HSE systems environment. We also encourage staff to raise their and performance. Our contracts contain clauses on concerns regarding any potential safety risks or hazards. parties’ obligation to abide by our Code of Conduct, HSE management system, as well as internationally Pro-active management recognised rules and standards on anti-corruption, The purpose of Lundin Petroleum’s Health, Safety and labour, human rights and the environment. Environment (HSE) management system is to prevent accidents or incidents which could have an impact Our Contractor Declaration, which forms part of our on people, the environment or on the Company’s main agreements, ensures that contractors are aware of assets. We undertake risk assessments and use Key our Corporate Responsibility requirements and commit Performance Indicators (KPIs) as HSE management to work accordingly. tools, focusing not only on areas where incidents have already occurred (i.e. lagging indicators) but also where To ensure expectations are met and safety standards they could potentially occur (i.e. leading indicators). respected, dedicated contractor sessions are held to Analysing near misses with high potential, enables us highlight the importance of HSE management and to put in place preventive measures to avoid future performance as well as communicate work programmes incidents. Carrying out investigations after incidents and related safety instructions. have occurred enables us to ascertain the causes of the incidents and take corrective action to prevent similar ones from happening again. In both cases lessons learned are integrated in work practices and shared Focus on safety training across the Group. HSE audits, carried out internally or through third parties, serve to identify additional areas In France, training starts with security inductions for of improvements. everyone entering our facilities; 167 security inductions were given in 2016. For everyone working for us this is complemented with dedicated safety training. There were Shared responsibility 81 such training sessions during the year. Safety is a joint responsibility. Contractors, suppliers and partners are expected to have a similar culture Emergency exercises are another form of training and practice, in order to ensure that the highest safety leading to enhanced readiness and learning by doing; standards are followed across all operations. 33 emergency drills were conducted in France. Third party training adds another layer of knowledge. 57 percent of all third party training provided to our staff in France was related to safety. Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 3: Promote health and well-being 18 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Lost Time Incident Rate (employees and contractors) Incident management We record all incidents that occur in our operations 3.0 and conduct investigations based on severity levels to (per million hours worked) 2.5 identify causes and introduce required improvement measures to prevent future occurrences. 2.0 LTIR 1.5 Key Performance Indicators 1.0 A fatal accident occurred in our operations in 2016. We tragically lost one of our sub-contractors working for 0.5 the FOS Leo supply vessel on the Bertam field, offshore 0.0 Malaysia. In-depth investigations into the accident were 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 conducted both by Lundin Malaysia and third parties with a view to fully understand the circumstances of the accident and ensure preventive measures are in place to avoid such accidents in the future. A comprehensive HSE programme was developed to improve control Lundin Petroleum’s of work and safety leadership and will continue to be HSE framework implemented throughout 2017. Furthermore, dedicated sessions were held with our teams in France and HSE GOALS Norway to discuss investigation findings and potential » Zero fatalities learning for their own operations. » Zero incidents » Zero harm to the environment In 2016, we achieved a Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) for Lundin Petroleum’s employees and contractors of 0.67 per million hours worked and a Total Recordable HSE Management Incident Rate (TRIR) of 2.34 per million hours worked. System / Green Book This is a marked improvement compared to 2015 and attests to our focus on safety at a time of high operational activity (see data table on page 44). Group Policies and Procedures Safety leadership programme Corporate Requirements Lundin Malaysia developed and implemented a control of work and safety leadership programme after the findings of the thorough investigation conducted in the aftermath of the fatality involving a sub-contractor Corporate Country working on the Bertam field. This programme aims to HSE Plans HSE Plans increase awareness, enhance capability, and improve accountability among offshore contractor staff and management. Further objectives of the programme Country Monitoring Reporting on are to raise the safety leadership skills of managers, and Corporate supervisors to lead by example and elevate personal Supervision Requirements safety commitment of all personnel. Country Yearly Self-assessment Reviews against HSE and Audits Management System Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 19 Safe Operations “ We operate in high interdependence with Ensuring safe and secure operations that protect people, contractors. Safe operations the environment and our assets is fundamental to our business, and we work closely with industry partners on is the joint accountability incident prevention and emergency preparedness. of everyone involved in our Major accident preventions activities ” We are committed to ensure that our activities, from exploration to production, are conducted safely, Nick Walker Chief Operating Officer cost effectively and in accordance with industry best practise. Emergency preparedness Rigorous planning integrating mitigation measures for Emergency response, oil spill and blowout contingency identified risks and the selection of competent staff plans are established prior to the commencement of and contractors are critical to accident prevention. activities, based on environmental risk assessments Process safety also plays an important part, as it and oil spill contingency analyses, as well as safety and involves managing the integrity of operating systems emergency preparedness reviews. and processes to prevent unplanned releases which could result in an incident. The prevention and control The emergency preparedness plan is tested on an of events that have the potential to release hazardous ongoing basis together with contractors through regular materials relies on good design principles, operating emergency response drills conducted at ﬁeld, country practices and ongoing maintenance. and Group level. 20 Drilling operations – Leiv Eiriksson drilling rig, southern Barents Sea (Norway) Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Offshore preparedness in Malaysia Onshore emergency preparedness in France Oil spill emergency preparedness was the subject of Given that our operations in France are onshore it is Lundin Malaysia’s annual major emergency exercise important to test emergency response in coordination in 2016. The exercise, preceded by a training session with local authorities and governmental emergency organised by the international oil spill response response structures. provider OSRL, included a refresher course on oil spill contingency planning. It led to an update We conducted an emergency fire exercise which of the emergency response management plan to mobilised over 100 people, among whom 40 firemen include OSRL’s incident command structure and the and representatives of a number of governmental development of the emergency business response plan agencies, such as the police, the prefecture, the fire and for the management team. rescue department, the regional and interdepartmental directorate for environment and energy, the regional This emergency drill involved the Bertam operations directorate for environment and planning, as well as offshore, the office in Kuala Lumpur, the corporate crisis contractors. management team and various external stakeholders. The exercise aimed at testing the emergency response The mayor of Montmirail, previously informed of the team’s knowledge and skills to respond efficiently to an drill, followed the event in real time after being briefed oil spill and provided assurance of Lundin Malaysia’s by the General Manager who coordinates emergency preparedness. management and external relations with the corporate crisis management team. The aim of the exercise is to train Lundin teams and local firemen to coordinate response in the event of a major accident. It also serves to assess the adequacy of emergency procedures and test external communications with stakeholders. A local newspaper reported that the exercise showed “a high level of professionalism” and was conducted with “impressive efficiency”. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 21 Safe Operations Audits Regulatory audits in Norway Verifying compliance with legal and corporate HSE The Petroleum Safety Authority (PSA) in Norway requirements takes place through audits. Regular is a regulator whose role is to supervise safety, audits are conducted by in-house experts within each emergency preparedness and the working environment operating entity and, on a yearly basis, we conduct in Norwegian petroleum activities. The PSA also corporate HSE management systems audits to ensure establishes standards for the petroleum industry. That adherence to Lundin Petroleum’s HSE policies and involves developing regulations, controlling companies’ management system requirements. compliance and taking enforcement action. One of its main priorities is to ensure that Company management In addition, third party audits by governmental maintain a high level of HSE culture. The PSA also authorities are conducted in each country of operations. pays a particular attention to oil and gas activities in The purpose of these audits is to identify potential the northernmost part of the Norwegian continental failures in our systems or practice and highlight shelf (NCS) to ascertain that they are conducted in a potential non-conformances or improvement measures. safe manner, safeguarding people, environment and They enable our operations to continuously improve assets by ensuring that technical, operational and systems and performance. organisational barrier elements are maintained in an integrated and consistent manner. In 2016, none of the audits resulted in material noncompliances, only in improvement measures. Lundin Norway was the subject of four audits by the PSA in 2016. The areas covered were barrier Regulatory audits in France management (i.e. existence of technical, operational French authorities conducted a total of ten audits in our or organisational barriers to prevent incidents) at French operations in 2016. Six of these were conducted the Edvard Grieg platform, the Company’s follow-up by the regional and interdepartmental directorate activities, information security and logistics. Out of four for environment and energy and four by the regional audits only one identified non-conformances related to directorate for environment and planning. All of the material handling, documentation and labelling. While audits confirmed compliance with local laws and these issues did not present high risks to the operations, regulations. they were addressed in a timely manner. Regulatory audits in Malaysia In addition to these safety audits, the Norwegian In 2016, the Malaysian regulatory body for petroleum Environment Agency conducted an audit on the Edvard activities conducted its first HSE Management System Grieg platform which identified two non-conformances Assurance audit at the Lundin Malaysia’s head office in related to the control of oil in water discharge Kuala Lumpur and at the Bertam field. The assurance measurements and the documentation relating to audit found a satisfactory HSE Management System environmental effects of possible use of dispersants in implementation with a few improvement measures, case of an oil spill. which led to strengthening our systems in place. We integrated all audit findings and thereby continuously improve our HSE performance. 22 Maintenance checks on the Edvard Grieg platform Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Fishing vessel near an oil and gas installation, North Sea (Norway) ©Philip Stephen Cross-industry safety collaboration “ The support of Lundin Petroleum and Safety in the oil and gas industry is also achieved through cross-industry collaboration. We recognise the other offshore operators is vital to the importance of cooperation with other industries sharing success of The FishSAFE Information the same geographical space. As offshore oil and gas Project and plays an important role to operations may take place in fishing areas, we must ensure that our activities do not interfere with others ensure the safety of fishermen, protect operating at sea. the environment and reduce damage to fishing and oil industry assets. The The FishSAFE Information Project is an example of collaboration to prevent incidents in the North Sea. project has received significant grants It provides fishermen with details of all oil and gas from the European Fisheries fund and structures and infrastructure in U.K. waters and certain the Scottish Government and involves pipelines in Norwegian waters through their electronic plotters and warning devices. FishSAFE information close co-operation between the fishing reduces the risk that fishermen will make contact and oil and gas industries. We and with subsea hazards when fishing causing injury, environmental harm or damage to fishing or oil and our delivery partners are very grateful gas equipment. Lundin Norway assets displayed in the for Lundin Petroleum’s continued FishSAFE information system include those spanning support. ” the U.K./Norway Exclusive Economic Zones (the Brynhild to Pierce assets). Niall Scott Executive Chairman of FLTC Services The FishSAFE Information Project is promoted by FLTC Services, a subsidiary of U.K. Fisheries Offshore Oil and Gas Legacy Trust Fund Limited. This is a company with charitable status set up by Oil and Gas U.K., the Scottish Fishermen’s Federation and the National Federation of Fishermen’s Organisations. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 23 Environment Environmental responsibility ZERO starts with understanding the context in which we operate oil spills in 2016 0 We are committed to respect and preserve the natural environment. Our operations are exposed to various environmental settings, from onshore to offshore sites, each with different natural characteristics and sensitivities. Oil spill prevention Exploring for and producing oil and gas may have Our goal is to prevent oil spills. Through our oil spill an impact on the environment. Hence, we see it as management system we ensure that risks are properly a priority to have in place measures to minimise assessed and that we have the competence and capacity the impact of our operations on the surrounding to prevent and, if need be, to respond effectively to a environment and we closely plan and monitor our spill. Elements of the management system include oil activities from this perspective. spill contingency plans and training of staff to prevent and remediate spills. Environmental assessments Environmental protection starts with prevention, In addition, all Group operations have arrangements which is made possible by understanding the with national oil spill response organisations as well as environmental context. Before starting any exploration with Oil Spill Response (OSRL), to ensure an effective or production activities, we perform or rely on existing response in case of need. environmental impact assessments and baseline surveys to determine the potential effects of our activities on Lundin Petroleum did not have any recordable oil spills the environment. The nature of the planned activities to the environment throughout the Group in 2016. and existing knowledge of the area determine the scope of the studies and can include a review of the literature, visual monitoring as well as sediment and Reducing discharges to sea water sampling. Depending on the ﬁndings, measures – the Norwegian zero goal may be taken to minimise environmental impact, for example by drilling a deviated well, changing the The Norwegian oil and gas industry has worked for a anchor pattern of the rig or bringing drill cuttings number of years to reduce discharges of environmentally to shore. Operational activities take place only after harmful substances to the sea and to reduce the pollution risk associated with such discharges. receiving an environmental permit from national or state authorities. Norway’s goal of zero environmentally harmful discharges to the sea was introduced in 1997 and calls Protecting biodiversity for the minimisation of discharges. The zero discharge The preservation of biological diversity is important to goal is to be reached within acceptable limits for the us and to our stakeholders. Baseline and impact studies environment, safety and economics. assess potential impacts and we map sensitive areas covered by national laws or international treaties such Restrictions on the use of chemicals are applicable for as the IUCN Protected Areas and the Ramsar Convention naturally occurring environmental pollutants, chemicals classified as hazardous to the environment, and oil, to ensure such areas are not negatively impacted by our drill cuttings or other substances which may cause activities. environmental harm. Since its introduction, the zero discharge goal has contributed to a stronger focus on the substitution or phasing-out of chemicals with environmentally harmful properties and has achieved a 98.5 percent decrease between 2003 and 2012. 24 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Waste management Waste is managed by operations depending on the type of waste involved; organic (e.g. food scraps) and inorganic (e.g. scrap metal, paper, plastics, batteries) waste are segregated and sent to recycling or disposal sites. Hazardous waste is treated according to industry practice before being safely disposed of according to local environmental regulations. The largest amount of waste produced takes place in relation to drilling. Drill waste includes drill mud and cuttings. Drilling muds are either water or oil based ﬂuids used to transport drilled cuttings from downhole to surface, to stabilise the rock being drilled and to ensure that the well remains in good condition. Cuttings are transported from the hole to the surface and segregated from the drilling mud. Once the process is complete, the cuttings are disposed of and the drilling ﬂuid either re-used or disposed of, depending on operational requirements. There are different disposal methods including reinjection, recycling, onshore disposal to controlled sites, and offshore disposal, and we ensure that they conform to regulatory requirements and best industry practice. Decommissioning Oil and gas projects can have a lifespan of several decades, and hence planning decommissioning early in the project life cycle enables us to make the required cost allocation in respect of our rehabilitation commitment. In our exploration activities, decommissioning is integrated in the original well design and well construction process. Under normal circumstances an exploration well is decommissioned once the well objective is achieved. During decommissioning the well is cut under the seabed Water management eliminating all protruding elements, restoring the Water use is an important global issue as water natural environment to its original condition. Plans for scarcity is a growing challenge in many regions. As our decommissioning based on authority requirements are operations are not located in any water scarce area, it outlined prior to production start-up. We did not carry does not represent a material risk for Lundin Petroleum. out any decommissioning activities related to producing fields in 2016. Water used in our drilling and production activities in Malaysia and Norway comes from non-fresh water sources, such as seawater. In France, we may withdraw fresh water from reservoirs or underground aquifers but quantities withdrawn do not reduce water availability to Aligning with the SDGs other potential users and takes place in accordance with authorities. GOAL 14: Conserve life below water We manage wastewater through on-site treatment and GOAL 15: discharge, re-injection into the oil or gas reservoirs or Protect life on land other regulated disposal methods. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 25 Long-term Ambitions in the Southern Barents Sea Loppa High Nord Lundin Petroleum has been an active operator in the Greenland Svalbard southern Barents Sea and intends to continue for (NORWAY) (DENMARK) many years to come. The Company acquired its first BARENTS southern Barents Sea licence in 2007 and has conducted SEA exploration activity continuously since 2011. We have so far made three significant discoveries: the Gohta Loppa High area Murmansk discovery in 2013, the Alta discovery in 2014 and the Hammerfest Filicudi discovery in early 2017. NORWEGIAN Our focus area is the Loppa High. We have identified SEA a number of exploration opportunities in the area and NORWAY have an active drilling programme ahead, which does ICELAND not involve any deep water drilling. We have a longterm exploration strategy for the entire Loppa High Area open for exploration with the ambition to better understand and develop the Operator area. We are evaluating potential solutions for a joint Partner development of Alta and Gohta and these solutions will be further matured until a concept selection is made. A potential investment decision and PDO approval could 5 Yearly average Temperature °C take place in a few years’ time. 0 temperature comparative Loppa High area Operational conditions -5 Hammerfest The oil and gas industry has been present and active in -10 Svalbard (Spitsbergen) the southern Barents Sea since the 1980s. The industry Alaska (Barrow) -15 is strictly regulated from an environmental point of view, from a coexistence standpoint with the fishery industry and from an overall risk perspective. More generally, requirements applicable to the Norwegian Furthermore, exploration activities in the northernmost Continental Shelf (NCS) apply to the Barents Sea. blocks of the southern Barents Sea can be conducted without harm or impact on the ice edge and the species Companies with an interest in petroleum exploration living there. The integrated management plan for the activities in the Barents Sea created BaSEC (Barents southern Barents Sea area has been in place since 2006. Sea Exploration Collaboration) in 2014 with the It is based on thorough research and development main purpose of sharing experience and increasing studies and operational experience data collected over knowledge concerning the health, safety and many years and has been the subject of numerous environmental (HSE) management in this area. political and public consultations. We are aligned with this plan stating that petroleum activities shall not BaSEC has not identified any HSE-related risks elements occur within 50 km of the ice edge. linked to our activities that cannot be handled with existing technology. Together with the industry, Regional and local ripple effects we have developed the required logistics solutions Our exploration and drilling activity produces ripple and emergency preparedness arrangements for our effects primarily associated with logistics, base, catering activities, taking into consideration the challenges and services. As we mature our discoveries up north we related to the area such as distances, visibility, polar will ensure regional suppliers understand our future lows, etc. needs and requirements, enabling regional suppliers to compete for future work. Our experience from the southern Barents Sea, compared with the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea, We engage in constructive dialogue with various is that there is less wind and generally better weather stakeholders in the area and have established over conditions compared to the Norwegian Sea, which, the years a strong collaboration with academia on in some parts of the year, can face more extreme northern Norway. Through the Lundin Foundation, conditions. Due to the influence of the Gulf stream, we are also collaborating on a pilot project through operating areas are ice free, allowing year-round Kunnskapsparken Nord (KUPA) (see page 40) mentoring activities. young entrepreneurs with sustainable business ideas. 26 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Operating in the southern Barents Sea Climatic conditions: • Ice-free area • Mild wind and waves • Seasonal darkness and cold • Wind and wave conditions similar to the North Sea Environmental stewardship: • Extensive environmental baseline assessment and seabed mapping • Robust emergency and oil spill response plans in place Leiv Eiriksson semi-submersible drilling rig, southern Barents Sea (Norway) 27 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Climate Change Our carbon intensity on Edvard Grieg is among the lowest in the industry Meeting the energy needs of the future Global warming is one of the greatest challenges of our time, requiring sharp reductions in anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, the demand for energy continues to grow, particularly in Asia. The challenge is therefore to produce more energy at lower carbon intensity. The 2°C scenario defined by the International Energy Agency (IEA) sees global energy demand increasing by 2040, with a slight decrease in oil consumption and a higher gas output. But oil and gas are also important feedstocks for chemicals, plastic raw materials and other finished products and demand for these will also rise with the expected growth in population and prosperity. Oil and gas provide nearly 60 percent of the world’s energy and will continue to make up a large part of the demand for decades to come. The challenge that lies ahead will be to develop and produce oil and gas in the most energy efﬁcient and environmentally responsible way, while increasing the share of renewable energy sources. Towards a low carbon society The United Nation’s COP21 climate summit in Paris adopted ambitious climate targets. While the goal of preventing the average global temperature from rising beyond 2°C still stands, it was agreed to seek to bring the increase down towards 1.5°C. The Paris Agreement also specifies that the climate goals must be reached in a way which does not undermine employment and prosperity. Between 2050 and 2100, greenhouse gas emissions should not exceed the level which can be absorbed naturally and through carbon capture and storage (CCS). This provides the framework for tomorrow’s low-emission society. Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 13: Integrate climate change measures Drilling operations, North Sea (Norway) 28 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 The Norwegian oil and gas industry Oil and gas activities on the Norwegian Continental More than 80 percent of Shelf (NCS) have been the driving force in Norway’s Lundin Petroleum’s operations economy for more than 40 years, and have formed the basis for developing the nation’s welfare state. The in 2016 are located in Norway, Norwegian society has benefited from it in the form the most energy efficient oil of jobs, robust centres of expertise and value creation. The Norwegian supplier industry operates globally in and gas producing country in a number of areas and ranks today as the second most important export sector for the country, after export the world of petroleum. Value creation by the petroleum activity has given the Norwegian government the opportunity Average emissions intensity to build up and maintain good welfare systems and to 2015 accumulate revenues in the government pension fund. An important part of the income stream from the state 40 to municipalities comes from oil and gas revenues and goes to nursery schools, healthcare facilities and 35 schools. 30 kgCO2 e/boe 25 Forecasts from the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate indicate that more than half of the resources on the NCS 20 are yet to be discovered. This offers great opportunities 15 for the Norwegian community as oil and gas will 10 continue to be one of the cornerstones of the country’s economic growth. 5 0 The Norwegian society, government and oil and gas World North Europe Norway Edvard America Grieg1 industry however recognise that there are challenges ahead to extract these resources in the most sustainable 1 Edvard Grieg production and way. The oil and gas industry has in that respect development drilling emissions in 2016 joined efforts to contribute to global climate targets by reducing emissions and utilising oil and gas in an energy efficient way. Reliance on oil Leader among producing nations PETROCHEMICALS Norwegian petroleum production is among the leaders for low greenhouse gas emissions. The average amount INDUSTRY released per unit produced in 2015 is less than half the global figure. The industry has cut its emissions by more BUILDINGS than five million tonnes of CO2 since 1996 as a result of a number of policy instruments and innovation. OTHER Norway is also a leader for recovery factors from oil TRANSPORT and gas fields on the NCS. That reflects a purposeful commitment to technology development and POWER implementation, as well as close collaboration between GENERATION different technical disciplines. Important areas include improvements to methods for data acquisition and modelling in order to identify new drilling targets, World oil demand by 2040: important advances in drilling technology, extensive 103.4 MMbpd use of gas or water injection for pressure support, and low-pressure production in the late life of the fields. (vs 92.5 MMbpd in 2015) Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 29 Climate Change Norway’s policies and carbon tax result in effective reduction in carbon emissions Regulatory framework Value creation and reduced greenhouse Several policy instruments were implemented by the gas emissions from the NCS Norwegian government to regulate the Norwegian oil The roadmap for the Norwegian Continental Shelf (NCS) industry’s carbon dioxide emissions. These emissions is an initiative by the Norwegian oil and gas industry are primarily released from burning gas and diesel oil to to adapt to a future low-emission society. The roadmap generate the necessary power and heat on installations deals first and foremost with the ambitions for reducing to produce oil and gas and from limited flaring of gas greenhouse gas emissions from the petroleum sector, and which is primarily a safety precaution. contains an action plan which describes the specific steps the industry will take to reach the established goals. The carbon tax is the most important Norwegian carbon reduction incentive measure, alongside the purchase of The roadmap was developed by Konkraft, which consists of representatives from Norwegian Oil and the EU emission trading system’s (ETS) allowances for Gas, the Federation of Norwegian Industries, the carbon emissions. These two regulatory mechanisms Norwegian Shipowners Association as well as the constitute the most stringent climate policy instruments Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions represented since 1991. by Fellesforbundet and Industri Energi. Lundin Norway contributed in developing the Norwegian Oil and Gas Other key measures include the zero flaring policy, input to the roadmap. emission and discharge permits with requirements for energy management, the use of the best available The Norwegian petroleum industry has the following technology and the feasibility assessment of power from goals for 2030: shore for new developments. Maintain safe and profitable production at the present level and implement CO2 reduction measures from 2020 Many of the measures adopted have contributed to a which correspond cumulatively to 2.5 million tonnes of substantial reduction of emissions, but further emission CO2 equivalents per year by 2030 reductions from the industry will be required. In a 2050 perspective, emissions along the whole value chain and for 2050: from drilling and production to field cessation and end Maintain its position as Norway’s most important value use of oil and gas must be substantially reduced from creator and increase the average recovery factor to at their current levels. least 60 percent. Lundin Petroleum supports the Norwegian industry’s The NCS will remain the world leader for low CO2 roadmap for the NCS, which sets clear ambitions and emissions and the sector will develop and adopt goals for emission reductions. technology and solutions which substantially will reduce average CO2 emissions per unit of hydrocarbons produced compared with the 2030 level. 30 Johan Sverdrup – Phase 2 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 World class efficiency Johan Sverdrup efficiency The majority of our activities are located in Norway, The major development project Johan Sverdrup, in the area in the world which over the past ten years which Lundin Norway has a 22.6 percent working has had the lowest carbon intensity levels in the interest and operated by Statoil, is another project industry. At the same time it is the country with the which will demonstrate how innovative technical highest carbon tax for oil operations. By including solutions can lead to increased energy efﬁciency and a climate change considerations in operational activities signiﬁcant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The and in the selection of installation designs, products Johan Sverdrup ﬁeld will receive power from shore from and equipment, we have minimised both our carbon the start of production, expected to result in reduced footprint and our operational costs. emissions to air by 80 up to 90 percent compared to a standard development. The platform on the Edvard Grieg field, located west of Stavanger in the North Sea, has been constructed Powering offshore installations from land has using the best available technology which was applied already been implemented on a number of fields in in three carbon emitting processes: ﬂaring, power the Norwegian Continental Shelf where conditions generation and energy management. Flaring does not are appropriate. The industry conducts a detailed take place in normal operations. Power generation assessment of opportunities for power from shore in all is highly efficient with gas turbines and energy new developments on the NCS. management is optimised with heat waste recovery. Energy efﬁciency on Edvard Grieg has reached a level Lundin Petroleum’s emissions as to become a world class platform, with emission In 2016, Lundin Petroleum’s direct GHG emissions were intensity levels considerably lower than the Norwegian 264 thousand tonnes, representing a carbon intensity of average. 8.9 CO2e kg/boe. This represents a low carbon intensity level compared to the industry, which stood at 20.5 in In order to fulfil our obligations, we have implemented 2015. an energy policy for our operated production facilities on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. This energy Beyond operations policy has contributed to the implementation of In addition to operational measures, Lundin Petroleum energy management on Edvard Grieg, which is in monitors and actively participates in the debate compliance with the energy management system on climate change and, through engagement with NS-EN ISO 50001:2011. This enables us to ensure environmental organisations and other stakeholders, we a systematic management approach focusing on stay informed of the latest developments on this issue continuous improvement of energy consumption and in order to remain among the most carbon efficient oil performance. Furthermore, we support the approach companies. to new technology such as energy efficient products, services and design solutions. We participate in technology development aiming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from heat and power production. Aligning with the SDGs GOAL 9: Contribute to innovative and energy efficient industry and infrastructure Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 31 Human Rights Respect for Human Rights Engaging with stakeholders on human rights is an integral part of Although we have no salient human rights issues, we consider it important, as a responsible corporate citizen, business to contribute to the debate on business and human rights to confirm the relevance of these issues. In the course of 2016, we took part in the CSR Week of the Stockholm School of Economics presenting our We are committed to ensure that we respect human Corporate Responsibility approach and showing how rights throughout all of our business activities. The such an approach is an integral part of business success majority of our assets are located offshore and in Europe for companies like Lundin Petroleum. We also took which means that we operate in a low risk environment part in a panel discussion organised by the Geneva Bar with respect to human rights. We are nonetheless Association on the UN Guiding Principles on Business attentive to potential risks both in Europe and in other and Human Rights, where the issue was discussed from countries of operations. the point of view of business (Lundin Petroleum), civil society (Amnesty International) and government (Swiss Lundin Petroleum adheres to all applicable national Ministry of Foreign Affairs). and local legislation, and follows principles for business and human rights embodied in international initiatives such as the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our Human Rights Policy and Guidelines provide guidance on our human rights due diligence process for our operations to identify, assess and determine potential human rights risks and measures to prevent or mitigate them if they occur. Through screening, we review potential human rights impacts in relation to our planned or existing activities. The screening in 2016 showed no violations and that practices in place are adequate to address potential risks. Our leverage for human rights We also seek to contribute to promoting human rights in the industry by engaging on the issue with partners and by requiring contractors and suppliers to comply with Lundin Petroleum’s Contractor Declaration, which outlines the commitment to respect human rights and to observe the highest standards of ethical business conduct. UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights The adoption of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in 2011 marked a new understanding of and greater expectations for human rights issues and obligations within the global business community. Lundin Petroleum endorsed the UN Guiding Principles in 2012 and is committed to respect human rights and promote human rights in the business environment as fundamental values necessary to our success. Employees in front of Lundin Norway office, Lysaker 32 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Stakeholder Engagement “ An open dialogue with our stakeholders helps us to better plan and execute our Understanding the context in which we operate and work in line with common the expectations of our stakeholders is an important aspect of how we do business. We engage with our expectations ” stakeholders at different levels, depending on the nature of their interest or their link to our activities. Paul Atkinson General Manager at Lundin Malaysia We communicate honestly and transparently with people and organisations which may be impacted by or impact our activities. Our engagement takes place International initiatives once we have analysed these different aspects and are We engage with a variety of organisations such as confident that we have ascertained genuine needs and NGOs and industry groups to exchange views and best expectations. Our ability to identify and address these practice in terms of responsible business conduct. We expectations is key in fostering constructive and longare members of different industry associations and term relationships and in enabling us to carry out our participate in the work of international initiatives that activities. promote principles of corporate citizenship like the UN Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles on Business Shareholders & Human Rights, the Extractive Industries Transparency We inform our shareholders regarding our strategy and Initiative (EITI) and the CDP. ongoing activities through our ﬁnancial reports, press releases, presentations and website. Engagement with shareholders also takes place in informal meetings and at shareholder meetings. Stakeholder engagement for seismic campaigns Employees In order to ensure safety for all and to avoid interference We maintain an open and ongoing dialogue with our between our seismic activities in Malaysia and other staff throughout the Group. Our corporate management offshore activities, we notify and discuss our plans with visits country operations on a regular basis to share stakeholders to agree on the best way forward. our strategy and plans, and discuss how those are implemented in-country. Staff presentations also take A seismic campaign refers to seismic data acquisition in a place throughout the Group. survey area and the processing of the captured data. This takes place with a survey vessel accompanied by three support vessels. Many stakeholders, from local fishermen Business partners to host authorities, are involved in seismic campaigns, We have an ongoing dialogue with our business whose impacts on stakeholders vary depending on partners at management level where we share the survey area. Marine seismic data acquisition can operational strategy and plans and at the operational affect the fishing community in the area of survey. The level where we work together to ensure safe and fishermen may not be able to fish in the area because the effective operations. We also discuss, collaborate and survey vessel needs separation space in order to maintain work closely with partners, suppliers and contractors to a safe distance and avoid any chance of collision. develop innovative solutions. Fish traps and fish aggregating devices may have to be removed in the survey area. These can potentially affect fishermen’s livelihood and source of income if no Host governments compensation takes place. Fishermen are compensated We initiate a dialogue with host governments prior in a fair and equitable way in coordination with the to the application for a licence and we continue to Department of Fisheries and the regulator Petronas. interface with national or local authorities throughout the lifecycle of our operations. The engagement takes place at multiple levels: with Petronas, the Department of Fisheries, Malaysia Maritime Local communities Enforcement Agency, Royal Malaysia Navy and local We visit the communities where we are planning to stakeholders such as fishermen. After the formal approval from the National Security Council we hold have a presence, whether through an office, a supply discussions with neighbouring operators and conduct base, or other operational facility in order to determine local authority briefings. A multi-language liaison officer the best way to conduct our activities. is responsible for communicating with the fishermen. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 33 Stakeholder Engagement Engaging with youth through student Drill riser design competition The idea is to copy building techniques from nature Our industry depends on improving techniques, to offshore structures. The stem of a daffodil is formed technologies and products to continuously become safer as a helically twisted elliptic cylinder. This allows it and more efficient. To achieve this we search for new to be slim, yet strong enough to carry the weight of a ideas on an ongoing basis. By launching the student relatively large flower and to withstand the drag force competition “Show us your idea!” in Norway we aimed of the wind. Applied to risers at an offshore platform, at encouraging young people to look at the oil and gas for instance, a shape like this could make it stronger industry with fresh eyes and to come forward with and more stable, and the twisted shape could reduce suggestions for new ways of doing things. vibration induced by vortex in the water (Wonmin Jeong’s, master student at University of Stavanger). The ideas generated do not necessarily need to be major inventions, as we know from the industry’s Virtual reality training development that what becomes a major improvement The idea is to use virtual reality technology in training over time often consists of many small steps. Our offshore personnel. This is a technology that gives new approach is to consider all ideas even if they would not opportunities to training in complex socio-technical be technologically feasible today, by weighting the ideas systems. Virtual reality, through VR-glasses, gives vivid themselves and innovative ways of thinking. and realistic training scenarios without the need of expensive simulators. This relatively cheap equipment Our jury composed of experts from Lundin Norway also allows developers to work on non-proprietary assessed all the proposals and selected three winners, software. A training programme which ensures that who were given the opportunity to present their ideas trainees are frequently and well trained, and that at the 2016 ONS Conference in Stavanger, the annual operators have the necessary skills and knowledge of flagship event of the international oil and gas industry. the systems, could improve both safety and efficiency The winners were offered advice and guidance from (Jørgen Ernstsen’s, PhD candidate at University College Lundin Norway on how to further mature and develop of Southeast Norway). their ideas. We also brought them offshore on the Edvard Grieg platform in the North Sea for a guided tour of the installation. The following three projects were selected based on our two criteria: value of the idea and innovative thinking. Gas hydrates injection The idea is to utilise gas hydrates for injection into reservoirs to provide pressure support for improved and increased production. Gas hydrates are stable as long as we are able to control pressure and relatively low temperatures. With rising temperatures the hydrates convert into gas, expanding to a volume 170 to 180 times the original size of the hydrates. Therefore the potential use of gas hydrates for injection purposes is substantial. There are however still technological barriers to the current implementation of the idea (Tonje L. Bjerga’s, master student at Norwegian University of Science and Technology). Student visit on the Edvard Grieg platform 34 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Engaging with financial institutions: ABN AMRO’s integrated sustainability approach “ The energy sector is an area of strategic importance to ABN AMRO. We acknowledge the energy sector’s complexities and believe that for the sector to continue moving towards a more sustainable path, the sustainability challenges should ABN AMRO’s Sustainability Risk Framework be addressed in a comprehensive and structured manner. ABN AMRO’s Sustainability Risk Framework Sustainability risks such as climate change, water scarcity, ensures risks are adequately identified, population growth, resource constraints are all combining to analysed, mitigated, managed, monitored and change the nature of the risks our clients have traditionally reported. Our framework includes a coherent set been exposed to. As a bank, acting as financier and advisor to of policies, guidelines and statements describing the sector, understanding our clients’ management of those how we manage our sustainability risks and risks is crucial as it can also translate into risk for ourselves; embeds it in our decision making process. it is therefore a key component of our client acceptance and credit approval process. Client Onboarding & Credit approval: potential new clients are assessed against our We have opted for an inclusive strategy with our oil and sustainability framework before on-boarding. gas clients and we seek to partner with companies that are The outcome of the sustainability analysis is industry leaders, apply high sustainability standards, commit discussed in the client acceptance committees. to drive transition towards a more sustainable environment Once a relationship has been approved, and actively engage in dialogue with their stakeholders. financing request are further assessed for additional sustainability risks (e.g. financing As part of our due diligence in relation to the USD 5.0 billion of project or assets) and the outcome of the reserve base lending facility in favour of Lundin Petroleum, sustainability analysis is discussed by the we assessed the Company’s sustainability profile. In 2016 approving committee. We then annually review we held a number of discussions with Senior Management, both our clients and individual financings to including the VPs of Corporate Responsibility and of Corporate ensure ongoing compliance. Finance. At the time the Company had just published its first Annual Sustainability Report, which we viewed as an Sustainability Dialogue & Assessment: important milestone in its sustainability journey. Over the Direct engagement with the client is the starting next few months we discussed the Company’s perspective point of the sustainability assessment as it on sustainability risks faced by the energy sector and Lundin allows us to better understand our clients’ risks Petroleum’s approach going forward (for example in relation and challenges, and their approach to managing to its new exploration licences in the southern Barents these. We take an integrated approach with both Sea), as well as its plans and further ambitions in terms of our coverage bankers and in-house sustainability sustainability. We shared our methodology with the Company experts, jointly leading these discussions. Topics and their feedback on our tools will allow us to sharpen our include, amongst others, health and safety, understanding of the industry. human rights, climate change, environmental impact and GHG emissions, local communities We value these dialogues as they improve our mutual and working conditions. understanding, provide a means to share best practice, to learn from each other and discuss practical next steps for Independence & Governance: both the client and the bank that may contribute to the Our governance model includes dedicated transition towards a more sustainable energy sector. For sustainability experts embedded in the business, example, an important topic for the bank is climate change as well as a centralised sustainability team and how our clients will adapt to the Paris Agreement and focusing on policy development and advising resulting GHG emissions reduction targets. We therefore look on sensitive files. This guarantees independent forward continuing the discussion on these topics with Lundin sustainability analysis and further safeguards Petroleum. compliance with the bank’s sustainability requirements. Files that raise particular We find Lundin Petroleum’s sustainability ambition and concerns or dilemma are discussed at the board approach to be consistent with ours: based on a strong level. This ensures that the most sensitive files commitment from senior management to the highest receive board level attention and commitment. standards, it is fully integrated into day to day operations and supported by a strong company culture and governance model. Peter Boogers Global Head Energy Clients, ABN AMRO Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 35 Innovation through R&D Projects Our “no intellectual property rights” approach is reflected in our vision for shared value creation Innovation has brought us and the industry to where Innovation without intellectual property rights we stand today and is key to our future success as As much as innovation is needed it is most of the time innovative solutions help us to increase efficiency, protected by intellectual property (IP) rights which speed up and deliver more cost-effective developments, safeguard the economic interests of the creator. This and enhance the safety of our operations. approach adds a barrier to full implementation and widespread expansion of the innovative solution. We We promote innovation through Research and are proud to distinguish ourselves with our approach Development (R&D) projects in various fields and in of sharing our knowledge and ideas openly. We believe collaboration with research centres around the world. we gain more from sharing new ideas and solutions We work with governmental research institutes, worldthan from claiming IP rights, as these innovations might class academics and industry specialists, and share ideas make the industry as a whole safer, more efficient and and expertise with business partners inside and beyond more profitable. the oil and gas industry to drive innovation forward. In Norway, we have a global network of R&D partnerships covering 74 projects to which we Aligning with the SDGs contributed MUSD 10.8 in 2016. GOAL 9: Invest in research and innovation 36 CGG’s TopSeis™ broadband seismic acquisition concept Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Developing new seismic technology What initially started as an idea from one of Lundin Norway’s geophysicists has now been transformed into a new market-ready technology for seismic data imaging. Over the course of several years we have worked with the geoscience company CGG to develop a completely new acquisition solution named TopSeis™. This new solution provides a significantly better image of the subsurface and hence overcomes the inability of previous methods to image shallow geological features, such as faults, gas pockets, channels and stratigraphic “ Developing TopSeis has been a winpinch-outs. By overcoming these shortcomings, TopSeis™ enables exploration and development teams win for Lundin Norway and CGG. It has to make critical investment decisions on the basis of resulted in an acquisition solution for high-quality data delivered at a lower cost compared to other seismic acquisition techniques. Lundin Norway that addresses the specific imaging challenges on the In conventional acquisition of seismic data, the signal Loppa High and in a new promising source is placed in front of the streamers and is towed by the same seismic vessel, and results in a large part technology for CGG. ” of the signal reflections not being recorded. Seabed Halvor Jahre seismic, where the streamers are placed directly on the Exploration Manager at Lundin Norway seabed and the source is towed above, partly solves these challenges, but comes at a higher cost. TopSeis™ is a method involving two seismic vessels TopSeis™ provides a detailed and quantitative depiction operating in tandem. By placing the signal sources of of the reservoirs, and is particularly well-suited for one of the boats directly over the cables instead of in relatively shallow oil and gas fields such as those in front of them, this yields more signal reflection than the southern Barents Sea. This will reduce the risk with conventional seismic acquisition. This allows us associated with drilling and improve the chance of to examine the subsurface with ten to fifteen times finding oil and gas. The acquisition method also makes more signal energy. To achieve this, the streamers must it possible to cover a large area in a single operation be towed at a sufficient depth in the water so that the and is therefore much more cost-effective than seabed vessel with the streamer can sail over them without seismic. interfering with the cables, an operation previously considered impossible. CGG announced the launch of TopSeis™ at ONS 2016. It represents the latest evolution in offshore broadband seismic and is specifically designed to overcome the intrinsic lack of near offsets inherent in 3D towed“ We are delighted to have had the streamer seismic. opportunity to work so closely with CGG was a natural choice when Lundin Norway set Lundin on the development of TopSeis out to challenge a seismic company to transform the and look forward to seeing how this TopSeis™ idea into a feasible commercial method. The method has been improved and tested using advanced solution will open the door to a better data models. Successful field tests were conducted off understanding of shallow reservoirs the coast of Gabon in western Central Africa and at the to help oil and gas companies extract Frigg-Gamma field in the North Sea. In connection with further exploration activity, Lundin Norway plans to the full potential of these highly move forward with full-scale TopSeis™ surveys on the prospective fields in the Barents Sea Loppa High in the southern Barents Sea during 2017. and beyond. ” Jean-Georges Malcor CEO of CGG Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 37 Innovation through R&D Projects Research collaboration The Research Centre for Arctic Petroleum Exploration (ARCEx) is a Norwegian research centre hosted and led by the University of Tromsø, the Arctic University of Norway. The overarching goal of ARCEx is to create new knowledge about the petroleum resources in the Arctic and to provide essential knowledge and methodology for eco-safe exploration. The research is carried out at six universities (UiT, NTNU, UiO, UiB, UNIS and UiS) and four research “ The aim of ARCEx is to improve institutions (Akvaplan-niva, IRIS, NGU and Norut). our understanding of arctic geology ARCEx will educate and train highly competent through the development and use of candidates for the industry and academia within petroleum geology and environment, and the centre eco-friendly exploration techniques will recruit at least 27 PhD and postdoctoral fellows. with the least possible risk of Lundin Norway is one of eight industry partners. ARCEx ecological impact. Hence, ARCEx is a receives financial support from industry partners, from truly multidisciplinary research centre the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy, the Ministry where we educate specialists in arctic of Foreign Affairs (through the Research Council of Norway) and from Troms County Council. geology, geophysics, technology, marine biology, ecotoxicology and risk Research topics include: analysis. ” • Assessment of the petroleum potential in the Barents Sea Professor Alfred Hanssen Director ARCEx • Reconstruction of rifting, uplift, subsidence, erosion and sedimentation in space and time in the Arctic • Link between onshore and offshore arctic geology • Sensitivity of species in arctic ecosystems • Risk management for arctic projects Basin analysis • Seismic in the presence of sea ice • Development of sustainable seismic sources Lundin Norway is a key industry partner in ARCEx, Environmental Petroleum providing not only financial support, but also risk systems and play participating in the research through co-supervision of management concepts Implications PhD candidates and co-authoring of scientific papers. for petroleum exploration in the Arctic “ Participation in ARCEx is a means to improve our success rates and reduce financial and environmental exposure Education Technology and for eco-safe for projects in the high north. ” outreach exploration Geir Birger Larssen Geological Advisor at Lundin Norway 38 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainable Investments Addressing societal challenges beyond our operations Throughout this report, we have explained the manner In 2016, we initiated projects in Norway and Sweden. in which we conduct our activities and the steps taken These initiatives target the following key issues. at different operational stages to integrate ethical, environmental and social responsibilities in our Refugee integration operating systems. The on-going instability in the Middle-East has increased the number of people seeking safety and refuge. Such Given the nature and location of our activities, we may an influx creates high demands on existing resettlement not through our activities alone have a material impact and integration services. New and innovative beyond our immediate sphere of responsibility. We opportunities to effectively support the integration of remain committed, however, to be part of the solution newcomers are a priority across Europe. to wider societal challenges. This is why we decided to partner with the Lundin Foundation to join with other Social and environmental likeminded companies, governmental and civil society entrepreneurship among youth organisations working on finding innovative solutions Across Scandinavia, there is a growing interest in to key economic, social and environmental challenges. entrepreneurship among youth as a viable career path. The Foundation has leveraged its track record and The Lundin Foundation addresses the needs of SMEs experience in impact investing to launch new initiatives facing limited access to ﬁnancing through its impact supporting the growth of social and environmental investments. It provides ﬁt for purpose capital, in the innovation in the region. form of accelerator grants, debt and equity, to help reﬁne and scale early stage ideas. Investment criteria are ﬁnancial viability of the project, innovative business models, but most importantly measurable social or environmental impact. Partnership with the Lundin Foundation The Lundin Foundation, founded in 2005, is a globally Our partnership initially focused on access to energy, recognised leader in impact investments. Through our biodiversity conservation and sustainable ﬁsheries, partnership with the Lundin Foundation, we support themes which are aligned with the United Nations innovative solutions to key economic, social and Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). As our areas environmental challenges which are relevant to our areas of operations. of operations have shifted to Norway, so has the geographical focus and type of projects we support. In the first years of the partnership, which was initiated in 2013, we focused on projects in Malaysia and Indonesia that aimed to increase access to renewable energy, improve biodiversity conservation and promote sustainable fisheries. With Lundin Petroleum’s operational focus shifting to Norway, the strategy has been revised to better reflect Aligning with the SDGs our geographical footprint. GOAL 17: In 2016, we identified projects in Norway and Sweden Strenghten partnerships for which aim at supporting the refugee and migrant sustainable developpment population in these countries to improve their professional skills, start or expand businesses or enhance their employability. Lundin Petroleum also supports a project in the north of Norway that aims to encourage sustainable entrepreneurship and innovation among youth in the area. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 39 Sustainable Investments Arctic Accelerator, C/O Business, Northern Norway Malmö, Sweden Social and environmental innovation is a growing field The refugee crisis has led to a large influx of refugees in that is gaining traction in Norway among the next Sweden over the last couple of years, which will require generation of entrepreneurs who see the opportunities substantial efforts from all actors in society to achieve in running a profitable business while also having a successful integration. positive impact on societal challenges. The Lundin Foundation has partnered with Impact The Lundin Foundation has partnered with Invest Scandinavia to pilot C/O Business, a business Kunnskapsparken (KUPA), a business incubator accelerator targeted at the ‘invisible entrepreneurs’ operating in northern Norway to launch a programme – refugees who were successful entrepreneurs called Artic Accelerator. This programme supports in their home countries. Supporting ‘invisible start up and early stage entrepreneurs under the age entrepreneurs’ creates unique opportunities for new of 35 based in northern Norway, to grow and develop businesses to emerge as well as for employment of business ideas which promote the sustainable use refugees. C/O Business provides in-depth support to of local resources and environmental sustainability. help entrepreneurs understand the Swedish business By focusing in these areas, the Accelerator aims to environment, requirements and links to the business support sustainable environmental innovations, while network. The target impact of C/O Business is to also enhancing entrepreneurship and employment support the growth of sustainable enterprises, create opportunities in northern Norway. employment among refugees and demonstrate an innovative model to supporting employment and The initiative was launched in July 2016 and received integration. over 20 high quality applications. Six businesses have been selected and are receiving in-depth support from C/O Business was launched in Malmö and Lund in KUPA’s vast array of resources to grow businesses active the south of Sweden in September 2016. It received in a range of sectors including reduction in supermarket over 60 applications and is now working with waste, sustainable aquaculture, marine waste 14 entrepreneurs leading a range of businesses management, shared shipping economy and seaweed including: children’s environmental education farming. The pilot programme will conclude in 2017 programming in Arabic and Swedish, halaal poultry with the entrepreneurs pitching to potential investors. processing, food and arts cultural centre and solar installations. The first round of C/O Business will conclude in June 2017, offering an opportunity for the entrepreneurs to pitch to local investors and scale business aspirations. “ Arctic Accelerator was launched in July 2016 as a unique pilot programme aimed at young entrepreneurs in northern Norway with business ideas promoting sustainable development in the region. Arctic Accelerator is the result of excellent cooperation with the Lundin Foundation and we look Aligning with the SDGs forward to evaluate the pilot and to develop the programme further in GOAL 1: Contribute to ending poverty 2017. ” GOAL 8: Trond Slettbakk Contribute to sustainable Managing Director, KUPA economic growth 40 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 BOOST Accelerator, BOOST was launched in September 2016 and within Oslo, Norway a few weeks, the programme received 34 applications of In 2015, Norway received over 30,000 refugees, not an which five have been selected for in-depth business insignificant number in a country with a population training and mentoring support. The programme will of 5.2 million people. While existing institutions are continue through to 2017 when the most promising offering much needed services, opportunities exist to enterprises will have an opportunity to pitch to local accelerate the path to employment for newcomers. investors. The Lundin Foundation partnered with SoCentral, a One such initiative is International Sandwich Brothers, recognised leader in social innovation in Norway and which is led by a team between the ages of 18 to 24. the Municipality of Oslo to launch BOOST Refugee, a It has been operational for less than 6 months but has pilot accelerator focused on developing sustainable already created 12 jobs and is on a strong growth track. solutions to improve employment outcomes for refugees. International Sandwich Brothers, Oslo 41 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainable Investments RARE Fish Forever, Indonesia RARE Indonesia promotes sustainable near shore ﬁsheries while improving livelihoods, protecting habitats and enhancing coastal resilience to climate change. The Lundin Foundation established a partnership with RARE’s Fish Forever programme in 2014. The objective of this pilot programme was to introduce new governance models in nearshore fisheries, use market based incentives to promote sustainable management practices and improve the sustainability of fisheries for local communities. The Fish Forever pilot project concluded in 2016 with notable achievements. Working closely with local governments and traditional leadership, 54,356 hectares of nearshore fisheries have been legally recognised with Territorial Usage Rights and No Take Zones. This is the first of its kind in Indonesia. It benefits 2,000 fishing families through usage based rights, improving the incentives to adopt sustainable fishing practices. RARE also launched a successful pilot to introduce seaweed farming as an alternative income stream for fishermen. The pilot has demonstrated the potential for twofold increase in income for seaweed farmers. Based on the success of the pilot, the number of fishermen taking up seaweed as an income opportunity has increased by threefold. Sustainable fishing, Indonesia As a result of our partnership, RARE is preparing to scale the approach to 40 sites in 2017, working closely with government and new funders. Donation to the Swiss Red Cross Aligning with the SDGs for Syrian refugees GOAL 12: Lundin Petroleum made a donation to the Swiss Red Ensure sustainable consumption Cross for its work with Syrian refugees, a population and production plagued by several years of conflict. 42 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Promoting Excellence in Youth through Sport We support tomorrow’s world class athletes Good to Great, The Norwegian College of Elite Sport, Sweden Norway Lundin Petroleum has been the main sponsor of the Lundin Norway has been supporting the Norwegian Good to Great Tennis Academy in Sweden since 2013. College of Elite Sport for several years to encourage Good to Great was founded by three former world-class younger generations pursuing excellence. This college players, Magnus Norman, Mikael Tillström and Nicklas enrols young athletes who compete and use their Kulti. Through the tennis academy they provide a athletic skills at the international level while fulfilling platform for young talented tennis players wishing to the educational requirements before they start develop to world-class level. Their goal is to re-establish university. The values and team skills they develop Sweden as one of the leading tennis nations in the can be put to good use in sport and in the corporate world. Good to Great makes an important contribution world. Both Magnus Carlsen, World Champion in chess, to young tennis talents and promotes Swedish tennis and Tiril Eckhoff, World Champion in biathlon, were abroad. students at the Norwegian College of Elite Sport. Good to Great Tennis Academy, Stockholm Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 43 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Data Health and Safety1 2016 2015 Fatalities Employees 0 0 Contractors 1 0 Total 1 0 Lost time incidents Employees 0 1 Contractors 2 8 Total 2 9 Restricted work incidents Employees 0 0 Contractors 2 0 Total 2 0 Medical treatment incidents Employees 2 1 Contractors 0 9 Total 2 10 Lost time incident rate (million hours worked) Employees 0 0.78 Contractors 1.06 2.08 Total 0.67 1.76 Total recordable incident rate (million hours worked) Employees 1.79 1.55 Contractors 2.66 4.43 Total 2.34 3.71 Exposure hours Employees 1,115,738 1,286,396 Contractors 1,881,461 3,841,243 Total 2,997,199 5,127,639 Near misses with high potential 3 6 Contractor screening using HSE criteria2 New contractors (%) 100 100 44 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Environment 2016 2015 UNPLANNED RELEASES TO SEA OR LAND Oil spills (>0.1m3) Number 0 0 Vol. (m ) 3 0 n/a Chemical spills (>0.1m3)3 Number 2 6 Vol. (m3)3 65.20 59.88 Hydrocarbon leaks (>0.1 kg/s) Number 1 0 Mass (kg) 650 n/a EMISSIONS Direct GHG (CO2e, tonnes) – CDP Scope 1 264,000 98,530 Indirect GHG (CO2e, tonnes) – CDP Scope 2 2,100 1,735 Other indirect GHG (CO2e, tonnes) – CDP Scope 3 115,500 143,823 NOX (tonnes) 463 499 SOX (tonnes) 14 45 Flared hydrocarbons (m3) 37,158,000 19,629,132 Vented hydrocarbons (tonnes)4 Methane 243 482.81 nmVOC 291 470.19 Energy consumption (MWh) – CDP Scope 1+2 657,900 145,392 Renewable energy consumption (MWh) – CDP Scope 1+2 6,200 5 Group GHG emissions intensity (CO2e, kg/boe)5 8.9 8.5 Edvard Grieg emissions intensity (CO2e, kg/boe) – production & development drilling6 8.5 – WATER Freshwater withdrawal7 Surface water (m3) 0 0 Ground water (m3) 4,899 3,756 Rainwater (m3) 0 100 Produced water (m3) 1,912,608 1,841,535 Disposal of produced water Reinjected water into the reservoir (m3) (France, Norway) 847,816 1,026,818 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 44.3 55.8 Injection into disposal wells (m ) (France) 3 562,376 562,495 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 29.3 30.5 Discharge to sea (m3) (Norway, Malaysia)8 492,914 252,222 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 25.8 13.7 Hydrocarbons discharged to sea within produced water (m3)9 8.39 4.2 Total (m )3 10 1,903,106 1,841,535 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 45 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Data Environment (continued) 2016 2015 WASTE Drill waste using aqueous drilling fluid (by disposal method) Onshore disposal to controlled sites Drill cuttings (tonnes) 0 291 Water based mud (tonnes) 0 15,856 Offshore disposal with or without pre-treatment Drill cuttings (tonnes) 10,279 13,128 Water based mud (tonnes) 31,098 59,561 Drill waste using non-aqueous drilling fluid (by disposal method)11 Onshore disposal to controlled sites Drill cuttings (tonnes) 3,433 2,049 Oil based mud (tonnes) 4,000 6,841 Offshore disposal with pre-treatment Drill cuttings (tonnes) 1,553 2,863 Oil based mud (tonnes) 0 0 People 2016 2015 Employees Total12 542 589 Employee turnover (%) 1.69 6.5 New hire rate (%) 2.25 2.2 Gender diversity Number of men 359 420 Number of women 183 169 Women in workforce (%) 34 29 Women in management (%) 20 20 Women in the Board of Directors (%) 38 38 Employees by age groups (%) < 30 years 8 8 30–50 years 63 60 > 50 years 29 32 Incidents of discrimination 0 0 Society 2016 2015 Disputes associated with operations 0 0 Actual impacts on local communities 0 0 Corporate donations (USD) Sustainable investments 17,500 33,300 Contribution to the Lundin Foundation 569,300 785,200 Total 586,800 818,500 Contributions to initiatives (USD) United Nations Global Compact 5,000 5,000 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 35,000 35,000 CDP 2,760 3,440 Total 42,760 43,440 46 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Anti-corruption 2016 2015 Communication of anti-corruption policy Board of Directors (%) 100 100 Employees (%) 100 100 Training on anti-corruption13 Board of Directors (%) 100 100 Employees (%) 100 87 Confirmed incidents of corruption Number of incidents 0 0 Impact on employees 0 0 Impact on contractor relations 0 0 Legal cases 0 0 Report to the EITI Norway Norway Compliance 2016 2015 Significant fines Number 0 0 Value (USD) n/a n/a Environmental fines Number 0 0 Value (USD) n/a n/a Non-monetary sanctions Number 0 0 Environmental non-monetary sanctions Number 0 0 Production Total Payments to governments (TUSD)14 Taxes Royalties Fees entitlement 2016 Country Norway -269,858.3 – 25,488.1 – -244,370.2 France -687.7 – – – -687.7 The Netherlands -1,353.3 170.6 167.8 – -1,014.9 Malaysia – – – 20,495.8 20,495.8 Total -271,899.3 170.6 25,655.9 20,495.8 -225,577.0 1 IOGP deﬁnition and methodology. 2 We report on main contractors which are determined based on the scope of work, contract duration, contract value and/or relevant risk factors. 3 The volume represents the total amount of the spill of which the chemical component represents only a small percentage. 4 Vented hydrocarbons include fugitive emissions for 2016. 5 Gross emissions divided by gross production from operated fields and development drilling. The apparent increase in intensity compared to 2015 is due to the inclusion of development drilling emissions. 6 Edvard Grieg gross emissions from production operations and development drilling divided by gross production. 7 Quantities of freshwater utilised during onshore operations (France), excluding municipal water consumption for ofﬁces. 8 Produced water is only released to sea if the water quality conforms with national regulation. 9 Volume of hydrocarbons discharged within produced water are below the OSPAR Convention’s 30 ppm threshold recommendation. 10 Discrepancy between produced water and disposal of produced water is due to amounts of produced water transported from Edvard Grieg through the oil pipeline to the oil terminal onshore. 11 Prior to any offshore disposal of non-aqueous drilling ﬂuid, drilled cuttings are treated to reduce the amount of residual oil, to ensure that levels are below regulatory deﬁned amounts. 12 Permanent and ﬁxed term employees by end of year paid directly by the Company. 13 Percentage of Board and employees trained through e-learning course 2015–2016. 14 The report on payments to governments with details of payments is available on www.lundin-petroleum.com. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 47 GRI Index Lundin Petroleum’s 2016 GRI index, in accordance with the GRI G4 “core” level, provides references to the GRI G4 indicators the Company reports on. Standard Disclosure Description Reference GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and analysis G4–1 Statement from the CEO SR 10 Strategy and analysis G4–3 Name of the organisation SR 10 G4–4 Primary brands, products, and services SR 4–5 G4–5 Location of headquarters AR 50 G4–6 Name of countries where the organisation operates SR 4 G4–7 Ownership and legal form AR 50 G4–8 Markets served SR 4–5 G4–9 Scale of the reporting organisation AR 71 G4–10 Number of employees SR 17 G4–11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SR 17 G4–12 Description of supply chain SR 4–5 G4–13 Significant changes during the reporting period SR 16 G4–14 Precautionary approach or principle SR 24 G4–15 Subscription to externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives SR 33 G4–16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations SR 33 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4–17 List of entities included in financial statement AR 73 G4–18 Process for defining the report content SR 9 G4–19 Material Aspects (referred to as material issues) SR 9 G4–20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation SR 9 G4–21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation SR 9 G4–22 Restatement of information n/a G4–23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods n/a Stakeholder engagement G4–24 Stakeholder groups engaged SR 33 G4–25 Basis for selection of stakeholders SR 33 G4–26 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 33 G4–27 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement SR 33 Report profile G4–28 Reporting period SR 1 G4–29 Previous reporting date SR 6 G4–30 Reporting cycle SR 9 G4–31 Contact point SR 51 G4–32 GRI option, Content Index, and references SR 48 G4–33 External Assurance n/a Governance G4–34 Governance structure SR 10–11 Ethics and integrity G4–56 Code of conduct website SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Economic performance & profitability of operations G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach AR 89–94 G4–EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 78–88 G4–OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production AR 18–19 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 24 G4–EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 45 Water G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 25 G4–EN8 Water withdrawal by source SR 45 G4–EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water SR 25 Biodiversity G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 24 G4–EN11 Operational site in or near protected areas SR 24–26 G4–EN12 Significant impact on biodiversity in protected areas SR 24 48 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Standard Disclosure Description Reference SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (continued) CATEGORY: ECONOMIC (continued) Emissions G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 28–31 G4–EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) SR 45 G4–EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) SR 45 G4–EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) SR 45 G4–EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity SR 45 G4–EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions SR 45 G4–OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon SR 45 Compliance G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 14 G4–EN29 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 47 Supplier environmental assessement G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 18 G4–EN32 New suppliers (referred to as contractor) that were screened using environmental criteria SR 44 Effluents and waste G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 25 G4–EN22 Water discharge SR 45 G4–OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water SR 45 G4–EN24 Number and volume of significant spills SR 45 G4–OG7 Drilling waste SR 46 Decommissioning G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 25 G4–OG11 Decommissioned sites and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned SR 25 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Employment G4–DMA Generic disclosures on management approach SR 16–17 G4–LA1 Employee hires and turnover SR 46 Occupational health and safety G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 18–19 G4–LA6 Type of injuries and injury rates SR 44 Diversity and equal opportunity G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 17 G4–LA12 Diversity in composition of governance bodies and among employees SR 17 and 46 Supplier assessment for labour practices G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 18 G4–LA14 New suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria SR 44 Non-discrimination G4–HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 46 Human rights G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 32 G4–HR9 Human rights reviews or impact assessments SR 32 Local communities G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 33 G4–SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities SR 46 G4–OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples SR 46 Anti-corruption G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 14 G4–SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 47 G4–SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR 47 Compliance G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 14 G4–SO8 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SR 47 Emergency preparedness G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 20 Asset integrity and process safety G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 20–21 G4–OG13 Process safety events1 n/a 1 The information is currently unavailable at Group level. AR: Annual Report SR: Sustainability Report Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 49 Forward-looking statements Certain statements made and information contained herein constitute “forward-looking information” (within the meaning of applicable securities legislation). Such statements and information (together, “forward-looking statements”) relate to future events, including the Company’s future performance, business prospects or opportunities. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to estimates of reserves and/or resources, future production levels, future capital expenditures and their allocation to exploration and development activities, future drilling and other exploration and development activities. Ultimate recovery of reserves or resources are based on forecasts of future results, estimates of amounts not yet determinable and assumptions of management. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. Statements concerning proven and probable reserves and resource estimates may also be deemed to constitute forward-looking statements and reflect conclusions that are based on certain assumptions that the reserves and resources can be economically exploited. Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, using words or phrases such as “seek”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “continue”, “estimate”, “expect”, “may”, “will”, “project”, “predict”, “potential”, “targeting”, “intend”, “could”, “might”, “should”, “believe” and similar expressions) are not statements of historical fact and may be “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that these expectations and assumptions will prove to be correct and such forward-looking statements should not be relied upon. These statements speak only as on the date of the information and the Company does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable laws. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties relating to, among other things, operational risks (including exploration and development risks), productions costs, availability of drilling equipment, reliance on key personnel, reserve estimates, health, safety and environmental issues, legal risks and regulatory changes, competition, geopolitical risk, and financial risks. These risks and uncertainties are described in more detail under the heading “Risks and Risk Management” and elsewhere in the Company’s annual report. Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forwardlooking statements are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. Lundin Petroleum References to “Lundin Petroleum” or “the Company” pertain to the corporate group in which Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) (company registration number 556610–8055) is the Parent Company or to Lundin Petroleum AB (publ), depending on the context. 50 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016 Tell Us What You Think Your feedback is valued We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you might have to this report and our performance. Please send your feedback to: info@lundin.ch i Stay up to date with Lundin Petroleum’s news and events by visiting our website www.lundin-petroleum.com Follow us on social media Printed by Exakta Print and Landsten Reklam, Sweden 2017. Exakta Print is FSC® and ISO 14001 certified and is committed to all round excellence in its environmental performance. The paper used for this report contains material sourced from responsibly managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC®. Holmen, the manufacturer of the paper used in this report, is ranked 21st on the 2017 Global 100 list of the world’s most sustainable companies. The paper is manufactured for Exakta Print to ISO 14001 international standards. Corporate Head Office Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) Hovslagargatan 5 SE-111 48 Stockholm, Sweden T +46-8-440 54 50 F +46-8-440 54 59 E info@lundin.ch W lundin-petroleum.com 52 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2016
