For the Year Ended March 31, 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Contents Business Philosophy 2 Introduction 3 Astellas’ Value Creation Process 3 Astellas’ Evolution 5 Astellas Today 7 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 9 Editorial Policy 11 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance 12 CEO Message 13 Risk Management 30 Medium-Term Strategy 17 Directors and Audit & CFO Message 21 Supervisory Board Members 31 CSR-Based Management 22 Interview with an Outside Director 33 Corporate Governance 25 Business Review 36 Executive Committee 37 Top Management Discussion 38 Value Creation and Value Protection Activities 41 Maximizing the Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area 43 Product Value Business Environment and Strategy by Region 49 CSR Activities from Manufacturing to Sales 51 Creating Innovation Research and Clinical Development 53 R&D Topics during the Year 57 CSR Activities in Research and Development 61 Pursuing Operational Initiatives in the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2017 63 Excellence Our People, Our Organization 64 Ethics & Compliance 67 Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals 71 Access to Health 72 Social Contribution 75 Environmental Preservation 77 Dialogue with Stakeholders 81 Financial Information and Data 82 11-Year Financial Summary 83 Financial Review 85 Consolidated Financial Statements 94 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 99 Independent Auditor’s Report 154 Investor Information 155 Corporate Data/Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates 156 In this annual report, statements made with respect to current plans, estimates, strategies and beliefs and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements about the future performance of Astellas. These statements are based on management’s current assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Such factors Cautionary Note include, but are not limited to: (i) changes in general economic conditions and in laws and regulations relating to pharmaceutical markets, (ii) currency exchange rate fluctuations, (iii) delays in new product launches, (iv) the inability of Astellas to market existing and new products effectively, (v) the inability of Astellas to continue to effectively research and develop products accepted by customers in highly competitive markets, and (vi) infringements of Astellas’ intellectual property rights by third parties. Information about pharmaceutical products (including products currently in development) which is included in this annual report is not intended to constitute an advertisement or medical advice. 1 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business Philosophy Raison D'être Contribute toward improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products • To go beyond all others in exploring and tapping the potential • To support healthy living for people around the world. of the life sciences. • To continue shining on the global pharmaceutical field. • To continue tackling new challenges and creating innovative pharmaceutical products. • To deliver quality products along with accurate information and retain solid credibility among customers. Mission Sustainable enhancement of enterprise value • Astellas will seek to enhance its enterprise value in a sustainable manner. • Astellas will seek to be the company of choice among all its stakeholders, including its customers, shareholders, employees, and the global community. Astellas will strive to gain the trust of all stakeholders and thereby enhance its enterprise value. Beliefs Our “beliefs” provide the code of conduct we prize at all times. Astellas will always be a group of people who act upon these beliefs. High Sense of Ethics We will always manage our business with the highest sense of ethics. Customer Focus We will always seek to understand customer needs and our focus will always be on achieving customer satisfaction. Creativity We will not be complacent and will always seek to innovate to create new value. Competitive Focus Our eyes will always be directed to the outside world, and we will continue to create better value faster. Astellas promises to perform its obligations toward all stakeholders by acting ethically and seeking to actively disclose information. Charter of Corporate Conduct Astellas is committed to conducting its business activities with the highest ethical standards in order to realize its business philosophy and help enhance the sustainability of society by fulfilling its social responsibilities as a pharmaceutical company. For more details, please refer to WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/about/ charter-of-corporate-conduct/ Business Philosophy Raison D'être Mission Astellas Group Code of Conduct The Astellas Group Code of Conduct serves as a common global Beliefs code of compliance for all officers and employees to ensure that compliance is maintained at all times in the course of conducting business activities. Charter of Corporate Conduct For more details, please refer to WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/about/ group-code-of-conduct/ Astellas Group Code of Conduct Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 2 Introduction Astellas’ Value Creation Process Astellas stands on the forefront of healthcare change, turning innovative science into value for patients. By repeating this cycle continuously, we are pursuing the sustainable growth of enterprise value. Corporate Governance Create innovative new drugs and medical solutions by leveraging our core capabilities with a central focus on our innovative drug business Focus Areas View business opportunities from multiple perspectives Principles of Activity Drivers Focus Core capabilities our resources on identified areas Astellas Way Redefine Earning trust from the focus when appropriate patients and Expand other stakeholders into new opportunities CSR-Based Management Enhance the sustainability of society and the Company by fulfilling social responsibility Innovative Value for science patients Dialogue Sufficient funds Generate funds Returns to with to create to sustain stakeholders stakeholders innovation growth 3 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Our Approach to Astellas’ raison d’être is to “contribute toward improving the health of people around the world the Value Creation through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products.” Process Based on this, we aim to stand on the forefront of healthcare change, turning innovative science into value for patients. The keys to our success will be our Focus Areas, Principles of Activity, and Drivers, which describe where we should create value and how we should act to realize that value. Guided by this approach, we will create innovation with a central focus on the innovative drug business. This process originates with advances in science, and Astellas then allocates sufficient funds and implements measures to satisfy the requests and expectations of stakeholders. By creating value for patients, through this process, we will generate funds to sustain the next phase of growth and provide returns to stakeholders. Astellas will continue to follow this cycle to achieve sustainable growth of enterprise value. Focus Areas Amid continuing evolution in the healthcare industry, Astellas needs to identify business opportunities more flexibly and efficiently than ever in order to achieve further growth. We will define our Focus Areas by adding multiple perspectives to our conventional viewpoint of therapeutic areas. We will factor in a consideration of new technologies and treatment approaches, product development feasibility and new possibilities for commercialization, market trends and changes in pharmaceutical laws and regulations. Our goal is to identify areas of unmet need and find new business opportunities. Principles of In a fast-changing business environment, it is crucial to have the flexibility to reexamine business fields Activity as needed—even those that have been carefully selected as opportunities at some point in the past. Astellas aims to drive further evolution by having all employees remain mindful of the three-step process of Focus our resources on identified areas, Redefine the focus when appropriate, and Expand the focus for the next generation of activity, as they carry out their activities. Drivers One of the drivers for Astellas to achieve sustainable growth is its core capabilities, which constitute the source of its competitive edge. It is vital to carefully identify our essential capabilities and enhance them until they are among the world’s best. At the same time, when there are outstanding capabilities outside the Company, we will proactively form partnerships. By combining optimal capabilities, both internal and external, we enhance our productivity and creativity to maximize our value creation capabilities. Moreover, in the Astellas Way*, we have defined a shared set of values to be embraced by all our employees as part of efforts to foster a corporate culture to help realize our business philosophy. At the same time, we remain committed to understanding the requests and expectations of a multitude of stakeholders, including patients, and transforming that understanding into value. * For details on the Astellas Way, Five Messages for One Astellas—Patient Focus, Ownership, Results, Openness, and Integrity—please refer to p. 64. Astellas’ Currently Identified Core Capabilities Capability to Capability to Commercial Operational Partnership create new drugs deliver new drugs presence foundation Corporate Governance P 25-29 CSR-Based Management P22-24 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 4 Introduction Astellas’ Evolution Astellas will steadily expand business by optimally allocating resources, along with focusing on building a business foundation to sustain growth. Mid-Term Management Plan Mid-Term Management 2006-2010 Concentrate resources on the innovative drug Plan business, strengthening product creation capabilities and building a solid global business foundation Global business • Expanded the urology franchise area while maintaining a expansion in Japan, leading position in transplantation • Implemented growth strategies according to regional the Americas, EMEA characteristics in Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia and Asia & Oceania & Oceania • Global in-house development of compounds with Implemented high potential • Focused disease areas for research (urology, immunology growth R&D and inflammatory, central nervous system and pain, strategies diabetes, infectious disease, oncology) • Established global development headquarters in the U.S. • Acquired Agensys, Inc. Cost structure • Realigned the production framework (from 18 to 10 sites) reforms Utilization of • Achieved an agile, highly productive organizational Efficiency human resources structure and optimized personnel strategy Value protection Initiatives to fulfill social responsibilities Activities centered on environmental preservation, ethics and compliance and social contribution 5,000 Market capitalization (¥ billion) 4,000 3,000 • Patent expiry of Harnal and Prograf 2,000 1,000 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 5 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Steadily advance three strategic priorities to achieve 2010-2014 sustainable growth over the medium and long terms, while flexibly responding to changes in the environment Overcome the impacts of patent expiry for core products and accelerate growth to a new stage based on both growth and efficiency strategies Maximizing the P 13-16, 17-18, product value 38, 43-52 • Expanded sales of new products • Rapidly established urology (overactive bladder) and Strategy for therapeutic areas oncology areas as growth drivers • Strengthened and maintained position as a Global Category Leader (GCL) in the urology and transplantation areas • Strengthened oncology (acquired OSI Pharmaceuticals, Create innovation P 13-16, 19-20, Inc.) as a third GCL area 39, 53-62 Enhancing capabilities to deliver innovative medicines Regional strategy • Open innovation through the Network Research System • Implemented well-balanced business expansion in • Multi-tracked the R&D process through the use of FASTEN Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania • Strengthened, enriched and expanded the pipeline • Invested further in emerging countries • Acquired Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG • Focused disease areas for research R&D innovation strategy Existing diseases: Urology, oncology, immunology, nephrology and neuroscience • Promoted a precision medicine approach New diseases: Muscle diseases and ophthalmology • Harnessed cutting-edge technologies (antibody, regenerative medicine, vaccines, etc.) • Focused disease areas for research (urology, Advancing into new opportunities immunology and infectious diseases, oncology, • New technologies and new modalities: regenerative neuroscience diseases, diabetes complications and medicine, vaccines, etc. metabolic diseases) • Enriched and expanded the pipeline • Acquired Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (cell therapy) • Allocated resources efficiently through execution of the Pursuing operational excellence therapeutic area strategy • Optimal allocation of expenses P 13-16, 20, 40, 63-70 • Streamlined costs further by reviewing operational processes • Five approaches, including the optimal reallocation of resources Value creation + Value protection Contribution through business, including activities to improve Access to Health, in addition to existing activities based on CSR • Launched XTANDI and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Year) Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 6 Introduction Astellas Today (Fiscal 2016/as of March 31, 2017) As a global pharmaceutical company conducting business in more than 50 countries around the world, Astellas is focused on expanding new drugs and growth products, and creating innovative medicines that will help it to achieve sustainable growth. ¥2.8 R&D Expenses ¥208.1 Market capitalization (as of June 30, 2017) trillion billion Sales ¥1,311.7 R&D Ratio to Sales Core Operating Profit billion 15.9 % ¥274.6 35 Number of new molecular/ billion biological entities in the pipeline * Number of new molecular/biological entities in the pipeline as of April 2017 (partially updated) Core Operating Margin 20.9 Number of ongoing collaborative 100 research projects % More than 17.3 ROE Number of R&D personnel % Related Information Definition of Financial Results on a Core Basis P 10 Approx. 3,200 7 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Sales composition of the three main therapeutic areas and main products Oncology 23.5 % Urology • XTANDI 16.4 % • Vesicare • Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA Transplantation 14.2 % • Prograf Number of countries where Astellas Sales by region has its own distribution channels 50 Asia & Oceania Japan ¥87.7 billion ¥480.8 billion Approx. countries 6.7 % 36.7 % Number of Medical Representatives (MRs) EMEA Americas Approx. 5,750 ¥330.8 billion 25.2 % ¥412.4 billion 31.4 % Number of employees by region Asia & Oceania Japan Number of employees 2,485 7,029 17,202 EMEA Americas 4,672 3,016 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 8 Introduction Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Despite a decline in sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 due to the impact of foreign exchange rates, all levels of profit increased. We will steadily advance initiatives on strategic priorities for sustainable growth. Sales by Region Core Operating Profit / R&D Expenses / Core Operating Margin R&D Ratio to Sales Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania Core operating profit Core operating R&D expenses R&D ratio to sales margin (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) 1,500.0 400.0 25 350.0 20 1,372.7 1,247.3 91.1 1,311.7 20.9 16.6 16.4 15.9 1,200.0 87.7 320.0 19.5 20 280.0 16 74.2 329.3 17.4 330.8 267.5 274.6 313.3 225.7 900.0 240.0 15 210.0 206.6 208.1 12 216.5 361.0 455.1 412.4 600.0 160.0 10 140.0 8 300.0 80.0 5 70.0 4 498.7 497.2 480.8 0 0 0 0 0 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 Consolidated sales decreased by 4.4% Core operating profit increased 2.7% Research and development (R&D) year on year. Sales in Japan decreased year on year to ¥274.6 billion. The core expenses decreased 7.8% year on year to mainly due to the impact of revisions to operating margin was 20.9%. Excluding ¥208.1 billion, partly due to the impact of NHI drug prices, while sales in the the impact of foreign exchange rates foreign exchange rates. The ratio of R&D Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania and the transfer of the dermatology expenses to sales was 15.9%. increased excluding the foreign business, core operating profit rose 9%. exchange impact. Core Profit for the Year Free Cash Flow ROE (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 240.0 200.0 20 213.3 17.3 198.8 166.7 162.2 180.0 150.0 15 15.0 153.2 116.2 10.5 120.0 100.0 10 60.0 50.0 5 0 0 0 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 Core profit for the year increased by 7.3% Free cash flow in fiscal 2016 was ¥162.2 ROE was 17.3%. Positioning ROE as a key year on year to ¥213.3 billion, tracking billion, as a decrease in net cash flows performance indicator, Astellas aims to the increase in core operating profit. from operating activities were mostly maintain and improve ROE over the offset by an increase in proceeds from medium to long term by maximizing sales of available-for-sale financial assets. earnings capabilities and enhancing capital efficiency. 9 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Dividends per Share / DOE Number of Participants in Number of Employees / Changing Tomorrow Day Female Employee Ratio / Female Manager Ratio Dividends per share DOE Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania Number of Female employee ratio employees Female manager ratio (¥) (%) (people) (%) 50 5.6 6 10,000 50,000 50 5.4 43.5 44.0 5.1 42.6 5 40 over 40,000 40 7,500 7,449 34 6,937 32.2 32.6 32 4 682 1,133 6,618 29.9 30 30 472 724 30,000 30 over 410 3 5,000 597 2,246 2,179 20 2,198 20,000 20 2 17,113 17,217 17,202 2,500 10 10,000 10 1 3,412 3,665 3,286 0 0 0 0 0 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 Astellas strives to increase dividend Astellas employees conduct a variety of On a global basis, the female employee payments stably and continuously volunteer activities as part of Changing ratio was 44.0%, and the female based on mediumto long-term profit Tomorrow Day based on the themes of manager ratio was 32.6%. In Japan, growth. In fiscal 2016, the annual promoting healthcare and maintaining where the ratio of female employees in dividend was ¥34 per share, the environment. In fiscal 2016, 6,618 managerial positions is particularly low, representing a DOE of 5.6%. employees participated in Changing improving the female manager ratio is Tomorrow Day worldwide. an urgent issue for Astellas. Energy Consumption / Amount of Water Withdrawal Definition of Financial Results on Greenhouse Gas Emissions a Core Basis Energy consumption Greenhouse gas We disclose our financial results under IFRS on emissions a core basis to help provide an accurate (TJ) (kilotons) (thousand m3) indication of the Group’s recurring profitability. 5,000 500 12,000 Certain items reported in financial results under IFRS on a full basis that are deemed to 10,456 10,331 be non-recurring items by the Company are 4,000 3,923 3,917 3,801 400 excluded as non-core items on a core basis. 9,000 8,788 3,000 300 Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial 6,000 Results (Full Basis) Results (Core Basis) 2,000 210 200 Sales 185 179 Non-recurring other Cost of sales income and other 3,000 Gross profit expense within 1,000 100 Selling, general IFRS-based operating profit are excluded (for and administrative example, items such as expenses impairment losses or 0 0 0 R&D expenses restructuring expenses) 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 Amortisation of intangible assets Share of profits of associates and Core operating Greenhouse gas emissions were 179 Aiming to establish a recycling-oriented joint ventures profit kilotons. Emissions were reduced mainly society, Astellas has been striving to reduce Other income Adjustments for finance due to improvement in the electricity water withdrawal. In fiscal 2016, Astellas income and finance CO2 emissions coefficient and the established a new management indicator Other expense expense (for example, Operating profit gain (loss) on sale of transfer of the Norman Plant in the U.S. called “water resources productivity” (page available-for-sale (AFS) Finance income 79), and has been working to make Finance expense financial assets and improvements on this front. impairment losses on AFS Profit before tax financial assets are * Figures for prior fiscal years are restated to reflect Income tax expense excluded) the addition of overseas research sites to the scope of reporting. Profit for the year Core profit for the year Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 10 Introduction Editorial Policy To enable deeper stakeholder understanding of Scope of the Report Astellas’ efforts to continue to create value for Period covered sustainable growth, the Company has published this annual report as an integrated report. Fiscal 2016 (April 1, 2016 March 31, 2017) * As much as possible, we have used the latest information In this report, we have attempted to provide available at the time of publication. disclosure while taking note of the Guiding Principles * The period and scope of coverage may vary depending on the and Content Elements of the international integrated subject. We have noted each such case individually. reporting framework of the International Integrated * The figures indicated in the field of Environment represent the Reporting Council (IIRC). We have also referred to G4 results for fiscal 2016 (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017) in Japan and the calendar year 2016 (January 1 to December 31, 2016) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines* published by the for overseas operations as a combined total. Global Reporting Initiative and Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2012 Version) issued Organizations covered by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. Astellas Pharma Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan In creating the report, we have sought to make an and overseas (referred to in the report as “Astellas”) * The Americas includes North America and Latin America, and effective tool for communicating with our many EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. stakeholders. We have therefore used charts and * In the field of Environment, the report covers all business sites photographs, and endeavored to use plain language in Japan and production sites overseas, which are subject to that is easy to read. the Environmental Action Plan, as well as overseas sites not covered by the plan such as principal office buildings, research Astellas has adopted the International Financial facilities, sales office buildings, and sales fleets. Reporting Standards (IFRS), effective from fiscal 2013. Information in this report is based on IFRS unless Note: In the information about pharmaceutical products in this report, market size, market share and product ranking are sourced from otherwise indicated. IMS Health Information Services. Copyright © 2017 QuintilesIMS. * For the GRI Content Index, please visit the following website: Calculated based on IMS MIDAS 2017Q1 MAT https://www.astellas.com/en/csr/management/report.html Reprinted with permission Websites Global Website Astellas has launched a new global website as part of efforts to enhance the transparency of the Company and to strengthen its brand power. In order to promote further understanding of Astellas, the website is designed to be easy to read, easy to use, and easy to understand, and features content created according to these goals. By harnessing a variety of communication tools, including this new website, Astellas will work to provide timely and proper disclosure, as it strive to become the company of choice for all stakeholders. https://www.astellas.com/en/ 11 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Anticipating and Flexibly Incorporating Change Is the Key to Achieving Sustained Growth Astellas will proactively incorporate state-of-the-art scientific and technological advances and turn them into value for patients. To achieve this, we will continue to transform ourselves and flexibly utilize external capabilities. We will make ceaseless efforts to further increase society’s trust in us. Astellas will continue these initiatives in response to a rapidly changing business environment, thereby achieving sustained growth. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 12 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance CEO Message Flexibly Incorporate Cutting-Edge Science and Technology, Turning It into Value for Patients Yoshihiko Hatanaka Representative Director, President and CEO The Environment Surrounding the Pharmaceutical Industry and Astellas’ Vision Reference As Long as We Don’t Lose Our Vision, We Can Surmount a Changing Business Environment As the business environment surrounding Astellas undergoes changes, I believe there are two broad themes that will profoundly impact our businesses. The first theme is productivity in R&D. Drug discovery is becoming increasingly difficult because drug targets have become more complicated and the regulatory standard for new drug approval has become more strict. Under these conditions, R&D productivity has been decreasing, presenting a major issue for the entire pharmaceutical industry. The second theme concerns the problems surrounding access to medicine. Poverty, underdeveloped healthcare systems, and other factors have hindered patient access to medicines. We must find ways of improving access to medicines for the people who need them. Moreover, in the past few years, there has been extremely strong pressure in various countries to reduce the price of pharmaceuticals caused by healthcare financing and patients’ affordability. Meanwhile, these changes in the environment are major management priorities for pharmaceutical companies. If we could solve the challenges they present, we would be able to deliver significant value to patients. I believe that we must always keep this perspective in mind. If we are able to improve R&D productivity, we could deliver treatment modalities as early as possible to patients who previously did not have any effective treatment options. Improving patient access to medicines is an issue that must be ultimately examined based on the value for patients. In the past, pharmaceutical companies have seen their roles as confined to developing good medicines, obtaining regulatory approval, and launching those products in the marketplace. They have not 13 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data taken adequate steps to ensure access to medicines by individual patients. However, only after Reference launched drugs reach patients do they show their worth. Going forward, I believe that we must Medium-Term Strategy take proactive steps on this front as well. P 17 The environment surrounding Astellas has been changing at a dizzying pace and has become Our People, increasingly complex. However, Astellas’ vision—turning innovative science on the forefront of Our Organization healthcare change into value for patients —will guide us forward as we determine our future P 64 course of action. As long as we stay focused on our vision, I’m confident that we will be able to find a way to surmount our challenging environment. Imperatives for Further Growth Our Vision and Strategy Remain Unchanged, but More Flexible Collaboration with External Partners Is Now Crucial There has been no change in our vision, or our strategy for realizing the vision, which is our goal. However, in the course of executing our strategy, I believe that it has become more crucial than ever to build up a flexible network and incorporate external capabilities. One key to solving the issues I discussed earlier is technological advancement. In drug discovery fields, the flexible use of new technologies, such as regenerative medicine, cell therapy, gene therapy, and platforms for new vaccines, will enable us to take unprecedented approaches to delivering innovative medicines. Advances in information technology are also becoming a critical factor behind drug discovery. The use of real-world data* is expected to help improve overall R&D productivity and the probability of success as a matter of course. Real-world data is also expected to be used to clarify the basis for setting drug prices. Apart from this, technologies that could dramatically increase value provided to patients and society as a whole are continuously evolving day by day, driven by progress on artificial intelligence, diagnostic technologies and other fronts. Based on this reasoning, we cannot completely create the final value we deliver using our own internal resources alone. That is why we must enhance our sensitivity to the world outside the Company and flexibly incorporate new technologies, human resources, approaches, and methods. In doing so, we must enhance Astellas’ Group-wide capabilities and continuously create innovation that maximizes the final value we deliver. This approach will be absolutely essential to driving our strategies even further. * Anonymized data obtained from clinical sites. Highly Eager to Obtain New Technology and Evolving into a Company Which Is Flexibly Incorporating External Capabilities Our vision is to turn innovative science into value for patients. That vision cannot be realized simply by preparing products and organizations already in place. The success of the vision will depend on whether every employee working at Astellas will take ownership of their duties based on an understanding of the Astellas Way and our aspirations for the organization. Guided by this firm belief, we have compiled our HR Vision, which lays out expectations for human resources and organizations that all members of Astellas should share on a global basis, and we have been concentrating on instilling this vision in employees. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 14 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance We have been working to foster an organizational culture and nurture human resources by Reference consistently conveying the importance of respecting diversity, anticipating change and embracing Medium-Term Strategy challenges, focusing our thinking outwards and flexibly incorporating new initiatives. These efforts P 17 are already producing concrete results. For example, in the research field, Astellas has realized more Business Review than 20 new collaborations in the space of around three years. In new therapeutic areas (muscle P 36 diseases and ophthalmology), we have rapidly launched new projects in tandem by adding several new collaborations in these areas. Moreover, in the real-world informatics function*, in just 1.5 years since this initiative was started, we have already completed numerous analyses and are sharing the results across various departments and regions. I am confident that Astellas is highly eager to obtain new technology and has been evolving into a company that is flexibly incorporating external capabilities and transforming them into its own strengths. * A department launched in July 2015 that integrates the utilization of big data and its capabilities into a single specialized function. Progress on Strategic Priorities in the Strategic Plan Steady Progress on the Three Strategic Priorities Strengthening the Current Base and the Foundations for Mediumto Long-Term Growth As the President and CEO of Astellas, my duties are to lay the groundwork for Astellas to incorporate new initiatives in the manner described above and to transform these new initiatives into the Company’s own strengths. I also have a duty to constantly consider and decide on tradeoffs between what to incorporate as new initiatives and what to discontinue in their place. If we only incorporate new initiatives without discontinuing other operations, management will become inefficient. Astellas will always flexibly review its own operations and take decisive measures with speed, such as by reshaping its business portfolio. In fact, this commitment is embodied by one of our strategic themes, “Pursuing Operational Excellence.” In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we accelerated these initiatives through the transfer of our global dermatology business and 16 long-listed products manufactured and marketed in Japan. With regard to “Maximizing the Product Value,” we saw steady growth in the oncology field driven by the prostate cancer treatment XTANDI and in the overactive bladder (OAB) franchise. In other areas, there was a steady expansion in products underpinning growth in each region. Overall, performance is progressing largely as planned. In “Creating Innovation,” development projects in late-stage clinical development are advancing steadily, beginning with gilteritinib. In addition, we launched new products such as Repatha, a treatment for hypercholesterolemia, in Japan. Moreover, we are pushing ahead with initiatives that will contribute to patients over the medium and long terms, including advancing R&D in new therapeutic areas and treatment modalities, including muscle diseases, ophthalmology, and next-generation vaccines, along with expanding late-stage development assets through the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG and Ogeda SA. 15 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Measures to Address Compliance Reference Ethics & Compliance A Stronger Focus on Building a Foundation to Ensure Trust P 67 We regard compliance as a crucial undertaking to maintain Astellas’ sustained growth and the trust Contribution to the of stakeholders into the future. First and foremost, all members of Astellas must conduct Sustainable Development Goals themselves based on high ethics, besides ensuring compliance with laws and regulations as a matter of course. In addition, as the responsibility of a company undertaking business in over 50 P 71 countries around the world, we must encourage the business partners with whom we work with in Access to Health each country to conduct themselves in accordance with Astellas’ high ethical standards. To realize P 72 these initiatives at a higher level, we unified the Astellas Group Code of Conduct on a global basis and reconfigured the Ethics & Compliance Department as a global organization completely independent of the operating divisions. We are a consistent supporter of the United Nations Global Compact, and have incorporated its 10 principles covering the four fields of human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption into our daily business activities. Measures to Address Access to Health Issues Promoting This Initiative Proactively in Cooperation with External Partners To address Access to Health issues, which is a global priority, we continue to make contributions by harnessing our technologies, expertise and resources in each of the following four areas: (1) Creating innovation, which is our core business, (2) Enhancing availability, (3) Strengthening healthcare systems, and (4) Improving health literacy. In January 2017, we participated in Access Accelerated, a global initiative to enhance access to the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of non-communicable diseases in low income countries and lower middle income countries. Going forward, we will expand these activities in cooperation with governments, other pharmaceutical companies, and third-party bodies. To Our Stakeholders Achieve Long-Term Growth by Capturing Change and Turning It into Value for Patients The business environment surrounding the pharmaceutical industry is in constant flux. Astellas will achieve long-term growth by capturing this change and turning it into value for patients. I would like our stakeholders to constantly evaluate whether Astellas is definitely evolving into the realization of its vision. We aim to create new value based on dialogue with our stakeholders by implementing even higher quality management. Yoshihiko Hatanaka Representative Director, President and CEO Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 16 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Medium-Term Strategy Focusing on three strategic priorities for realizing sustainable growth over the medium and long terms Overview of Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Creating innovation Maximizing the product value Enhancing capabilities to Advancing into deliver innovative medicines new opportunities Exploring and capturing external business opportunities through acquisition, collaboration, and in-licensing Net sales Pursuing operational excellence 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Under Strategic Plan 2015-2017, covering the three years from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2017, we will work on three Financial Guidance strategic priorities. We target “Maximizing the Product Value,” including XTANDI and our overactive bladder (OAB) Astellas has recognized return on equity attributable to franchise, “Creating Innovation” to sustainably create owners of the parent (ROE) as an important management innovative drugs, and “Pursuing Operational Excellence” in indicator. Under Strategic Plan 2015-2017, we aim to order to enhance our ability to address the changing achieve ROE of 15% or more by seeking to maximize our business environment. By steadily implementing these, we earnings capabilities while ensuring that we enhance are working to overcome the impact of the substance capital efficiency. We also aim to maintain and improve patent expiries for our OAB treatment Vesicare and our this level after the strategic plan period. anticancer product Tarceva in the period of 2018 to 2020, We prioritize the maximization of our earnings and aim to achieve sustainable growth. capabilities by maximizing the product value as a way of achieving growth in sales, while promoting measures to optimize cost of sales and SG&A expenses. In this way, we seek to maximize operating profit prior to deduction of R&D expenses. We plan to direct sufficient resources to investment in R&D to existing therapeutic areas as well as new opportunities, while also working to improve our operating margin. Moreover, we are pursuing balance sheet management and actively targeting shareholder returns, to enhance capital efficiency. 17 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Financial guidance regarding the figures during the Expanding Sales in the Major Therapeutic Areas period of the current strategic plan is as follows. Astellas is working to expand sales in therapeutic areas which have major products, including oncology and Financial Guidance in Strategic Plan 2015-2017 OAB franchises. ROE 15% or more Maintain and improve this level Oncology Franchise Our efforts are focused on maximizing the value of XTANDI, our growth driver. We will work to expand the geographical sales area of XTANDI, after the strategic plan period while also working for label expansion to chemotherapynaïve prostate cancer and early penetration in each Consolidated Sales CAGR (%): Mid-single-digit country. Moreover, we will steadily advance clinical trials with the aim of expanding indications for earlier stages of Core Operating CAGR that exceeds sales CAGR prostate cancer. Profit R&D Expenses Higher than 17% against sales OAB Franchise To overcome the anticipated impact CAGR that exceeds core operating from the patent expiry of Vesicare and continue to increase Core EPS*1 profit CAGR the value of our franchise, we will work intensively to drive DOE*2 6% or more market penetration of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA as a new option for OAB treatment. In the final year of the *1 Core earnings per share strategic plan, sales of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA are *2 Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent expected to have increased to account for approximately half of the overall sales of the OAB franchise. Other Areas The transplantation franchise has Maximizing the Product Value established a strong presence with the immunosuppressant Prograf. We expect continued growth Targeting Mediumto Long-Term Growth by in Prograf in emerging countries, despite declines in the Expanding Mainstay Products and New Product Americas, EMEA, and Japan, where the substance patent Group Sales has expired. To ensure sustainable growth during and after the current In resource allocation, we will prioritize new products strategic plan, Astellas will maximize the value of the products in each region, aiming to achieve sales expansion at an that have been realized through its investments to date. early stage. In Japan, we will work to steadily achieve In particular, Astellas will prioritize the investment of market penetration of new products including Suglat for resources in its mainstay products and new product group type 2 diabetes, Repatha for hypercholesterolemia, and centered on XTANDI and the OAB franchise. In this way, LINZESS which was launched for irritable bowel syndrome during the strategic plan, we forecast that the relative with constipation in March 2017. composition ratio in total sales will decrease for key products for which patents will expire by 2020. Nurturing Major Initiatives in Year Ended March 31, 2017 the major and new product groups early is an important • Growth of XTANDI P 43 measure to overcome the impacts from patent expiry. • Expansion of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA in the OAB Franchise P 45 • Maximization of product value in other areas P47 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 18 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance based on the world’s most innovative science. By Creating Innovation introducing a process named FASTEN to manage R&D projects along one of three different tracks, Astellas has Enhancing Capabilities to Deliver Innovative achieved positive outcomes such as shortening of R&D Medicines through Acquisition of Cutting-Edge duration and increased cost efficiency. Science and Optimal Resource Allocation In addition to the fields we have focused on to date, Astellas aims to continuously generate innovation through namely urology, oncology, immunology, nephrology, and the acquisition of cutting-edge science and optimal neuroscience, we have selected muscle diseases and resource allocation. Astellas is promoting open innovation ophthalmology as new focused disease areas for research by building a Network Research System. This system where we will concentrate our resources. There are high appoints optimal personnel and researchers from both unmet medical needs in these therapeutic areas, and we inside and outside the Company to undertake dynamic aim to deliver new medicines while seeking alliance research activities in the best possible environment, and opportunities with external partners. Focused Disease Areas and Technologies/Modalities Enhancing Capabilities to Deliver Innovative Medicines Core New technologies/ Network technologies New modalities FASTEN Research (FAST-Ex-New-standard) System Existing TAs Greater utilization Highest Oncology resource of external R&D priority resources FAST TRACK Fusion Take on challenges Urology NextPOC (Proof of Concept) protein in new therapeutic generation areas and drug vaccines discovery Launch Immunology NEW Fastest POC technologies STANDARD TRACK Best Science Nephrology Small Utilize molecule external Best Talent resources Neuroscience Antibody Gene Ex. TRACK therapy Best Place New TAs Cell therapy Muscle Diseases Ophthalmology TAs: Therapeutic areas 19 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Pursuing New Opportunities Astellas will make sufficient investments in opportunities Pursuing Operational Excellence that pave the way for long-term growth, including new therapeutic areas and the use of new technologies and Raising the Quality of Operations in Anticipation modalities, and medical solutions that leverage our of Change strengths, centered on the innovative drug business. Astellas strives to improve the quality and efficiency of Newly selecting muscle diseases and ophthalmology operations by keeping a close eye on changes in the as focused disease areas for research, Astellas is business environment from a number of perspectives, and undertaking groundbreaking research through implementing measures in anticipation of these changes. partnerships with external entities. In the muscle disease Astellas will optimize the allocation of management area, we are targeting ways to control the progression resources in conjunction with making effective use of of disease or achieve causal therapies. In the external resources. We are constantly reviewing our ophthalmology area, we are targeting disorders of the organization and functions to optimize our business posterior eye segment for which no standard drug processes, cost structures and other aspects. From the treatments are available. perspective of compliance, we will actively address laws, Astellas is also advancing initiatives leveraging new regulations and social norms while working to further technologies and modalities. In addition to working to increase the reliability of our products. develop next-generation vaccines, we have commenced cell therapy research in earnest. At the Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Astellas is proactively promoting research and development program of cell therapy in the ophthalmology and other field. Major Initiatives in Year Ended March 31, 2017 Major Initiatives in Year Ended March 31, 2017 • Strengthening our oncology franchise and expanding our development pipeline P53 • Enhance organizational structure (Enhancement of global Ethics & Compliance function) • Achieving many milestones in clinical development P57 • Optimizing the allocation of resources (Transfer of business of U.S. manufacturing subsidiary and long-listed products in Japan) P 63 Advancing into New Opportunities Our Approach to Operational Excellence l solutions by comb Optimal reallocation of resources dica i e me d external healthcare ning a v ti al an cap a va ov ern ab rie ilit t nn f int ie I o s y New therapeutic areas Effective Continually Rx business utilization of external Operational enhance organizational resources Excellence structure Advancing Advancing into new Existing into new opportunities therapeutic areas opportunities Active response to Strengthen core various regulations capabilities and social norms (compliance) New technologies/ New modalities Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 20 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance CFO Message We will focus on optimal resource allocation and establishing the best business structure to achieve sustainable growth, responding to changes in the business environment. Chikashi Takeda Chief Financial Officer maintain a certain level of cash on hand, in order to Putting Highest Priority on Business respond flexibly to the need to make strategic investments Investments for Future Growth for future growth. Moreover, we are prepared for cases Astellas prioritizes allocating funds to business investments where funding requirements exceed Astellas’ internal for future growth in order to achieve a sustainable increase funding capacity so that we can finance smoothly. in enterprise value. The highest priority is on the investments to promptly advance R&D projects that could create high added value, Further Enhancing the Level of Returns to and to acquire promising new drug candidates or cuttingShareholders edge technologies. We will also invest in activities to support growth such as leveraging real-world data, while Astellas will target a stable and continuous increase in dividends also allocating sufficient funds to investments to deal with based on the mediumto long-term growth prospects for new risks, including enhancement of compliance. We will consolidated earnings by taking into account dividend on review resource allocation from scratch as appropriate equity attributable to owners of parent (DOE). During Strategic based on environment changes. For example, we will Plan 2015-2017, we are targeting DOE of 6% or more. reduce or stop investments for areas that have already We will implement share buybacks flexibly as needed matured and are not expected to grow in the future, or for based on an overall consideration of the business activities that do not lead to a competitive advantage. environment, investment plans, and the level of cash on Through these activities, we will strive to allocate optimal hand, among other factors, with a view to further management resources as a whole. enhancing capital efficiency and the level of returns to Looking at cash on hand, in addition to the working shareholders. Our policy is to cancel acquired treasury capital needed to fund day-to-day operations, we will stock, in principle, except for the portion needed for stock activities such as execution of existing stock options. Details of Shareholder Returns Dividends per share*1 (left axis) Profit for the year*2 (right axis) (yen) (billion yen) 40 250 200 30 150 20 34 36 100 10 50 0 0 2006.3 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 (Forecast) (billion yen) Total dividends 39.3 42.3 55.2 56.9 58.2 57.7 57.7 59.4 60.6 66.0 68.5 71.3 74.4 Acquisition of own shares 46.2 219.9 81.8 123.4 27.0 – – 49.4 30.0 58.2 119.3 91.4 Total return ratio (%) 82 200 77 106 70 85 74 118 100 92 97 74 *1 The Company conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an effective date of April 1, 2014. Figures are calculated based on the number of shares issued after the stock split (excluding treasury shares) on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2005. *2 From fiscal 2013, figures are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 21 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data CSR-Based Management Create and protect value for both Astellas and society by fulfilling social responsibility Astellas’ Interaction with Society Enhance the sustainability of society Society Trust from society CSR-based Enhance the sustainability management of Astellas Astellas Raison D’être Mission Contribute toward improving the health of people Sustainable enhancement around the world through the provision of of enterprise value innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Means Value Creation and Protection for Both Astellas Realizing Our Business Philosophy and Society Astellas recognizes its corporate social responsibility (CSR) CSR for Astellas has two aspects: value creation and value is its responsibility for any impacts that its decisions and protection. business activities have on society and the environment. Astellas is helping to enhance the sustainability of Value Creation Through its business activities, Astellas is society by fulfilling its social responsibilities as a creating value for society by addressing social issues such pharmaceutical company by, for example, providing as unmet medical needs, and by returning profits to pharmaceutical products that satisfy unmet medical stakeholders. By reinvesting the profit we gain through needs. We believe that we earn trust from society for both business activities, we strengthen our capabilities in the Company and our products as a result of these research and development. In addition, by winning trust activities, and that this trust enhances our sustainability. from government and business partners in each country, This positive cycle will lead to the realization of our we create new business opportunities. This process creates mission, “sustainable enhancement of enterprise value” value for Astellas. through fulfillment of our raison d’être “contribute toward improving the health of people around the world through Value Protection Astellas seeks to preserve biodiversity the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical by reducing the environmental burden associated with its products.” For Astellas, fulfilling our social responsibility business activities, while maintaining social order by means realizing our business philosophy. ensuring compliance and preventing corruption. These activities will lead to the protection of value for society. In addition, Astellas protects its enterprise value by mitigating reputation risk and elevating its corporate brand through these activities. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 22 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance 2014, and are considering revising those issues based on Identification and Prioritization of Material progress with initiatives, changes in society and other factors. Issues in CSR Activities Astellas identifies and prioritizes material issues in CSR activities, and uses these material issues to guide its CSRbased management. Activities and Monitoring of Material Issues Referring to various principles and guidelines, Astellas has identified material issues from among the issues to be To solve material issues through its CSR activities, Astellas’ addressed as prerequisites of its business activities and social relevant divisions draw up annual and medium-term priorities including global healthcare issues. Making reference activity plans for each material issue, and work to address to expectations and requests from a broad range of the material issues based on those plans. Moreover, the stakeholders, we classified and prioritized the material issues CSR Committee* monitors activities and results, along with into three categories by evaluating their societal significance the status of progress against plans. and relevance to our business (CSR Materiality Matrix). * The CSR Committee discusses policies and plans for important activities in fulfilling In addition, we are currently verifying the the Company’s social responsibilities. The committee is chaired by the Chief Administrative Officer & Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, and comprises the appropriateness of the material issues established in fiscal heads of the relevant divisions in Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania. Materiality Determination Process Astellas’ material issues are identified with reference to various principles and guidelines (such as ISO 26000, the UN Global Compact’s ten principles and the SASB* Materiality Map), communications with stakeholders, and evaluation items for socially responsible investment Step1 Identify Issues (SRI) indices, etc. * SASB: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. A U.S. non-profit organization exploring disclosure standards for non-financial information on an industry-by-industry basis. SASB has prepared industry-specific materiality maps by evaluating the materiality of 43 factors related to the environment, society and governance. Step2 We will prioritize Astellas’ material issues from the dual perspectives of societal significance and Prioritize relevance to our business. Step3 Astellas’ material issues will be periodically reviewed and verified. They will be modified Review depending on the attainment level of initiatives implemented and/or any changes in society’s demands. 23 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data CSR Materiality Matrix For more details, please refer to WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/materiality/ Important Very Important Most Important Very High • Societal benefit-driven product development • Development of innovative products • Affordable pricing for patients • Socially responsible R&D • Improvement of healthcare • Socially responsible marketing and infrastructure and services to solve ethical advertising ATH issues* • Fair pricing • CSR procurement • Proper use of products • Socially responsible manufacturing • Product quality assurance • Recruitment and retention of employees • Anti-counterfeit efforts • Stakeholder engagement • Diversity and equal opportunity • Information disclosure • Training and development of employees • Health, safety and welfare of employees • Compliance with laws and regulations • Business ethics and fair competition • Establishment and implementation of CSR policies Societal Significance • Child labor and • Universal design for products • Customer privacy forced labor • Customer satisfaction • Shareholder engagement • Water usage • Reduction of environmental impact • Transparent reporting of Board reduction throughout lifecycle of our products independence and its structure • Air pollution • Environmental and social impacts of reduction business operations • Climate change risk • Compensation and benefits • Labor relations and union practices • Risk mitigation and immediate remedy of environmental accidents • Efficient use of energy and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions • Waste management and hazardous water reduction • Patient assistance and advocacy • Advancement of medical science • Disclosure of executive compensation • Biodiversity • Appropriate lobbying and • Philanthropic political contributions community support High High Relevance to Astellas’ Business Very High * ATH issues: There are many people with insufficient access to the healthcare they need due to the lack of available treatments, poverty, challenges in healthcare systems and limited healthcare information. Astellas recognizes this problem as the Access to Health issue and works to improve Access to Health by engaging in various initiatives. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 24 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Company’s raison d'être is to contribute to improving Corporate Governance System the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products. The Company aims to sustainably enhance enterprise value as its mission. The Company recognizes the Annual Shareholders Meeting as Corporate governance takes an important role in an important forum for constructive dialogue with shareholders. realizing the sustainable enhancement of enterprise value. We work to ensure and strengthen the effectiveness of Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal corporate governance from the following perspectives: 1) Ensuring transparency, appropriateness and agility Audit & Accounting Auditor Supervisory Board of management and 2) Fulfillment of our fiduciary duties and • Ernst & Young ShinNihon Role accountability to shareholders and appropriate LLC serves as the Company’s • The Audit & Supervisory Accounting Auditor. Board is the only deliberation collaboration with all stakeholders. and decision-making body for • The Accounting Auditor and the Company’s Audit & forming opinions regarding Supervisory Board Members the audits by Audit & maintain close cooperation Supervisory Board Members. by meeting several times a Where necessary, the Audit & Supervisory Board provides its Corporate Governance System year, verifying their annual auditing plans as well as opinions to Directors or the sharing the results of audits Board of Directors. However, and important audit resolutions of the Audit & Characteristics Supervisory Board do not information. obstruct the execution by each • The Company adopts the organizational structure of a Audit & Supervisory Board “Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board.” Outside Member of their authority. Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Composition • To further enhance the Members constitute the majority of the Board of Directors independence and neutrality and the Audit & Supervisory Board, respectively. of the auditing system, outside Audit & Supervisory • The Board of Directors principally serves the oversight Board Members comprise a function of business execution and also makes decisions majority of Audit & Supervisory Board Members. on important business execution. <Structure as of the close of (coordination) the June 2017 Annual • As advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, the Company Shareholders Meeting> established the Nomination Committee and the Five Audit & Supervisory Board Compensation Committee, each of which are composed members, of whom majority of three are outside Audit & of a majority of outside Directors. Supervisory Board Members • Enhancing Systems Involving Business Execution Administration • As a general rule, meetings • Executive Committee are held once a month, with extraordinary meetings held • Japan Management Committee as necessary. • Appoints Executive Officers responsible for specific Audit divisions and functions The Board of Directors established the Corporate Decision Authority Policy to ensure the agility of Business execution management and clarify the responsibility and authority for the execution of business by Executive Officers and others. Internal Auditing Department • Matrix Management Internal audit 25 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data General Shareholders’ Meeting • The following measures are taken to invigorate the meeting for shareholders and encourage the exercise of voting rights. (1) To ensure sufficient time for consideration of resolutions, the convocation notice is dispatched three weeks before the meeting date. It is also published before dispatch on the Timely Disclosure Network (TDnet) provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and on the Company’s website. (2) Holding the Annual Shareholders Meeting avoiding dates when meetings of other companies are concentrated (since 2004). (3) Adoption of an electronic voting platform (since 2006). (4) Providing an English translation of the convocation notice. Election/Dismissal Nomination Committee/ Board of Directors Compensation Committee Role Role • Primarily performs an oversight function over business execution, ensuring that management is • Established as advisory bodies to the Board of transparent and appropriate. It also makes decisions on important business execution, while Directors to improve the transparency and establishing the Corporate Decision Authority Policy, clarifying the business execution responsibility objectivity of the deliberation process and authority of the respective Executive Officers and ensuring management agility. regarding election and dismissal of Directors, etc., and the remuneration system. Composition • The Board comprises an appropriate number of Directors, in consideration of diversity and balance <Nomination Committee> from the perspectives of expertise and experience, and is chaired by the Director and Chairman of • Discusses matters concerning the election and the Board. Note that when the Director and Chairman of the Board is unable to fulfill their duties dismissal of Directors, Audit & Supervisory due to an accident or vacancy of the post, another Director, in the order prescribed in the Board of Board Members, and the appointment and Directors Policy, shall assume the role. removal of Executive Officers, etc., and reports • The board has a majority of outside Directors to enable it to make decisions from a broader the results to the Board of Directors. viewpoint and oversee business execution objectively. <Compensation Committee> Audit <Structure as of the close of the June 2017 Annual Shareholders Meeting> • Discusses matters concerning remuneration of Six Directors, of whom majority of four are outside Directors. Directors, Executive Officers and others, and reports the results to the Board of Directors. Administration • As a general rule, meetings are held once a month, with extraordinary meetings held as necessary. Composition • These committees are composed of members Directors elected by the Board of Directors. • The majority of each committee’s members Responsibilities are outside Directors. • As members of the Board of Directors, Directors participate in management decision-making through • These Committees are chaired by an outside resolutions to the Board, in addition to overseeing the performance of duties of other Directors. Director. • To fully exercise their expected capabilities, Directors are expected to contribute to the sustained enhancement of enterprise value by collecting the information necessary for the execution of their duties and engaging actively in discussions. • Outside Directors are expected to enhance the appropriateness of management by overseeing the execution of business from an independent standpoint, while utilizing their individual experience and knowledge to offer advice from a standpoint different from that of internal Directors. Election • Subject to appointment via resolution of the Annual Shareholders Meeting. Appointment/ Proposal/Report Dismissal, Supervision President/ Executive Vice President/ Executive Committee Japan Management Committee This Committee discusses matters important to This Committee discusses matters important to Election/Dismissal management of the Group overall, and is chaired by management of the Company and its Group companies the President. in Japan, and is chaired by the Executive Vice President. Proposal/Report Direction/Supervision Officers responsible for each function/Corporate Executives/Functional Heads Report Business execution/Direction/Supervision Divisions Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 26 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Progress in Enhancing Effectiveness Start of Efforts to Evaluate Effectiveness The Company continues to work to ensure and enhance In fiscal 2015, the Company’s Board of Directors began the the effectiveness of its corporate governance system in process of analyzing and evaluating the overall terms of the transparency, appropriateness and agility of effectiveness of the Board of Directors. The results of that management; the fulfillment of its fiduciary duties and evaluation for fiscal 2016 are as follows. accountability to shareholders as well as appropriate collaboration with all stakeholders. <Evaluation Method> Since Astellas launch in April 2005, we have worked to The Chairman of the Board of Directors conducted a increase the speed of execution by delegating authority to survey based on a questionnaire to all Directors and Audit the management team, in the belief that prompt and & Supervisory Board Members, primarily concerning the accurate decision-making will result in the enhancement oversight function of the Board of Directors. Based on the of enterprise value. In the year following our launch, the results of this survey, the Board of Directors performed its Company appointed a majority of outside Directors to its analysis and evaluation. Board of Directors, and subsequently established the Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee, <Conclusion> part of our ongoing efforts at structural reform. The Board of Directors was found to function With the implementation of Japan’s Corporate appropriately, with highly transparent and lively Governance Code in June 2015, we also took the discussions by the Directors, including independent opportunity to further enhance the Company’s corporate outside Directors. The overall effectiveness of the Board of governance structure. In September 2015, the Company Directors was sufficiently ensured. formulated its Corporate Governance Guidelines as the basis for implementing the individual principles of the <Reason for Evaluation> code. Through these efforts, the Company is working to The Company has accelerated business execution by enhance the effectiveness of its corporate governance. focusing the function of the Board of Directors solely on the appropriate oversight of the management team and Major Corporate Governance Reforms Implemented to Date Date Change Objective New Board of Directors launched • Board of Directors comprised of 4 Executive Directors, 2 non-Executive Directors and 2 outside Ensure management transparency Directors and appropriateness April 2005 • Board of Directors specializes in supervising the management team and decision-making Launch of Astellas regarding legal and most important matters Authority delegated to the management team Ensure management agility • To the extent legally allowable, delegate as much authority as possible to the management team Outside Directors represent a majority of the Board of Directors Ensure management transparency June 2006 • 9 Directors, of whom 5 are outside Directors and appropriateness Reduction in number of Directors Ensure management agility • 7 Directors, of whom 4 are outside Directors June 2007 Established the Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee Ensure management transparency • 5 committee members, of whom 3 are outside Directors and appropriateness Shortened term of appointment for Directors Clarify management • Term of appointment shortened from two years to one year responsibilities June 2010 Elimination of advisor system Ensure management transparency • Prior to that, counselor system also eliminated Change in chairmanship of the Nomination and the Compensation Committees Ensure management transparency June 2011 • Each Committee chaired by outside Director and appropriateness Increase outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Strengthen independence and June 2015 • From 2 to 3, resulting in outside members representing a majority of the total of 5 Audit & neutrality of the auditing system Supervisory Board Members 27 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data decision-making on matters legally required to be resolved assumptions such as changes in the internal and external and matters of primary importance, as well as delegating environments, and conduct multi-faceted discussions that authority to the management team. To enhance the give additional consideration to various stakeholders. oversight function, the Company has increased the • The Board of Directors will further strengthen frameworks number of outside Directors, established the Nomination for systematic risk assessment, while further facilitating Committee and the Compensation Committee, and comprehensive identification of Company-wide risk. shortened the term of appointment for Directors. The Board of Directors regularly collects the requisite information such as environmental changes from the Please refer to the following for the Corporate Governance Guidelines. management team, and has determined strategies of the WEB https://www.astellas.com/system/files/ Company based on such information. The Board of governance_guideline_en_0_0.pdf Directors also receives timely reports from the management side on the establishment and operation of a risk management system, and ensures that necessary information and time for discussions are secured for oversight. A System of Remuneration for Directors and <Issues> Audit & Supervisory Board Members That To enhance the effectiveness of discussions, the Board of Contributes to Sustainable Improvements in Directors will continue to improve on the issues below Enterprise Value which were identified in this evaluation. The compensation paid to Directors and Audit & • Based on discussions regarding optimization of functions Supervisory Board Members of the Company is carried out by the Board of Directors in fiscal 2016, the designed to enable the Company to attract and retain Board of Directors will review matters for deliberation talent, and maintain sufficient compensation and reporting by the Board of Directors. At the same standards and systems to meet the duties and time, it will reaffirm and review as required the roles and responsibilities of the positions. The Company has authority of other committees. improved the objectivity of decisions on remuneration • In determining corporate strategy, the Board of Directors levels by using survey data issued by outside research will work to enhance a shared recognition of the companies and other measures. Progress of Response to the Corporate Governance Code (Items complied since fiscal 2016) The Company implements all the principles of the Corporate Governance Code. Corporate Governance Code Activities in Astellas The Company has disclosed the reasons for its selection of candidates for outside Principle 3-1: Full Disclosure Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Beginning in fiscal 2017, the Company added the candidates for internal Directors and internal Audit In addition to making information disclosure in compliance with relevant laws & Supervisory Board Members to this list, disclosing the reasons for selecting and regulations, companies should disclose and proactively provide the those candidates in the Annual Shareholders Meeting convocation notice. information listed below in order to enhance transparency and fairness in decision-making and ensure effective corporate governance. Notice of Convocation of the Annual Shareholders Meeting v) Explanations with respect to the individual appointments and nominations https://www.astellas.com/en/ir/stock_bond/pdf/ncsm12_en.pdf when the Board appoints senior management and nominates candidates for Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Page 31 of this annual report shows expected roles of outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Principle 4-11: Preconditions for Board and Audit & Supervisory Board The Company has implemented a questionnaire at irregular intervals for outside Effectiveness Directors and strived to improve operations of the Board of Directors while taking (Omit 1st paragraph) into account these opinions. From fiscal 2016, through the implementation of The Board should endeavor to improve its function by analyzing and self-assessment by each Director and other means, the Board of Directors evaluating effectiveness of the board as a whole. analyzes and evaluates the overall effectiveness of the Board of Directors and discloses a summary of the results every year. Supplementary Principle 4.11.3 Each year the board should analyze and evaluate its effectiveness as a whole, Corporate Governance Report taking into consideration the relevant matters, including the self-evaluations of https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/pdf/governance_en_20170620.pdf each director. A summary of the results should be disclosed. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 28 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Remuneration for internal Directors is fundamentally based upon contributions to sustainable improvements in Enhancing the Management Structure business performance and enterprise value, and is composed of a fixed amount basic remuneration, bonuses The Company has established a global management and stock compensation. The Company appropriately links structure, and continues to work to strengthen it. remuneration with business performance. In fiscal 2015, Astellas establishes the Executive Committee as a the Company introduced a performance-linked stock body for discussion on significant issues in the global compensation scheme. Through this program, the Company management of the Group, and the Japan Management is raising the awareness of Directors and executive officers Committee as a body for discussion on significant regarding their responsibility to contribute to sustainable corporate governance issues of the Company and its improvements in business performance and enterprise affiliates in Japan. value. This program grants the Company stock based on In order to build an optimal management system the performance-linked coefficient regarding the level of capable of agile and appropriate decision-making, we attainment of the medium-term management targets. have been promoting a system called Matrix Management, Medium-term performance targets include predetermined under which we manage each division and function of goals for sales, core operating margin, core ROE, etc., over Drug Discovery Research, Medical & Development, and a three-year time span. Pharmaceutical Technology based on their respective Remuneration for outside Directors and Audit & functions from a global viewpoint across geographical Supervisory Board Members (including outside Audit & regions, while the Sales & Marketing Divisions are Supervisory Board Members) consists solely of a fixed managed on a regional basis. base salary. Enhancement of management functions from a Remuneration for each Director are determined by global viewpoint is pursued in the area of corporate resolution of the Board of Directors within a total ceiling functions as well. In order to further strengthen amount approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders, compliance, the Ethics & Compliance function was and remuneration for each Audit & Supervisory Board established in April 2016, under a global compliance Member is determined through deliberations of the Audit structure wherein Ethics & Compliance functions in each & Supervisory Board Members within a total ceiling region (Japan, the Americas, EMEA, and Asia & Oceania) amount approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. report to the Head of Ethics & Compliance. Furthermore, in Through the deliberations of the Compensation Committee, April 2017, a new global Legal function that manages the the Company enhances the transparency and objectivity regional legal functions was established. The General of the deliberation process for remuneration for Directors. Counsel reports directly to CEO. In order to develop a system for more appropriate Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board execution of business, the Company has established Members in Fiscal 2016 (¥ million) various committees comprising cross-functional members. Total Type of remuneration These committees include the Corporate Disclosure Category amount of Basic Stock remuneration remuneration Bonus remuneration Committee where matters including disclosure of Directors (excluding corporate information are discussed, the CSR Committee 404 178 118 108 outside Directors): 3 that discusses policies and plans of important activities for Outside Directors: 4 55 55 — — the purpose of fulfilling the Company’s social Audit & Supervisory responsibilities (such as issues on the environment, health Board Members (excluding outside 88 88 — — and safety, and social contribution activities), the Global Audit & Supervisory Benefit Risk Committee to discuss benefit and risk Board Members): 3 Outside Audit & information of products as well as measures to deal with Supervisory Board 41 41 — — such benefit and risk, the Global Compliance Committee Members: 4 where matters including global compliance policies and The total amount of remuneration shown here is the amount paid as remuneration plans are discussed, and the Global Risk Management for the performance of duties during fiscal 2016, and includes the amount paid to one Director and two Audit & Supervisory Board Members (including one outside Office to promote identifying global risks and Audit & Supervisory Board Member) who retired during fiscal 2016. implementing optimum risk management. 29 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Risk Management relating to the performance of business activities and Identifying and Mitigating Risks Relating to conducts risk management. The risks identified by the the Performance of Business Activities Regional Risk Management Offices that must be managed As a global pharmaceutical company in a highly regulated at the global level are incorporated into the Global Risk industry, Astellas faces numerous risks that could impact Management Program as necessary. our business results and society. To conduct risk Overview of Global Risk Management management properly as a whole group, Astellas has established Global Risk Management and Regional Risk Interview EC members and functional heads and analyze results Management Programs in each region that identify risks Global Risk Management Secretariat should: relating to appropriate and efficient business conduct • Conduct interviews with EC members and functional heads (risks relating to the performance of business activities). • Analyze interview results and make proposals to the EC Each department and unit of the Company and the Astellas Group companies will proactively put the Identify global risk and assign global risk owners Company’s risk management initiatives into practice and EC should: promote risk mitigation within the Group and the proper • Evaluate the global risk identified • Assign global risk owners response to such risks. The Global Risk Management Program established the Assess current controls and develop global risk mitigation plans Global Risk Management Secretariat to identify risks relating to the performance of Astellas’ business activities Global risk owners should: • Assess assigned global risk • Identify current risk controls through interviews with Executive Committee (EC) • Develop global risk mitigation plans and make proposals to the EC members and functional heads. Risk owners are then assigned and are responsible for developing and implementing risk mitigation plans. These plans are Implement additional risk control measures and report progress regularly updated and mitigation progress is reported to Global risk owners should: senior management at the EC. • Implement risk mitigation plans, including additional risk response At the regional level, the Regional Risk Management measures over 1 to 3 years • Report half-year progress to the EC Office of each Astellas region identifies the regional risks Global Risk Management Structure Board of Directors Report status Global risk Assign Executive Committee Global risk owner Global Risk Management Report Regional risk Report status of each area Share status Report and propose significant items in each area Advise Report results Regional Risk Management (Japan, Americas, EMEA, Asia & Oceania) Advise Report status Departments Departments in each region Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 30 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Front row, from left) Yoshiharu Aizawa, Keiko Yamagami, Yoshihiko Hatanaka, Toshiko Oka, Noriyuki Uematsu (Back row, from left) Mamoru Sekiyama, Etsuko Okajima, Kenji Yasukawa, Hiroko Sakai, Hitoshi Kanamori, Tomokazu Fujisawa Expected Role of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors and Position Name Expected Role Audit & Supervisory Board During Fiscal 2016 Outside Etsuko Etsuko Okajima has been engaged in corporate management as a business manager of a human resource consulting Directors Okajima company, and has abundant management experience and extensive insight. She currently plays a key role as an outside Director for management of the Company from an independent standpoint. The Company is confident that she will draw 14/14 times on her abundant experience of corporate management in management of the Company in the future as well. Yoshiharu Yoshiharu Aizawa has been engaged in medical treatment while successively holding important posts at Kitasato University Aizawa as a medical scientist, and has abundant specialized knowledge and experience. He currently plays a key role as an outside Director for management of the Company from an independent standpoint. The Company is confident that he will draw 14/14 times on his abundant specialized knowledge and experience in management of the Company in the future as well. Mamoru Mamoru Sekiyama has been engaged in corporate management as a business manager of a general trading company over Sekiyama many years, and has abundant global experience and extensive insight. The Company is confident that he will be able to Inaugurated apply his abundant specialized knowledge and experience in corporate management and other strengths to the in June 2017 management of the Company from an independent standpoint. Keiko After successively holding important posts such as Public Prosecutor at the Supreme Public Prosecutors Office, Keiko Yamagami Yamagami has been engaged in corporate legal affairs as an attorney-at-law, and has abundant expertise and experience. Inaugurated The Company is confident that she will be able to apply her abundant specialized knowledge and experience to the in June 2017 management of the Company from an independent standpoint. Outside Toshiko Toshiko Oka has been engaged in corporate management as a business manager of a management consulting firm, and 14/14 Board of Audit & Oka has abundant management experience and extensive insight. She currently plays a key role as an outside Audit & Directors meetings Supervisory Board Member from an independent standpoint. The Company is confident that she will draw on her Supervisory abundant experience in corporate management in auditing the Company in the future as well. 15/15 Audit & Supervisory Board Board meetings Members Hitoshi After successively holding important posts such as Public Prosecutor at the Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office, Hitoshi 14/14 Board of Kanamori Kanamori has been engaged in corporate legal affairs as an attorney-at-law, and has abundant expertise and experience. He Directors meetings currently plays a key role as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member from an independent standpoint. The Company is confident that he will draw on his abundant specialized knowledge and experience in auditing the Company in the 15/15 Audit & Supervisory future as well. Board meetings Noriyuki With many years of experience as a certified public accountant, Noriyuki Uematsu has thorough knowledge of corporate 11/11 Board of Uematsu consulting and auditing, and is also engaged in corporate management as a business manager of a consulting company Directors meetings relating to business accounting and tax accounting services. He currently plays a key role as an outside Audit & Superrisory Board Member from an independent standpoint. The Company is confident that he will draw on his abundant specialized 11/11 Audit & Supervisory knowledge and experience in auditing the Company in the future as well. Board meetings 31 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Profile of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Representative Director, President and CEO Yoshiharu Aizawa, M.D., Ph.D. Hiroko Sakai Yoshihiko Hatanaka 1975: Fellow, Department of Internal Medicine, School of 1983: Joined the Company 1980: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Medicine, Keio University 2012: Vice President, Clinical and Research Quality Assurance, 2003: Director, Corporate Planning, Fujisawa Pharmaceutical 1980: Assistant Professor, Department of Preventive Medicine QA, RA and Pharmacovigilance Department, the Co., Ltd. and Public Health, School of Medicine, Kitasato University Company 2005: Vice President, Corporate Planning, Corporate Strategy 1983: Associate Professor, Department of Preventive Medicine 2014: Vice President, Clinical and Research Quality Assurance, Division, the Company and Public Health, School of Medicine, Kitasato University the Company 2005: Corporate Executive, Vice President, Corporate 1994: Professor, Department of Preventive Medicine and 2016: Assistant to President & CEO, the Company Planning, Corporate Strategy, the Company Public Health, School of Medicine, Kitasato University 2016: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company 2006: Corporate Executive of the Company and 2004: Chairperson, School of Medicine, Kitasato University (present post) President & CEO, Astellas US LLC and 2006: Dean, School of Medicine, Kitasato University President & CEO, Astellas Pharma US, Inc. 2009: Vice President, Kitasato University Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 2008: Senior Corporate Executive of the Company and 2010: Executive Trustee, The Kitasato Institute President & CEO, Astellas US LLC and President & CEO, Astellas Pharma US, Inc. 2012: Professor Emeritus, Kitasato University (present post) Toshiko Oka 2015: Director, the Company (present post) 1986: Joined Tohmatsu Touche Ross Consulting Limited 2009: Senior Corporate Executive, Chief Strategy Officer and Chief Financial Officer (CSTO & CFO), the Company (currently ABeam Consulting Ltd.) 2000: Joined Asahi Arthur Andersen Limited 2011: Representative Director, President and CEO, the Company (present post) Mamoru Sekiyama 2002: Principal, Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co., Ltd. 1974: Joined Marubeni Corporation (currently ABeam Consulting Ltd.) 1997: General Manager, Power Project Dept.-I, 2005: President and Representative Director, ABeam Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Marubeni Corporation Consulting Ltd. (currently PwC Advisory LLC) Chief Strategy Officer and Chief Commercial Officer 1998: General Manager, Power Project Dept.-III, 2008: Outside Director, Netyear Group Corporation (CSTO & CCO) Marubeni Corporation 2014: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company 1999: Deputy General Manager, Power Project Div.; General (present post) Kenji Yasukawa, Ph. D. Manager, Power Project Dept. I, Marubeni Corporation 2015: Outside Corporate Auditor, HAPPINET CORPORATION 1986: Joined the Company 2001: Senior Operating Officer, Utility Infrastructure Div.; (present post) General Manager, Overseas Power Project Dept., 2016: Chief Executive Officer, PricewaterhouseCoopers Deals 2005: Vice President, Project Management, Urology, the Marubeni Corporation Company Advisory LLC (currently PwC Advisory LLC) 2002: Corporate Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, 2016: Partner, PwC Advisory LLC 2010: Corporate Executive of the Company and Therapeutic Plant, Power & Infrastructure Div., Marubeni Corporation Area Head, Urology, Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 2016: CEO, Oka & Company Ltd. (present post) 2005: Corporate Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, 2010: Corporate Executive of the Company and Therapeutic 2016: Outside Director, Mitsubishi Corporation (present post) Plant, Power & Infrastructure Projects Div., Marubeni Area Head, Urology, Astellas Pharma Global Corporation 2016: Outside Director, Hitachi Metals, Ltd. (present post) Development, Inc. 2006: Corporate Senior Vice President, Member of the Board, 2011: Corporate Executive, Vice President, Product & Marubeni Corporation Portfolio Strategy, the Company 2007: Corporate Executive Vice President, Member of the Hitoshi Kanamori 2012: Corporate Executive, Chief Strategy Officer (CSTO), Board, Marubeni Corporation 1984: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office the Company 2009: Senior Executive Vice President, Member of the Board, 1985: Public Prosecutor, Yamagata District Public 2012: Senior Corporate Executive, Chief Strategy Officer Marubeni Corporation Prosecutors Office (CSTO), the Company 2013: Vice Chairman, Marubeni Corporation 1988: Public Prosecutor, Niigata District Public Prosecutors 2017: Senior Corporate Executive, Chief Strategy Officer and Office Chief Commercial Officer (CSTO & CCO), the Company 2015: Corporate Adviser, Marubeni Corporation (present post) Chairman, Marubeni Power Systems Corporation 1990: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office 2017: Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer and Chief Commercial Officer 2017: Director, the Company (present post) 1992: Registered as an attorney-at-law (Tokyo Bar Association) (CSTO & CCO), the Company (present post) 1993: Partner, SANNO LAW OFFICE (present post) 2005: Visiting Professor, University of Tsukuba Law School Keiko Yamagami 2015: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company Outside Directors 1987: Public Prosecutor, Yokohama District Public (present post) Prosecutors Office Etsuko Okajima 2002: Coordinator, the Legislative Division, Criminal Affairs 1989: Joined Mitsubishi Corporation Bureau, Ministry of Justice Noriyuki Uematsu 2001: Joined McKinsey & Company, Inc., Japan 2005: Counselor, the Legislative Division, Criminal Affairs 1985: Joined Tohmatsu & Aoki Audit Corporation 2002: Joined GLOBIS Management Bank, Inc. Bureau, Ministry of Justice 1997: Joined Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co., Ltd. 2004: Executive Officer, GLOBIS Corporation 2005: Public Prosecutor, Supreme Public Prosecutors Office (current ABeam Consulting Ltd.) 2005: President and Representative Director, 2007: Deputy Director of Public Peace Department, Tokyo 1999: Global Partner for manufacturing industry and GLOBIS Management Bank, Inc. District Public Prosecutors Office Managing Director in Kyushu area, Deloitte Tohmatsu 2007: Established ProNova Inc. 2008: Deputy Director of Trial Department, Tokyo District Consulting Co., Ltd. (current ABeam Consulting Ltd.) President and Representative Director, ProNova Inc. Public Prosecutors Office 2003: Joined DENTSU INC. (present post) 2009: Trial Director, Yokohama District Public Prosecutors Office 2008: Established Uematsu & Co. 2014: Director, the Company (present post) 2010: Registered as an attorney-at-law Managing Director, Uematsu & Co. (present post) 2014: Extarnal Director, MARUI GROUP CO., LTD (present post) (Dai-ichi Tokyo Bar Association) 2011: President & Representative Director, SU Consultant 2015: External Director, SEPTENI HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Lawyer honorary member, Tokyo Seiwa Law Office Co., Ltd. (present post) (present post) (present post) 2012: Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, NJK 2016: Outside Director, Link and Motivation Inc. (present post) 2017: Director, the Company (present post) Corporation (present post) 2015: Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Kamakura Shinsho, Ltd. Audit & Supervisory Board Members 2016: Outside Director and Audit & Supervisory Committee Tomokazu Fujisawa Member, Kamakura Shinsho, Ltd. (present post) 2016: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company 1984: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (present post) 1999: Director of Planning, Medical Supply Business, Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 2006: Assistant to Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance & Accounting and Project Leader of J-SOX Project, the Company 2007: Project Leader of J-SOX Project, the Company 2013: Vice President, Internal Auditing, the Company 2014: Assistant to President and CEO, the Company 2014: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company (present post) Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 32 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Interview with an Outside Director I will contribute to enhancing the corporate governance, to fostering the continuous creation of innovation and to strengthening human resources and organizational capabilities. Etsuko Okajima Outside Director President and Representative Director, ProNova Inc. Professor, Graduate School of Management, GLOBIS University Ms. Okajima works as a consultant specializing in enhancement of management teams. Leveraging her extensive experience in corporate management, she has served as an outside Director of Astellas since 2014. Q: In your view, what roles should you fulfill as an outside Director to improve enterprise value and how are you making a contribution? A: I strive to supervise business execution from an objective viewpoint by taking full advantage of my expertise in human resource development. At Astellas, all outside Directors are expected to contribute as professionals from objective points of view. I am engaged in developing the next generation of management teams with my expertise in strategic human resource development as the president of a human resource consulting firm. Thus, I am committed to making a significant contribution especially to discussions on succession planning in the Nomination Committee, and to the supervision of personnel assignments and human resource development to create innovation. In my daily discussions as an outside Director, I recognize that the Company’s management should reflect objective perspectives, such as whether anything has been overlooked internally and what will be the impartial judgements. Notably, in terms of increasing enterprise value by creating innovation, it is crucial to evaluate risks and to supervise whether necessary risks are appropriately taken in resource allocation. It tends to be difficult to judge the extent of the risks that a company should take from the standpoint of outside Directors. In this respect, Astellas has a system that enables the outside Directors to monitor the situation by providing information to them on projects in consideration which are in the stage prior to being shared at Board of Directors meetings. In addition, I believe that the briefings given by the executives are vital to judging risk. For example, in discussions on M&As, President and CEO Hatanaka and other executives provide briefings in their own words on the reasons for implementing the project, the determination of management and their perspectives on risk, including the background of the project. Through this explanation and sound discussion over sufficient periods of time, we, outside Directors, deepen our understanding and awareness of the Company’s tolerance of risk and how positively management is willing to assume the risk. To date, we have communicated and discussed with Astellas’ management team so that we can confidently place fundamental trust in their management philosophy and their risk-taking capacity. In the course of examining each proposal, we are able to reconfirm the thinking of the management team to provide our perspective. Through this process, we strive to maximize our supervisory roles as outside Directors. 33 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Q: What are the initiatives at Astellas which are designed to enhance the effectiveness of the Board of Directors? A: Astellas continues to drive the evolution of the composition and operation of the Board of Directors, and the outside Directors are well-informed. I have had the opportunity to examine many different companies. I believe that Astellas’ Board of Directors clearly stands out in terms of ensuring reliable management to create innovation. My belief is based on two main reasons. The first reason is that Astellas continues to drive evolution in the composition and operation of the Board of Directors, in order to reach its clearly stated goal of realizing its business philosophy. Astellas’ management team has extensively looked at how the Board of Directors should be structured and operated to create innovation, including delegating authority to executives, and has reflected this resolve in the ways of working and management of the Board of Directors. For example, outside Directors have been the majority of the Board of Directors for many years and one or two of them are replaced every year. I believe that this approach helps to bring diverse and ongoing innovation through disciplined member turnover, in conjunction with maintaining the quality of discussions amongst the Board of Directors. The second reason is that Astellas has enhanced the information it provides to the outside Directors. Astellas properly provides the information needed by all board members to discuss matters using the same wording and concepts shared in meetings of the Board of Directors. I believe that this helps to enhance the effectiveness of the monitoring of business execution, besides increasing the quality of discussions as a matter of course. Twice a year, Astellas holds Board of Directors meetings at various business sites other than the Headquarters Office including locations outside of Japan. This provides a valuable opportunity to directly obtain real information related to my field of specialty regarding issues such as the capabilities and situations of local employees and the relationship between management and local employees. I feel that this opportunity is very helpful in the course of fulfilling my duties as an outside Director. Q: Could you discuss the features of succession planning at Astellas and your assessment of this process? A: Astellas is strategically developing people from an early stage who have been fairly selected. Astellas is strategically developing the next generation of business leaders. It also emphasizes fairness in the selection and development of those candidates. Based on these two points, I value the leading system of Astellas’ succession planning. In preparation for various environmental changes both within and outside the Company, Astellas identifies and captures high-potential employees who are candidates for the next generation of management well in advance. It then strategically assigns and transfers these personnel within the organization. Over the past few years, I have advised that this type of human resource development must begin at an early stage of people’s careers, and I feel that this discussion is ongoing now. Astellas intentionally assigns high-potential human resources to positions of responsibility from an early stage in their careers and gives them the opportunity to gain experience under pressure. I refer to this process as “pushing people beyond their comfort zone.” Through these assignments and appointments, Astellas develops human resources. Astellas also emphasizes the fair selection of candidates, looking at multiple factors beyond tenure to find the best fit for the job. From my perspective as a human resource specialist, Astellas is following a reliable process. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 34 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance I believe that the importance of ensuring fairness in human resource development will only continue to further increase. In recent years, Astellas has proactively executed M&A deals. In order to attract talented human resources, including members who have joined the Group through M&A activity, and to harness their talent, it is critical for Astellas to treat all personnel fairly without any bias with respect to age or company background. I have been able to share this recognition with the management team, and I feel that we have held good discussions in both meetings of the Board of Directors and the Nomination Committee. Q: Could you discuss your expectations for Astellas as an outside Director? A: I expect Astellas to further develop “dynamic” systems in order to create innovation. Astellas needs to continue creating innovation to meet the expectations of its stakeholders, and this is my expectation as well. From the viewpoint of organizational development, which lies in my field of expertise, creating innovation requires implementation of diversified perspectives in making decisions and newly connecting factors which are as different as possible. To do that, it is crucial to incorporate “dynamic” systems into the organization. Astellas is already implementing these approaches to develop “dynamic” systems, i.e., taking steps to ensure that innovation is not hindered by a fixed organizational structure or by the impediments of sectionalism/narrow viewpoints. As I said before, Astellas regards personnel assignment as an important pillar of human resource development, and encourages strategic and proactive personnel transfers. In addition, Astellas has made various efforts to avoid fixed organizations through such means as promoting flexible collaboration with external partners and cross-functional collaboration. I expect these measures to contribute immensely to creating innovation. I believe the agenda for the future is to develop more “dynamic” systems in the Board of Directors. One specific example would be to further increase the diversity of the members of the Board of Directors, including the appointment of foreign nationals to the board. I am determined to trigger “dynamic” evolution through my comments in the Board of Directors discussions and in the Nomination Committee meetings. By doing so, I intend to continue contributing to the enhancement of corporate governance at Astellas. TOPIC Corporate Governance of the Year 2016 Award Astellas Selected as one of the 2016 Prize Winners Astellas has been selected as one of the winners in the A member of the Nomination Committee for the Corporate Governance of the Year Awards for 2016 awards commended Astellas’ corporate governance, organized by the Japan Association of Corporate Directors. noting that the Company has firmly instilled Corporate Governance of the Year Awards are corporate governance in management and has a held to recognize companies that are achieving sound well-developed corporate governance system in mediumto long-term growth by implementing good place that facilitates prompt decision-making. corporate governance. Considering that one year has Without becoming complacent with the status passed since the Corporate Governance Code entered quo, Astellas will continue to strengthen corporate force, the nomination process emphasized not only governance so that it can continue to improve its formal structures, but also the actual implementation enterprise value. of corporate governance systems. 35 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business Review Further Enhancing Value Creation and Value Protection through Our Business Activities Targeting mediumto long-term growth, Astellas is steadily advancing the three strategic priorities of “Maximizing the Product Value,” “Creating Innovation,” and “Pursuing Operational Excellence.” Through these initiatives, we will realize the sustainable enhancement of enterprise value and fulfill our corporate social responsibility. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 36 Business Review Executive Committee (as of July 2017) The Executive Committee discusses important matters of management across Astellas. It is chaired by the Representative Director, President and CEO, and comprises top management and General Counsel as standing members. Extended members include the officers responsible for research, development and pharmaceutical technology capabilities together with the officers responsible for each region, and these members participate in any necessary discussions at the request of the chairman. Standing Members Fumiaki Sakurai Chikashi Takeda Yoshihiko Hatanaka Linda Friedman Kenji Yasukawa, Ph. D. Sef Kurstjens, Chief Administrative Officer & Chief Financial Officer Representative Director, General Counsel Representative Director, M.D., Ph. D. Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer President and CEO Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Chief Strategy Officer & Officer Chief Commercial Officer Extended Members Nobuaki Masatoshi James Yukio Wataru Mitsunori Bernie Zeiher, Tanaka Kuroda Robinson Matsui Uchida, Ph.D. Matsuda M.D. President, Japan President, Asia & President, Americas President, EMEA President, Drug President, President, Sales & Marketing Oceania Business Operations Operations Discovery Research Pharmaceutical Development Technology Global Heads Martin Charlotte Kremer, Songlin Xue, Bill Fitzsimmons, Kunihiko Golden M.D. M.D., Ph.D. Pharm.D. Kokubo Head of Marketing Head of Medical Affairs Head of Head of Regulatory Affairs and Clinical Head of Quality Strategy Pharmacovigilance and Research Quality Assurance Assurance 37 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Top Management Discussion Speaking with the CSTO&CCO Maximizing the Product Value Achieving Sustained Growth through Long-Term Portfolio Management Kenji Yasukawa, Ph.D. Representative Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer & Chief Commercial Officer (CSTO&CCO) Q: How will you expand the growth drivers to overcome the patent cliff? A: We analyze the internal and external environment rigorously and continue to review our portfolio with a long-term view. The patent cliff, impacts on business performance due to patent expiry of major products, is an issue that we must overcome by undertaking long-term portfolio management. Every year, Astellas rigorously analyzes the internal and external environment and updates its long-term strategy. In the process, we select fields where we can succeed in tandem with continuously revising our product portfolio and pipeline. XTANDI and the OAB treatment franchise, our current growth drivers, are in the stage to steadily execute the strategies we drew up at launch, and we have made largely solid progress. Looking at our future growth drivers, we have a number of projects in late-stage clinical development, such as gilteritinib and roxadustat. Moreover, the acquisitions of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG and Ogeda SA added exciting projects in our pipeline. We will also invest in the cell therapy program which we obtained from acquired Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. We expect these projects to contribute to our medium-term growth. Astellas has a portfolio fully capable of achieving sustained growth over the next 5 to 10 years. Q: As drug prices come under increasing pressure, how will you raise product value? A: We will seek to obtain an understanding from various stakeholders by striving to effectively prove the value our products deliver. In the areas of serious diseases and fields with unmet medical needs, Astellas will continue to provide high value by turning innovative science into new medicines promptly. In order to continuously create new value, drug prices must reflect the value of drugs, in conjunction with ensuring patients’ access to drugs. To do so, Astellas must prove the value of drugs to stakeholders. Until now, we have proven the value of drugs through conducting numerous clinical trials, including comparisons with existing drugs and the use in various types of patient populations. However, the need to conduct multiple trials has been one factor behind surging drug prices. Going forward, it will become increasingly important to prove the value of new drugs efficiently by utilizing regulatory systems for obtaining early approval of innovative drugs, real-world data and other methods. As this will require arrangements such as the introduction of new systems, Astellas will also work to gain the mutual understanding of society toward these developments. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 38 Business Review Speaking with the CMO Creating Innovation Focusing on the Creation of Innovative New Drugs for Diseases in Areas of High Unmet Medical Needs Sef Kurstjens, M.D., Ph.D. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Q: How do you evaluate the current pipeline? What are your key priorities for enhancing the pipeline? A: Astellas has demonstrated healthy growth and significantly strengthened its pipeline in recent years. To continue this trajectory, it is critical we do not become complacent and continue building out our expanding pipeline in our current and emerging therapeutic areas. At Astellas, our research and development efforts are focused predominantly in areas of high unmet medical need, in life-threatening diseases, with the potential to deliver first-in-class therapies. For the past decade, Astellas has demonstrated healthy growth, developing groundbreaking new medicines in urology, transplantation, infectious diseases and oncology, our largest focus area. We currently have more than 30 new molecular/biological entities in the pipeline, and have significantly grown our presence in oncology. We have a number of late-stage assets across the pipeline with data readouts expected in the coming year. While there has been demonstrable progress, we are not complacent and understand there is still a lot of work to do. We will continue to refine our current therapeutic areas, move assets forward in our emerging therapeutic areas, and build out our expanding pipeline. Q: How have you been improving R&D productivity? A: Throughout the R&D process, from bench to clinic, and into the marketplace, we focus on the best science, empower the best talent to pursue it, in the best location to optimize the chances of success for every molecule in development. Our approach to driving the speed of innovation is three-pronged: First, we have built speed and efficiency into our in-house, pre-Proof of Concept activities, with the initiation of our FASTEN program. Gilteritinib is a good example of how we’ve applied FASTEN to a development program. Second, we employ open innovation as a strategy to access the best science and scientists globally. Third, we continue to look for external midto late-stage assets that fit our strategic criteria through in-licensing, partnering or acquisition opportunities to continue to build our pipeline. Separate, but also important to improving productivity, is ensuring we design the best organization and fully engage our staff, utilizing the Astellas Way to create a common purpose and culture for our organization. 39 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Speaking with the CAO&CECO Pursuing Operational Excellence Human Resource Development That Leverages Diversity Drives Creating Innovation Fumiaki Sakurai Chief Administrative Officer & Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CAO&CECO) Q: Could you share your perspectives on human resource development aimed at creating innovation? A: We will create value by deliberately fostering constructive interaction and debate among employees with diverse values. Creating innovation is a universal theme for all employees, not just the departments involved in drug creation. Since its founding in 2005 through a merger of two leading Japanese pharmaceutical companies, Astellas has always pursued the best approaches and methods available in the world. One key to creating value is to respect the diverse values of various people. The breakthroughs that create opportunities are found in approaches that seem, at first glance, to be highly risky and unique. At times, diversity can give rise to opposing viewpoints. However, innovation is created when these differences are embraced and reconciled through communication. Based on this belief, Astellas provides opportunities for employees to grow by creatively tackling challenging duties through its personnel assignment process, which is one of the key pillars of human resource development. In human resource development, we provide opportunities for diverse employees from around the world to engage in a healthy rivalry and sharpen their thinking, and training programs where participants and top management can discuss and debate ideas on the same level. By deliberately creating situations where employees with diverse values engage in constructive interaction and debate, we will work to develop talent who can create innovation. Q: What is the aim of strengthening the compliance structure? A: The aim is to earn the trust and confidence of stakeholders as Astellas’ business expands globally. Stakeholders have always expected an extremely high standard of ethics from the pharmaceutical industry, which has a direct bearing on people’s lives. Moreover, as Astellas’ business expands globally, the requirements and rules are becoming more and more complex. In this environment, in order to preserve Astellas’ enterprise value while earning the trust of stakeholders, every Astellas employee must take action based on high ethics as a matter of course. In addition, we must also engage in a steady dialogue with our business partners to ensure that they practice the same level of compliance as Astellas. We have unified the Astellas Group Code of Conduct on a global basis. Along with this, the Department of Ethics & Compliance was reconfigured into a global organization independent of the operating divisions. Astellas has appointed individuals to be responsible for compliance at all of its subsidiaries, and is working to further strengthen the organization. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 40 Business Review Value Creation and Value Protection Activities Astellas will turn innovative science into value for patients leading to creation of enterprise value. Protecting value for through its value creation process. society will help Astellas to reduce its reputational risk and We believe that creating value for society through to elevate its corporate brand, leading to the protection of business activities will help Astellas to maintain trust from enterprise value. society and to capture new business opportunities, Value Creation Activities Maximizing the • Enhancing the main franchise areas (oncology, OAB, etc.) Product Value • Launching new products and expanding indications and adding new formulations (Manufacturing to Sales • Building an optimal sales structure in response to the market characteristics of and Procurement) each country/region • Measures to prevent medical malpractice and to improve the distinguishability of pharmaceuticals • Improving the pharmacovigilance system Related Information • Introducing universal design into product packaging P43-52 • Increasing public awareness of diseases Creating • Continuously executing a high level of • Promoting rapid and investment in R&D efficient development Innovation (Research and • Actively incorporating cutting-edge science and • Acquiring promising Development) technology through a Network Research System candidate compounds • Patient centricity in drug development • Joint research into therapies and vaccines against tropical diseases • Expanded access to investigational medicines Related Information • Managing intellectual property to maintain corporate competitiveness and improve P53-62 Access to Health Pursuing Operational • Continually enhancing organizational structure Excellence (Raising the Quality • Optimal reallocation of resources and Efficiency of • Effective utilization of external resources Operations) • Nurturing and promoting the success of diverse human resources • Developing rewarding and safe work environments Related Information P 30, 63-70 Other Activities • Strengthening the corporate governance framework • Contributing to strengthening healthcare systems in developing countries Related Information • Using renewable energy P 25-29, 71-80 41 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Social Social Value Enterprise Enterprise Value Main Types of Social and Value Protection Activities Enterprise Value Created and Protected • Gathering and providing information that helps to ensure proper use of products Social Improving the health condition of • Anti-counterfeiting activities patients through medicines that satisfy • Anti-doping measures unmet medical needs • Strengthening the quality assurance system Social Returns to stakeholders • Stable supply and quality control Enterprise Funds to sustain growth • Promoting CSR procurement Social Improving sustainability by solving social • Conducting R&D based on compliance with relevant issues through business activities laws and regulations and ethical considerations Social Improving the quality of healthcare by • Protection of human rights, privacy and confidentiality creating innovative medicines of personal information of research subject and assurance of reliability in clinical trials Enterprise Creating business opportunities by solving social issues related to health Social Maintaining social order by promoting • Improving the internal control system ethics and compliance • Strengthening the risk management system Enterprise Enhancing corporate competitiveness and • Enhancing the awareness of employees toward ethics productivity through human resource and compliance and the structure to promote ethics development and compliance • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption initiatives Enterprise Enhancing corporate competitiveness and productivity by increasing the quality and • Commitment to fair competition efficiency of operations • Ensuring occupational safety and health Enterprise Earning trust from society Social Preserving the environment • Strengthening the corporate governance framework and biodiversity • Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Social Improving Access to Health • Initiatives for biodiversity Enterprise Earning trust from society Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 42 Business Review Maximizing the Product Value Maximizing the Product Value Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area Astellas is working to steadily grow and maximize the in oncology. Currently, we are working to expand sales of value of products developed through its investments XTANDI to new regions, as we work to expand the over the years, including its growth drivers XTANDI and indication in each country and further increase the market Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. penetration of this drug to chemotherapy-naïve patients. Leveraging our strengths including robust data obtained in clinical trials and our solid presence in the urology field, we aim to become the market leader in this category. Oncology Fiscal 2016 Performance Total sales of Astellas’ four oncology products decreased by Business Environment and Basic Strategy 3.9% to ¥307.7 billion, due partly to the impact of foreign Given that cancer is one of the leading causes of death, exchange rates. Excluding the foreign exchange impact, oncology has urgent unmet patient needs. It is also an area sales rose by around 6%. that has seen the development of a steady string of new Sales of XTANDI were ¥252.1 billion, mostly flat year drugs in line with scientific advancement. Astellas is on year. Excluding the foreign exchange impact, sales focused on the oncology field as one of its core business increased by around 10%. Tarceva-related revenues were areas. We currently have four oncology products: the down 24.7% at ¥35.2 billion. Eligard is currently marketed prostate cancer treatments XTANDI, Eligard and Gonax, in EMEA and Asia & Oceania. Sales declined 9.6% to ¥15.9 and Tarceva for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer billion. Sales of Gonax, which is marketed in Japan, and pancreatic cancer. increased 15.9% to ¥4.5 billion. XTANDI stands out as a significant growth driver for us Sales by Product Sales of XTANDI by Region XTANDI Eligard Gonax Tarceva Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 400.0 400.0 -4% 320.3 307.7 + 10 % 300.0 300.0 +0 % 46.8 35.2 277.7 17.6 3.9 4.5 252.1 252.1 7.0 15.9 2.4 4.0 200.0 200.0 70.7 101.5 85.3 100.0 252.1 252.1 100.0 152.9 139.4 143.4 0 0 26.2 23.4 25.8 2016.3 2017.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 (Forecast) 43 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Overview of Main Products Eligard Eligard, a treatment for prostate cancer, is a XTANDI This product is a once-daily oral androgen luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist receptor inhibitor. XTANDI has been sold since 2012 in that is marketed under license from TOLMAR Inc. various regions for prostate cancer patients who had In EMEA, sales increased by 0.6% to €132 million in previously received chemotherapy. As of March 2017, fiscal 2016. In Asia & Oceania, sales rose 17.8% to ¥0.2 billion. XTANDI is sold in around 70 countries and regions. It was also approved in key countries for the treatment of Gonax Gonax, a treatment for prostate cancer, is a chemotherapy-naïve prostate cancer patients. gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-receptor Looking at regional sales of XTANDI in fiscal 2016, blocker with a subcutaneously injectable formulation sales in Japan decreased 10.6% year on year to ¥23.4 in-licensed from Ferring Pharmaceuticals. It is sold by billion, due partly to the impact of NHI drug price revisions. Astellas in Japan. In fiscal 2016, sales rose 15.9% to ¥4.5 Sales in the Americas rose 1.1% to US$1,286 million. In this billion. We will step up efforts to increase the market region, U.S. sales decreased 1.6% to US$1,215 million. penetration of Gonax, along with that of XTANDI. Although sales volume increased in the U.S., the main reason for the lower sales was an increase in drugs Tarceva Tarceva, a treatment for non-small cell lung supplied free of charge through patient access programs, cancer and pancreatic cancer, is a small-molecule drug which are not recorded as sales. In the EMEA region, sales developed to target the epidermal growth factor receptor rose by 34.7% to €718 million. XTANDI is gaining traction (EGFR) that plays a key role in cancer formation and among chemotherapy-naïve prostate cancer patients. In growth. In fiscal 2016, Tarceva-related revenues decreased the Asia & Oceania region, sales increased 66.5% to ¥4.0 by 16.5% to US$325 million, mainly due to intensifying billion, with sales growing primarily in Australia and Taiwan. competition with other drugs. Clinical study data comparing XTANDI and bicalutamide In the U.S., we have been co-promoting Tarceva with were reflected in the European label in April 2016 and the Genentech, Inc., with earnings split equally between U.S. label in October 2016. bothcompanies. We also have a license agreement with F. In the U.S., Astellas and Pfizer Group co-promote Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd in other countries, and receive XTANDI and share profits equally. In all countries excluding royalties based on sales. These revenues are recorded as the U.S., Astellas develops and commercializes XTANDI, sales in the Americas. while paying Pfizer Group royalties based on sales. XTANDI Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 44 Business Review Maximizing the Product Value Fiscal 2016 Performance Urology and Nephrology In fiscal 2016, aggregate sales of our OAB franchise, including Vesicare and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA, decreased by 1.1% to ¥214.9 billion, partly due to the impact of foreign exchange rates. Excluding the foreign Business Environment and Basic Strategy exchange impact, sales increased by around 7%. Astellas has established a strong presence in the urology area through the sale of Harnal, a treatment for functional Overview of Main Products symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia, as well as the Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA This drug is an OAB overactive bladder (OAB) treatments Vesicare and Betanis/ treatment. It is a beta-3 adrenergic receptor agonist that Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. helps to relieve symptoms associated with OAB such as OAB treatments have now become one of Astellas’ urinary urgency, frequent urination, and urinary core growth drivers. We will maintain the position of incontinence. It is sold in around 50 countries and regions Vesicare as the first choice among anticholinergics—the worldwide under the brand name of Betanis in Japan, standard therapy for OAB. Moreover, Betanis/Myrbetriq/ Myrbetriq in the Americas, and BETMIGA in EMEA and Asia BETMIGA has earned a strong reputation as a new & Oceania. treatment option with a different mechanism of action As an OAB treatment with a new mechanism of action, from Vesicare. In anticipation of the expiry of patent Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA has been achieving increased protection for Vesicare in various regions from 2018 market penetration. In fiscal 2016, aggregate sales onward, we will allocate more resources than ever to increased in every region despite the impact of foreign Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA as we focus on achieving exchange rates, with sales growing sharply by 21.0% to further market penetration, in order to maximize the value ¥98.8 billion. In Japan, sales of Betanis increased by 22.0% of the OAB franchise as a whole. Considering the large to ¥25.9 billion. Betanis’ annual share of the OAB treatment number of potential subjects in the OAB treatment market, market was approximately 32% (on a value basis). In the we will work to contribute to the treatment of many more Americas, Myrbetriq sales continued to grow, up 34.2% to patients by raising public awareness of this condition. US$510 million. Myrbetriq’s annual share of the U.S. OAB Moreover, the nephrology area offers prospects for treatment market reached approximately 31% (on a value synergies with Astellas’ existing products and therapeutic basis). In the EMEA region, sales of BETMIGA increased by areas, including urology. Accordingly, the development of 17.8% to €119 million. In EMEA, BETMIGA’s annual share of several projects is now under way. the OAB treatment market reached approximately 13% (on a value basis). In Asia & Oceania, BETMIGA sales increased Total Sales of the OAB Franchise (By Product) sharply by 144.8% to ¥3.5 billion. Vesicare Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA (¥ billion) 300.0 + 10 % 1% 237.4 217.4 214.9 200.0 81.7 122.8 98.8 100.0 Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA 135.6 116.1 114.6 0 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 (Forecast) 45 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Vesicare Vesicare, an OAB treatment, is an anticholinergic drug sold in approximately 80 countries Immunology and regions. It has continued to retain a high share in each region as the first choice of therapy in the OAB area. In fiscal 2016, sales of Vesicare decreased 14.4% to Business Environment and Basic Strategy ¥116.1 billion. Looking at regional sales of Vesicare, sales in In the immunology area, Astellas is contributing to the field Japan declined 3.3% to ¥25.6 billion, sales in the Americas of transplantation through the immunosuppressant Prograf. decreased 7.7% to US$490 million, sales in EMEA declined The transplantation franchise is a vital earnings base 10.2% to €270 million, and sales in Asia & Oceania fell 5.2% globally and Astellas will continue to focus on the franchise. to ¥5.0 billion. Fiscal 2016 Performance Sales of Prograf decreased 8.5% to ¥186.2 billion in fiscal 2016, due partly to the impact of foreign exchange rates. Excluding the foreign exchange impact, sales were mostly unchanged year on year. Although global Prograf sales are being impacted by generics in Japan, the Americas and EMEA, sales in Asia & Oceania continue to show strong growth on an adjusted basis excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates. Overview of Main Products Prograf and Advagraf/Graceptor/ASTAGRAF This drug Vesicare is an immunosuppressant used to suppress organ transplant rejection. Although the patent for this drug has already expired in major countries, it is sold in Harnal/Omnic This product is sold in approximately 100 approximately 100 countries and regions and has made a countries and regions, and has established itself as a significant global contribution to the field of standard treatment of urinary disorders associated with transplantation. benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Sales declined 10.8% to ¥47.7 billion in fiscal 2016. Regionally, sales in Japan decreased 27.5% to ¥9.2 billion. In EMEA, sales, including bulk royalty revenue, declined 1.0% to €138 million. Sales in Asia & Oceania decreased 2.0% to ¥21.1 billion. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 46 Business Review Maximizing the Product Value Looking at regional sales in fiscal 2016, sales in Japan decreased 1.9% to ¥48.8 billion, due partly to the impact of Other Areas NHI drug price revisions, despite continued growth in the once-daily formulation of Graceptor. Sales in EMEA via in-house distribution channels rose 0.4% to €590 million, Overview of Main Products (Global Products) mainly supported by expanded sales of the once-daily Funguard/MYCAMINE This drug is a candin-type formulation of Advagraf. Sales in Asia & Oceania fell 2.9% to antifungal agent used for the treatment of fungal infections. ¥37.3 billion, due partly to the impact of foreign exchange It is sold in approximately 60 countries and regions. rates. On a basis excluding the foreign exchange impact, In fiscal 2016, global sales of the product decreased sales increased by around 11%. Meanwhile, sales in the 3.3% to ¥40.3 billion, partly due to the impact of foreign Americas declined 12.6% to US$252 million, mainly due to exchange rates. the impact of generics. In terms of regional sales, sales in Japan decreased 3.7% to ¥11.2 billion. Meanwhile, sales in the Americas rose Cimzia Cimzia, an adult rheumatoid arthritis treatment, 3.9% to US$113 million. In EMEA, sales increased 7.6% to is an anti-TNF (tumor necrosis factor)-alpha antibody that €91 million and in Asia & Oceania, sales increased 4.8% to is co-promoted in Japan with UCB Japan Co., Ltd. Sales ¥6.0 billion. increased 17.9% to ¥7.7 billion in fiscal 2016. Astellas will continue focusing on specialist physicians, in order to Overview of Main Products (Japan) increase the prevalence of Cimzia in patients with Micardis/Micombi/Micamlo Micardis, a hypertension rheumatoid arthritis at the early disease stages and treatment, is a once-daily oral angiotensin II receptor patients with severe inflammation and symptoms. blocker (ARB). In Japan, Astellas is co-promoting the Micardis product line with Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Sales of Prograf (By Region) Co., Ltd. Sales of drugs in the Micardis product line, (Including Advagraf/Graceptor/ASTAGRAF XL/Prograf XL) including combination drugs such as Micombi and Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania Export (¥ billion) Micamlo, decreased by 4.1% to ¥93.2 billion in fiscal 2016, 300.0 partly due to the impact of NHI drug price revisions. The total share of the Micardis line of drugs in the ARB market was around 23% (on a value basis). -9 % +0 % 200.0 203.6 2.8 In November 2016, Astellas launched Micatrio 186.2 186.7 38.4 2.6 1.9 Combination Tablets* in Japan as a combination drug of 37.3 39.6 Micardis, long-acting calcium channel blocker (CCB) 77.9 amlodipine besylate, and the thiazide diuretic 100.0 70.1 68.7 hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). 34.6 27.3 28.1 Furthermore, the substance patent for this product 49.8 48.8 48.5 expired in Japan in January 2017. 0 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 * Official guidance on points to consider regarding the use of Micatrio (Forecast) Combination Tablets under National Health Insurance coverage was issued by the Medical Affairs Division of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. (Medical Affairs Division 1226 No.8; December 26, 2016) 47 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Celecox Celecox, an anti-inflammatory analgesic agent, Repatha In April 2016, Astellas launched Repatha, the is a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor that is first proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) co-promoted with Pfizer Japan Inc. In fiscal 2016, sales of inhibitor in Japan, indicated for the treatment of familial Celecox increased 2.2% to ¥47.6 billion. Celecox’s share of hypercholesterolemia or hypercholesterolemia*. It is being the market for oral anti-inflammatory analgesic agents was co-promoted by Astellas and Amgen Astellas BioPharma around 64% (on a value basis) based on the strong K.K. We are working to steadily increase market reputation of its product features. Going forward, we will penetration of Repatha by carrying out activities to supply target an even higher share of the market for oral antiinformation on this drug, with an emphasis on inflammatory analgesic agents. encouraging proper drug use. In May 2017, self-injectable of Repatha became Symbicort Symbicort, a treatment for adult bronchial eligible for National Health Insurance coverage and limits asthma, is a combination drug of an inhaled corticosteroid on the prescription period were removed. and a rapid and long-acting beta-2 agonist. Astellas is * The approved indication is as follows: “Familial hypercholesterolemia, co-promoting Symbicort with AstraZeneca K.K. in Japan. In hypercholesterolemia, only when patients who have high risk of cardiovascular events and do not adequately respond to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. fiscal 2016, sales of Symbicort increased 5.0% to ¥39.3 * Official guidance on points to consider regarding the use of Repatha under billion. Symbicort’s share of the market in Japan for adult National Health Insurance coverage was issued by the Medical Affairs Division of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. (Medical Affairs Division 0331 No.9; inhaled steroid treatment including combination drugs March 31, 2017). was around 37% (on a value basis). We aim for further penetration of the product in the growing market due to LINZESS LINZESS was launched in March 2017 as Japan’s factors including the dissemination of treatment guidelines. first drug indicated for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C). Astellas was granted Bonoteo Bonoteo is an oral bisphosphonate the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize LINZESS osteoporosis treatment. In fiscal 2016, sales of Bonoteo in Japan from Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and hopes decreased 2.2% to ¥13.8 billion. Amid slowing growth in to contribute to the treatment of IBS-C patients by the market for oral bisphosphonate drugs, Bonoteo’s share building on its platform for Irribow, a treatment for of the Japanese market for bisphosphonate agents was diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. around 23% (on a value basis). Astellas will continue emphasizing the patient convenience offered by this drug, Overview of Main Products (U.S.) as well as its high clinical effect, with the aim of capturing Lexiscan Lexiscan is a pharmacologic stress agent market share. in-licensed from Gilead Palo Alto, Inc. In fiscal 2016, sales of Lexiscan increased 4.3% to US$660 million. Suglat Suglat, a type 2 diabetes treatment, is Japan’s first selective sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) CRESEMBA CRESEMBA is an azole antifungal in-licensed inhibitor. In Japan, Astellas is co-promoting Suglat with from Basilea Pharmaceutica International Ltd. and Kotobuki Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and MSD K.K. Supported launched in the U.S. in April 2015. In fiscal 2016, sales of by growth in the market for selective SGLT2 inhibitors in CRESEMBA grew steadily, increasing 147.9% to US$53 Japan, sales of Suglat grew 30.2% to ¥9.5 billion in fiscal million. We will continue working to increase market 2016. Suglat’s share of the market for selective SGLT2 penetration of this drug, which provides a new option for inhibitors in Japan was around 27% (on a value basis). treating severe fungal infections. In May 2017, Astellas filed an application for manufacturing and marketing approval of a combination drug of Suglat and the DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin phosphate hydrate, with the indication of type 2 diabetes, in Japan. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 48 Business Review Maximizing the Product Value Business Environment and Strategy by Region Japan Americas Nobuaki Tanaka President, Japan Sales & Marketing James Robinson President, Americas Operations In Japan, the government is accelerating measures to The U.S. healthcare system is rapidly evolving and optimize healthcare expenditures, and healthcare delivery requiring a balance of priorities between fostering systems are also changing due to the concept of innovation and ensuring patient access to healthcare. We community medical care. Meanwhile, advances in have been working to address this by engaging in information technology and artificial intelligence are constructive dialogue with various stakeholders including expected to significantly alter the healthcare environment. patients, payers and providers. We want to proactively transform these healthcareThe recent changes in the business environment environment changes into opportunities, and carry out faced by pharmaceutical companies in the Americas are even higher value-added information-providing activities. expected to continue in the fiscal year ending March 31, Taking action, to date Astellas has been carrying out a 2018. Pharmaceutical companies will need to fulfill variety of reforms regarding our organization and our increasingly stronger requests from stakeholders to clearly Medical Representatives (MRs). Our sales promotion present the value of our products. Meanwhile, we believe structure currently involves two approaches. One is based that new opportunities will emerge from trends such as on each individual medical institution, whereby the MRs the rising importance of preventive care and advances in work to understand customer needs in each medical the digital health field. region and provide prompt, accurate information. The Going forward, the Americas Operations team is other is that the MRs assigned to specific therapeutic areas focused on a new plan to streamline operations and in the highly specialized fields of oncology and immunology concentrate resources on areas of growth. Guided by this are providing more detailed information tailored to the plan, we will continue our aim to drive growth across the specific treatment needs of individual patients. entire Americas region. Our domestic product portfolio has also continued to In our core therapeutic areas, we will continue to change. The number of highly specialized products such focus on achieving growth in our oncology and urology as XTANDI and Repatha is increasing, and the new product franchises, while also gaining efficiencies in immunology, LINZESS has been launched. From fiscal 2017, however, transplant and cardiology. In oncology, our highly Micardis will begin to see the impact of generics. Astellas experienced teams are advancing sales promotion will transform these kinds of internal and external activities for XTANDI. In addition, we have strengthened environmental changes into opportunities, and continue collaboration with urology medical representatives from to evolve toward a patient-centric, optimized sales the Pfizer Group. It is believed that many patients with promotion structure, and by providing high-value-added metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer are not products together with the relevant information, aiming to diagnosed with this condition at the right stage of the enhance our presence even further. disease. In response, Astellas is working to provide physicians with information concerning appropriate diagnosis and treatment. 49 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data EMEA Asia & Oceania Yukio Matsui President, EMEA Operations Masatoshi Kuroda President, Asia & Oceania Business In the EMEA region, the business environment is expected Significant market growth is expected to continue in the to come under mounting pressure, mainly based on Asia & Oceania region, and Astellas currently has 11 sales various governments’ policies to curb medical affiliates covering 13 countries and regions. To ensure the expenditures and increasing insurance reimbursement growth in that market is incorporated in our own growth, challenges. Moreover, operations in the EMEA region are we aim to provide high-value-added pharmaceutical becoming increasingly complex because of the different products and further expand our business. We have high market environments in various countries, ranging from expectations that in addition to XTANDI and BETMIGA, emerging nations such as Russia and the Gulf Cooperation Feburic, which is for hyperuricemia, will be among the new Council (GCC) states to the five major European countries, products supporting our growth going forward. We hope including the U.K. and Germany. that by delivering these products to patients as quickly as In this environment, Astellas is working to establish possible, we will be able to maximize their value. In Asia, optimal sales strategies for each country, in conjunction meanwhile, we are also focused on growing the with optimizing the allocation of resources and transplantation franchise, a market that continues to expand. maximizing the product value, with the aim of achieving In April 2016, Astellas established an umbrella sustained growth. Going forward, Astellas will continue to organization for the South East and South Asia regions serve patients by delivering innovative pharmaceuticals in (SESA Umbrella Organization), which are seeing significant major therapeutic areas. economic growth, and business there has steadily In oncology, Astellas will focus on increasing uptake of expanded. Our strategy is to further improve the quality XTANDI among patients with earlier stages of prostate and efficiency of our business there by treating the entire cancer, with the aim of driving further growth in XTANDI. region as a single major market, and working to optimize XTANDI is currently marketed in more than 35 countries in the allocation of management resources. the EMEA region. Astellas will continue working to launch We will also work to further enhance our management XTANDI sales in new markets. In the OAB franchise, Astellas and administration systems. We are strengthening our has stepped up its activities to establish BETMIGA as the compliance systems by assigning dedicated compliance first choice of therapy. officers to all of our sales affiliates. In terms of human Another priority for Astellas is to develop systems that resource utilization, we are proactively promoting the will strengthen compliance. Compliance requirements hiring of a diverse, talented workforce and the acquisition have been increasing year after year in countries in the of outside human resources. In addition, in April 2017, we EMEA region. Astellas will address these requests by taking have launched a new organization that will allow us to actions such as appointing compliance officers at each focus even more on human resource development and sales affiliate. build an even stronger business foundation. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 50 Business Review Maximizing the Product Value CSR Activities from Manufacturing to Sales development with the potential to be used in doping, and to Quality and Reliability Assurance prevent the misuse of such compounds. Anti-Counterfeiting Activities Improving the Pharmacovigilance System Counterfeit medicines getting into legitimate supply Astellas is continuously improving its pharmacovigilance chains not only leads to the loss of opportunities for (PV) system by strengthening collaboration between the patients to receive medical treatment, but could also have internal PV function and other relevant departments, adverse health consequences. This has become a serious affiliates and licensing partners. This is to support the problem worldwide. provision of trustworthy products and their proper use, Astellas operates the Anti-Counterfeit Committee, led along with regulatory compliance. by the technology and quality assurance divisions, and has Astellas regularly provides product safety awareness a product security division. These parts of Astellas conduct training not only to staff closely involved with the PV monitoring and surveys, and implement countermeasures function but also to all employees and contractors targeting not only counterfeit medicines, but also including affiliate staff to maintain and strengthen diversion, smuggling, theft and related activities. When collection of safety information appropriately and timely. selling products, Astellas systematically introduces Moreover, Astellas continues to enhance the system to effective anti-counterfeit technologies, including product collect safety information from broader sources. For serialization as stipulated by regulations, based on external service providers outsourced by departments pharmaceutical laws and regulations and risks in each other than the PV organization, Astellas updated contracts market where products are sold, as well as product to reflect requirements for safety information collection characteristics. In addition, Astellas carries out educational as necessary. activities to prevent the spread of counterfeit medicines in In addition, Astellas is exploring utilizing real-world collaboration with members of the pharmaceutical data such as large healthcare databases for safety signal industry and organizations such as the WHO, the PSI* and detection of Astellas products to minimize risk by the Transported Asset Protection Association. We also enhancing collaboration between PV and other functions. proactively endeavor to support and cooperate with national governments and judicial authorities to crack Strengthening of Quality Assurance Systems down on counterfeit medicines. at Affiliates Astellas published its Position on Counterfeit Astellas has constructed a robust global quality assurance Medicines online in September 2016. system to ensure the supply of pharmaceuticals of * PSI: The Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI) is a not-for-profit organization uniformly high quality to patients worldwide. established to strengthen global anti-counterfeiting efforts. A total of 33 The past quality assurance system comprised the four pharmaceutical manufacturers are currently members of the PSI. main regions of Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania. We are trying to incorporate quality assurance Product Recalls activities taken by each affiliate into this global quality Astellas has a recall system in place that is activated when assurance structure. Through this change, we are the safety, efficacy or quality of a product is brought into developing quality management systems consistent with question. The system ensures relevant information is our quality assurance policy on a global, Company-wide promptly passed on to medical institutions and other basis. This will reinforce our sales affiliates globally receive affected parties, and that a recall of the product in proper support in improving quality and training personnel. question is instigated. Astellas voluntarily initiated three product recalls in fiscal 2016. As of April 2017, no reports of any related health impairments had been received. Technology Development & Manufacturing Anti-Doping Measures To contribute to the eradication of doping and improvement Stable Supply and Quality Control of public health, in October 2016, Astellas concluded an Astellas places highest priority on ensuring stable agreement with the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) manufacture and supply of safe and effective relating to international cooperation aimed at preventing pharmaceuticals to patients. To ensure this, we have the abuse of pharmaceuticals in sports. Separately, Astellas established our own Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)continues to work to identify compounds under compliant quality standards as the basis for consistently 51 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data achieving the highest levels of quality control. We apply inquiries. In fiscal 2016, we responded to approximately these standards to manufacturing facilities and equipment, 115,000 calls. and to all stages from raw material procurement and Astellas makes continuous efforts to improve its storage to manufacturing processes and shipment. medical information services, with the aim of providing accurate, appropriate and consistent information. As part Measures to Prevent Medical Malpractice and of these efforts, Astellas launched a new global medical Improve the Distinguishability of Pharmaceuticals information system where global content is developed Astellas strives to supply user-oriented products designed and shared. The system is also useful for analyzing matters so that patients and healthcare professionals do not of high interest based on the documented inquiries. By mistake one pharmaceutical for another. sharing the findings of these analyses with the relevant To prevent medical malpractice in this respect, departments, Astellas seeks to more accurately provide through measures including printing product names information to patients and medical professionals. directly on capsules and tablets, as well as printing product names and dosages on packaging sheets (blister sheets) so that the product name and dosage can be easily identified even after the blister sheet is split apart. For Procurement example, the different dosages of Vesicare OD are colorcoded, and the name and dosage are printed directly on Promoting CSR Procurement the tablets to improve distinguishability. In addition, the Astellas considers it important to fulfill its social blister sheets are printed using easily readable colors and responsibility across the entire supply chain, including fonts to help prevent mistakes and make the products suppliers. To achieve this goal, Astellas has formulated the more readily distinguishable. Astellas Business Partner Code of Conduct, which requires business partners to do their business in accordance with CSR measures. We also conduct global questionnairebased surveys based on the code, along with requesting our business partners to sign the Acknowledgement of Astellas Business Partner Code of Conduct. As of March 31, 2017, we had obtained survey responses from approximately 850 companies, covering suppliers of direct Vesicare OD tablets materials, as well as major suppliers of indirect materials and major facility and equipment suppliers. Furthermore, we conduct on-site audits of suppliers in countries that pose a high CSR procurement risk. Provision of Product Information Ensuring Proper Use Please refer to the following URL for information about related CSR In fiscal 2016, a new policy was created in accordance with activities from manufacturing to sales. the Global Policy on Medical Affairs and Commercial • Quality Assurance Policies Activities, which prevents commercial departments from • Introduction of Universal Design into Product Packaging providing off-label information to external customers. This WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/ is the first Astellas Medical Affairs policy on the standards business-activities/ and principles that govern appropriate scientific exchange Please refer to the following URL for information about our policies & position statements. between Medical Affairs colleagues, healthcare WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/about/ professionals, and healthcare organizations. policies-and-position-statements/ Responding to Inquiries Astellas believes that it has a responsibility to provide accurate medical information in response to inquiries from patients and medical professionals. In countries throughout the globe, we have Medical Information Call Centers that respond to a variety of Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 52 Business Review Creating Innovation Creating Innovation Research and Clinical Development Astellas is efficiently advancing research and development FLT3-positive AML patients, which is the most difficult AML by building systems to continuously create innovative patient segment to treat. Gilteritinib has been granted for medicines, along with challenging new opportunities, SAKIGAKE designation in Japan. Astellas is working to including new therapeutic areas and technologies. further reduce the total development period by allocating resources to gilteritinib as a prioritized project. * NIH, National Cancer Institute, Cancer Stat Facts, Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) Enfortumab Vedotin Oncology Enfortumab vedotin is an antibody drug conjugate (ADC) targeting Nectin-4, a cell adhesion molecule. While it is Gilteritinib stable in blood, it is designed to kill only the targeted Gilteritinib is a FLT3/AXL inhibitor which is being developed cancer cells after it is internalized into cancer cells for acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Gilteritinib inhibits both expressing Nectin-4. FLT3, a receptor-type tyrosine kinase known to be involved In urothelial cancer, a target indication of enfortumab in cancer cell proliferation, and AXL which is reported to vedotin, it is reported that some patients are confirmed for be associated with resistance to some forms of chemotherapy. metastasis at the time of initial diagnosis and the five-year Considering the five-year survival rate for AML estimated survival rate is low. A high relapse rate is reported even if to be approximately 25%*, the arrival of a promising new diagnosed and treated at an early stage. A promising new treatment has been awaited. The clinical data obtained so treatment is awaited. far suggested the efficacy and safety of gilteritinib in Currently, Phase 2 trial in patients previously treated patients with FLT3 mutations who are known to have poor with checkpoint inhibitor (CPI) therapy is under preparation. prognosis. Astellas is exploring a potential of gilteritinib in a broad range of the treatment paradigm for AML. Research Initiatives Astellas is currently conducting multiple Phase 3 trials In the oncology field, the interest to cancer immunotherapy including ADMIRAL study in relapsed or refractory targeting immune checkpoints has been increasing recently. On the other hand, it has been pointed out that Gilteritinib in AML Treatment Landscape and immune checkpoint inhibitors are ineffective for certain Development Progress types of cancer and a segment of the patient population. FLT3-positive AML Astellas believes that immunooncology is a strategically important approach. High-intensity induction therapy Low-intensity chemo As one of the initiatives in this therapeutic area, Chemo Transplantation Astellas launched a partnership with Potenza Therapeutics, consolidation Ongoing Inc. in 2015. To address the cancer types which do not Maintenance Maintenance respond to the current cancer immunotherapy, Astellas is pursuing research and development of a next-generation Ongoing Ongoing cancer immunotherapy with different targets than current treatments. Two programs are underway to enter into the Salvage therapy clinical development phase. Ongoing 53 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data HIF-PH, thereby enhancing the production of red blood Urology and Nephrology cells and improving anemia. Roxadustat has a different mechanism of action than conventional treatments and can be administered orally. It Roxadustat is thus expected to become a new treatment option Roxadustat is a hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) prolyl which could provide both effectiveness and convenience hydroxylase (PH) inhibitor with oral administration. Astellas for patients. is developing roxadustat for anemia associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in dialysis and non-dialysis. ASP8232 For filing and reimbursement in the EU, a total of six Phase ASP8232 is a VAP-1 inhibitor being developed for diabetic 3 studies are being conducted. Another six Phase 3 studies nephropathy. Astellas has obtained the results of Phase 2 are being conducted in Japan. trial and is preparing for a subsequent trial. Anemia is one of the common complications of CKD. Diabetic nephropathy is one of major underlying It is said that the progression of anemia in CKD leads to diseases for dialysis treatment. It is a common end-stage renal disease and increases the mortality rate. complication of diabetes. It is said that around half of Therefore, monitoring the hemoglobin (Hb) levels in patients suffering from diabetes for more than 20 years patients with anemia in CKD is a crucial issue in the associate with diabetic nephropathy. With existing treatment of renal dysfunction. treatment methods limited to dialysis and kidney Roxadustat is thought to increase HIF, which is transplantation, there is a need for a new treatment. involved in the production of red blood cells, by inhibiting TOPIC IMAB362 Acquisition of Late-Stage Development Compound in Oncology Oncology is one of the important franchises that will Phase 2b clinical trial (FAST) of IMAB362 showed drive the growth of Astellas. Through the acquisition that IMAB362 extended the median progression-free of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG, Astellas has survival and the median overall survival. In the patient acquired multiple oncology pipeline assets in presubgroup with high expression levels of Claudin 18.2, clinical and clinical stages including IMAB362, which IMAB362 group resulted in nearly doubling the is being developed for the indication of overall survival compared with the control group. The gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. most frequent adverse events observed during the IMAB362 is an antibody targeting Claudin 18.2, a study were vomiting, nausea and neutropenia. transmembrane protein that forms a tight junction Astellas is preparing for Phase 3 trial of IMAB362. connecting and binding membranes of two adjoining Through this acquisition, Astellas will further cells. Claudin 18.2 is expressed locally in stomach cells strengthen its oncology franchise. for normal cells. Claudin 18.2 is expressed in various * Al-Batran et al., 2016 American Society of Clinical Oncology cancers, 80% in gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas and 60%* in pancreatic, biliary duct, ovarian and lung cancer. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 54 Business Review Creating Innovation currently approved treatment and prophylaxis drugs for Immunology peanut allergy. Astellas is developing ASP4070 targeting allergies induced by Japanese red cedar pollen. Phase 2 trial of ASP0113 ASP4070 has been initiated in Japan in 2017. It is said that ASP0113 is a DNA vaccine being developed as a treatment about one in four Japanese people suffer from allergies to to prevent cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in hematopoietic Japanese red cedar pollen. The currently available cell transplant (HCT) patients. Currently, Astellas is treatment is mainly symptomatic treatments. ASP4070 is conducting Phase 3 trial of ASP0113 in HCT patients. expected to become a fundamental treatment that will CMV infection and CMV reactivation are opportunistic relieve allergy symptoms or achieve symptomatic remission infections commonly observed after hematopoietic cell over the long term with only a short-term administration. transplantation and potentially lead to death in severe cases. Drug Discovery Platform Using LAMP-vax Technology From the standpoint of strengthening the control of infections, a prophylactic vaccine without safety concern is anticipated. Food allergy Seasonal pollen allergy ASP0113 builds immunity to CMV-derived antigen ASP0892 for ASP4070 peanut allergy for pollinosis proteins by expressing CMV-derived antigen proteins in caused by P1 study the body and inducing both cellular and humoral immune Japanese red cedar responses. ASP0113 is expected to suppress CMV infection P2 study and complications associated with CMV infection after hematopoietic cell transplantation. Peficitinib Peficitinib is a JAK inhibitor being developed for rheumatoid arthritis. Phase 3 clinical trials are currently being conducted in Japan. Astellas expects to obtain the results of these trials within fiscal year 2017. Rheumatoid arthritis Perennial allergy is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease due to an Pre-clinical immune disorder. The current standard treatments for e.g. house dust mite, cat, etc. rheumatoid arthritis are biologics including TNF-α drugs. Peficitinib has a different mechanism of action than other immunosuppressants. Peficitinib is thus expected to Research Initiatives be a new drug treatment option which could be safe and In immunology, Astellas is working to develop an convenient for patients. innovative drug discovery platform that will enable antigen-specific immune control. Astellas is also DNA Vaccine Using LAMP-vax Technology researching safe and fundamental treatments for allergies, LAMP-vax technology is expected to serve as a drug autoimmune diseases, and infectious diseases. With regard discovery platform for creating drug products aimed for to autoimmune diseases for which the specific antigens treatment or prophylaxis of a wide range of allergic have been identified, through joint research with Kanyos diseases by enhancing the therapeutic effectiveness of Bio, Inc., Astellas has begun research that applies unique DNA vaccines and changing the types of allergens technologies for the induction of antigen-specific immune encoded in plasmid DNA. Multiple development tolerance using red blood cells. For diseases in which compounds using LAMP-vax technology are currently in specific organs are impaired by the excessive responses of non-clinical and clinical stages. immune systems due to specific antigens, regardless of Phase 1 trial of ASP0892 is currently being conducted whether the condition involves the body’s autoimmune in the U.S. targeting peanut allergy, and it has been or non-autoimmune systems, Astellas is promoting granted Fast Track designation by the Food and Drug research and development activities using a unique Administration (FDA). Peanut allergy can be a fatal foodtechnology targeting red blood cells that induces immune related allergy with potential of life-threatening tolerance by removing T cells that cause excessive anaphylaxis induced by trace exposure. There is no antigen-specific responses. 55 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Muscle Diseases New Therapeutic Areas and Others In the muscle diseases area, CK-2127107, a fast skeletal troponin activator, has entered the clinical stage. Astellas is currently proceeding with Phase 2 trials for three diseases Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine (AIRM) related to the atrophy of skeletal muscles: spinal muscular AIRM (Company name was changed after acquisition of atrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and chronic Ocata Therapeutics, Inc.) possesses the world’s highest obstructive pulmonary disease. Of those three diseases, level of technology and expertise in research and the trial targeting spinal muscular atrophy is in the most development capabilities of cell therapy, taking a leading advanced clinical stage. Spinal muscular atrophy is a position in this field. AIRM seeks to realize cutting-edge serious disease in which the progression of muscular drug discovery based on leading cell therapy approaches, atrophy can trigger respiratory failure and motor thereby contributing to ophthalmology treatments with impairment. Astellas is working to provide a new high unmet medical needs. treatment option for these diseases. Currently, AIRM is promoting development activities In addition, Astellas is steadily proceeding with targeting age-related macular degeneration and Stargardt preparations to initiate clinical trials of MTB-1, a macular degeneration with a focus on retinal pigment mitochondrial gene expression regulator, including epithelium (RPE) cells, which are vital to the survival of convening an advisory meeting of a neuromuscular visual cells and the maintenance of their functions. For disease commitee. MTB-1 is a development candidate both diseases, it is currently in the Phase 2 trial stage. under collaboration with Mitobridge, Inc. TOPIC Fezolinetant Anticipated to Provide a New Treatment Option to Replace Current Hormone Replacement Therapy Through the acquisition of Ogeda SA, Astellas obtained treatment for MR-VMS. fezolinetant, a selective NK3 antagonist currently being Astellas has built up strengths through the developed for menopause-related vasomotor symptoms development of many small molecule drugs that (VMS: hot flashes and night sweats). Astellas is improve patients’ quality of life, including treatments currently conducting Phase 2b trial of fezolinetant. in the OAB area and promoting the development of It is reported that MR-VMS is recognized in nearly fezolinetant to provide a new treatment option to the 80%* of post-menopausal women. Given that existing patients with MR-VMS. In addition, since both MRhormone replacement treatments present safety VMS and OAB affect middle-aged and elderly women, concerns, a safe and effective non-hormonal therapy Astellas expects to capture synergies with its is awaited as a new treatment option. In a Phase 2a strengths in the OAB area which have been study, fezolinetant showed good results in terms of developed over the years. improvement in the frequency and extent of hot * UpToDate – Clinical manifestations and diagnosis of menopause flashes. Based on these results, Astellas expects (Literature review current through June 2017) fezolinetant to become a first-in-class, non-hormonal Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 56 Business Review Creating Innovation R&D Topics During the Year Major Progress in Clinical Development (Approval and Filing) Japan Europe United States 2016 XTANDI for the treatment of prostate cancer 4 Astellas received regulatory approval for inclusion of TERRAIN trial* data in the European label and updated the label. * Head-to-head trial of enzalutamide versus bicalutamide 5 Quetiapine fumarate (extended-release tablets) 6 Astellas filed an application for approval of the indication of improvement of depressive symptoms associated with bipolar disorder. Kiklin Granules for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia 7 Astellas received regulatory approval of Kiklin Granules for the indication of treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with chronic kidney disease (launched in December 2016). XTANDI (generic name: enzalutamide) for the treatment of prostate cancer 8 Astellas filed an application for approval of XTANDI tablets. Micatrio Combination Tablets for the treatment of hypertension 9 Astellas received regulatory approval for a combination drug* containing the three ingredients of a renin-angiotensin inhibitor, a calcium channel blocker (CCB) and small dose diuretic (launched in November 2016). 10 * Official guidance on points to consider regarding the use of Micatrio Combination Tablets under National Health Insurance coverage was issued by the Medical Economic Division, Health Insurance Bureau, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. (Medical Economics Division 1226 No.8; December 26, 2016) XTANDI for the treatment of prostate cancer 11 Astellas received regulatory approval for inclusion of TERRAIN trial* data in the U.S. label and updated the label. LINZESS for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation 12 Astellas received regulatory approval for the indication of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (launched in March 2017). 2017 Anti-Sclerostin monoclonal antibody romosozumab 1 Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. filed an application for approval of the indication of osteoporosis for those at high risk of fracture. 2 3 57 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Capturing New Opportunities Other Therapeutic Areas Treatment for Chronic Tympanic Membrane Oncology Perforation In January 2017, Astellas signed an exclusive license Antibody Drugs in Oncology agreement with Auration Biotech, Inc. for the worldwide In December 2016, Astellas acquired Ganymed development and commercialization of AU-935, which is Pharmaceuticals AG and made it a wholly owned being developed as a simple ear topical application for the subsidiary of Astellas. Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG has treatment of chronic tympanic membrane perforation. several oncology pipeline assets in pre-clinical and clinical stages, including IMAB362, which is being developed as a Acquisition of Ogeda SA treatment of gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. The In March 2017, Astellas entered into an agreement to acquisition of the late-stage antibody program will further acquire Ogeda SA. In May 2017, the acquisition was strengthen Astellas’ oncology franchise. completed, making Ogeda SA a wholly owned subsidiary Reference Research and Clinical Development P53 of Astellas. Ogeda SA has multiple small molecule compounds targeting G protein-coupled receptors in the pre-clinical and clinical stages, including fezolinetant, which is being developed for the treatment of Immunology menopause-related vasomotor symptoms. Through the acquisition of Ogeda SA, Astellas expanded its pipeline New Vaccine Targeting Streptococcus pneumoniae and reinforced its mediumto long-term growth. (pneumococcus) Reference Research and Clinical Development P56 In February 2017, Astellas entered into an exclusive license agreement with Affinivax, Inc. for the worldwide development and commercialization of a vaccine targeting pneumococcal diseases. This pneumococcal Other vaccine is being developed using Affinivax, Inc.’s proprietary vaccine technology platform, Multiple Antigen Termination of Agreement for Cell Culture Based Presenting System (MAPS). Influenza Vaccine Programs In March 2017, Astellas terminated the agreement executed as of September 2010 between Astellas and Muscle Diseases UMN Pharma Inc. for the co-development and Astellas’ exclusive commercialization of ASP7374 and ASP7373, the Expansion of Global Collaboration on Skeletal cell culture based influenza vaccine programs in Japan. Muscle Activators Accordingly, Astellas returned to UMN Pharma Inc. all In July 2016, Astellas and Cytokinetics, Inc. amended their rights granted under the agreement. collaboration agreement on skeletal muscle activators to expand the agreement to include amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The companies decided to include ALS for the development of the fast skeletal troponin activator CK-2127107. In addition, Cytokinetics, Inc. granted Astellas an option right for the development and commercialization of tirasemtiv, an investigational skeletal muscle activator being developed by Cytokinetics, Inc. Moreover, the companies agreed to extend their joint research focused on the discovery of next-generation skeletal muscle activators through 2017. Reference Research and Clinical Development P56 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 58 Business Review Creating Innovation Status of R&D Pipeline (As of April 2017, partly updated) Code No. Dosage Classification Target Disease Phase / Area Licensor*1 Remarks Generic Name Form Oncology MDV3100 Androgen receptor Metastatic castration-resistant Filed (Mar. 2016) Oral Pfizer New enzalutamide inhibitor prostate cancer (Tablet) Europe formulation Castration-resistant prostate Filed (Sept. 2016) New cancer (Tablet) Japan formulation Non-metastatic castrationPhase-III US, Europe, Asia New indication resistant prostate cancer Prostate cancer in patients with Phase-III US, Europe, Asia New indication non-metastatic biochemical recurrence Metastatic hormone-sensitive Phase-III New indication prostate cancer US, Europe, Japan, Asia Hepatocellular carcinoma Phase-II US, Europe, Asia New indication ASP2215 FLT3/AXL inhibitor Acute myeloid leukemia Phase-III Oral In-house gilteritinib US, Europe, Japan, Asia ASP3550 GnRH antagonist Prostate cancer Phase-III Japan Injection Ferring New degarelix (3-month formulation) formulation AGS-16C3F ADC targeting ENPP3 Renal cell carcinoma Phase-II US, Europe Injection In-house (ADC technology in-licensed from Seattle Genetics) IMAB362 Anti-Claudin 18.2 Gastroesophageal Phase-II Europe Injection In-house (Ganymed monoclonal antibody adenocarcinoma Pharmaceuticals) ASG-22ME ADC targeting nectin-4 Urothelial cancer Phase-II US Injection In-house (co-development enfortumab vedotin Phase-I Japan with Seattle Genetics) AMG 103 Anti-CD19 BiTE antibody Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Phase-II Japan Injection Amgen (co-development blinatumomab with AABP*2) ASG-15ME Urothelial cancer Phase-I Injection In-house (co-development with Seattle Genetics) ASP5878 Cancer Phase-I Oral In-house ASP4132 Cancer Phase-I Oral In-house AGS67E Lymphoid malignancies Phase-I Injection In-house (ADC technology in-licensed from Seattle Genetics) AGS62P1 Acute myeloid leukemia Phase-I Injection In-house (ADC technology, EuCODE license from Ambrx) Urology and Nephrology YM905 Muscarine M3 receptor Neurogenic detrusor overactivity Filed (Feb. 2017) US Oral In-house New indication solifenacin antagonist in pediatric patients Filed (Apr. 2017) Europe (pediatric) EB178 Concomitant use of Urinary frequency, urinary Phase-III US, Europe, Asia Oral In-house solifenacin/ solifenacin and incontinence or urgency mirabegron mirabegron associated with overactive bladder ASP1517 (FG-4592) HIF stabilizer Anemia associated with chronic Phase-III Europe Oral FibroGen roxadustat kidney disease in patients not on Phase-III Japan dialysis and on dialysis YM178 Beta 3 receptor agonist Neurogenic detrusor overactivity Phase-III Europe Oral In-house New indication mirabegron in pediatric patients (pediatric) YM311 HIF stabilizer Renal anemia Phase-II Europe Oral FibroGen (FG-2216) Phase-I Japan ASP8232 VAP-1 inhibitor Diabetic nephropathy Phase-II Europe Oral In-house ASP6294 Nerve growth factor Bladder pain syndrome / Phase-II Europe Injection In-house (NGF) neutralization Interstitial cystitis antibody ASP6282 Underactive bladder Phase-I Oral In-house ASP7398 Nocturia Phase-I Oral In-house ASP8302 Underactive bladder Phase-I Oral In-house ASP7713 Underactive bladder Phase-I Oral In-house 59 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Code No. Dosage Classification Target Disease Phase / Area Licensor*1 Remarks Generic Name Form Immunology and Neuroscience FK949E Serotonin / dopamine Improvement of depressive Filed (Aug. 2016) Oral AstraZeneca quetiapine antagonist symptoms associated with bipolar Japan disorder (Extended-release tablet) ASP0113 DNA vaccine for Cytomegalovirus reactivation in Phase-III Injection Vical (VCL-CB01) cytomegalovirus hematopoietic cell transplant US, Europe, Japan recipients ASP015K JAK inhibitor Rheumatoid arthritis Phase-III Japan, Asia Oral In-house peficitinib Phase-II US, Europe ASKP1240 Anti-CD40 monoclonal Recurrence of focal segmental Phase-II US Injection Kyowa Hakko Kirin bleselumab antibody glomerulosclerosis in de novo kidney transplant recipients ASP1707 GnRH antagonist Rheumatoid arthritis Phase-II Japan Oral In-house ASP7962 TrkA inhibitor Osteoarthritis Phase-II Europe Oral In-house ASP8062 GABAB receptor positive Fibromyalgia Phase-II US Oral In-house allosteric modulator ASP0819 Calcium2+-activated Fibromyalgia Phase-II US Oral In-house K+ channel opener ASP3662 11beta-HSD1 inhibitor Agitation associated with Phase-II US Oral In-house Alzheimer’s disease ASP4070 DNA vaccine for Pollinosis caused by Japanese red Phase-II Japan Injection Immunomic Therapeutics (JRC2-LAMP-vax) Japanese red cedar cedar ASP5094 Rheumatoid arthritis Phase-I Injection In-house ASP4345 Cognitive impairment associated Phase-I Oral In-house with schizophrenia ASP7266 Severe asthma Phase-I Injection In-house ASP0892 Peanut allergy Phase-I Injection Immunomic Therapeutics ASP1807 (CC8464) Neuropathic pain Phase-I Oral Chromocell Others AMG 785 Anti-Sclerostin Osteoporosis for those at high risk Filed (Dec. 2016) Japan Injection Amgen (co-development romosozumab monoclonal antibody of fracture with AABP*2) ipragliflozin/ Fixed dose combination Type 2 diabetes mellitus Filed (May 2017) Japan Oral In-house (co-development sitagliptin of ipragliflozin and with MSD and Kotobuki) sitagliptin fidaxomicin Macrocyclic antibiotic Infectious enteritis (bacterial Phase-III Japan Oral Merck target: Clostridium difficile) Clostridium difficile infection in Phase-III Europe New indication pediatric patients (pediatric) ASP1941 SGLT2 inhibitor Type 1 diabetes mellitus Phase-III Japan Oral In-house (co-development New indication ipragliflozin with Kotobuki Pharmaceutical) ASP0456 Guanylate cyclase-C Chronic constipation Phase-III Japan Oral Ironwood New indication linaclotide receptor agonist ASP1707 GnRH antagonist Endometriosis Phase-II Europe, Japan Oral In-house CK-2127107 Fast skeletal troponin Spinal muscular atrophy Phase-II US Oral Cytokinetics activator Chronic obstructive pulmonary Phase-II US disease Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Phase-II US RPE cell program Cell therapy Dry age-related macular Phase-II US Injection In-house (Astellas Institute (Retinal pigment degeneration, for Regenerative Medicine) epithelium cell) Stargardt’s macular degeneration *1 Compounds with “In-house” in this column include ones discovered by collaborative research. *2 AABP: Amgen Astellas BioPharma Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 60 Business Review Creating Innovation CSR Activities in Research and Development and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention / Research National Institute of Health Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories*2, as well as the laws of Ethical Considerations in Research on Human individual countries. Subjects and Specimens Derived from Humans In Japan, Astellas has established biosafety Astellas conducts research on human subjects, and obtains management rules in compliance with the Cartagena and conducts research on specimens derived from humans, Act*3 and related ministerial ordinances, and has detailed after appropriately obtaining the consent of the trial subjects procedures in place for handling experimental materials. In in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki* as well as addition, we have set up the Biosafety Committee at each the laws, regulations and guidelines of relevant countries. facility as a body to review whether the experiments meet In Japan, Astellas provides training for researchers in the standards required by these rules. areas such as bioethics, genomic research and related In addition, laboratory personnel receive regular clinical studies, based on a strong commitment to training courses once a year, in order to rigorously enforce respecting the human rights of research subjects, safe and proper biosafety management and use of these protecting the privacy and confidentiality of their personal organisms and suchlike. 1,010 participants received the information, and assuring the reliability of the research. training in fiscal 2016. In the U.S., we use such The Astellas Research Ethics Committee has been experimental materials based on the rules established by established to determine the ethical acceptability and the occupational health and safety authorities. scientific propriety of research plans in a fair and impartial *1 Laboratory Biosafety Manual 3rd Edition manner, taking account of information on potential *2 Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories 5th Edition *3 Cartagena Act: Law concerning the conservation and sustainable use of conflicts of interest involving research institutions, biological diversity through regulations on the use of genetically modified researchers and other parties. In fiscal 2016, this organisms and suchlike. committee met 12 times, deliberated on 31 issues, and conducted 179 brief reviews. Use of Genetic Resources * Declaration of Helsinki: A statement of ethical principles for medical research Astellas is committed to full compliance with the relevant involving human subjects, addressed to physicians and others who are involved laws and regulations of countries supplying genetic in medical research on human subjects. resources, and to the proper distribution of any contractually defined profits from the use of such resources, based on Ethical Considerations in Animal Testing the concept of genetic resources utilization and the Astellas has established a Global Policy for Animal Care and associated distribution of profits set out in the Convention Use, and conducts animal testing based on this policy. We on Biological Diversity*1 and Nagoya Protocol*2. have established the Corporate Institutional Animal Care and *1 The Convention of Biological Diversity: International convention on the Use Committee, in which outside members also participate sustainable use and conservation of biological diversity *2 Nagoya Protocol: Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and as committee members, at our animal testing facilities. equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization Astellas’ initiatives in animal testing are recognized by AAALAC International*. As a result, all of our animal testing Treatment of Intellectual Property facilities have acquired accreditation from AAALAC Appropriate protection of intellectual property is critical to International. Astellas in order to address unmet medical needs and * AAALAC International: The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of maintain a competitive advantage. Astellas has established Laboratory Animal Care International. An international organization that a Policy on Intellectual Property. In view of the importance promotes the humane treatment of animals through international accreditation and assessment programs. Studies are undertaken from both scientific and of improving people’s access to healthcare, we are ethical standpoints to verify the quality of animal control and use programs. committed to not filing or enforcing patents in countries facing significant economic challenges. These select Biosafety Control countries are decided by referring to those designated as Astellas performs experiments using genetically modified Least Developed Countries (LDCs) defined by the United organisms, or materials containing pathogens, under the Nations or Low Income Countries (LICs) defined by World Health Organization Laboratory Biosafety Manual*1 World Bank. 61 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data trial findings via the Astellas website. We are also Clinical Development developing a website to give patients access to special summaries of study results prepared for non-experts*2. Protection of Human Rights, Privacy and *1 Patient-level data are provided through the following website: Confidentiality of Personal Information of Research http://www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com Subjects, and Assurance of Reliability in Clinical Trials *2 Results of the clinical trials are provided through the following website: http://www.astellasclinicalstudyresults.com/Welcome.aspx In clinical trials, we investigate new drug candidates developed through drug discovery research in further detail, and assess the efficacy and safety of the new drug Patient Centricity in Drug Development candidates in patients. Real-world considerations in clinical trials are increasingly Under the Declaration of Helsinki, clinical trials must important in ensuring that our studies are aligned with be ethically planned and safely conducted with full current medical practices and patient needs. consideration to protecting the human rights and privacy We are trying to incorporate insights from real-world of clinical trial subjects. Astellas ensures full compliance data into our clinical trials by understanding how with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and all relevant laws and healthcare is provided to patients. regulations so that new drug candidates are developed Patient centricity is now a focus for regulatory into drugs that can be used confidently by patients. Plans authorities and the pharmaceutical industry. The patientfor clinical trials conducted by Astellas are evaluated and centric approach is being discussed at all points in the approved for ethical acceptability and scientific validity by drug development value chain, from discovery through internal and external committees. commercialization. Efforts are being made to include In conducting clinical trials, Astellas confirms that patient input in how to optimally design trials, recruit clinical trial subjects have provided informed consent, participants, and identify relevant endpoints that patients having received a full explanation of the purpose and care most about. methods of the trial, its expected benefits and Astellas employs various methods to incorporate disadvantages, matters related to compensation for health patient-centric approaches into clinical programs. For impairment and other details. Moreover, we implement example, we use patient-reported outcomes (PROs) such education and training for any employees or staff members as questionnaires and patient diaries to assess patients’ involved in clinical trials, and monitor medical institutions health conditions. In addition, we use real-world data for that perform clinical trials to ensure full GCP compliance. estimation of target population based on the morbidity In addition, we manage trial data appropriately to rate or ineligible cases in screening, and feasibility of protect the privacy of clinical trial subjects. Periodic studies in clinical trial facilities. Also, patient input is used assessments are also made to check that any outsourced to assess feasibility of clinical trials. Through these clinical trials are conducted in accordance with the activities, we try to improve recruitment, retention and same standards. relevance of data. We are also working with patient advocacy organizations where appropriate to assess Disclosure of Information on Clinical Trials and protocol feasibility including frequency of visits, Their Results procedures and PRO elements. Astellas has formulated a global policy on the disclosure of clinical trial data and results to enhance the transparency of information gained from clinical studies while Please refer to the following URL for information about related CSR maximizing its value, and to ensure this leads to the activities in research and development. advancement of science and the promotion of innovation. • Ethical Considerations in Stem Cell Research and Development Specifically, Astellas provides patient-level data that • Expanded Access to Investigational Medicines have been anonymized in accordance with applicable laws WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/ and regulations through an external website*1 to those business-activities/ scientists and healthcare professionals requesting it. Please refer to the following URL for information about our policies & position statements. Doctors and the public can access summaries of clinical WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/about/ policies-and-position-statements/ Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 62 Business Review Pursuing Operational Excellence Pursuing Operational Excellence Initiatives in the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2017 In order to further increase both the quality and organizational operation structure, Astellas decided that efficiency of operations, Astellas continues to Astellas Business Service Co., Ltd. a subsidiary which implement initiatives that anticipate changes in the performs shared administrative support, would be business environment from a number of perspectives, dissolved at the end of September 2017. such as optimal reallocation of resources, effective utilization of external resources, continual enhancement Establishment of a Jointly-Operated Logistics of the organizational structure, active response to Center and Logistics Platform in Japan various regulations and social norms (compliance), and On the logistics front, in February 2017, Astellas, Takeda strengthening of core capabilities. Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Teva Takeda Pharma Ltd., and Teva Takeda Yakuhin Ltd. concluded a With regard to the organizational structure, Astellas is memorandum of understanding concerning the working to strengthen its global management functions. establishment of a jointly-operated logistics center in Astellas set up a global compliance function in April 2016 Hokkaido. with the aim of further strengthening compliance, thereby Through this agreement, the four companies will building a global compliance framework in which the establish a structure for the joint storage and distribution regional compliance functions in Japan, the Americas, of pharmaceuticals, with the objective of further ensuring EMEA and Asia & Oceania report to the head of Ethics & stable supplies, qualities and efficient transportation of Compliance. Additionally, in April 2017, Astellas created a pharmaceuticals in emergency situations, such as a new function designed to globally manage legal and natural disaster. intellectual property functions in each region. In addition, Astellas implemented the following Transfer of 16 Long-Listed Products in Japan and initiatives in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. Other Initiatives In March 2017, Astellas and LTL Pharma Co., Ltd. entered Transfer of a U.S. Manufacturing Subsidiary into an Asset Purchase Agreement, under which Astellas In the areas of manufacturing and technology, Astellas will transfer its marketing authorization for 16 long-listed strives to promote the establishment of a stable products in Japan, supply business of active pharmaceutical manufacturing system that will efficiently realize the steady ingredients/bulk of these products to third parties in Japan supply of high-quality drugs through the effective use of and outside of Japan and royalty business of these external resources. As part of these efforts, in August 2016, products to LTL Pharma. Through this agreement, Astellas Astellas transferred all the shares of Astellas Pharma will reallocate the funds generated by the transfer of assets Technologies, Inc. (APT) to Avara Norman Pharmaceutical into businesses and products that will drive our Services, Inc. (Avara). The manufacturing of pharmaceuticals competitive advantage, thereby aiming to achieve previously undertaken by APT will be continued through sustained growth. outsourcing to Avara on a contract basis. In other initiatives, in December 2016, Astellas entered into a definitive agreement with Grünenthal, under which Outsourcing of Facility and Equipment Astellas will transfer the exclusive rights for Qutenza in Management Support in Japan Europe, the Middle East and Africa to Grünenthal. In Astellas has decided to outsource certain operational and February 2017, Astellas also entered into an agreement management support duties, such as facility and providing Kyowa Pharmaceutical Industry Co., Ltd. the equipment management support at Group companies in exclusive right to distribute and promote extended-release Japan. Through collaboration with external partners with tablets of quetiapine fumarate in Japan, pending approval specialized capabilities, Astellas aims to receive highof the new drug application submitted in Japan. quality services and promote efficiency. In addition to the outsourcing, as a result of reassessment of the 63 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Our People, Our Organization Astellas recognizes employees as important including personnel measures, to spread understanding stakeholders and we sincerely strive to fulfill our social among all employees. Astellas Pharma Hong Kong won responsibilities. Astellas employees play the most the 2016 ERB Manpower Developer Award. valuable role in shaping the Company and creating new Astellas will improve human resources and levels of enterprise value. We are working to train organizational capabilities by spreading and implementing employees and strengthen their competitiveness. the HR Vision and Astellas Way. Moreover, we will bring Astellas is fostering a corporate culture that aims to together individuals from diverse backgrounds within the align the aspirations of its diverse employees in one Company to surmount national, regional and direction to realize its business philosophy. organizational barriers, foster mutual respect, enhance our organizational capabilities, and unite our people to continuously achieve innovation. HR Vision The Astellas Way —Five Messages for One Astellas— Astellas has formulated a Human Resources (HR) Vision shared globally to define its aspirations for its human Patient Focus: resources and for its organization. Making Astellas’ vision a Ask yourself if your decisions and actions contribute to improving patient health. reality requires individual employees to understand the HR Vision and to act based on the Astellas Way. Ownership: Embrace change and always challenge Astellas redoubled its efforts to disseminate the HR by taking ownership. Vision in fiscal 2016. Specifically, this involved translating Results: the HR Vision into various languages, conducting training Commit to results each time you face a challenge, and and meetings for managers, and implementing initiatives, consider fresh approaches to achieving them. Openness: Overview of the HR Vision Maximize your creativity through diversity Towards Realizing the Corporate Vision and open communication. Integrity: Act with integrity by always considering the implications of your actions, and then take responsibility for the outcomes. One Astellas with the Astellas Way Our People Our Organization Embrace Change and Challenge Resilient Value Diversity and Inclusion Inspired Providing Opportunities for Employees to Serve Others Aligned Succeed Globally Act with Integrity Ethical Astellas provides employees with opportunities to succeed globally. In Japan, we have developed an internal recruitment system to revitalize our organization and HR MANAGEMENT motivate employees to develop their own abilities and grow, while encouraging our people to succeed in roles at ATTRACT various overseas bases by proactively appointing EMPLOYER employees to be assigned abroad from each division. In OF addition, we accept long-term and short-term assignees DEVELOP CHOICE from Group companies outside Japan. In these and other RETAIN ways, we are working to promote global interaction among our people at the divisional level. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 64 Business Review Pursuing Operational Excellence Astellas continues to monitor the turnover rate of Diversity Management employees as an indicator for gauging the extent to which the Company provides a rewarding and safe place to work. Astellas is working to promote diversity so that diverse people * Accessibility Consortium of Enterprises (ACE): A general incorporated association can play a role in our Company, irrespective of race, that was formed to conduct activities such as the establishment of a new employment model for people with disabilities who contribute to the growth of nationality, gender, or age. Respect for the diverse values of companies. our employees will be reflected in various ways in our Number of Employees per Region and Turnover Rate business activities to encourage creativity in our organization. We also believe that it will help to attract talented people as 2015.3*2 2016.3 2017.3*3 employees and enhance our competitiveness. Japan Number of employees 7,241 7,056 7,029 For Astellas, promoting the career advancement of Turnover rate* 1 7.5% 1.1% 1.2% women in Japan is a high priority, particularly because the Americas Number of employees 2,975 3,062 3,016 country has a low ratio of women in management Turnover rate 10.4% 12.9% 17.7% positions compared to other regions. We aim to develop a EMEA Number of employees 4,628 4,726 4,672 work environment in which life events will not hinder Turnover rate 15.6% 11.9% 14.3% career advancement, and have established a target to raise our ratio of female managers in Japan to 10% or higher (at Number of employees 2,269 2,373 2,485 Asia & Oceania Astellas Pharma Inc.) by 2020 on a non-consolidated basis. Turnover rate 13.4% 12.9% 13.3% Total Number of employees 17,113 17,217 17,202 Male/Female Employee Ratio per Region and Ratio of Female Managers (Fiscal 2016) Turnover rate 11.0% 7.8% 9.4% Asia & *1 The turnover rate in Japan excludes people retiring at the mandatory Japan Americas EMEA Total retirement age and employees moving outside of the Group due to transfer of Oceania Group businesses. Male 71.7% 46.2% 42.1% 49.4% 56.0% *2 The increase in the total turnover rate in fiscal 2014 is mainly due to the introduction of an early retirement plan in Japan. Female 28.3% 53.8% 57.9% 50.6% 44.0% *3 The Increase in the total turnover rate in fiscal 2016 is mainly due to the transfer Ratio of female of Astellas Pharma Technologies, Inc. (APT) to Avara Norman Pharmaceutical 7.8% 48.4% 50.9% 46.1% 32.6% Services, Inc. managers Ensuring Occupational Health and Safety Developing Rewarding and Safe Work Environments We have the Astellas Environment, Health & Safety Policy Astellas is working to ensure rewarding and safe work in place to prevent work-related accidents and minimize environments where employees are able to concentrate those caused by workplace mishaps and hazards. Under on their duties. This is to ensure that every employee is this policy, each facility is independently building able to maximize their abilities and creativity on the job. In Environment, Health & Safety management systems and Japan, we have been promoting workstyle reforms since promoting associated initiatives. We are also working to 2015 in order to raise enterprise value and provide ensure occupational safety from many different employees with rich individual lives. This is all in an effort perspectives based on the information we share on to strike an equilibrium that enables each person to accidents and near misses that have occurred at our improve their own work-life balance while establishing workplaces around the world. high levels of productivity and creativity. Our efforts to Between January and December 2016, there were five promote inclusive employment and decent work, one of work-related injuries requiring leaves of absence in Japan. the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Of these five injuries, the longest leave of absence was (SDGs), include initiatives for upgrading the work nine days. There were four injuries requiring leaves of environment we provide for people with disabilities. We absence at our overseas plants, of which the longest leave have been a participating member of Japan’s Accessibility of absence was 93 days. In view of the lengthy leaves Consortium for Enterprises (ACE)*. The support we provide resulting from injuries in Japan and at our overseas plants, people to overcome disabilities includes an app we have we will strive to reduce our occupational safety risks with introduced for hearing-impaired employees that the goal of holding our severity rate of work-related instantaneously converts voice data into written words. injuries under 0.005 on a global basis. 65 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Incidence of Work-Related Injuries in Japan 2014.1-12 2015.1-12 2016.1-12 Respect for Human Rights Number of injuries 5 2 5 requiring leave of absence Astellas disclosed its Position on Human Rights in April 2017. Frequency rate of Wherever we operate, Astellas is committed to complying 0.34 0.14 0.34 work-related injuries*1 with internationally recognized basic human rights and labor Severity rate of 0.002 0.007 0.001 standards as well as applicable local labor and employment work-related injuries*2 laws, and to implementing and upholding the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Also, Astellas has Incidence of Work-Related Injuries at Overseas Plants*3 identified four rights to which we pay particular attention as 2015.1-12 2016.1-12 human rights in clinical trials and other research and Number of injuries 2 4 development activities, product safety and counterfeit drugs, requiring leave of absence Access to Health and human rights in the workplace. Frequency rate of work-related injuries*1 1.11 2.40 Under the U.K. Modern Slavery Act 2015, we publish a Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for each financial Severity rate of 0.047 0.065 year, describing what steps we have taken to address this risk work-related injuries*2 in our own operations or our supply chains. *1 Frequency rate of work-related injuries: This rate shows the number of employee deaths or injuries resulting from work-related accidents causing We have been globally confirming the awareness of leaves of absence per million hours of work. The larger the number, the more human rights issues in the workplace and the status of frequently work-related injuries occur. *2 Severity rate of work-related injuries: This rate shows the number of days absent human rights activities at our Group companies by from work due to work-related injuries per thousand hours of work. The larger conducting written surveys. In fiscal 2016, there were no the number, the more serious the injury. *3 From 2015 onward, we began disclosing consolidated data for all five overseas urgent human rights issues or other issues of common, plants. worldwide concern reported in the survey. For details on our people, our organization, please visit the following website: WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/employees/ Message from Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities, Astellas US LLC We conduct initiatives to encourage women’s success. In July 2016, Astellas US LLC hosted the first ever Women Magazine’s 100 Best Companies in the U.S. for our in Action conference, which drew more than 1,600 commitment to establishing a corporate culture attendees, including female employees of Astellas supportive of working mothers and their families. Americas and local female students in STEM education. The Women in Action event is an example of how The aim of this event was to develop women’s we are maximizing creativity leadership and confidence and to help them overcome through diversity and open difficulties and succeed. In addition to the lecture, Astellas communication as part of the held experiential workshops on how to communicate Astellas Way. opinions in conversation and the skills needed to be more * STEM education is teaching that effective in managing crucial conversations. emphasizes science, technology, This conference underscored the value the engineering and mathematics. company places on the contributions of women and a Collette Taylor commitment to encouraging female empowerment. We Senior Vice President, Human are proud of the recognition that we have received in Resources and Facilities Professional Woman’s Magazine and Working Mother Astellas US LLC Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 66 Business Review Pursuing Operational Excellence Ethics & Compliance Astellas believes that acting in accordance with the highest ethical standards, which includes obeying the Structure to Promote Ethics and Compliance letter and spirit of the law, is the cornerstone of all its activities. Accordingly, the Astellas Charter of Corporate Astellas continues to enhance a robust compliance Conduct which is shared globally, expresses the structure that includes a Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer Company’s ethical business philosophy in terms of (CECO) and Global Compliance Committee chaired by the specific corporate behavior. In addition, the Astellas CECO and comprised of the Head of Ethics & Compliance Group Code of Conduct is a global code for all directors, and senior business leadership. officers and employees around the world, establishing Two global compliance functions, Anti-Bribery/ that they are expected to comply with laws and Anti-Corruption Compliance and Data Privacy, were regulations and maintain high ethical standards in the created in April 2016 and April 2017, respectively. In performance of their job responsibilities for Astellas. addition, an Ethics & Compliance Group Operations Astellas promotes compliance and acts in function was established in fiscal 2016. This function accordance with the highest ethical standards through oversees and coordinates various compliance activities to the development, implementation and continuous ensure consistency in approach on a global basis. These enhancement of policies, processes, and our global activities include training and communications, risk compliance structures and thereby maintains the trust assessment, monitoring, investigations, and managing of society and enhances enterprise value. policies and procedures. As our business expands globally, we continue to seek opportunities for global alignment and collaboration between functional lines, and maintain consistently high standards of compliance in everything we do. Astellas is committed to supporting every employee in their efforts to conduct business with the highest integrity and in an ethical and legal manner. Global Compliance Structure (as of April 2017) Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) Head of Ethics & Compliance Global Compliance Committee Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Data Privacy South East, South Asia, Japan & East Asia Hong Kong, and Oceania Americas EMEA Ethics & Compliance Head Ethics & Compliance Head Ethics & Compliance Head Ethics & Compliance Head Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Ethics & Compliance Group Operations 67 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Implementation of a Global Conflict of Initiative Promoting Compliance Interest Policy The foundation of an effective and robust Ethics & Compliance Training Compliance program is based on how a company Training and communication about new policies and approaches its own internal behavior even when no procedures as well as updates to existing policies and violation of law may have occurred. In these situations, procedures help to nurture a compliance mindset among often referred to as conflicts of interest, a company must all employees. All new Ethics & Compliance employees are assess its approach to ethics and compliance when no one required to undergo comprehensive onboarding training is looking. Doing so with integrity and ethics in these and all new Ethics & Compliance leaders receive training situations informs and predicts how a company approaches on specific topics including healthcare compliance, antiethics and compliance when everyone is looking. bribery and anti-corruption compliance, investigation Conflicts of interest arise when outside activities or processes, conflict of interest, data privacy and transparency other personal interests impair an employee’s objectivity reporting. A wide variety of platforms, including online or judgment when performing his/her job responsibilities. and in-person sessions, are used to train employees on Conflicts of interest also arise in situations where there is a various topics related to their job responsibilities. potential conflict between an employee’s personal interests and the interests of Astellas. During fiscal 2016, Astellas Integrity in Action Program implemented an enhanced global Conflict of Interest In fiscal 2016, messages about integrity, ethics and Policy and, in fiscal 2017, will be initiating comprehensive compliance were delivered to employees through various training on the enhanced policy across the organization. means in order to enhance their ethics and compliance This policy and the accompanying training communicate awareness. For example, an Integrity in Action program to every Astellas employee the ethical values of the was implemented globally and conducted at each regional Company, its expectation that we will conduct all our headquarters and multiple affiliate offices in fiscal 2016. business with the highest degree of integrity, and its These programs bring subject matter experts from local, commitment to compliance. regional and global Ethics & Compliance functions to regional and affiliate offices where employees receive informative and impactful information about various compliance related matters. Business leaders provide Tone Helpline for Employees from the TOP by reinforcing the compliance messages through their presentations. Astellas has external compliance reporting helplines available for employees in each region that enable Establishing and Encouraging a Speak-Up Culture employees to report and receive advice on how to react in Following the establishment of a stand-alone Ethics & the event they discover actual or suspected misconduct. Compliance organization in April 2016, one of the first These helplines are available in employees’ local initiatives undertaken was to establish and enhance, languages. In many countries, an external helpline has also throughout the entire organization, a speak-up culture been put into place, and employees also receive regular that encourages all employees to bring to the Company’s reminders and periodic training on how to use the attention potential issues and concerns that may give rise helplines. In Japan, a separate sexual harassment helpline to more serious compliance problems if not addressed is also available. promptly and effectively. The importance of an effective Astellas fosters an environment that encourages speak-up culture is communicated regularly to all employees to use the helplines. There is a strict policy of employees not only by the Ethics & Compliance function non-retaliation against those who raise a concern or report but also by senior leadership at the local, regional and a suspected compliance breach in good faith, even if the global levels throughout the organization. In part due to concern or report is not substantiated. this emphasis on a vibrant speak-up culture, Astellas has In fiscal 2016, our helplines received consultation seen an increase in compliance reports from fiscal 2015 to requests in each region. Matters raised included potential fiscal 2016. harassment and promotional code violations. In response, we conducted thorough investigations and took appropriate actions. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 68 Business Review Pursuing Operational Excellence also shared with senior leadership to ensure there is Monitoring System for Compliance Issues visibility and awareness of potentially problematic activity. Astellas defined these processes in a global policy on Developing a Consistent Global Internal investigations and two global standard operating Compliance Risk Assessment Capability procedures. Training on the policy and the procedures has Astellas, like most multinational pharmaceutical been provided to Ethics & Compliance personnel and other companies, confronts a myriad of different compliance Astellas employees responsible for conducting internal risks across its global operations. These include anticompliance investigations. Ethics & Compliance often bribery/anti-corruption compliance risk, data privacy risk, coordinates with Legal and Human Resources throughout healthcare compliance risk, and cybersecurity risk. The the course of any compliance-related investigations. ability to efficiently and effectively assess risk in these and Astellas is committed to conducting all compliance other areas at the local, regional and global levels is a investigations fairly, objectively, consistently and efficiently foundational element of any compliance program and with any disciplinary action taken being proportional to enables companies like Astellas to more quickly identify and any substantiated misconduct. Astellas has a strict policy better respond to existing and emerging compliance risks. prohibiting any retaliation against any employee who Establishing a globally consistent process for brings to the Company’s attention a suspected or actual conducting its own internal compliance risk assessments compliance violation in good faith even if the allegation is allows management at Astellas to better allocate resources ultimately unsubstantiated. that are focused on areas of high compliance risk based on the best available information. Internal compliance risk assessments that are conducted at the local affiliate level are supported by resources provided at both the regional Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Initiatives and global levels. Internal compliance risk assessments evaluate both As business has become increasingly globalized, the external (or market risk) environment as well as those countries around the world have been enhancing their activities conducted by Astellas that create the highest efforts to prevent corruption and bribery. Enforcement level of risk for the Company. The internal activities authorities have prosecuted cases involving direct assessed include those where value in any form is corruption and bribery as well as cases involving bribery transferred to healthcare professionals, interactions that occurred through the actions of a business partner or between the Company and government officials/healthcare third-party agent. Astellas continues to strengthen its professionals, fair competition between companies, data compliance awareness to prevent bribery and corruption privacy, clinical research and gifts/hospitality. The Ethics & not only at Astellas but also by third parties with whom we Compliance function at Astellas works closely with the conduct business. business throughout the internal compliance risk In its continued effort to prevent bribery in the assessment process and helps develop and support any conduct of its business, Astellas has established a global risk mitigation plans developed to address the identified risks. anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance position that works with Ethics & Compliance and business functions at Tracking and Investigating Reports of the regional and local levels to ensure compliance with Compliance Violations the Astellas Group Code of Conduct, the Global AntiIn fiscal 2016, Astellas continued to enhance its process for Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, and other policies and tracking all reports of potential compliance violations no procedures that address the transfer of value from Astellas matter how they were received by the Company. These to government officials and healthcare professionals. reports are analyzed by Ethics & Compliance to determine if To foster a deeper understanding of this issue among any trends or patterns in misconduct are occurring anywhere its employees, Astellas regularly provides training on various in the organization. These reports and any analyses are anti-corruption and anti-bribery compliance initiatives. 69 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data report the incident to the legal department. Commitment to Fair Competition In fiscal 2016, there were no incidences of government authorities taking legal action against Astellas for antiAstellas is committed to conducting its business in a fair competitive, anti-trust, or monopolistic practices, or of and competitive environment and does not collude or authorities imposing significant fines or other sanctions for reach any agreements with its competitors regarding sales non-compliance with laws and regulations. conditions, such as prices, sales plans and strategies, and market and customer shares. Astellas limits its For further information on Astellas’ ethics and compliance activities, please visit the following website: engagement with competitors and avoids any WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/about/ conversation concerning these topics when engagement compliance-initiatives/ is necessary, as it might be construed to reflect such an agreement even when there is none. If a competitor brings up these subjects in conversation, we refuse to discuss it, end the conversation immediately and unequivocally, and Message from the Vice President, Head of Ethics & Compliance Americas and Ethics & Compliance Group Operations Lead Establishing an Effective and Impactful Group Operations Function in Ethics & Compliance The Ethics & Compliance (E&C) Group Operations team this respect close collaboration between the E&C affiliate was created following the establishment of the standleads, regional E&C teams and the E&C Group Operations alone E&C function on April 1, 2016. The purpose of team will ensure that our compliance practices adhere having a global group operations function is to drive to global standards and best practices but also are efficiencies and consistencies of E&C function across reasonably adapted to local and regional differences. country, region and global levels. The E&C Group Operations team is responsible for setting strategy, planning and coordination for training, communications, risk assessment, monitoring, investigations, policies, procedures and program governance. The Group Operations team works with its E&C counterparts at all levels and across all regions to ensure there is a consistent approach to how these activities are conducted. Tatjana Dragovic One of the biggest challenges facing the E&C Vice President, Head of Ethics & Compliance Americas Group Operations team is finding a way to reflect and and Ethics & Compliance Group allow for regional and local differences and customs. In Operations Lead Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 70 Business Review Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in areas with low treatment satisfaction and to deliver them 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a to patients around the world. For example, Astellas has set of collective targets for the world to achieve by 2030. been conducting collaborative research with the National Referring to the SDG Compass, Astellas has Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology to identified issues for priority action, based on the discover new drugs for the treatment of Chagas disease, evaluation of positive and negative SDG-related impacts and collaborative research with the Institute of Medical across the entire value chain. Going forward, Astellas Science, the University of Tokyo in developing the riceplans to contribute to the attainment of the SDGs based oral vaccine MucoRice-CTB against infectious through various business activities, focusing primarily diseases such as cholera and enterotoxigenic Escherichia on “Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being.” coli (E.coli). Furthermore, Astellas is working closely with partners to develop a pediatric formulation of praziquantel tablets for the treatment of schistosomiasis. Focus on Improving Access to Health in To help enhance availability, we have established Four Areas programs to assist patients facing severe financial constraints In regard to “Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being” under the with the cost of dispensing pharmaceutical products. We SDGs, Astellas is addressing this goal from the viewpoint of also support patients by not filing or enforcing patents in improving access to healthcare. There are many people countries facing significant economic challenges. with insufficient access to the healthcare they need due to As part of strengthening healthcare systems and the lack of available treatments, poverty, challenges in improving health literacy, Astellas has participated in the healthcare systems and limited healthcare information. Access Accelerated global partnership. This initiative aims Astellas recognizes this problem as the Access to Health to contribute to achieving one of the SDG targets of issue. Astellas has identified four areas where it is working reducing by one-third premature mortality from nonto address Access to Health issues by making full use of communicable diseases by 2030. the strengths and technology that Astellas has. The four In other SDG-related initiatives, Astellas is supporting areas are (1) Creating innovation, (2) Enhancing availability, the Action on Fistula program in Kenya. (3) Strengthening healthcare systems, and (4) Improving Astellas aims to contribute through various business health literacy. In doing so, Astellas will make maximum activities to achieving SDGs. Astellas views such programs as use of its partnerships in the manner of Goal 17. part of fulfilling society’s expectations while at the same time In creating innovation, Astellas is working to create enhancing competitiveness and enterprise value sustainably. innovative medicines and medical solutions in disease Examples of Astellas’ Activities for Achieving SDGs SDGs Theme Examples of Astellas’ Activities Creation of innovative medicines and healthcare solutions; joint research into treatments and vaccines Goal 3 Good Health and Well-Being for tropical diseases Goal 5 Gender Equality Greater proportion of women in managerial roles in Japan Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation Reduced water usage; management of wastewater Cultivation of productive workplaces; employee training and education; promotion of occupational Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth health and safety Goal 9 Industry Innovation and Infrastructure Creating innovation through the Network Research System Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production Eco-conscious production Goal 13 Climate Action Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Goal 15 Life on Land Maintenance/preservation of biodiversity Goal 17 Partnerships for the Goals Participating partner in Global Health Innovative Technology (GHIT) Fund 71 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Access to Health The following describes more in detail the initiatives in working with the UICC to develop initiatives to improve which Astellas is participating to address Access to the quality of treatment for cancer patients living in Health issues. Astellas believes that the relationships selected cities of developing countries to try to boost with governments and the local partners it develops survival rates. through these initiatives will generate synergies with its * For details about Access Accelerated, please visit the following website: business activities over the long term. http://www.accessaccelerated.org/ Participation in Access Accelerated to Improve Access to Healthcare Astellas has participated in Access Accelerated since January 2017. Access Accelerated is a global initiative aimed at improving access to non-communicable disease prevention, diagnosis and treatment in low and lowermiddle income countries. More than 20 international pharmaceutical companies are partners in the program, working alongside organizations such as the World Bank and the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC). Collaborative Research to Discover Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are any diseases Anti-Protozoan Parasite Drugs not caused by human-to-human transmission of an infectious agent. Leading NCDs include cancer, Since April 2016, Astellas has been conducting joint cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, diabetes research with the National Institute of Advanced Industrial and mental health disorders. Many NCDs are caused by Science and Technology (AIST) into Chagas disease, one of unhealthy eating, lack of exercise, smoking or excessive the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs*1) caused by drinking, and could be prevented by lifestyle improvement. protozoan parasites that belong to trypanosomatidae. NCDs are not just on the increase in developed New drugs are needed to treat this condition. From 2012 countries, but the number of patients suffering from NCDs to March 2016, Astellas worked in collaboration with five is also increasing in developing countries. research institutions in Japan and an international nonThe rising incidence of NCDs not only puts pressure profit organization*2 to discover new drugs for the on the healthcare budgets of developing countries, but treatment of NTDs caused by protozoan parasites also leads to economic losses when patients cannot work belonging to trypanosomatidae. Astellas and AIST are now due to illness. utilizing the knowledge gained in this collaborative Access Accelerated has more than 100 programs that research to conduct joint research into Chagas disease, channel long-term investments by companies into the focusing on validating if genes crucial to the survival of the improvement of access to prevention, diagnosis and protozoan parasite can be identified quickly and accurately treatment of NCDs. The effectiveness of these programs is using genome editing technology. being evaluated using a rigorous metrics framework *1 Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs): NTDs are infections caused by parasites and developed with the cooperation of Boston University. The bacteria which are rampant mainly among underprivileged people in tropical areas of developing countries. It is estimated that over one billion people Action on Fistula program that we support is one of the worldwide are suffering from these infections. specific programs highlighted on the Access Accelerated *2 Collaborative research had been undertaken with the University of Tokyo, the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Nagasaki University, the High Energy Accelerator website*. In cooperation with corporate partners and the Research Organization, AIST and the international non-profit organization World Bank Group, we are also engaged in solving Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi). national-level health issues in Africa. In addition, we are Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 72 Business Review international non-profit organizations, Astellas is Collaborative Research on a Rice-Based developing a pediatric formulation of praziquantel. Oral Vaccine The pediatric formulation newly developed by Astellas Since June 2016, Astellas has been conducting collaborative uses its original drug formulation technology. The pediatric research with the Institute of Medical Science, the formulation was designed to be smaller than the existing University of Tokyo (IMSUT) on the rice-based oral vaccine tablet and orally dispersible so that it can be taken even MucoRice-CTB against diarrheal diseases caused by without water, due to a reduction of bitterness. In addition, cholera and enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (E.coli). the pediatric formulation can be manufactured using In developing countries, diarrhea caused by simple production technology, while holding down pathogenic bacteria, such as Vibrio cholerae and production costs, and the tablets are stable even in the hot enterotoxigenic E.coli, is a major cause of death among and humid environment of tropical areas. Astellas has infants and young children. However, existing cholera transferred the technology and expertise needed to vaccines present several issues, including the need to store develop the pediatric formulations to consortium partners and transport the vaccines at a constant low temperature, in Brazil and Germany, thereby helping to produce drug and their ineffectiveness against enterotoxigenic E.coli. products used for clinical trials and to build local MucoRice-CTB is stable at room temperature and easily pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities. produced. Therefore, it is expected to meet the unmet The consortium is conducting Phase II clinical trials and medical needs of existing cholera vaccines. has received a third funding from the GHIT Fund in December IMSUT provides investigational medicines, study data, 2016 for future Phase III clinical trials. Astellas continues to etc., which are necessary for phase 1 and 2 of clinical trials provide its expertise and technology to the consortium. of MucoRice-CTB for cholera and enterotoxigenic E.coli, and Astellas is responsible for conducting and managing the clinical trials. In May 2017, IMSUT and Astellas signed an agreement for expansion of the scope of collaborative research utilizing MucoRice to viral gastroenteritis diarrhea including norovirus infection. Furthermore, through these collaborative research projects, IMSUT and Astellas will attempt to develop the new platform technology to create innovative new drugs to address unmet medical needs. Newly developed pediatric formulation (top) and existing formulation (bottom) Development of Pediatric Formulation for Schistosomiasis Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic diseases in developing countries centered on Africa and South America. The disease has a particularly high incidence rate among children. The existing “gold standard” treatment for schistosomiasis is praziquantel. However, one challenge is that praziquantel tablets are difficult to administer to preschool-age children, including infants and toddlers, mainly due to the risk of choking stemming from the tablets’ large size and the drug’s bitter taste. Members of the consortium developing the pediatric formulation of praziquantel Having set up a consortium with other ©Lygature 2016 pharmaceutical companies, research institutions and 73 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Action on Fistula Action on Fistula*1, a program focused on urology, is a ground-breaking partnership between the Fistula Foundation and Astellas that was set up to transform the lives of more than 1,200 women in Kenya living with obstetric fistula*2. The program, supported by an unrestricted grant of €1.5 million from Astellas to the Fistula Foundation in the three years from 2014 to 2017, aimed to improve the lives of obstetric fistula patients while simultaneously training doctors who will be able to provide surgical treatment Kenyan NGO (WADADIA) and community members share information about in Kenya. Action on Fistula Since its launch, the program has significantly ©Georgina Goodwin 2017 increased the surgical capacity in Kenya to treat the Progress in the Action on Fistula Program condition, by training six fistula surgeons to the global (May 2014-March 2017) competency standards set forth by the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO). It has also Patients successfully treated with 2,471 patients reconstructive surgery set up a Fistula Treatment Network to extend access to services, with six treatment centers enrolled and providing Trained and certified doctors to 6 Kenyan doctors the standard level of competency fistula surgeries on a routine basis. This has enabled Action on Fistula to successfully treat over 2,400 fistula patients, Centers in the Fistula 6 centers Treatment Network doubling the initial target set. The initiative also built a major outreach program with community workers to FIGO-accredited fistula Established the Gynocare Women’s and training center Fistula Hospital identify and bring women in for treatment. In May 2017, Astellas pledged its continuous support Kenyan counties* reached 43 counties to the Fistula Foundation as the second phase of Action on Trained community 243 outreach workers Fistula by 2020, considering the remarkable achievement of outreach workers the first phase. In three years from 2017 to 2020, this new Conducted outreach activities 7,469 activities program will provide surgeries to an additional 2,000 Community members reached women with obstetric fistula and will continue to build with fistula messages 477,599 community members capacity to deliver ongoing treatment. In addition, the new * Kenya is divided into 47 counties. There are several units of governance below program will establish support groups throughout Kenya to the county level. These units include subcounties, wards, and villages. help enable survivors to return to their communities. *1 For more information about the program visit www.astellas.eu/action-on-fistula *2 An obstetric fistula is a hole that develops between the vagina and rectum or bladder, causing incontinence. It is caused by prolonged and obstructed hard labor which lasts for several days, when emergency care is unavailable. Untreated, fistulas can lead to chronic medical problems including ulcerations, kidney disease and nerve damage in the legs. Because of incontinence, women with fistula can be socially marginalized. They are often abandoned by their husbands and family. As a result, fistulas can cause poverty in some cases. The United Nations Population Fund estimates 3,000 new cases of obstetric fistulas occur annually in Kenya. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 74 Business Review Social Contribution Astellas is cooperating with a range of stakeholders in pursuing one’s own potential in an emerging country an effort to address social issues which affect people while newly creating value for society—also have major throughout the world. significance for Astellas from the standpoint of human resource development. “Embrace Change and Challenge” is included in the “Our People” section of our HR Vision, and Astellas will also AECEP Overseas Volunteer Program continue promoting AECEP for this reason: to help develop human resources with a long-term, strategic thinking In fiscal 2016, Astellas launched a new social contribution ability who are truly capable of taking on challenges with a program called the Astellas Emerging Countries sense of ownership. Empowerment Program (AECEP). AECEP is a program for addressing social issues in emerging countries in partnership with enterprises and non-governmental organizations (NGO) in which Astellas employees utilize their respective expertise, skills and experience. Volunteer employees participating in the program (“participants”) travel to an emerging country after a preparation period of one and half months. They then carry out initiatives in the country for a limited time of three and a half months to address social issues and generate results that meet the expectations of the partner enterprise or NGO. Partners are selected from among enterprises and NGOs involved in addressing medical, health and safety issues or environmental problems. Participants get directly involved in local social issues and learn many things An Astellas employee (right end) taking part in awareness-raising activities in a through collaborating with leaders and community Cambodian farming village in connection with cooking stoves that are members who are strongly committed to solving the healthier and better for the environment issues. At the same time, participants maximize their use of the experience and abilities they have cultivated through work at Astellas to help make the partner activities more effective, and to build or improve their systems. Engaging in social contributions in this kind of equal, interactive relationship is the major characteristic of AECEP. In fiscal 2016, the first year of the program, three employees were selected as participants from among numerous applicants. The participants were assigned to organizations in Indonesia and Cambodia, and they worked in the areas of health, medicine, poverty, and the environment. They cooperated with the local organizations while overcoming various difficulties, and managed to successfully generate results that drew the praise of our partners. The invaluable experiences that can be obtained Craftswomen from the island of Flores in Indonesia and an Astellas employee through AECEP—getting away from daily work and who visited for fieldwork (right end) 75 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Group-Wide Volunteer Activities for Changing Support for Patients Tomorrow Day Astellas conducts a variety of activities to provide Astellas Group employees around the world are assistance to patients fighting illnesses, and to their family encouraging a diverse range of volunteer activities as part members, on a global basis. of Changing Tomorrow Day based on the themes of Astellas promotes Peer Support Training Sessions in promoting healthcare and maintaining the environment, Japan as part of efforts to support the self-reliance and thereby contributing to their local communities. In fiscal development of patient associations. Peer Support 2016, more than 6,600 employees participated. Training Sessions are held for a wide range of participants, including patients and their families, along with those who Changing Tomorrow Day Held in Fiscal 2016 have recently formed patient associations. In these training Region Participants Volunteering Number of Number of hours locations countries sessions, activities include programs for participants to learn attentive listening skills, which enable colleagues Japan 3,286 2,904 132 1 who have faced the same issues or have experienced the Americas 2,198 8,831 89 3 same problems to serve as consulting partners to one EMEA 410 2,770 16 16 another. In fiscal 2016, Peer Support Training Sessions were Asia & Oceania 724 2,584 13 10 held in 3 locations across Japan, and were attended by 32 Total 6,618 17,089 250 30 organizations and 42 people. Message from an AECEP Participant I became more acutely aware of the significance of social contribution through joint work with an NGO. In Indonesia, an increase in unwanted pregnancies, very much admire their sincere and committed efforts to maternal death, sexually transmitted diseases among addressing social problems. My desire to contribute to young people and people becoming infected with HIV/ patients and medical professionals continues to be AIDS due to a lack of knowledge or low level of strengthened. The people at the organization told me awareness have become major issues. that they had learned a lot from the passion and attitude The Indonesian NGO I was assigned to is actively I have towards my work, and I think the experience was engaged in addressing these issues. Their main activities stimulating for all of us. are providing education on family planning and In my current work in recruiting and hiring, I draw reproductive health as well as treatments for infectious on my experience volunteering to communicate to diseases and abortion procedures at a low cost. They are students the social role of a pharmaceutical company, also planning to establish a pharmacy that will enable and I strive to hire people with passion. local community members to purchase medical supplies and daily necessities more conveniently, and this will provide a stable source of income for their activities. This is the project I was involved in. I found myself bewildered at first in many respects, due to the differences in culture and workstyles. As I had started the project nearly from scratch, I was pretty worried about repeated trial-and-error. However, I was satisfied that in the three and a half months I was able to produce results. Moreover, the fact that I was able to Yumiko Otsu create something new was a big confidence boost. I Human Resources Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 76 Business Review Environmental Preservation Astellas understands that maintaining a healthy global environment is an essential theme for maintaining sound Initiatives for Realizing a Low-Carbon Society business activities and building a sustainable society. Going forward, Astellas will strive to realize its vision Reducing Astellas’ Greenhouse Gas Emissions for being a responsible corporation based on a longAstellas endeavors to reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) term timeframe that keeps future generations in mind emissions accompanying its own activities in order to help and a global perspective. At the same time, we will realize a low-carbon society. continue efforts to address regional social issues and Global GHG emissions accompanying Astellas’ pursue corporate activities in harmony with the global business activities (actual emissions) totaled 216 kilotons, environment. with activities generating approximately 83% of those emissions covered by the Environmental Action Plan. In fiscal 2016, GHG emissions covered by the Environmental Action Plan (actual emissions) were 179 Environmental Action Plan kilotons. This represented a decrease of 23.7% (55 kilotons) from fiscal 2005. Having determined its basic policy on the environment In Japan, there was a reduction of 5 kilotons due to and identified aspirational guidelines, Astellas formulated improvement in the electricity CO2 emissions coefficient its Environmental Action Plan, which outlines shortto compared to the previous fiscal year, a reduction of 13 medium-term activity targets, and has continued pursuing kilotons due to the closure of the Kashima R&D Center and initiatives to achieve its numerical targets. Going forward, the transfer of the Kiyosu Plant. However, there was an we will review the plan based on various factors, including increase of 10 kilotons due to an increase in business progress status and social circumstances, and add new activities such as the operation of new facilities. The initiatives and/or set more challenging targets. difference between the coefficients for actual emissions Among the numerical targets of the Environmental and for use in evaluating progress against the Action Plan, Astellas has achieved all the items with a final Environmental Action Plan was 0.201 kg-CO2/kWh. As a target year of fiscal 2015. Accordingly, we have set new result of the difference between these coefficients, actual targets for water resources productivity and waste emissions were 23 kilotons greater than emissions in the generated per unit of sales, and have begun working Environmental Action Plan. towards these targets from fiscal 2016. GHG emissions at overseas production sites decreased 4 kilotons, as a result of the transfer of the Norman Plant to a third-party company in August 2016. Environmental Action Plan Performance in Fiscal 2016 (Summary) Environmental Action Plan Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 35% or more by the end of fiscal 2020 1. Measures to Address Climate Change Japan: Reduce GHG emissions by 30% or more (Base year: Fiscal 2005) Overseas plants: Reduce GHG emissions by 45% or more 1) Enhance water resource productivity by around 2.5 times the fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 2. Measures for the Conservation of Natural Indicator: Sales (¥ billion)/Volume of water resources withdrawn (1,000 m3) Resources (Research and production sites) 2) Improve waste generated per unit of sales to around 20% of the fiscal 2005 result by the end of (Base year: Fiscal 2005) fiscal 2020 Indicator: Volume of waste generated (tons)/Sales (¥ billion) 3. Biodiversity (Base year: Fiscal 2005) Triple the biodiversity index by fiscal 2020 Note: Among the GHG emissions in Japan, CO2 emissions generated through electricity usage are calculated using the following two types of coefficients: (1) A coefficient of 0.330 kg-CO2/kWh is used to calculate results needed to evaluate progress against the Environmental Action Plan and make investment decisions and implement countermeasures to bridge the gap between results and targets. The figures shown in the table above represent the results calculated using this coefficient. (2) GHG emissions (actual emissions) for each fiscal year presented in series are calculated using the Electric Power Council for a Low Carbon Society’s actual end-use GHG emissions coefficient (hereinafter, “the electricity CO2 emissions coefficient”) for the previous fiscal year. The figures for the GHG emissions shown in this report represent results calculated using this coefficient. (A coefficient of 0.531 kg-CO2/kWh was used in fiscal 2016.) 77 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data In accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, Monitoring Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the an international guideline for the calculation of GHG Supply Chain emissions, Astellas has adopted the market-based method as the calculation method for actual emissions and for In recent years, it has become increasingly important to Scope 2 emissions (indirect emissions) in the CDP Climate monitor and announce not only GHG emissions by the Change 2017 questionnaire. Company, but also GHG emissions in the supply chain, Astellas is now able to monitor GHG emissions from including transportation of employees, raw materials almost all of its activities. However, given that the purchasing, product distribution, and waste disposal. coefficient for the calculation of CO2 emissions due to Recognizing these social implications, we started electricity use in Japan has diverged from actual making efforts in fiscal 2011 to ascertain our GHG conditions, Astellas plans to formulate an Environmental emissions associated with the use of transportation Action Plan based on actual emissions in fiscal 2017. systems by employees in Japan for commuting or for Remaining mindful of the international community’s vision overseas business trips, and transportation of products for 2050, Astellas intends to set numerical targets as and wastes. Going forward, we intend to continue taking milestones for realizing this vision. effective steps to expand the reporting boundary. Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Actual Emissions) Monitoring Status of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (kilotons) Regional headquarters Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Upstream activities Overseas manufacturing 11 6 Overseas sales Purchased goods Capital goods affiliates and services 2 111,352 tons 67,645 tons Fueland energy-related activities Total (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 27,464 tons Breakdown 216 kilotons Others of Others Transportation and distribution*1 38 Raw materials Plant Warehouse transported Distribution Overseas sales by tanker trucks Warehouse warehouse Wholesaler Action plan fleets boundary 23 237 tons 228 tons 955 tons 2,620 tons Japan Overseas R&D centers Waste generated Business travel 168 7 in operations (aircraft use) 4,461 tons 37,933 tons Note: The above graph is based on the energy consumption data disclosed on the Commuting Commuting Commuting URL below. “Others” represents items outside the scope of the (Train) (Bus) (Car) Environmental Action Plan, and includes principal office buildings, R&D 671 tons 122 tons 1,774 tons centers, and office buildings of sales affiliates and sales fleets outside Japan. https://www.astellas.com/en/csr/environment/energy_sub_01.html Scope 2*2*3 Scope 1*2 Direct emissions Indirect emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Actual Emissions) Japan: All Japanese facilities and sales fleets / Overseas: All five production facilities 67,647 tons Japan Five production facilities overseas Ratio to FY2005 level 94,934 tons 121,366 tons Sales fleets (kilotons) (%) (total) 400 100 100 27,287 tons 86.9 89.5 82.5 78.9 76.3 66.7 Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Downstream activities 234 End-of-life treatment 200 203 210 50 Use of products sold 57 193 185 179 * of sold products No emissions 156 705 tons 177 23 157 168 173 170 168 128 *1 Product shipments are handled by outside contractors. *2 Global basis (Japan: all business premises and sales fleets / Overseas: all 57 production facilities, sales fleets, principal offices, R&D centers and sales 0 36 35 36 14 11 28 0 affiliates) 2006.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2016.3 *3 Emissions refer to actual emissions. Based on Action Plan * The difference between the actual emissions and emissions evaluated in the Environmental Action Plan reflects differences in coefficients used in Japan (see the note on page 77) and changes in calculation methods used at overseas production sites. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 78 Business Review Using Renewable Energy The Astellas Group on a global basis does not The direct use of renewable energy such as solar and wind currently draw water from river systems in areas where power is one of the most effective ways of addressing depletion of water resources is a concern, but as water climate change. Therefore, we intend to actively shortages may become a problem in the future, owing to incorporate technologies that can be feasibly introduced. climate change, we are taking steps to minimize our We operate a wind turbine system with a maximum dependence on such resources, and also regard this as an output of 800 kW at the Kerry Plant in Ireland, which effective means of ensuring business continuity. generated 1,607 MWh in 2016. Furthermore, the Kerry New Targets Added to the Environmental Action Plan Plant’s woodchip biomass boiler (maximum output of 1.8 MW) also used 34,984 GJ of heat. These two initiatives Water resources productivity (For research and production sites) reduced our GHG emissions by 3,093 tons. Indicator Sales (¥ billion)/Water resources withdrawn (1,000 m3) In Japan, we have installed photovoltaic panel system Numerical Enhance water resources productivity by around 2.5 at the Tsukuba Research Center. In fiscal 2016, the system Targets times the fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 generated 47 MWh of electricity, reducing our GHG Waste generated per unit of sales (For research and production sites) emissions by 25 tons. Given that Astellas’ plants in Japan Indicator Volume of waste generated (tons)/Sales (¥ billion) are not suitably located for wind power generation, we will consider introducing other forms of renewable energy in Numerical Improve the waste generated per unit of sales to around Targets 20% of the fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 the country. Astellas’ overseas plants are taking initiatives to designate and purchase electricity generated from Water Resources Productivity* renewable energy such as wind and hydroelectric power. Of the electricity purchased in fiscal 2016, renewable Achieved 0.15 energy comprised 12,237 MWh at the Norman Plant, 0.13 12,603 MWh at the Meppel Plant, 6,200 MWh at the Dublin 2.5 Plant, and 6,815 MWh at the Kerry Plant. 0.05 or over 2.89 In addition, we are using geothermal heat in certain 1 parts of the Yaizu Pharmaceutical Research Center as well Base Target Result as at our U.S. regional headquarters and Leiden 2006.3 2021.3 2017.3 (Netherlands) base. The Leiden base, which can quantify * Water Resource Productivity (WRP) = Sales (billion yen) Volume of water resource used (1,000m3) geothermal energy, used 1,236 GJ of geothermal heat, resulting in a reduction of 146 tons in GHG emissions. Waste Generated Per Unit of Sales* 50.9 Initiatives for Resource Recycling Astellas seeks to contribute solutions to the social issues involved in establishing a recycling-oriented society. We have therefore been striving to reduce water withdrawal 100% and landfill waste. As a result, we were able to achieve our almost achieved numerical targets for these items whose final target year is 10.2 10.5 fiscal 2015. From fiscal 2016 onward, we will evaluate our 20% 21% or below progress using two new targets added to the Base Target Result Environmental Action Plan: water resources productivity 2006.3 2021.3 2017.3 and waste generated per unit of sales. Volume of waste generated (tons) * Waste Generated per unit of Sales (WGS) = Sales (billion yen) 79 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Initiatives for Biodiversity Biodiversity Index Astellas works to preserve biodiversity by proactively Ratio to FY2005 level reducing the impact of its business activities in all fields on 4.00 the ecosystem. At the same time, we actively contribute to the creation of a society that coexists with the natural Target world, enabling the preservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of the benefits of healthy ecosystems. 3.18 3.12 3.00 3.00 Astellas has created a Biodiversity Index* by assessing the three main factors responsible for the deterioration of 2.68 biodiversity, namely environmental pollution, resource 2.27 consumption and climate change. Going forward, we will 2.00 1.97 continue improving in each category while working toward achieving the target set for fiscal 2020, which is three times the fiscal 2005 level. The Biodiversity Index for fiscal 2016 was 3.12 times 1.00 1.00 that of fiscal 2005, reaching the target. The denominator components such as pollution load and resource consumption declined, in addition to a decrease in GHG emissions. At the same time, the numerator of net sales 0 decreased in fiscal 2016. As a result, the overall Biodiversity 2006.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2021.3 Index decreased 0.06 points from the previous year. Since we only recently revised the Environmental Action Plan, we have decided to continue our activities without For details on environmental preservation, please visit the following website: revising the Biodiversity Index target. WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/environment/ * For details on the calculation method, please visit the following website: https://www.astellas.com/jp/csr/environment/biodiversity_sub_02.html Message from Environment, Health and Safety Management We will steadily address laws and regulations and implement Environment, Health and Safety measures. It is a great honor to be appointed as the Executive Affairs at Head Office. In these audits, we evaluated each Director Environment, Health & Safety in EMEA, Astellas plant’s status of compliance with laws and regulations B.V., which was established in 2016. and the implementation status of voluntary activities Astellas has an Astellas Environment, Health & based on guidelines. Through this opportunity, I Safety Policy, which sets forth our basic approach to the recognized anew that the Astellas Group is required to environment and the health & safety of our employees, implement a high level of EHS management, not just in and the Astellas Environment, Health & Safety Guidelines, EMEA but also throughout the world. which articulate our mediumto long-term vision. This Going forward, I would like to policy and the guidelines are implemented according to take our EHS activities to an even conditions in each region under the leadership of General higher level by strengthening Affairs at Head Office. In the EMEA, a region with many governance from my standpoint different languages and cultures as well as laws and as a promoter of EHS activities in regulations, my primary role is to work in close coordination EMEA, thereby meeting the with General Affairs to steadily implement regulatory expectations of stakeholders. responses, strengthen EHS-related governance and conduct EHS impact evaluations and improvements. Sibo de Jong In summer 2016, I attended EHS audits of Astellas’ EHS in EMEA, Astellas B.V. European plants that were implemented by General Executive Director Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 80 Business Review Dialogue with Stakeholders Astellas conducts business activities within a diverse increasing our enterprise value. network of relationships, including with patients and We therefore use various opportunities to many others, and our activities are supported by communicate with stakeholders. In addition, to these relationships. We regard stakeholders such as promote constructive dialogue with our stakeholders, patients and healthcare professionals, employees, and we appropriately disclose information to all groups in shareholders and investors as particularly important a way that is both timely and impartial. stakeholders because they are significantly impacted By continuing to conduct communication through by our business activities. disclosure and dialogue, we will further raise our Interacting with these stakeholders who support transparency as a company and strive to sustainably our business activities in good faith and increase enterprise value while simultaneously raising understanding their expectations and needs is the overall sustainability of society. essential to acquiring their trust and sustainably Main Opportunities for Communication with Stakeholders • Provision of product information to healthcare Patients and professionals through MRs Business • Supplier surveys based on the Astellas Business Healthcare • Provision and collection of medical and scientific Partners Partner Code of Conduct Professionals information to healthcare professionals through MSLs • Responding to product inquiries • Regular dialogue between management and • Roundtable talks with neighboring residents and local Local Employees employees government bodies Communities • Internal and external compliance helplines • Volunteer activities by employees • General Shareholders’ Meeting, investor briefings on • Exchange of opinions with government agencies Shareholders announcement of financial results, management Other • Participation in various external activities such as and Investors plans, etc. economic groups and industry associations • Responding to inquiries about business conditions For details, please visit the following website: WEB https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/stakeholder-communications/ Dialogue with Patients Patient Advocates Advisory Committee Providing Critical Guidance to Inform Decision-Making Astellas is committed to ensuring the voices of The advisory committee contributes critical patients are reflected in all that we do. As part of our insight to help ensure that we are appropriately efforts to better understand and meet the needs of considering the needs of patients and caregivers at patients and caregivers, we established the Astellas each stage of drug development. In addition, the Patient Advocates Advisory Committee in 2016 in the committee members have been providing insightful United States. Comprised of leaders from 13 patient feedback to our Medical Affairs leadership on ways to advocacy organizations, the committee provides best convey medical information to patients, and feedback regarding our existing and emerging have been helping inform program decisions within healthcare services, and helps us identify needs, our real-world informatics function. priorities and interests of patients and caregivers. 81 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial Information and Data 11-Year Financial Summary 83 Financial Review 85 Consolidated Financial Statements 94 Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 99 Independent Auditor’s Report 154 Investor Information 155 Corporate Data/ Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates 156 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 82 Financial Information and Data 11-Year Financial Summary Astellas has adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), effective from fiscal 2013 (March 2014). Results for each category and earnings per share are presented on a core basis for the fiscal years since March 2014. (¥ billion) 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP For the year Sales ¥920.6 ¥972.6 ¥965.7 ¥974.9 ¥953.9 Cost of sales 284.1 279.3 264.4 289.2 296.0 SG&A expenses*2 446.0 417.3 450.9 499.2 538.8 R&D expenses*2 167.9 134.5 159.1 195.6 217.3 R&D ratio (%) 18.2 13.8 16.5 20.1 22.8 Operating income/profit 190.5 275.9 250.4 186.4 119.2 Operating margin (%) 20.7 28.4 25.9 19.1 12.5 Net income/Profit for the year 131.3 177.4 171.0 122.3 67.7 At year-end Total assets 1,470.7 1,439.2 1,348.4 1,364.2 1,335.1 Total net assets/Total equity 1,099.0 1,110.9 1,030.2 1,053.9 1,021.1 (¥) 3 Per share data* Net income/Profit for the year ¥244.07 ¥349.89 ¥356.11 ¥261.84 ¥146.49 Total net assets/Total equity 2,135.34 2,228.34 2,189.26 2,278.77 2,207.70 Dividends 80.00 110.00 120.00 125.00 125.00 Major indicators ROE (%) 11.3 16.1 16.0 11.7 6.5 DOE (%) 3.7 5.0 5.4 5.6 5.6 Equity ratio (%) 74.7 77.1 76.3 77.1 76.4 Free cash flow (¥ billion, US$ million) 200.4 178.5 168.8 118.6 (142.0) Average exchange rate (US$/¥) 117 114 101 93 86 (€/¥) 150 162 143 131 113 *1 US dollars have been converted at the rate of ¥112 to US$1, the approximate exchange rate on March 31, 2017. *2 SG&A expenses under J-GAAP (from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2012) include R&D expenses. *3 Astellas conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an effective date of April 1, 2014. Net income/profit for the year per share and total net assets/total equity per share are calculated based on the number of shares issued after the stock split (excluding treasury shares) on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2012. Moreover, the number of shares outstanding has also been calculated on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2012. 83 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data (¥ billion) (US$ million)*1 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2017.3 J-GAAP J-GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS ¥969.4 ¥1,005.6 ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 ¥1,311.7 $11,711 318.6 324.1 330.6 333.2 335.6 320.5 2,862 519.2 527.6 397.0 452.5 500.4 470.8 4,203 189.8 182.0 191.5 206.6 225.7 208.1 1,858 19.6 18.1 16.8 16.6 16.4 15.9 — 131.5 153.9 186.3 216.5 267.5 274.6 2,451 13.6 15.3 16.3 17.4 19.5 20.9 — 78.2 82.9 132.8 153.2 198.8 213.3 1,905 1,400.6 1,445.6 1,653.1 1,793.6 1,799.3 1,820.9 16,258 1,018.1 1,062.0 1,268.5 1,317.9 1,259.2 1,271.8 11,355 (¥) (US$) ¥169.38 ¥36.08 ¥59.11 ¥69.37 ¥92.12 ¥101.15 $0.90 2,200.64 469.92 568.53 600.93 592.58 615.89 5.50 125.00 130.00 135.00 30.00 32.00 34.00 0.30 7.7 8.0 7.4 10.5 15.0 17.3 — 5.7 5.7 5.0 5.1 5.4 5.6 — 72.6 73.3 76.7 73.5 70.0 69.8 — 146.7 95.5 187.4 116.2 166.7 162.2 1,448 79 83 100 110 120 108 — 109 107 134 139 133 119 — Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 84 Financial Information and Data Financial Review Sales Overview of the Year Ended In fiscal 2016, consolidated sales decreased 4.4% year on March 31, 2017 (Fiscal 2016) year to ¥1,311.7 billion. Sales decreased mainly due to the In its consolidated operating results (core basis) for fiscal impact of NHI drug price revisions implemented in Japan 2016 Astellas posted a decrease in sales and increases in in April 2016, in addition to the impact of foreign core operating profit and core profit for the year. exchange rates, despite steady growth in sales of core products. In terms of global products, due to the impact Consolidated Financial Results (Core Basis) of foreign exchange rates, sales of XTANDI for the (¥ billion) treatment of prostate cancer increased slightly, while 2016.3 2017.3 combined sales of overactive bladder (OAB) treatments Sales 1,372.7 1,311.7 Vesicare and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA decreased. Operating profit 267.5 274.6 However, excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates, Profit for the year 198.8 213.3 sales of each product grew steadily. Additionally, sales of Prograf, an immunosuppressant, decreased. Astellas discloses financial results on a core basis as an indicator of its recurring profitability. Certain items reported Sales by Region in financial results on a full basis that are deemed to be Sales in Japan decreased 3.3% year on year to ¥480.8 non-recurring items by Astellas are excluded as non-core billion. Of these, sales in the Japanese market decreased items from these financial results on a core basis. These by 6.3% to ¥452.7 billion. adjusted items include impairment losses, gain (loss) on In addition to the OAB treatments Vesicare and sales of property, plant and equipment, restructuring costs, Betanis, products such as the anti-inflammatory and loss on disaster, a large amount of losses on compensation anti-pain treatment Celecox, Symbicort for the treatment or settlement of litigation and other legal disputes, and of adult bronchial asthma and Suglat for the treatment of other items that we judge should be excluded. type 2 diabetes achieved sales growth. On the other hand, sales contracted for XTANDI due to the impact of NHI drug Foreign Exchange Impact for Fiscal 2016 price revisions. Sales of vaccines declined mainly due to The exchange rates for yen in fiscal 2016 are shown in the the continued impact of shipment restraints by the table below. Movements in the rates led to a ¥94.7 billion manufacturer in fiscal 2015 (shipments of some products decrease in the value of sales and a ¥36.3 billion decrease have already recommenced). In addition, sales of products in core operating profit. including Lipitor for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and Gaster for the treatment of peptic ulcer and gastritis Foreign Exchange Rates (Average) declined, mainly due to the impact of generics. (¥) Sales in the Americas decreased 9.4% year on year to 2016.3 2017.3 ¥412.4 billion. Sales on a U.S. dollar basis increased 0.5% to US$1 120 108 US$3,805 million. €1 133 119 Sales of XTANDI, the OAB treatments VESIcare and Myrbetriq, and the pharmacologic stress agent Lexiscan Fluctuation in Foreign Exchange Rates from April to March increased on a U.S. dollar basis, while the sales of each product decreased due to the impact of foreign exchange 2016.3 2017.3 rates. Sales of Prograf decreased, but the azole antifungal ¥7 ¥0 CRESEMBA contributed to sales. US$1 (Strengthening of yen) (Strengthening of yen) Sales in EMEA increased 0.5% year on year to ¥330.8 ¥3 ¥8 billion. Sales on a euro basis increased 12.1% to €2,785 million. €1 (Strengthening of yen) (Strengthening of yen) Sales of XTANDI grew. Sales of the OAB treatments Vesicare and BETMIGA, as well as sales of Prograf, decreased, mainly due to the impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales in Asia & Oceania decreased 3.8% year on year to ¥87.7 billion. 85 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data XTANDI and the OAB treatments Vesicare and Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) BETMIGA showed growth in sales. Sales of Prograf and Expenses, Research and Development (R&D) Harnal for the treatment of functional symptoms of benign Expenses and Amortisation of Intangible Assets prostatic hyperplasia declined due partly to the impact of SG&A expenses decreased 5.9% to ¥470.8 billion and R&D foreign exchange rates. expenses decreased 7.8% to ¥208.1 billion, mainly due to the impact of foreign exchange rates. The ratio of R&D Sales by Region expenses to sales fell 0.6 of a percentage point to 15.9%. (¥ billion) Amortisation of intangible assets was ¥35.8 billion, 2016.3 2017.3 down 15.5% year on year. Consolidated 1,372.7 1,311.7 Japan 497.2 480.8 SG&A Expenses, R&D Expenses and Amortisation of Intangible Assets Americas 455.1 412.4 (¥ billion) EMEA 329.3 330.8 Asia & Oceania 91.1 87.7 2016.3 2017.3 SG&A expenses 500.4 470.8 Note: Sales by geographical area are calculated according to the location of sellers. SG&A ratio (%) 36.5 35.9 Americas•EMEA (Foreign Currency) Advertising and sales 169.1 144.1 promotional expenses 2016.3 2017.3 Personnel expenses 186.1 177.0 Americas (US$ million) 3,788 3,805 Other 145.1 149.7 EMEA (€ million) 2,484 2,785 R&D expenses 225.7 208.1 R&D ratio (%) 16.4 15.9 Cost of Sales and Gross Profit Amortisation of intangible assets 42.4 35.8 Cost of sales decreased 4.5% to ¥320.5 billion. The cost of sales ratio stood at 24.4%, mostly unchanged from the previous fiscal year. Gross profit decreased by 4.4% to ¥991.2 billion in line with the decrease in sales. Cost of Sales and Gross Profit (¥ billion) 2016.3 2017.3 Sales 1,372.7 1,311.7 Cost of sales 335.6 320.5 Cost of sales ratio (%) 24.4 24.4 Gross profit 1,037.1 991.2 Gross profit ratio (%) 75.6 75.6 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 86 Financial Information and Data Operating Profit (Core Basis) Profit for the Year (Core Basis) As a result of the above mentioned factors, core operating Core profit for the year increased by 7.3% to ¥213.3 billion. profit increased 2.7% to ¥274.6 billion. The operating Basic core earnings per share increased by 9.8% year margin increased 1.4 percentage points to 20.9%. on year to ¥101.15. Operating Profit (Core Basis) Profit for the Year (Core Basis) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 2016.3 2017.3 2016.3 2017.3 Sales 1,372.7 1,311.7 Profit before tax 268.6 274.9 Operating profit 267.5 274.6 Income tax expense 69.8 61.6 Operating margin (%) 19.5 20.9 Profit for the year 198.8 213.3 Ratio of profit for the year to 14.5 16.3 sales (%) Reconciliation of Full Basis to Core Basis (¥ billion) 2016.3 2017.3 Account item Full basis Adjustment Core basis Full basis Adjustment Core basis Sales 1,372.7 — 1,372.7 1,311.7 — 1,311.7 Cost of sales 335.6 — 335.6 320.5 — 320.5 Gross profit 1,037.1 — 1,037.1 991.2 — 991.2 SG&A expenses 500.4 — 500.4 470.8 — 470.8 R&D expenses 225.7 — 225.7 208.1 — 208.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 42.4 — 42.4 35.8 — 35.8 Share of losses of associates and joint ventures (1.2) — (1.2) (1.9) — (1.9) Other income*1 1.7 (1.7) — 9.6 (9.6) — Other expense*1 20.2 (20.2) — 23.3 (23.3) — Operating profit 249.0 18.5 267.5 260.8 13.7 274.6 Finance income*2 14.4 (12.3) 2.1 22.9 (21.3) 1.7 Finance expense*2 1.6 (0.6) 1.0 2.0 (0.7) 1.3 Profit before tax 261.8 6.8 268.6 281.8 (6.9) 274.9 Income tax expense 68.1 1.7 69.8 63.1 (1.5) 61.6 Profit for the year 193.7 5.1 198.8 218.7 (5.4) 213.3 *1 “Other income” and “other expense” are excluded from full basis results. “Other income” and “other expense” include gain (loss) on sale and disposal of property, plant and equipment, impairment losses for other intangible assets, loss on restructuring and foreign exchange gains (losses), etc. *2 Gain (loss) on sale of available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets and impairment losses on AFS financial assets included in “finance income” and “finance expense” are excluded from core results as non-core items. 87 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) Consolidated Forecasts for the Year Ending In its consolidated operating results on a full basis for fiscal March 31, 2018 (Fiscal 2017) (Announced in April 2017) 2016, Astellas posted a decrease in sales and increases in operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year. Consolidated business forecasts for fiscal 2017 are The full basis financial results include “other income” presented on a core basis in the table below. (including net foreign exchange gains), “other expense” Fiscal 2017 Forecasts (Core Basis) (including impairment losses, loss on sales of property, plant and equipment, restructuring costs, and net foreign (¥ billion) exchange losses), and gain on sales of available-for-sale 2017.3 2018.3 (Forecast) financial assets (included in “finance income”) which are excluded from the core basis financial results. Sales 1,311.7 1,279.0 “Other income” for FY2016 was ¥9.6 billion (¥1.7 billion Operating profit 274.6 254.0 in the previous fiscal year). “Other expense” for FY2016 was Profit for the year 213.3 195.0 ¥23.3 billion (¥20.2 billion in the previous fiscal year). Gain on sales of available-for-sale financial assets for FY2016 (¥) was ¥21.3 billion (¥12.3 billion in the previous fiscal year). 2018.3 2017.3 (Forecast) Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) Average exchange rate (US$) 108 110 (¥ billion) (€) 119 120 2016.3 2017.3 Sales 1,372.7 1,311.7 We project decreases in sales, core operating profit Operating profit 249.0 260.8 and core profit for the year, compared with fiscal 2016. In Profit before tax 261.8 281.8 fiscal 2017, we expect negative impacts on sales and Profit for the year 193.7 218.7 profits from the transfer of the global dermatology business implemented in April 2016, and the transfer of long-listed products in Japan for which an agreement was Business Combinations concluded in March 2017. Excluding the factors associated Astellas is investing proactively to capture new business with these business transfers and the impact of foreign opportunities and working to create innovation, as we are exchange rates, core operating profit is projected to enhancing our capabilities to deliver innovative medicines. increase year on year. We assume the yen will weaken As part of these efforts, Astellas acquired 100% of the against the U.S. dollar and the euro compared with fiscal equity in Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG (“Ganymed”), a 2016. Accordingly, we expect foreign exchange factors to biopharmaceutical company in Germany, for €422 million have a ¥10.8 billion positive impact on sales and a ¥1.3 in December 2016 to further enhance its oncology billion positive impact on core operating profit. franchise. In addition, Ganymed shareholders will become eligible to receive up to €860 million in further contingent Sales payments based on progress in the development of In fiscal 2017, we forecast a 2.5% year-on-year decrease in IMAB362, Ganymed’s clinical program. sales to ¥1,279.0 billion. Negative impacts due to the Moreover, in May 2017, Astellas acquired 100% of the transfer of the dermatology business and the transfer of equity in Ogeda SA (“Ogeda”), a drug discovery company long-listed products in Japan are anticipated, although in Belgium, for €0.5 billion to further expand its pipeline. continuous sales growth is expected for our core products Ogeda shareholders will be eligible to receive up to €0.3 XTANDI and the OAB treatments Vesicare and Betanis/ billion in further contingent payments based on progress Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. Sales of Micardis (including Micombi in the development of fezolinetant, Ogeda’s clinical program. and Micamlo) are also expected to decrease following the Reference R&D Topics during the Year P 57 expiry of its patent period in Japan in January 2017. Reference Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area P 43 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 88 Financial Information and Data Forecast by Region Forecast by Region Sales in Japan are forecast to decrease 11.2% year on year (¥ billion) to ¥426.9 billion. Of these, sales in the Japanese market are 2018.3 2017.3 forecast to decrease 13.6% to ¥391.0 billion. (Forecast) In addition to sales of XTANDI and the OAB treatments Consolidated 1,311.7 1,279.0 Vesicare and Betanis, sales of mainstay products such as Japan 480.8 426.9 Suglat and Symbicort are anticipated to continue to grow. Americas 412.4 430.7 However, sales in the Japanese market are projected to EMEA 330.8 319.3 decrease mainly based on the expiry of the patent period Asia & Oceania 87.7 102.1 for Micardis (including Micombi and Micamlo) and the Note: Sales by geographical area are calculated according to the location of sellers. impact of the transfer of long-listed products in Japan. Sales in the Americas are forecast to increase 4.4% to Americas•EMEA (Foreign Currency) ¥430.7 billion on a yen basis and to increase 2.9% year on 2018.3 2017.3 year to US$3,915 million on a U.S. dollar basis. (Forecast) Although sales of XTANDI in the U.S. are expected to Americas (US$ million) 3,805 3,915 remain mostly unchanged, XTANDI sales are projected to EMEA (€ million) 2,785 2,661 increase in the Americas as a whole, driven by sales growth outside the U.S. In addition, sales of the OAB treatments VESIcare and Myrbetriq, as well as CRESEMBA, are projected Operating Profit and Profit for the Year (Core Basis) to increase. On the other hand, sales of the candin-type Although the cost of sales ratio is expected to fall as a antifungal agent MYCAMINE are projected to decrease. result of changes in the product mix and other factors, Sales in EMEA are forecast to decrease 3.5% to ¥319.3 gross profit is anticipated to decrease owing to a decrease billion on a yen basis and to decrease 4.4% year on year to in sales. €2,661 million on a euro basis. However, excluding the Looking at SG&A expenses, although the ratio of SG&A impact of the transfer of the dermatology business, sales expenses to sales is expected to increase, SG&A expenses are expected to increase from fiscal 2016. are expected to remain mostly unchanged from fiscal 2016 Sales of XTANDI and the OAB treatments Vesicare and mainly based on continuing efforts to streamline expenses. BETMIGA are expected to increase. Meanwhile, sales of We project a 4.7% increase in R&D expenses to ¥218.0 MYCAMINE are projected to decrease. billion, mainly based on investment in late-stage Sales in Asia & Oceania are forecast to increase 16.4% development programs and the development expenses of year on year to ¥102.1 billion. the acquired companies. The ratio of R&D expenses to sales Besides sales of XTANDI, sales of products such as the is projected at 17.0% (compared with 15.9% in fiscal 2016). OAB treatments Vesicare and BETMIGA, as well as MYCAMINE, As a result, we forecast a 7.5% decrease in core are expected to continue increasing. In addition, sales of operating profit to ¥254.0 billion. However, excluding the Prograf and Harnal are anticipated to increase. negative impact on profit from the transfer of the dermatology business, the transfer of long-listed products and foreign exchange rates, we expect core operating profit to increase from fiscal 2016. Core profit for the year is expected to decrease 8.6% year on year to ¥195.0 billion. Basic core earnings per share is projected to decrease 6.6% year on year to ¥94.43. 89 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Sales of Main Products by Region Japan EMEA (¥ billion) (€ million) 2018.3 2018.3 2016.3 2017.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) (Forecast) Sales in the Japanese Sales in EMEA 2,484 2,785 2,661 483.0 452.7 391.0 market*1 XTANDI 533 718 846 XTANDI 26.2 23.4 25.8 Eligard 131 132 143 Vesicare 26.5 25.6 24.5 Vesicare 300 270 261 Betanis 21.2 25.9 31.9 BETMIGA 101 119 147 Harnal 12.7 9.2 6.9 Omnic 139 138 140 Prograf 49.8 48.8 48.5 Sales by Astellas 116 118 124 Funguard 11.7 11.2 11.3 Bulk and royalties 23 19 15 Micardis 97.2 93.2 52.2 Prograf and Advagraf 609 612 588 Micombi 10.1 9.4 Micamlo 26.0 26.2 Sales by Astellas 588 590 572 Celecox 46.6 47.6 48.3 Advagraf 234 252 Symbicort 37.4 39.3 41.3 Exports to third parties 21 22 16 Bonoteo 14.1 13.8 13.3 MYCAMINE 85 91 70 Geninax 10.8 10.1 10.2 Vaccines 41.1 34.5 28.9 Asia & Oceania ARGAMATE 6.2 5.8 5.9 (¥ billion) Gonax 3.9 4.5 4.8 2018.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) Cimzia 6.6 7.7 9.3 Suglat 7.3 9.5 12.8 Sales in Asia & Oceania 91.1 87.7 102.1 Lipitor 30.9 23.2 18.0 Prograf 38.4 37.3 39.6 Myslee 17.9 14.7 13.0 Harnal 21.5 21.1 23.4 Gaster*2 14.7 10.7 Vesicare 5.3 5.0 5.8 Seroquel 10.5 7.5 5.5 BETMIGA 1.4 3.5 5.2 MYCAMINE 5.7 6.0 6.8 Americas XTANDI 2.4 4.0 7.0 (US$ million) Eligard 0.2 0.2 0.4 2018.3 *1 Sales of products in Japan are shown on a gross sales basis. 2016.3 2017.3 *2 Products covered by the Asset Purchase Agreement entered into with LTL (Forecast) Pharma Co., Ltd. in March 2017 Sales in the Americas 3,788 3,805 3,915 *3 Sales of Adenoscan and Lexiscan XTANDI 1,272 1,286 1,304 US 1,235 1,215 1,212 Outside of the US 37 71 92 Tarceva 389 325 US 281 238 Outside of the US 108 87 VESIcare 530 490 478 Myrbetriq 380 510 618 Prograf 288 252 256 Scan*3 634 660 657 MYCAMINE 109 113 88 AmBisome 91 97 96 CRESEMBA 22 53 77 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 90 Financial Information and Data Current assets decreased ¥20.9 billion to ¥876.7 billion Number of Employees at the fiscal year-end. Cash and cash equivalents were ¥340.9 billion, down ¥19.1 billion from the previous fiscal As of March 31, 2017, Astellas employed 17,202 people year-end. worldwide, a year-on-year decrease of 15. The total number of Medical Representatives (MRs) was Equity approximately 5,750. Total equity as of March 31, 2017 was ¥1,271.8 billion, an In Japan, the number of employees was 7,029, down increase of ¥12.6 billion from a year earlier. 27 from the previous fiscal year-end. In the Americas, the While profit for the year stood at ¥218.7 billion, regional head count was 3,016 employees, down 46 from Astellas paid ¥70.1 billion in dividends of surplus and the previous fiscal year-end. In EMEA, we had 4,672 acquired ¥92.2 billion in treasury shares. employees, down 54 year on year. In Asia & Oceania, we We cancelled treasury shares worth ¥110.2 billion (68 had 2,485 employees, up 112 from the previous fiscal million shares) in June 2016. year-end. Liabilities Number of Employees by Region Total liabilities as of March 31, 2017 amounted to ¥549.1 (persons) billion, up ¥9.0 billion from a year earlier. 2016.3 2017.3 Total non-current liabilities rose ¥22.5 billion to ¥149.2 Total 17,217 17,202 billion. Current liabilities decreased ¥13.5 billion to ¥399.9 billion. Japan 7,056 7,029 Americas 3,062 3,016 EMEA 4,726 4,672 Asia & Oceania 2,373 2,485 Liquidity and Financing Number of MRs Astellas is strengthening its global business foundations (persons) with a focus on the strategic initiatives of “Maximizing the 2016.3 2017.3 Product Value,” “Creating Innovation,” and “Pursuing Total (Global) 6,000 5,750 Operational Excellence.” In addition, Astellas will actively introduce new products and otherwise pursue strategic business investment opportunities to further reinforce its product lineup. In regard to the liquidity of funds, liquidity is Assets, Liabilities and Equity maintained to enable Astellas to target a certain amount of strategic investment opportunities, while also supplying An overview of the consolidated statement of financial working capital and funding capital expenditures. position as of March 31, 2017 and the main changes from As outlined in the section on business risks, Astellas’ the end of the previous fiscal year are shown below. operations face a varied set of risks that are particular to the ethical pharmaceutical business. The Group’s financial Assets policy is to maintain a healthy balance sheet at all times so Total assets as of March 31, 2017 amounted to ¥1,820.9 that it can finance smoothly at low costs, particularly in the billion, up ¥21.6 billion from a year earlier. event that funding requirements exceed Astellas’ internal Non-current assets increased ¥42.4 billion to ¥944.2 funding capacity in the course of developing business. billion at the fiscal year-end. Goodwill and other intangible assets increased ¥22.9 billion and ¥84.5 billion, respectively, due to the completion of the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG of Germany in fiscal 2016. As a result, goodwill was ¥175.3 billion, up ¥22.2 billion from the previous fiscal year-end, and other intangible assets were ¥387.4 billion, up ¥51.2 billion from the previous fiscal year-end. 91 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Earnings per Share, Dividends and Equity Cash Flows Attributable to Owners of the Parent Net cash flows from operating activities amounted to Per Share Data ¥235.6 billion, a decrease of ¥78.1 billion in year-on-year (¥) terms. The main components included income tax paid of 2016.3 2017.3 ¥72.0 billion. Earnings per share Basic 89.75 103.69 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Diluted 89.62 103.55 Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled ¥73.4 Basic (core basis) 92.12 101.15 billion, down ¥73.7 billion from the previous fiscal year. Dividends 32.00 34.00 Looking at the main outflows, acquisition of Equity per share attributable to subsidiaries used cash of ¥50.9 billion due to the 592.58 615.89 owners of the parent acquisition of Ganymed, purchases of property, plant and equipment used cash of ¥29.0 billion, and purchases of intangible assets used cash of ¥19.6 billion. On the other Policy on Shareholder Returns hand, proceeds from sales of available-for-sale financial Astellas is working to boost shareholder returns through assets provided cash of ¥28.6 billion. sustained growth in enterprise value. While prioritizing the reinvestment of funds in the Cash Flows from Financing Activities business to foster growth, Astellas strives to achieve stable Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled ¥166.2 and sustained growth in dividends, based on mediumto billion, down ¥27.3 billion from the previous fiscal year. long-term consolidated earnings growth and taking Dividends paid to owners of the parent totaled ¥70.1 dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent billion, an increase in outflow of ¥0.5 billion year on year. (DOE) into consideration. Furthermore, Astellas will flexibly Other outflows included ¥92.2 billion used for the purchase treasury stock as necessary to improve capital acquisition of Astellas’ own shares. efficiency and the level of returns to shareholders. As a result of the above, the balance of cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2017 amounted to ¥340.9 Common Stock billion, a decrease of ¥19.1 billion compared with the Common Stock previous fiscal year-end. (thousands of shares) 2016.3 2017.3 Total number of issued shares* 2,221,823 2,153,823 Treasury shares* 96,844 88,817 Capital Expenditures Treasury Shares Astellas made capital expenditures with the aim of 2016.3 2017.3 augmenting and renewing its research facilities and 68,000 60,000 equipment as well as production facilities and equipment. Number of shares bought back* thousand thousand Capital expenditures in fiscal 2016 totaled ¥23.9 billion, Acquisition cost ¥119.3 billion ¥91.4 billion down 29.8% year on year (accrual basis). 38,000 68,000 In fiscal 2017, capital expenditures are forecast to Cancellation of treasury shares* thousand thousand increase 4.6% to ¥25.0 billion. * Excludes purchases of shares constituting less than a trading unit As a part of profit distribution to its shareholders and as measures of its capital policy, Astellas implemented acquisition of its own shares from the stock market, purchasing 60 million shares, worth ¥91.4 billion, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. Furthermore, we cancelled 85 million shares of treasury stock in May 2017. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 92 Financial Information and Data ROE and DOE While the Astellas Group strives to ensure that its Return on equity (ROE) was 17.3%, up 2.3 percentage actions do not infringe the IP rights of other parties, there points from fiscal 2015. DOE was 5.6%, up 0.2 of a is a risk of litigation in the event of any inadvertent percentage point from fiscal 2015. violations. Such litigation could also impact the Astellas Group’s business results significantly. Risks Relating to Product Side Effects and Safety Business Risks Any problems arising due to serious side effects or other safety issues that are caused by the Astellas Group’s The main risks that could significantly impact the business products could impact the Astellas Group’s business results results and financial position of the Astellas Group are significantly. outlined below. Environment-Related Risks Inherent Uncertainties in Pharmaceutical R&D The Astellas Group is careful to observe laws and In general, the probability of discovering a promising regulations relating to environmental or health and safety compound through drug discovery research is not high. issues and has instituted internal standards that aim to Further, it takes a large amount of investments and a great exceed most statutory requirements. Despite such deal of time to successfully launch a new product after precautions, the costs involved in the unlikely event of a discovery of a new compound. However, it may be business-related incident causing a serious breach of necessary to discontinue clinical development if the compliance in this area could impact the Astellas Group’s effectiveness of a drug is not proven as initially expected, business results significantly. or if safety issues arise. In addition, pharmaceuticals are subject to legal restrictions in each country, so that Foreign Exchange Rate Fluctuations authorization from local regulatory authorities is a The Astellas Group’s business results and financial position prerequisite for a product launch in each country. It is are subject to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations due difficult to accurately foresee if and when approvals for to the Astellas Group’s extensive international operations. new products can be obtained. In addition to the risks outlined above, the Astellas The Astellas Group’s R&D activities are subject to these Group is exposed to a wide range of business-related risks, inherent risks. including but not limited to (1) general commercial litigation, (2) delays or suspension of manufacturing activities due to Sales-Related Risk natural disasters or other factors, and (3) partial The pharmaceutical industry operates in a highly dependence on licensing or sales agreements relating to competitive environment characterized by rapid pharmaceuticals developed by other companies. technological innovation. The Astellas Group faces fierce competition from drug makers and generics manufacturers based in Japan or overseas. The launch of competitive products by rivals could impact the Astellas Group’s business results significantly. Intellectual Property (IP) Risk The Astellas Group’s ethical pharmaceuticals business benefits from the protection of many patents. Although the Astellas Group manages IP rights properly and is vigilant against third-party violation of such rights, the adverse impact on the Astellas Group’s business results of actual IP violations may still be substantial. The Astellas Group’s business results are also subject to the outcome of litigation undertaken by the Astellas Group to protect patents where infringement has occurred. 93 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Income Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2016 2017 2017 Sales 6 ¥1,372,706 ¥1,311,665 $11,711 Cost of sales (335,596) (320,503) (2,862) Gross profit 1,037,110 991,162 8,850 Selling, general and administrative expenses (500,359) (470,777) (4,203) Research and development expenses (225,665) (208,129) (1,858) Amortisation of intangible assets 17 (42,387) (35,837) (320) Share of losses of associates and joint ventures (1,243) (1,864) (17) Other income 7 1,689 9,594 86 Other expense 8 (20,159) (23,318) (208) Operating profit 248,986 260,830 2,329 Finance income 10 14,411 22,916 205 Finance expense 11 (1,627) (1,976) (18) Profit before tax 261,770 281,769 2,516 Income tax expense 12 (68,083) (63,069) (563) Profit for the year ¥ 193,687 ¥ 218,701 $ 1,953 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ 193,687 ¥ 218,701 $ 1,953 (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Earnings per share Basic 13 ¥ 89.75 ¥ 103.69 $ 0.93 Diluted 13 89.62 103.55 0.92 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2016 2017 2017 Profit for the year ¥193,687 ¥218,701 $1,953 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (6,276) 2,962 26 Subtotal (6,276) 2,962 26 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments 14 (45,172) (32,544) (291) Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets 14 (11,358) (14,474) (129) Subtotal (56,529) (47,018) (420) Other comprehensive income, net of tax (62,806) (44,056) (393) Total comprehensive income ¥130,881 ¥174,644 $1,559 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥130,881 ¥174,644 $1,559 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 94 Financial Information and Data Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries As of 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2016 2017 2017 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 15 ¥ 200,955 ¥ 191,115 $ 1,706 Goodwill 16 153,121 175,350 1,566 Other intangible assets 17 336,261 387,419 3,459 Trade and other receivables 22 24,103 22,263 199 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,435 2,988 27 Deferred tax assets 18 80,733 90,349 807 Other financial assets 19 89,424 61,597 550 Other non-current assets 20 14,769 13,154 117 Total non-current assets 901,801 944,235 8,431 Current assets Inventories 21 161,691 182,537 1,630 Trade and other receivables 22 327,599 309,817 2,766 Income tax receivable 16,403 10,986 98 Other financial assets 19 14,394 13,554 121 Other current assets 20 17,221 18,849 168 Cash and cash equivalents 23 360,030 340,923 3,044 Subtotal 897,337 876,665 7,827 Assets held for sale 24 200 — — Total current assets 897,537 876,665 7,827 Total assets ¥1,799,338 ¥1,820,901 $16,258 95 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2016 2017 2017 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 25 ¥ 103,001 ¥ 103,001 $ 920 Capital surplus 25 176,903 177,091 1,581 Treasury shares 25 (157,111) (138,207) (1,234) Retained earnings 973,054 1,013,923 9,053 Other components of equity 25 163,363 116,002 1,036 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,259,209 1,271,810 11,355 Total equity 1,259,209 1,271,810 11,355 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 32 1,599 440 4 Deferred tax liabilities 18 — 25,343 226 Retirement benefit liabilities 28 39,797 36,614 327 Provisions 29 7,083 4,921 44 Other financial liabilities 30 722 28,389 253 Other non-current liabilities 31 77,569 53,528 478 Total non-current liabilities 126,769 149,235 1,332 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 32 181,559 182,826 1,632 Income tax payable 19,312 10,900 97 Provisions 29 89,858 96,589 862 Other financial liabilities 30 1,505 2,992 27 Other current liabilities 31 121,126 106,548 951 Total current liabilities 413,359 399,856 3,570 Total liabilities 540,129 549,091 4,903 Total equity and liabilities ¥1,799,338 ¥1,820,901 $16,258 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 96 Financial Information and Data Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Fair value Foreign currency movements on Remeasurements Retained Subscription translation available-for-sale of defined Note Share capital Capital surplus Treasury shares earnings rights to shares adjustments financial assets benefit plans Total Total Total equity As of 1 April 2015 ¥103,001 ¥176,822 ¥ (86,997) ¥ 905,083 ¥2,241 ¥177,306 ¥40,461 ¥ — ¥220,007 ¥1,317,916 ¥1,317,916 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 193,687 — — — — — 193,687 193,687 Other comprehensive income — — — — — (45,172) (11,358) (6,276) (62,806) (62,806) (62,806) Total comprehensive income — — — 193,687 — (45,172) (11,358) (6,276) (62,806) 130,881 130,881 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (120,127) — — — — — — (120,127) (120,127) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — — 436 (248) (187) — — — (187) 1 1 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 49,577 (49,577) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (69,615) — — — — — (69,615) (69,615) Share-based payments 27 — 81 — — 73 — — — 73 154 154 Transfers — — — (6,276) — — — 6,276 6,276 — — Total transactions with owners — 81 (70,114) (125,717) (115) — — 6,276 6,161 (189,588) (189,588) of the parent As of 31 March 2016 103,001 176,903 (157,111) 973,054 2,126 132,134 29,103 — 163,363 1,259,209 1,259,209 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 218,701 — — — — — 218,701 218,701 Other comprehensive income — — — — — (32,544) (14,474) 2,962 (44,056) (44,056) (44,056) Total comprehensive income — — — 218,701 — (32,544) (14,474) 2,962 (44,056) 174,644 174,644 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (92,193) — — — — — — (92,193) (92,193) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — (78) 877 (456) (342) — — — (342) 1 1 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 110,219 (110,219) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (70,119) — — — — — (70,119) (70,119) Share-based payments 27 — 266 — — — — — — — 266 266 Transfers — — — 2,962 — — — (2,962) (2,962) — — Total transactions with owners — 188 18,903 (177,831) (342) — — (2,962) (3,304) (162,044) (162,044) of the parent As of 31 March 2017 ¥103,001 ¥177,091 ¥(138,207) ¥1,013,923 ¥1,784 ¥ 99,590 ¥14,629 ¥ — ¥116,002 ¥1,271,810 ¥1,271,810 (Millions of U.S. dollars) Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Fair value Foreign currency movements on Remeasurements Retained Subscription translation available-for-sale of defined Note Share capital Capital surplus Treasury shares earnings rights to shares adjustments financial assets benefit plans Total Total Total equity As of 31 March 2016 $920 $1,579 $(1,403) $8,688 $19 $1,180 $260 $ — $1,459 $11,243 $11,243 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 1,953 — — — — — 1,953 1,953 Other comprehensive income — — — — — (291) (129) 26 (393) (393) (393) Total comprehensive income — — — 1,953 — (291) (129) 26 (393) 1,559 1,559 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (823) — — — — — — (823) (823) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — (1) 8 (4) (3) — — — (3) 0 0 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 984 (984) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (626) — — — — — (626) (626) Share-based payments 27 — 2 — — — — — — — 2 2 Transfers — — — 26 — — — (26) (26) — — Total transactions with owners — 2 169 (1,588) (3) — — (26) (30) (1,447) (1,447) of the parent As of 31 March 2017 $920 $1,581 $(1,234) $9,053 $16 $ 889 $131 $ — $1,036 $11,355 $11,355 97 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2016 2017 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax ¥261,770 ¥281,769 $2,516 Depreciation and amortisation 69,188 63,791 570 Impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses 9,310 16,340 146 Finance income and expense (12,784) (20,940) (187) (Increase) decrease in inventories (11,873) (26,644) (238) (Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables (15,649) 5,057 45 Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables (32,391) 15,651 140 Other 136,578 (27,409) (245) Cash generated from operations 404,149 307,616 2,747 Income tax paid (90,412) (72,004) (643) Net cash flows from operating activities 313,737 235,612 2,104 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment (33,512) (29,010) (259) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 1,753 1,262 11 Purchases of intangible assets (84,605) (19,638) (175) Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets (749) (484) (4) Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale financial assets 16,747 28,642 256 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 37 (42,653) (50,915) (455) Interest and dividends received 2,797 1,618 14 Other (6,827) (4,858) (43) Net cash flows used in investing activities (147,050) (73,383) (655) Cash flows from financing activities Acquisition of treasury shares 25 (120,127) (92,193) (823) Dividends paid to owners of the parent 26 (69,615) (70,119) (626) Other (3,736) (3,841) (34) Net cash flows used in financing activities (193,478) (166,153) (1,484) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (9,609) (15,183) (136) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (36,401) (19,107) (171) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 23 396,430 360,030 3,215 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23 ¥360,030 ¥340,923 $3,044 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 98 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2017 ■ 1. Reporting Entity Astellas Pharma Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Company are publicly traded on the Tokyo Stock the “Group”) are engaged in the manufacture and sales Exchange (First Section). of pharmaceutical products. The parent company of the The Group’s consolidated financial statements for Group, Astellas Pharma Inc. (the “Company”), is the year ended 31 March 2017 were authorised for incorporated in Japan, and the registered address of issue on 19 June 2017 by Yoshihiko Hatanaka, headquarters and principal business offices are Representative Director, President and Chief Executive available on the Company’s website Officer, and Chikashi Takeda, Corporate Executive and (https://www.astellas.com/en/). Also, shares of the Chief Financial Officer. ■ 2. Basis of Preparation (1) Compliance with IFRS also presented in U.S. dollars by translating Japanese The consolidated financial statements of the Group have yen amounts at the exchange rate of ¥112 to U.S. $1, been prepared in accordance with International the approximate rate of exchange at the end of 31 Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the March 2017. Such translations should not be construed International Accounting Standards Board. as representations that the Japanese yen amounts could be converted into U.S. dollars at the above or any (2) Basis of measurement other rate. The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for (4) New or amended IFRS standards and financial instruments measured at fair value. interpretations not yet adopted The following is a list of new or amended IFRS (3) Presentation currency standards and interpretations that the Group has not The Group’s consolidated financial statements are adopted among those issued by the date of the approval presented in Japanese yen, which is also the of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Also, Company’s functional currency, and figures are rounded the effects on the Group due to the application of the to the nearest million yen, except as otherwise standards or interpretations listed below are still under indicated. consideration and cannot be estimated at this time. For the convenience of readers outside Japan, the accompanying consolidated financial statements are Effective date The Group’s (fiscal years application date Summaries of new or amended IFRS IFRSs beginning on or after) (fiscal year ending) standards and interpretations Amendments related to classification and Financial IFRS 9 1 January 2018 31 March 2019 measurement of financial assets and financial Instruments liabilities, impairment, and hedge accounting Revenue from Comprehensive framework for revenue IFRS 15 Contracts with 1 January 2018 31 March 2019 recognition Customers Amendments related to accounting treatment IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 31 March 2020 for leases 99 ■ 3. Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies of the Group set forth interest in the joint venture using the equity method below are applied continuously to all periods indicated in in the same way as associates. the consolidated financial statements. (2) Business combinations (1) Basis of consolidation Business combinations are accounted for using the (i) Subsidiaries acquisition method. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The The consideration transferred is measured at fair Group controls an entity when the Group has power value and calculated as the aggregate of the fair values over the entity, is exposed to, or has rights, to variable of the assets transferred, liabilities assumed, and the returns from its involvement with the entity, and has the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration ability to affect those returns through its power over the transferred also includes any assets or liabilities entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. on which control is transferred to the Group, and they The identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities and are deconsolidated from the date on which the Group contingent liabilities assumed that meet the recognition loses control. principles of IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” are All intragroup assets and liabilities, transactions and measured at their acquisition-date fair values, except: unrealised gains or losses arising from intragroup  Deferred tax assets or liabilities, liabilities (or assets, transactions are eliminated on consolidation. if any) related to employee benefits, and liabilities (ii) Associates related to share-based payment transactions are Associates are entities over which the Group has recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 significant influence on their financial and operating “Income Taxes”, IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”, and policies but does not have control or joint control. If the IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”, respectively; and Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting power  Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as of an entity, it is presumed that the Group has significant held for sale are measured in accordance with IFRS influence over the entity. The Group accounts for 5 “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and investments in associates using the equity method. Discontinued Operations”. (iii) Joint arrangements The excess of the aggregate of the consideration A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which the transferred and the amount recognised for nonGroup has joint control. Joint control is the contractually controlling interest in the acquiree over the acquisitionagreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which date fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is exists only when decisions about the activities that recorded as goodwill. If the excess is negative, then a significantly affect the returns of the arrangement gain from a bargain purchase is immediately recognised require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing in profit or loss. control. Joint arrangements in which the Group has an Acquisition-related costs incurred in connection with interest are classified and accounted for as follows: business combinations, such as finder’s fees and  Joint operation—when the Group has rights to the advisory fees, are expensed when incurred. assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to an arrangement, it accounts for each of its assets, (3) Foreign currency translation liabilities, revenue and expenses, in relation to its (i) Functional and presentation currency interest in the joint operation. The financial statements of an entity of the Group are  Joint venture—when the Group has rights only to the prepared using the functional currency of the entity. The net assets of the arrangement, it accounts for its consolidated financial statements of the Group are 100 presented in Japanese yen, which is the functional delivery of goods to customers. Sales discounts, currency of the Company. charge-backs and other rebates are recognised as (ii) Transactions in foreign currencies accounts payable, provisions or as deductions from Foreign currency transactions are translated into the accounts receivable. functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing (ii) Royalty income at the dates of the transactions or an approximation of Some of the Group’s revenues are generated from the the rate. agreements under which third parties have been At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets granted rights to produce or market products or rights to and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are use technologies. Royalty income is recognised on an translated into the functional currency using the accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the exchange rates at the closing date and exchange relevant agreement. Revenue associated with milestone differences arising from translation are recognised in agreements is recognised upon achievement of the profit or loss. milestones defined in the respective agreements. (iii) Foreign operations Upfront payments and license fees received for Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated agreements where the rights or obligations still exist are into Japanese yen using the exchange rate at the end of initially recognised as deferred income and then fiscal year. Income and expenses are translated into recognised in income as earned over the period of the Japanese yen using the average exchange rate for the development collaboration or the manufacturing period. obligation. Exchange differences arising on translating the financial statements of foreign operations are (5) Research and development expenses recognised in other comprehensive income. On the Expenditure on research and development of an internal disposal of the interest in a foreign operation, the project is fully expensed as “Research and development cumulative amount of the exchange differences is expenses” in the consolidated statement of income reclassified to profit or loss. when incurred. Internally generated development expenses are (4) Sales recognised as an intangible asset only if the (i) Sale of goods capitalisation criteria under IAS 38 are satisfied. Sales are measured at the fair value of the Therefore, internal expenditure incurred for ongoing consideration received or receivable, less discounts, internal development projects is not capitalised until charge-backs and other rebates, excluding sales taxes marketing approval is obtained from the regulatory and value added taxes. Also, the Group recognises the authorities in a major market, which is considered the sales amount of transactions in which the Group is time at which the criteria of capitalisation under IAS 38 acting as an agent on a net basis. are met. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when In addition to the Group’s internal research and all of the following conditions have been satisfied, development activities, the Group has entered into namely, the significant risks and rewards of ownership research and development collaboration agreements of the goods have been transferred to the buyers, the with some alliance partners. The expenses and income Group retains neither continuing managerial associated with the settlement of the expenditure involvement nor effective control over the goods sold, it incurred for the research and development collaboration is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the activities are accounted for as research and Group, and the amount of revenue and costs associated development expenses on an accrual basis in the same with the transaction can be reliably measured. way as research and development expenses incurred Therefore, revenue is usually recognised at the time of within the Group. 101 (6) Finance income and finance expense difference and it is probable that the temporary Finance income mainly comprises interest income, difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. dividend income, and gain on sales of financial Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that instruments. Interest income is recognised using the it is probable that taxable profits will be available against effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised which deductible temporary differences, unused tax when the right to receive payment is established. losses, and unused tax credits can be utilised. Financial expenses mainly comprise interest Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are expense, fees, loss on sales of financial instruments, measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to and impairment losses for financial assets. the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been (7) Income tax enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the fiscal Income tax expense is comprised of current and year. deferred taxes, and recognised in profit or loss, except Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are for taxes related to business combinations and to items offset if the Group has a legally enforceable right to that are recognised in other comprehensive income or offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, directly in equity. and they are related to income taxes levied by the same Current taxes are calculated at the amount expected taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or to be paid to or recovered from the taxation authority by different taxable entities which intend to settle current applying the statutory tax rate and tax laws enacted or tax assets and current tax liabilities on a net basis. substantially enacted at the end of the fiscal year. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are (8) Earnings per share recognised for temporary differences between the Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing carrying amounts of certain assets or liabilities in the profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent by consolidated statement of financial position and their tax the weighted-average number of ordinary shares base. However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are outstanding during the year, adjusting treasury shares. not recognised for: For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per  taxable temporary differences arising from the initial share, profit for the year attributable to owners of the recognition of goodwill. parent and the weighted average number of shares  taxable or deductible temporary differences arising outstanding, adjusting treasury shares, is calculated for from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. a transaction other than a business combination that affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (9) Property, plant and equipment (tax loss). Property, plant and equipment is measured by using the  deductible temporary differences associated with cost model and is stated at cost less accumulated investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The in joint arrangements when it is not probable that the cost of items of property, plant and equipment includes temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable costs directly attributable to the acquisition and the initial future or there will not be sufficient taxable profits estimate of costs of dismantling and removing the items against which the deductible temporary differences and restoring the site on which they are located. can be utilised. Costs incurred after initial recognition are recognised  taxable temporary differences associated with as an asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests future economic benefits associated with the asset will in joint arrangements when the Group is able to flow to the Group and its cost can be reliably measured. control the timing of the reversal of the temporary Costs of day-to-day servicing for items of property, plant 102 and equipment, such as repairs and maintenance, arrangement at the date of commencement of the lease. expensed when incurred. The substance of the arrangement is determined based When an item of property, plant and equipment has on the following factors: a significant component, such component is accounted (a) whether the fulfillment of the arrangement is for as a separate item of property, plant and equipment. dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for and, use. The depreciable amount of items of property, plant (b) whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis asset. over the estimated useful lives of each component. The depreciable amount of an asset is determined by (11) Goodwill deducting its residual value from its cost. Measurement of goodwill on initial recognition is described in “(2) Business combinations”. After initial The estimated useful lives of major classes of property, recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less any plant and equipment are as follows: accumulated impairment losses. Buildings and structures 2 to 60 years Impairment of goodwill is described in “(13) Machinery and vehicles 2 to 20 years Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, Tools, furniture and fixtures 2 to 20 years and other intangible assets”. The useful lives, residual values, and depreciation methods of property, plant and equipment are reviewed (12) Other intangible assets at the end of fiscal year, and changed, if any. Other intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance, other than goodwill, (10) Leases including patents and technologies, marketing rights, Leases are classified as finance leases whenever and in-process research and development (IPR&D) substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to acquired in a business combination or acquired ownership of an asset are transferred to the Group. All separately. other leases are classified as operating leases. Other intangible assets acquired separately are Under finance lease transactions, leased assets and measured at cost upon initial recognition, and those lease obligations are initially recognised at the lower of acquired in a business combination are measured at fair the fair value of the leased property or the present value value at the acquisition date. After initial recognition, the of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the Group applies the cost model and other intangible inception of the lease. Leased assets are depreciated assets are carried at cost less any accumulated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. estimated useful lives or lease terms. Minimum lease Other intangible assets are amortised over their payments made under finance leases are allocated to estimated useful lives (2-25 years) on a straight-line finance expense and the repayment amount of the lease basis beginning at the time when they are available for obligations. The finance expense is allocated to each use. Amortisation of other intangible assets acquired period during the lease term so as to produce a constant through business combinations or through the inperiodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of licensing of products or technologies is presented in the liabilities. consolidated statement of income under “Amortisation of Under operating lease transactions, lease payments intangible assets”. The estimated useful life of other are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis intangible assets is the shorter of the period of legal over the lease term. protection or its economic life, and it is also regularly The Group determines whether an arrangement is, reviewed. or contains a lease, based on the substance of the Among rights related to products or research and 103 development through the in-licensing of products or The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value technologies or acquired through business less costs of disposal and value in use. In measuring the combinations, those that are still in the research and value in use, the estimated future cash flows are development stage or have not yet obtained marketing discounted to the present value using a discount rate approval from the regulatory authorities are recognised that reflects the time value of money and the risks under “Other intangible assets” as IPR&D. specific to the asset. The discount rate used for Subsequent expenditure, including initial upfront and calculating the recoverable amount is set at a rate milestone payments to the third parties, on an acquired appropriate to each geographical area of operations. IPR&D is capitalised if, and only if, it is probable that the If the recoverable amount of an asset or a cashexpected future economic benefits that are attributable generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the to the asset will flow to the Group and the asset is carrying amount of the asset or the cash-generating unit identifiable. is reduced to its recoverable amount, and the reduction An intangible asset recognised as IPR&D is not is recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. amortised because it is not yet available for use, but (ii) Impairment of goodwill instead, it is tested for impairment whenever there is an Goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating indication of impairment or at least on an annual basis units, or groups of cash-generating units, that is irrespective of whether there is any indication. expected to benefit from the synergies of the business Once marketing approval from the regulatory combination, and it is tested for impairment annually and authorities is obtained and the asset is available for use, whenever there is an indication that the cash-generating IPR&D is transferred to “Patents and technologies” or unit may be impaired. If, at the time of the impairment “Marketing rights” and amortisation begins from that test, the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is time on a straight-line basis over its useful life. less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable (13) Impairment of property, plant and amount, and the reduction is recognised in profit or loss equipment, goodwill, and other intangible as an impairment loss. assets Impairment loss is allocated to reduce the carrying (i) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating other intangible assets unit or group of cash-generating units and then to the At the end of each quarter, the Group assesses whether other assets on a pro rata basis of the carrying amount there is any indication that its property, plant and of each asset in the cash-generating unit or group of equipment and other intangible assets may be impaired. cash-generating units. If there is an indication of impairment, the (iii) Reversal of impairment loss recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. Other At the end of each quarter, the Group assesses whether intangible assets not yet available for use or with there is any indication that an impairment loss indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually recognised in prior years for other intangible assets may irrespective of whether there is any indication of no longer exist or may have decreased. If such impairment. indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable the cash-generating unit is estimated. If the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the amount of the asset or the cash-generating unit is recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which greater than its carrying amount, a reversal of an the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is the smallest impairment loss is recognised, to the extent the identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows increased carrying amount does not exceed the lower of that are largely independent of the cash inflows from the recoverable amount or the carrying amount (net of other assets or groups of assets. depreciation or amortisation) that would have been 104 determined had no impairment loss been recognised in investments are measured at amortised cost using the prior years. effective interest method, less any impairment loss. Any impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not Interest income using the effective interest method is reversed in a subsequent period. recognised in profit or loss. (c) Loans and receivables (14) Financial instruments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or (i) Initial recognition determinable payments not quoted in an active market Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised are classified as loans and receivables. on the trade date when the Group becomes a party to Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and the contractual provisions of the instrument. receivables are measured at amortised cost using the Financial assets and financial liabilities are effective interest method, less any impairment loss. measured at fair value at initial recognition. Transaction Amortisation incurred under the effective interest costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial method is recognised in profit or loss. assets or issuance of financial liabilities, other than (d) Available-for-sale financial assets financial assets measured at fair value through profit or Non-derivative financial assets designated as availableloss (“financial assets at FVTPL”) and financial liabilities for-sale financial assets or not classified as FVTPL, measured at fair value through profit or loss (“financial held-to-maturity investments or loans and receivables liabilities at FVTPL”), are added to the fair value of the are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. financial assets or deducted from the fair value of Subsequent to initial recognition, available-for-sale financial liabilities on initial recognition. financial assets are measured at fair value, and any gain Transaction costs directly attributable to the or loss resulting from changes in fair value is recognised acquisition of financial assets at FVTPL and financial in other comprehensive income. Dividends on availableliabilities at FVTPL are recognised in profit or loss. for-sale financial assets are recognised in profit or loss. (ii) Non-derivative financial assets When available-for-sale financial assets are Non-derivative financial assets are classified into derecognised or determined to be impaired, the “financial assets at FVTPL”, “held-to-maturity cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in investments”, “loans and receivables” and “available-forother comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or sale financial assets”. The classification is determined loss. based on the nature and purpose of the financial assets (iii) Impairment of financial assets other than FVTPL at the time of initial recognition. Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are (a) Financial assets at FVTPL assessed for any objective evidence of impairment at The Group classifies financial assets as FVTPL when the end of each quarter. Financial assets are impaired the financial assets are either held for trading or when there is objective evidence of impairment as a designated as FVTPL at initial recognition. result of one or more events that occurred after the Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair initial recognition of the financial assets and these value, and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair events have adversely affected the estimated future value, dividends, and interest income are recognised in cash flows of the financial assets that can be reliably profit or loss. estimated. (b) Held-to-maturity investments Objective evidence of impairment of financial assets Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or includes: determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the ・significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor; Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to ・breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in maturity are classified as held-to-maturity investments. interest or principal payments; Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity 105 ・probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or (v) Non-derivative financial liabilities other financial reorganisation; or Non-derivative financial liabilities are classified into ・disappearance of an active market for the financial “Financial liabilities at FVTPL” and “Financial liabilities assets. measured at amortised cost”. The classification is In the case of equity instruments classified as determined based on the nature and purpose of the available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in financial liabilities at the time of initial recognition. the fair value of the equity instrument below its cost (a) Financial liabilities at FVTPL would be considered as objective evidence of The Group classifies financial liabilities as FVTPL when impairment. the financial liabilities are designated as FVTPL at initial The Group assesses the existence of objective recognition. evidence of impairment for loans and receivables and Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair held-to-maturity financial assets, individually for value, and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair separately significant assets or collectively for assets value and interest expense are recognised in profit or with no individual significance. When there is objective loss. evidence of impairment on those financial assets, the (b) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the Non-derivative financial liabilities not classified as present value of estimated future cash flows discounted FVTPL are classified as financial liabilities measured at at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate is amortised cost. recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities The impairment loss for loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost are measured at amortised recognised through the allowance for doubtful accounts, cost using the effective interest method. and the carrying amount of a loan and receivable is (vi) Derecognition of financial liabilities written off against the allowance account when it is The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the subsequently considered uncollectible. When an event obligations of the financial liabilities are extinguished or occurring after the impairment was recognised causes when the obligations are discharged, cancelled, or the amount of the impairment loss to decrease, a expired. reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in profit or (vii) Derivatives loss. The Group is engaged in derivative transactions and When there is objective evidence that an availablemainly uses forward foreign exchange contracts to for-sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative loss manage its exposure to risks from changes in foreign that had been recognised in other comprehensive exchange rates. income is transferred to profit or loss. Any subsequent Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value of the recovery in the fair value of impaired equity instruments date when the derivative contracts are entered into and classified as available-for-sale financial assets is are subsequently measured at their fair values at the recognised in other comprehensive income. end of each quarter. (iv) Derecognition of financial assets Changes in the fair value of derivatives are When the contractual rights with respect to the cash recognised in profit or loss, except for the following. If flows from a financial asset expire or the contractual the hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, rights to receive the cash flows from a financial asset the gain or loss on the hedging instrument of cash flow have been transferred and substantially all the risks and hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign rewards of ownership of the financial asset are operation that are determined to be effective hedges are transferred, the Group derecognises the financial asset. recognised in other comprehensive income. The amounts that had been recognised in other comprehensive income for cash flow hedges and 106 hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation shall (18) Equity be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in the same (i) Ordinary shares period or periods during which the hedged items affect Proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares by the profit or loss and on the disposal or partial disposal of Company are included in share capital and capital the foreign operation, respectively. surplus. Transaction costs of issuing ordinary shares Financial assets and financial liabilities arising from (net of tax) are deducted from capital surplus. derivatives are classified as either financial assets at (ii) Treasury shares FVTPL or financial liabilities at FVTPL. When the Company reacquires its own ordinary shares, the amount of the consideration paid including (15) Cash and cash equivalents transaction costs is deducted from equity. When the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, Company sells treasury shares, the difference between demand deposits, and highly liquid short-term the carrying amount and the consideration received from investments with maturities of three months or less from the sale is recognised in equity. the date of acquisition which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. (19) Share-based payment The Group operates an equity-settled share-based (16) Inventories payment plan and a cash-settled share-based payment Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net plan as share-based payment plans. realisable value. The cost of inventories includes costs (i) Equity-settled share-based payment plan of purchase, costs of conversion and all other costs Under the equity-settled share-based payment plan, incurred in bringing the inventories to their present services received are measured at the fair value of the location and condition. Net realisable value is calculated equity instruments at the grant date, and are recognised as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of as expenses from the grant date over the vesting period, business less the estimated costs of completion and with a corresponding increase in equity. estimated costs necessary to sell. Cost of inventories is (ii) Cash-settled share-based payment plan calculated mainly using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) Under the cash-settled share-based payment plan, method. services received are measured at the fair value of the liabilities incurred and recognised as expenses over the (17) Assets held for sale vesting period, with a corresponding increase in Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as liabilities. Until the liabilities are settled, the fair value of “Assets held for sale” if their carrying amounts will be liabilities are remeasured at the end of each quarter and recovered principally through a sale transaction rather at the settlement date, with changes in fair value than through continuing use. To be classified as assets recognised in profit or loss. held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, and the sale must be highly (20) Employee benefits probable. Specifically, management of the Group must (i) Retirement benefits have a firm commitment to execute the plan to sell the The Group operates defined benefit and defined asset and the sale is expected to be completed within contribution retirement plans for its employees. one year from the date of classification, as a general (a) Defined benefit plans rule. Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of Net defined benefit assets or liabilities are calculated as their carrying amounts and fair values less costs to sell, the present value of the defined benefit obligation less and they are not depreciated or amortised while they are the fair value of plan assets and they are recognised in classified as held for sale. the consolidated statement of financial position as assets or liabilities. The defined benefit obligation is 107 calculated by using the projected unit credit method. obligations can be made. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated by the expected future payments using (21) Provisions discount rate. The discount rate is determined by Provisions are recognised when the Group has present reference to market yield on high-quality corporate legal or constructive obligations as a result of past bonds having maturity terms consistent with the events, it is probable that outflows of resources estimated term of the related pension obligations. embodying economic benefits will be required to settle Service cost and net interest expense (income) on the obligations, and reliable estimates of the obligations the net defined benefit liabilities (assets) are recognised can be made. in profit or loss. When the effect of the time value of money is Actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan material, provisions are measured at the present value assets, excluding amounts included in net interest, and of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the any change in the effect of the asset ceiling are obligations. recognised immediately in other comprehensive income under “Remeasurements of defined benefit plans”, and (22) Government grants transferred from other components of equity to retained Government grants are recognised and measured at fair earnings immediately. value, if there is reasonable assurance that the Group (b) Defined contribution plans will comply with the conditions attached to them and that Contributions paid for defined contribution plans are the grants will be received. expensed in the period in which the employees provide Government grants that are intended to compensate the related service. for specific costs are recognised as income in the period (ii) Short-term employee benefits in which the Group recognises the corresponding Short-term employee benefits are expensed when the expenses. Government grants related to assets are related service is provided. Bonus accrual is recognised recognised as deferred income and then recognised in as a liability when the Group has present legal or profit over the expected useful life of the relevant asset constructive obligations resulting from past service on a regular basis. rendered by the employees and reliable estimates of the ■ 4. Significant Accounting Estimates, Judgments and Assumptions The preparation of the consolidated financial statements carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next requires management of the Group to make estimates, fiscal year are as follows: judgments and assumptions that affect the application of  Impairment of property, plant and equipment, accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, goodwill and other intangible assets (Notes 15, 16 liabilities, income, and expenses. and 17) Given their nature, actual results may differ from  Provisions (Note 29) those estimates.  Retirement benefits (Note 28) The estimates and underlying assumptions are  Recoverability of deferred tax assets (Note 18) reviewed on an ongoing basis, and the effects resulting  Income tax expense (Note 12) from revisions of accounting estimates are recognised in  Financial instruments measured at fair value which the period in which the estimates are revised and in have no market price in active markets (Notes 33 future periods affected by the revision. and 37) Estimates and underlying assumptions representing a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 108 ■ 5. Segment Information The main activities of the Group are the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products, and there are no separate operating segments. Therefore, the Group has a single reporting segment, “Pharmaceutical”. Information about products and services Sales by type of product and service are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 XTANDI ¥ 252,075 ¥ 252,078 Prograf 203,556 186,156 Vesicare 135,638 116,075 Other 781,438 757,356 Total ¥1,372,706 ¥1,311,665 Information about geographical areas Sales and non-current assets by geographical areas are as follows: Sales by geographical areas (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Japan ¥ 489,969 ¥ 464,082 Americas 452,697 412,625 U.S.A. (included in Americas) 429,518 388,539 EMEA 334,572 343,401 Asia and Oceania 95,467 91,558 Total ¥1,372,706 ¥1,311,665 (Note) Sales by geographical areas are categorised by country or areas based on the geographical location of customers. Non-current assets by geographical areas (Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Japan ¥370,894 ¥356,907 Americas 281,063 253,277 U.S.A. (included in Americas) 280,831 252,943 EMEA 34,505 139,544 Asia and Oceania 3,874 4,155 Total ¥690,336 ¥753,883 (Note) Due to the completion of the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.), the Group retrospectively revised the corresponding balances in the above non-current assets by geographical areas table as of 31 March, 2016. For details, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 109 Information about major customers External customer that accounts for 10% or more of consolidated sales of the Group is as follows: (Millions of yen) Segment 2016 2017 McKesson Corporation Pharmaceutical ¥156,245 ¥150,184 ■ 6. Sales The breakdown of sales is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Sales of pharmaceutical products ¥1,314,247 ¥1,225,070 Royalty income 24,560 57,433 Other 33,899 29,162 Total sales ¥1,372,706 ¥1,311,665 ■ 7. Other Income The breakdown of other income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Net foreign exchange gains ¥ － ¥6,946 Other 1,689 2,649 Total other income ¥1,689 ¥9,594 (Note) The amount of “Net foreign exchange gains” for the year ended 31 March 2017 includes foreign exchange losses resulting from forward foreign exchange contracts (¥10,285 million). 110 ■ 8. Other Expense The breakdown of other expense is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Impairment losses for property, plant and equipment ¥ 8,837 ¥ 7,877 Impairment losses for other intangible assets 681 10,188 Net foreign exchange losses 6,996 － Other 3,645 5,253 Total other expense ¥20,159 ¥23,318 (Note) 1. The main item of “Impairment losses for property, plant and equipment” for the year ended 31 March 2016 was due to the closure of the Kashima R&D Center (Osaka Prefecture). 2. “Impairment losses for property, plant and equipment” for the year ended 31 March 2017 mainly resulted from the recognition of impairment losses for buildings and certain other assets held by a U.S. subsidiary in connection with the sale of shares of this subsidiary to another company. 3. “Impairment losses for other intangible assets” for the year ended 31 March 2017 were principally due to an impairment loss on patents due to lower-than-expected profitability and to the discontinuation of development activities for projects. 4. The amount of “Net foreign exchange losses” for the year ended 31 March 2016 includes foreign exchange losses resulting from forward foreign exchange contracts (¥9,585 million). ■ 9. Employee Benefit Expenses The breakdown of employee benefit expenses is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Rewards and salaries ¥154,695 ¥143,538 Bonuses 58,069 56,341 Social security and welfare expenses 32,290 30,600 Retirement benefit expenses—Defined contribution plan 14,934 14,243 Retirement benefit expenses—Defined benefit plan 6,611 6,804 Restructuring and termination benefits 3,792 8,064 Other employee benefit expenses 2,684 2,821 Total employee benefit expenses ¥273,075 ¥262,411 (Note) Employee benefit expenses are included in “Cost of sales”, “Selling, general and administrative expenses”, “Research and development expenses” and “Other expense” in the consolidated statement of income. 111 ■ 10. Finance Income The breakdown of finance income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Interest income Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 785 ¥ 906 Other 200 72 Dividend income Available-for-sale financial assets 1,067 618 Gain on sales Available-for-sale financial assets 12,278 21,265 Other 19 13 Other 61 41 Total finance income ¥14,411 ¥22,916 ■ 11. Finance Expense The breakdown of finance expense is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Impairment losses Available-for-sale financial assets ¥ 370 ¥ 642 Other 1,257 1,334 Total finance expense ¥1,627 ¥1,976 ■ 12. Income Tax Expense The breakdown of income tax expense recognised in profit or loss is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Current income tax expense ¥ 85,402 ¥68,322 Deferred income tax expense (17,319) (5,253) Income tax expense reported in the consolidated statement of income ¥ 68,083 ¥63,069 (Note) Deferred income tax expense increased by ¥1,627 million for the year ended 31 March 2016, due to the effect of changes in the tax rate in Japan. 112 Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Tax benefit Tax benefit Before tax (expense) Net of tax Before tax (expense) Net of tax Remeasurements of defined benefit plans ¥ (9,714) ¥ 3,437 ¥ (6,276) ¥ 4,211 ¥(1,249) ¥ 2,962 Foreign currency translation adjustments (45,172) － (45,172) (32,544) － (32,544) Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets (17,933) 6,575 (11,358) (20,931) 6,457 (14,474) Total other comprehensive income ¥(72,818) ¥10,012 ¥(62,806) ¥(49,264) ¥ 5,208 ¥(44,056) Reconciliation of effective tax rate The Company is subject mainly to corporate tax, were 32.8% and 30.7%, respectively. Foreign inhabitant tax, and enterprise tax on its income and the subsidiaries are subject to income taxes on their income effective statutory tax rates calculated based on those in their respective countries of domicile. taxes for the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2017 2016 2017 Effective statutory tax rate 32.8% 30.7% Tax credit for research and development expenses (3.6) (1.7) Non-deductible expenses 2.5 2.6 Difference in tax rates applied to foreign subsidiaries (5.2) (7.8) Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries 0.9 0.3 Effect of change in tax rate in Japan 0.6 － Other (2.0) (1.8) Actual tax rate 26.0% 22.4% 113 ■ 13. Earnings per Share The basis of calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share is as follows: (Millions of yen, except as otherwise indicated) 2016 2017 Basis of calculating basic earnings per share Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 193,687 ¥ 218,701 Profit not attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent － － Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share 193,687 218,701 Weighted average number of shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,158,131 2,109,149 Basis of calculating diluted earnings per share Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share ¥ 193,687 ¥ 218,701 Adjustment － － Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share 193,687 218,701 Weighted average number of shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,158,131 2,109,149 Subscription rights to shares (Thousands of shares) 3,175 2,830 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,161,306 2,111,979 Earnings per share (attributable to owners of the parent): Basic (Yen) ¥ 89.75 ¥ 103.69 Diluted (Yen) 89.62 103.55 ■ 14. Other Comprehensive Income Reclassification adjustments of other comprehensive income are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments Amount arising during the year ¥(45,172) ¥(32,615) Reclassification adjustment － 71 Subtotal (45,172) (32,544) Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets Amount arising during the year (6,012) (94) Reclassification adjustment (11,920) (20,836) Subtotal (17,933) (20,931) Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss before tax effect (63,104) (53,475) Tax effect 6,575 6,457 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of tax ¥(56,529) ¥(47,018) 114 ■ 15. Property, Plant and Equipment Movement of cost, accumulated depreciation and impairment losses for property, plant and equipment The movement of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2016 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings Machinery Tools, and and furniture Construction structures vehicles and fixtures Land in progress Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥195,798 ¥ 150,128 ¥ 82,560 ¥18,848 ¥ 24,793 ¥ 472,127 Acquisitions 10,347 4,989 5,966 － 12,725 34,027 Business combinations 38 109 4 － － 151 Disposals (1,038) (2,928) (7,767) (704) (114) (12,550) Reclassification from construction in progress 10,541 6,827 685 398 (18,451) － Reclassification to assets held for sale (883) (2,569) (1,527) (331) － (5,310) Other (3,638) (2,506) (687) (188) (829) (7,849) Balance at 31 March 2016 211,164 154,051 79,235 18,023 18,124 480,597 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2015 (80,771) (120,435) (67,688) (306) (58) (269,258) Depreciation (7,360) (8,412) (5,180) － － (20,952) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (7,174) (1,240) 91 (305) － (8,629) Disposals 817 2,591 7,380 306 － 11,094 Reclassification to assets held for sale 883 2,394 1,156 305 － 4,740 Other 1,188 1,742 430 － 4 3,364 Balance at 31 March 2016 (92,416) (123,360) (63,811) － (54) (279,642) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2015 115,027 29,693 14,872 18,543 24,735 202,869 Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥118,748 ¥ 30,691 ¥ 15,423 ¥18,023 ¥ 18,069 ¥ 200,955 (Note) 1. The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. 115 The movement of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2017 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings Machinery Tools, and and furniture Construction structures vehicles and fixtures Land in progress Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥211,164 ¥ 154,051 ¥ 79,235 ¥18,023 ¥ 18,124 ¥ 480,597 Acquisitions 2,599 2,712 4,591 － 14,001 23,903 Business combinations － 258 14 － － 272 Disposals (1,302) (3,658) (5,383) (0) (65) (10,408) Loss of control of subsidiaries (8,775) (8,696) (289) (144) (1,457) (19,360) Reclassification from construction in progress 3,228 12,481 1,083 － (16,792) － Other (2,193) (2,456) (565) (116) (485) (5,816) Balance at 31 March 2017 204,722 154,692 78,687 17,762 13,325 469,188 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2016 (92,416) (123,360) (63,811) － (54) (279,642) Depreciation (7,520) (8,753) (5,598) － － (21,872) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (4,375) (2,030) (46) (128) (1,298) (7,877) Disposals 1,228 3,062 5,297 － 52 9,639 Loss of control of subsidiaries 8,249 8,448 283 128 1,298 18,407 Other 927 1,894 449 － 2 3,272 Balance at 31 March 2017 (93,907) (120,739) (63,427) － － (278,073) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2016 118,748 30,691 15,423 18,023 18,069 200,955 Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥110,815 ¥ 33,953 ¥ 15,260 ¥17,762 ¥ 13,325 ¥ 191,115 (Note) 1. The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. The Group recognised impairment losses (or reversal of Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) impairment losses) of ¥8,629 million for the year ended of ¥7,877 million for the year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 and ¥7,877 million for the year ended 31 mainly resulted from the transfer of a U.S. subsidiary to March 2017, and they are mainly included in “Other another company. The recoverable amount of the expense” in the consolidated statement of income. assets, including buildings, is deemed to be ¥944 Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) million, calculated at fair value based on the price of ¥8,629 million for the year ended 31 March 2016 agreed upon for the transfer. mainly resulted from the closure of the Kashima R&D Center (Osaka Prefecture) owned by the Company. The assets, including buildings, are planned to be disposed of, and the recoverable amount is therefore deemed to be zero. 116 The carrying amounts of the assets held under finance leases included in “Property, plant and equipment” are as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings and Machinery and Tools, furniture and structures vehicles fixtures Total Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥－ ¥－ ¥ 991 ¥ 991 Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥－ ¥95 ¥1,133 ¥1,228 Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥37 ¥ 6 ¥1,630 ¥1,672 ■ 16. Goodwill The movement of cost and accumulated impairment losses for goodwill is as follows: (Millions of yen) Accumulated Cost impairment losses Carrying amount Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥136,337 ¥－ ¥136,337 Business combinations 26,955 － 26,955 Exchange differences (10,171) － (10,171) Balance at 31 March 2016 153,121 － 153,121 Business combinations 23,313 － 23,313 Exchange differences (1,084) － (1,084) Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥175,350 ¥－ ¥175,350 (Note) 1. The increase due to business combinations in the year ended 31 March 2016 reflected the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to the Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) The movement in the year ended 31 March 2016 was retrospectively revised due to the completion of the purchase price allocation in the year ended 31 March 2017. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. The increase due to business combinations in the year ended 31 March 2017 reflected the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. Goodwill recognised in the consolidated statement of The Group uses a weighted average cost of capital financial position mainly resulted from the acquisition of (WACC) determined for each geographical area as a OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2010. discount rate. The after-tax WACC used for the The Group, in principle, regards the geographical impairment test is 8.0% and the pre-tax WACC 12.7%. business units, which are managed for internal reporting Also, a growth rate of 2.0% is reflected in calculating purposes, as cash-generating units. the terminal value after the three-year business plan. For the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2017, the The growth rate reflects the status of the country and majority of goodwill is mainly allocated to the Americas the industry to which the cash-generating unit belongs. cash-generating unit, and the carrying amounts of The value in use sufficiently exceeds the carrying goodwill were ¥153,121 million and ¥152,455 million, amount of the cash-generating unit. Therefore, even if respectively. For the impairment test, the value in use, the key assumptions used in the calculation of the value which is calculated based on the three-year business in use fluctuate within a reasonable range, the Group plan approved at the board of directors meeting, is used assumes that the possibility that the value in use will be as the recoverable amount. lower than the carrying amount is remote. 117 ■ 17. Other Intangible Assets Movement of cost, accumulated amortisation and impairment losses for other intangible assets The movement of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2016 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Patents and Marketing technologies rights IPR&D Software Other Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥ 315,401 ¥ 88,125 ¥ 98,693 ¥ 36,128 ¥ 396 ¥ 538,743 Acquisitions 31,848 15 39,742 9,123 2 80,730 Business combinations － － 14,321 － － 14,321 Disposals － (30,288) － (769) (7) (31,064) Reclassification 5,926 － (5,926) － － － Other (11,804) (770) (954) (785) (72) (14,386) Balance at 31 March 2016 341,371 57,081 145,876 43,697 319 588,344 Accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2015 (140,655) (63,799) (15,593) (22,600) (253) (242,899) Amortisation (32,775) (9,612) － (5,825) (25) (48,236) Impairment losses － － (680) － (1) (681) Disposals － 30,288 － 664 6 30,959 Other 7,237 629 14 829 64 8,774 Balance at 31 March 2016 (166,192) (42,493) (16,258) (26,931) (208) (252,083) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2015 174,746 24,326 83,100 13,528 144 295,844 Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥ 175,179 ¥ 14,588 ¥129,617 ¥ 16,766 ¥ 111 ¥ 336,261 (Note) 1. The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to the Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) The table above was retrospectively revised due to the completion of the purchase price allocation in the year ended 31 March 2017. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. 118 The movement of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2017 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Patents and Marketing technologies rights IPR&D Software Other Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥ 341,371 ¥ 57,081 ¥145,876 ¥ 43,697 ¥ 319 ¥ 588,344 Acquisitions 163 99 10,416 7,400 1,550 19,628 Business combinations 1 － 86,020 11 － 86,033 Disposals － (5,127) － (2,184) (3) (7,314) Reclassification 7,728 － (7,728) － － － Other (770) (1,599) (1,636) (404) (23) (4,433) Balance at 31 March 2017 348,492 50,454 232,949 48,520 1,843 682,258 Accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2016 (166,192) (42,493) (16,258) (26,931) (208) (252,083) Amortisation (32,304) (3,533) － (6,073) (9) (41,919) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (6,054) 1,725 (4,064) (70) － (8,463) Disposals － 3,402 － 2,140 3 5,545 Other (224) 1,459 8 829 10 2,082 Balance at 31 March 2017 (204,775) (39,441) (20,315) (30,104) (204) (294,839) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2016 175,179 14,588 129,617 16,766 111 336,261 Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥ 143,717 ¥ 11,013 ¥212,634 ¥ 18,416 ¥1,639 ¥ 387,419 (Note) 1. The increase due to business combinations mainly reflected the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. Amortisation of other intangible assets related to the Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) rights of product or research and development arising for other intangible assets are recognised in the from in-licensing agreements is recognised in the consolidated statement of income under “Other consolidated statement of income under “Amortisation of expense” and “Other income.” intangible assets”. 119 Impairment test and impairment losses for other intangible assets For the intangible assets other than goodwill, the Group For the year ended 31 March 2017, impairment assesses the necessity of impairment by individual losses (or reversal of impairment losses) recognised for asset. Also, intangible assets not yet being amortised other intangible assets were ¥8,463 million, and details are tested for impairment annually whether or not there of the main items are as follows: is any indication of impairment. For the impairment test, (1) The Company recognised an impairment loss of the value in use is mainly used as the recoverable ¥6,054 million, deeming the recoverable amount as amount. The discount rate is calculated based on the zero, due to lower-than-expected profitability of WACC, and the range of post-tax discount rate used for patents for products sold in Japan. The recoverable the calculation of the value in use is 6.0% to 9.0%, and amount was the value in use, calculated based on that of the pre-tax discount rate is 7.9% to 13.6%. discounted future cash flows. As a result of the impairment test, the Group (2) The Company recognised an impairment loss of recognised the following impairment losses for the years ¥4,000 million, deeming the recoverable amount as ended 31 March 2016 and 2017. zero, due to the exercise of its right to terminate its For the year ended 31 March 2016, impairment agreement with UMN Pharma Inc. and the losses recognised for other intangible assets were ¥681 discontinuation of development activities with respect million due to the discontinuation of development to IPR&Ds for ASP7374 and ASP7373, cell culture activities for IPR&Ds. based influenza vaccine programs that had been licensed from UMN Pharma Inc. Significant intangible assets Significant intangible assets recognised in the acquired through the license agreement with consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 Medivation, Inc., the rights related to the research and March 2016 are mainly composed of the rights related to development of YM311/roxadustat acquired through the the research and development of enzalutamide license agreement with FibroGen, Inc., and the rights (XTANDI) acquired through the license agreement with related to “Tarceva” resulting from the acquisition of OSI Medivation, Inc., the rights related to “Tarceva” resulting Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2010. The carrying amounts of from the acquisition of OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in those intangible assets were ¥84,476 million, ¥67,231 2010 and the rights related to the research and million, ¥51,656 million, and ¥44,698 million, development of YM311/roxadustat acquired through the respectively. The carrying amount of the rights related to license agreement with FibroGen, Inc. The carrying IMAB362 resulting from the acquisition of Ganymed amounts of those intangible assets were ¥73,532 Pharmaceuticals AG reflects provisional fair value, as million, ¥65,003 million and ¥50,565 million, the allocation of the fair value of purchase consideration respectively. transferred had not been completed. For details, please Significant intangible assets recognised in the refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 For intangible assets already starting amortisation, March 2017 are mainly composed of the rights related to the remaining amortisation period was 3 to 13 years in IMAB362 resulting from the acquisition of Ganymed the year ended 31 March 2016 and 2 to 12 years in the Pharmaceuticals AG in 2016, the rights related to the year ended 31 March 2017. The intangible assets not research and development of enzalutamide (XTANDI) yet being amortised are tested for impairment annually. 120 ■ 18. Deferred Taxes The breakdown and movement of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows: For the year ended 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Recognised in As of Recognised other As of 1 April in profit or comprehensive Business 31 March 2015 loss income combinations Other 2016 Available-for-sale financial assets ¥(17,423) ¥ (207) ¥ 6,575 ¥ － ¥ (12) ¥(11,067) Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 6,993 77 3,437 － (59) 10,448 Property, plant and equipment 1,324 1,042 － (12) 152 2,506 Intangible assets (49,257) 4,608 － (4,577) 1,687 (47,540) Accrued expenses 29,059 (2,157) － － (1,110) 25,792 Inventories 49,272 3,321 － － (477) 52,116 Tax loss carry-forwards 3,554 (2,583) － 8,179 (513) 8,637 Other 27,641 13,217 － 90 (1,108) 39,841 Total ¥ 51,162 ¥17,319 ¥10,012 ¥ 3,679 ¥(1,439) ¥ 80,733 (Note) The increase in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) The movement in the year ended 31 March 2016 was retrospectively revised due to the completion of the purchase price allocation in the year ended 31 March 2017. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. For the year ended 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Recognised in As of Recognised other As of 1 April in profit or comprehensive Business 31 March 2016 loss income combinations Other 2017 Available-for-sale financial assets ¥(11,067) ¥ (263) ¥ 6,457 ¥ － ¥ 66 ¥ (4,807) Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 10,448 315 (1,249) － (172) 9,343 Property, plant and equipment 2,506 (1,469) － － (40) 996 Intangible assets (47,540) 2,881 － (25,806) 1,199 (69,266) Accrued expenses 25,792 (1,572) － － (214) 24,007 Inventories 52,116 3,843 － － (736) 55,223 Tax loss carry-forwards 8,637 (270) － － (795) 7,572 Other 39,841 1,788 － － 310 41,939 Total ¥80,733 ¥ 5,253 ¥ 5,208 ¥(25,806) ¥ (382) ¥ 65,007 (Note) The increases in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 121 Deductible temporary differences, tax loss carry-forwards, and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Deductible temporary differences ¥33,600 ¥31,527 Tax loss carry-forwards 6,330 27,036 Unused tax credits 1,877 2,182 Total ¥41,808 ¥60,745 The expiration date and amount of tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax asset is recognised are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Year 1 ¥ 180 ¥ 632 Year 2 68 62 Year 3 630 378 Year 4 158 471 Year 5 or later 5,295 25,493 Total ¥6,330 ¥27,036 ■ 19. Other Financial Assets The breakdown of other financial assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Other financial assets (non-current) Financial assets at FVTPL ¥ 8,092 ¥10,762 Loans and other financial assets 11,528 10,421 Allowance for doubtful accounts (52) (14) Available-for-sale financial assets 69,856 40,428 Total other financial assets (non-current) 89,424 61,597 Other financial assets (current) Financial assets at FVTPL 290 － Loans and other financial assets 14,104 13,554 Total other financial assets (current) 14,394 13,554 Total other financial assets ¥103,818 ¥75,151 122 ■ 20. Other Assets The breakdown of other assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Other non-current assets Long-term prepaid expenses ¥12,145 ¥10,063 Retirement benefit assets 1,784 2,372 Other 840 720 Total other non-current assets 14,769 13,154 Other current assets Prepaid expenses 10,213 10,763 Other 7,008 8,087 Total other current assets ¥17,221 ¥18,849 ■ 21. Inventories The breakdown of inventories is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Raw materials and supplies ¥ 28,165 ¥ 36,225 Work in progress 14,239 15,389 Merchandise and finished goods 119,287 130,922 Total ¥161,691 ¥182,537 The carrying amounts of inventories are measured at The write-down of inventories recognised as an the lower of cost and net realisable value. expense for the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2017 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in amounted to ¥3,912 million and ¥3,414 million, “Cost of sales” for the years ended 31 March 2016 and respectively. 2017 amounted to ¥288,841 million and ¥274,048 million, respectively. ■ 22. Trade and Other Receivables The breakdown of trade and other receivables is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Notes and accounts receivable ¥313,099 ¥297,094 Other accounts receivable 41,423 44,792 Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,820) (9,806) Total trade and other receivables 351,702 332,080 Non-current assets 24,103 22,263 Current assets ¥327,599 ¥309,817 123 ■ 23. Cash and Cash Equivalents The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Cash and deposits ¥346,879 ¥331,801 Short-term investments (cash equivalents) 13,151 9,122 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of financial position 360,030 340,923 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows ¥360,030 ¥340,923 ■ 24. Assets Held for Sale The breakdown of assets held for sale is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Assets Property, plant and equipment ¥200 ¥－ Total ¥200 ¥－ ■ 25. Equity and Other Components of Equity (1) Share capital and capital surplus The movement of the number of issued shares and share capital is as follows: Number of Number of ordinary authorised shares issued shares Share capital Capital surplus (Thousands of shares) (Thousands of shares) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) As of 1 April 2015 9,000,000 2,259,823 ¥103,001 ¥176,822 Increase － － － 81 Decrease － (38,000) － － As of 31 March 2016 9,000,000 2,221,823 103,001 176,903 Increase － － － 266 Decrease － (68,000) － (78) As of 31 March 2017 9,000,000 2,153,823 ¥103,001 ¥177,091 (Note) Decrease in the number of ordinary issued shares during the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2017 resulted from the cancellation of treasury shares. 124 (2) Treasury shares The movement of treasury shares is as follows: Number of shares Amount (Thousands of shares) (Millions of yen) As of 1 April 2015 66,681 ¥ 86,997 Increase 68,445 120,127 Decrease (38,282) (50,013) As of 31 March 2016 96,844 157,111 Increase 60,513 92,193 Decrease (68,540) (111,096) As of 31 March 2017 88,817 ¥ 138,207 (3) Other components of equity Subscription rights to shares The Company had adopted share option plans through the year ended 31 March 2015, and has issued subscription rights to shares under the former Commercial Code and the Companies Act of Japan. Contract conditions and amounts are described in Note “27. Share-based Payment”. Foreign currency translation adjustments This is a foreign currency translation difference that occurred when consolidating financial statements of foreign subsidiaries prepared in a foreign currency. Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets This is a valuation difference between the fair value and acquisition cost of available-for-sale financial assets, which are measured at fair values. ■ 26. Dividends For the year ended 31 March 2016 (1) Dividends paid Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 18 June shareholders held on 17 June 2015 shares ¥35,090 ¥16.00 2015 2015 Board of directors meeting Ordinary 30 September 1 December held on 30 October 2015 shares 34,532 16.00 2015 2015 (Note) The amount of dividends approved by resolution of the board of directors meeting on 30 October 2015 includes dividends of ¥7 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. 125 (2) Dividends whose record date is in the fiscal year ended 31 March 2016 but whose effective date is in the following fiscal year are as follows: Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 21 June shareholders held on 20 June 2016 shares ¥34,007 ¥16.00 2016 2016 (Note) The amount of dividends above includes dividends of ¥7 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. For the year ended 31 March 2017 (1) Dividends paid Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 21 June shareholders held on 20 June 2016 shares ¥34,007 ¥16.00 2016 2016 Board of directors meeting Ordinary 30 September 1 December held on 28 October 2016 shares 36,134 17.00 2016 2016 (Note) 1.The amount of dividends approved by resolution of the board of directors meeting on 20 June 2016 includes dividends of ¥7 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. 2.The amount of dividends approved by resolution of the board of directors meeting on 28 October 2016 includes dividends of ¥15 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. (2) Dividends whose record date is in the fiscal year ended 31 March 2017 but whose effective date is in the following fiscal year are as follows: Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 20 June shareholders held on 19 June 2017 shares ¥35,120 ¥17.00 2017 2017 (Note) The amount of dividends above includes dividends of ¥15 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. 126 ■ 27. Share-based Payment (1) Share option plans (i) Outline of share option plans The Company had adopted share option plans through rights to shares to individuals approved at the the year ended 31 March 2015, and has granted share Company’s board of directors meeting. options to directors and corporate executives of the Holders of subscription rights to shares can exercise Company. The purpose of share option plans is to their share subscription rights only from the day improve the sensitivity to the share price and the following the date of resignation from their position as Group’s financial results and also increase the value of director or corporate executive of the Company. the Group by motivating the members to whom share Share options not exercised during the exercise options are granted. period defined in the allocation contract will be forfeited. After obtaining approval at the meeting of The Company accounts for those share option plans shareholders, share options are granted as subscription as equity-settled share-based payment transactions. (ii) Expenses recognised in the consolidated statement of income (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Total expenses recognised for share options granted ¥73 ¥－ (iii) Movement of the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise price 2016 2017 Weighted average Weighted average exercise price Number of exercise price Number of (Yen) shares (Yen) shares Outstanding, beginning of the period ¥1 3,305,400 ¥1 3,022,900 Granted － － － － Exercised 1 (282,500) 1 (491,400) Forfeited or expired － － － － Outstanding, end of the period 1 3,022,900 1 2,531,500 Options exercisable, end of the period ¥1 3,022,900 ¥1 2,531,500 (Note) 1. The number of share options is presented as the number of underlying shares. 2. The weighted average share prices of share options at the time of exercise during the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2017 are ¥1,675 and ¥1,525, respectively. 127 (iv) Expiration dates and exercise prices of share options outstanding at the end of the period Exercise price Number of shares Expiration per share 2016 2017 date (Yen) Granted on August 2005 24 June 2025 ¥1 46,000 46,000 Granted on February 2007 27 June 2026 1 123,500 56,500 Granted on August 2007 26 June 2027 1 169,500 121,500 Granted on September 2008 24 June 2028 1 173,000 129,000 Granted on July 2009 23 June 2029 1 348,500 263,500 Granted on July 2010 23 June 2030 1 489,000 396,000 Granted on July 2011 20 June 2031 1 557,500 485,000 Granted on July 2012 20 June 2032 1 557,500 498,000 Granted on July 2013 19 June 2033 1 331,500 318,500 Granted on July 2014 18 June 2034 1 226,900 217,500 Total − 3,022,900 2,531,500 (Note) There are vesting conditions in which share subscription rights are vested according to the service record over approximately one year from the grant date of the share option to the vesting date. (2) Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme (i) Outline of the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme From the fiscal year ended 31 March 2016, the Group based on the level of attainment of the medium-term has introduced a Performance-linked Stock management targets. The Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme for directors and corporate Compensation Scheme under which the Company’s executives (excluding outside directors) for the purpose shares are delivered from the BIP Trust is accounted for of increasing their awareness of contributing to the as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction. sustainable growth in business results and corporate In addition, the Company will provide cash benefits value. determined based on stock price of the Company to The Scheme employs a framework referred to as the corporate executives residing overseas based on the executive compensation BIP (Board Incentive Plan) trust level of attainment of the medium-term management (hereinafter the “BIP Trust”) for directors and corporate targets. The Performance-linked Stock Compensation executives other than those residing overseas. Scheme that provides cash benefits from the Company The BIP Trust acquires the Company’s shares and is accounted for as a cash-settled share-based payment delivers those shares to directors and other executives transaction. (ii) Expenses recognised in the consolidated statement of income (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Total expenses recognised for the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme ¥88 ¥290 128 (iii) Measurement approach for the fair value of the Company’s shares granted during the fiscal year based on the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme The weighted average fair value of the Company’s shares granted during the period is calculated based on the following assumptions. 2016 2017 Share price at the grant date 1,695.5 yen 1,603.5 yen Vesting period (Note 1) 3 years 3 years Expected annual divided (Note 2) 32 yen/share 34 yen/share Discount rate (Note 3) 0.0％ (0.3)％ Weighted average fair value 1,600 yen 1,501 yen (Note) 1. Refers to the number of years from the grant date until the shares are expected to be delivered. 2. Calculated based on the latest dividends paid. 3. Based on the yield on Japanese government bonds corresponding to the vesting period. ■ 28. Retirement Benefits The Group, excluding a part of foreign subsidiaries, benefit plans offered, the defined benefit plan adopted in offers post-employment benefits such as defined benefit Japan is a major one, accounting for approximately 80% plans and defined contribution plans. Among the defined of the total defined benefit obligations. (i) Defined benefit plan adopted in Japan as post-employment benefit The Company and its domestic subsidiaries offer Contributions of the employer are made monthly and corporate pension plans and retirement lump-sum also determined as 4.0% of standard salary, which is payment plans as defined benefit plans. calculated based on the estimate of the points granted The benefits of the defined benefit plan are during a year to each participant. When the plan assets determined based on the base compensation calculated are lower than the minimum funding standard at the end by accumulated points earned by the time of retirement of the period, the employer will make additional and promised rate of return based on the yield of 10 contributions. year government bonds. Also, the option of receiving Defined benefit plans are exposed to actuarial risks. benefits in the form of a pension is available for plan The Astellas Corporate Pension Fund assigns staff with participants with 15 years or more enrollments. professional knowledge and expertise about the Defined benefit plans are administered by the composition of plan asset to determine the asset mix Astellas Corporate Pension Fund. Directors of the ratio and manages risks by monitoring on a quarterly pension fund are jointly liable for damages to the fund basis. due to their neglect of duties about management of the funds. (ii) Defined benefit plans of overseas subsidiaries as post-employment benefits Among foreign subsidiaries, ones located in the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland, and some other countries offer defined benefit plans as post-employment benefits. 129 Assets and liabilities of defined benefit plans recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: As of 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Present value of defined benefit obligations ¥ 125,717 ¥31,128 ¥ 156,845 ¥2,788 Fair value of plan assets (111,799) (9,820) (121,620) － Net defined benefit liability (asset) ¥ 13,918 ¥21,308 ¥ 35,226 ¥2,788 Amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position Assets (other non-current assets) ¥ (1,784) ¥ － ¥ (1,784) ¥ － Liabilities (retirement benefit liabilities) 15,702 21,308 37,010 2,788 As of 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Present value of defined benefit obligations ¥ 123,118 ¥ 30,816 ¥ 153,934 ¥2,608 Fair value of plan assets (111,926) (10,374) (122,300) － Net defined benefit liability (asset) ¥ 11,192 ¥ 20,442 ¥ 31,634 ¥2,608 Amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position Assets (other non-current assets) ¥ (2,372) ¥ － ¥ (2,372) ¥ － Liabilities (retirement benefit liabilities) 13,564 20,442 34,006 2,608 130 The movement of the present value of defined benefit obligations is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥117,128 ¥33,950 ¥151,078 ¥2,938 Current service cost 4,687 1,165 5,852 284 Interest cost 1,009 622 1,630 65 Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations −actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 2,033 (180) 1,853 (3) −actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 6,543 (2,760) 3,784 (173) −other 257 217 474 (31) Past service cost, and gains and losses arising from settlements － (12) (12) － Contributions to the plan by plan participants － 83 83 － Payments from the plan (5,940) (1,041) (6,981) (87) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates － (916) (916) (204) Balance at 31 March 2016 125,717 31,128 156,845 2,788 Current service cost 5,110 919 6,029 255 Interest cost 558 637 1,195 59 Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations −actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (5) (360) (365) (6) −actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (1,722) 850 (873) 1 −other (139) 271 131 (100) Past service cost, and gains and losses arising from settlements － (28) (28) － Contributions to the plan by plan participants － 72 72 － Payments from the plan (6,400) (768) (7,168) (51) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates － (1,905) (1,905) (337) Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥123,118 ¥30,816 ¥153,934 ¥2,608 131 The movement of fair value of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥116,457 ¥10,044 ¥126,501 ¥－ Interest income 1,002 206 1,208 － Remeasurements of the fair value of the plan assets −return on plan assets (2,777) (510) (3,287) － −actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (487) (36) (523) － Contributions to the plan −by employer 2,758 719 3,477 － −by plan participants － 83 83 － Payments from the plan (5,154) (394) (5,548) － Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates － (291) (291) － Balance at 31 March 2016 111,799 9,820 121,620 － Interest income 494 211 706 － Remeasurements of the fair value of the plan assets −return on plan assets 2,080 525 2,605 － −actuarial gains/(losses) arising from changes in financial assumptions 411 (17) 394 － Contributions to the plan −by employer 2,756 648 3,404 － −by plan participants － 63 63 － Payments from the plan (5,614) (198) (5,812) － Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates － (679) (679) － Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥111,926 ¥10,374 ¥122,300 ¥－ The Group expects to contribute ¥3,653 million to its defined benefit plans in the fiscal year ending 31 March 2018. 132 The breakdown of the fair value of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Japan Equity ¥ 22,508 ¥ 22,724 Bonds 37,104 37,396 Cash and other investments 52,188 51,806 Total 111,799 111,926 Overseas Equity 4,277 4,337 Bonds 2,381 2,420 Cash and other investments 3,161 3,617 Total 9,820 10,374 Total fair value of plan assets ¥121,620 ¥122,300 (i) Japanese plan assets Equity comprises mainly investment trust funds and it is not active, and they are categorised as Level 2 within categorised as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. the fair value hierarchy. Cash and other investments The fair values of bonds are measured using quoted include alternative investments. prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are (ii) Overseas plan assets Equity is mainly composed of investments with quoted fair values of bonds are measured using quoted prices prices in active markets or with measured value using for identical or similar assets in markets that are not quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets active, and they are categorised as Level 2 within the that are not active, and they are mainly categorised as fair value hierarchy. Cash and other investments include Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The alternative investments. Significant actuarial assumptions and sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption are as follows: 2016 2017 Discount rate (%) Japan 0.4%-0.5% 0.6%-0.8% Overseas 1.5%-3.4% 1.8%-2.5% The impact of a 0.5% increase or decrease in the other assumptions are held constant. In practice, discount rate as significant actuarial assumption used changes in some of the assumptions may occur in a on the defined benefit obligations as of 31 March 2017 correlated manner. When calculating the sensitivity of would result in a ¥11,236 million decrease and ¥12,715 the defined benefit obligations, the same method has million increase, respectively, in the defined benefit been applied as calculating the defined benefit obligation. obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of The sensitivity analysis does not consider financial position. correlations between assumptions, assuming that all 133 The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligations is as follows: 2016 2017 Japan 13.1 years 13.7 years Overseas 19.4 years 18.6 years ■ 29. Provisions The movement of provisions for the year ended 31 March 2016 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Trade-related Asset retirement provisions obligations Other Total Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥ 79,107 ¥1,946 ¥ 9,188 ¥ 90,241 Increase during the year 79,850 45 5,122 85,016 Decrease due to intended use (60,614) (35) (1,512) (62,162) Reversal during the year (10,889) － (653) (11,542) Other (3,922) (8) (683) (4,612) Balance at 31 March 2016 83,531 1,948 11,462 96,941 Non-current 4,582 1,948 553 7,083 Current 78,949 － 10,909 89,858 Total provisions ¥ 83,531 ¥1,948 ¥11,462 ¥ 96,941 The movement of provisions for the year ended 31 March 2017 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Trade-related Asset retirement provisions obligations Other Total Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥ 83,531 ¥1,948 ¥11,462 ¥ 96,941 Increase during the year 81,742 7 3,648 85,397 Decrease due to intended use (71,488) (7) (9,282) (80,777) Reversal during the year (2,429) － (634) (3,063) Other 2,378 (11) 646 3,013 Balance at 31 March 2017 93,734 1,938 5,839 101,511 Non-current 2,214 1,938 769 4,921 Current 91,520 － 5,070 96,589 Total provisions ¥ 93,734 ¥1,938 ¥ 5,839 ¥101,511 Details of provisions are as follows: (i) Trade-related provisions The Group recognises provisions for expenditures adjustments to customers, based on the conditions of expected to be incurred after the end of the period contracts and past experience. related to sales rebates, discounts, Medicare and The outflow of economic benefits is expected within Medicaid of the United States, and other price one year from the end of the reporting period. 134 (ii) Asset retirement obligations The Group recognises asset retirement obligations The outflow of economic benefits is expected after based on past performance in order to provide for the one year from the end of the reporting period. restoration of rented offices. ■ 30. Other Financial Liabilities The breakdown of other financial liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Other financial liabilities (non-current) Financial liabilities at FVTPL Contingent consideration ¥ － ¥27,253 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities 722 1,136 Total other financial liabilities (non-current) ¥ 722 ¥28,389 Other financial liabilities (current) Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 351 ¥ 626 Contingent consideration － 1,196 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities 505 499 Other 649 671 Total other financial liabilities (current) ¥1,505 ¥ 2,992 Total other financial liabilities ¥2,227 ¥31,381 The maturity and the present value of finance lease liabilities are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Minimum lease payments Not later than one year ¥ 505 ¥ 499 Later than one year and not later than five years 719 1,110 Later than five years 3 26 Present value of finance lease liabilities ¥1,226 ¥1,635 135 ■ 31. Other Liabilities The breakdown of other liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Other non-current liabilities Other long-term employee benefits ¥15,316 ¥17,727 Deferred income 61,689 34,153 Other 564 1,648 Total other non-current liabilities ¥77,569 ¥53,528 Other current liabilities Accrued bonuses ¥30,199 ¥30,665 Accrued paid absences 10,517 11,792 Other accrued expenses 46,804 43,493 Deferred income 28,779 16,443 Other 4,827 4,156 Total other current liabilities ¥121,126 ¥106,548 (Note) Deferred income under other non-current liabilities and deferred income under other current liabilities include deferred income of ¥57,787 million and ¥28,411 million, respectively, in the year ended 31 March 2016, and ¥30,593 million and ¥14,877 million, respectively, in the year ended 31 March 2017, in connection with the transfer of the global dermatology business to LEO Pharma A/S. ■ 32. Trade and Other Payables The breakdown of trade and other payables is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Accounts payable-trade ¥110,852 ¥115,188 Other payables 72,305 68,078 Total trade and other payables ¥183,157 ¥183,266 Non-current ¥ 1,599 ¥ 440 Current 181,559 182,826 ■ 33. Financial Instruments (1) Capital management The Group’s capital management principle is to maintain The Group monitors financial indicators in order to an optimal capital structure by improving capital maintain an optimal capital structure. Credit ratings are efficiency and ensuring sound and flexible financial monitored for financial soundness and flexibility, and so conditions in order to achieve sustained improvement in is return on equity attributable to owners of the parent the enterprise value, which will lead to improved return (ROE) for capital efficiency. to shareholders. The Group is not subject to material capital regulation. 136 (2) Classification of financial assets and financial liabilities The breakdown of financial assets and financial liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 290 ¥ － Other 8,092 10,762 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 351,702 332,080 Loans and other financial assets 25,579 23,961 Available-for-sale financial assets 69,856 40,428 Cash and cash equivalents 360,030 340,923 Total financial assets ¥815,549 ¥748,153 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 351 ¥ 626 Contingent consideration － 28,450 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 183,157 183,266 Other 1,875 2,306 Total financial liabilities ¥185,384 ¥214,647 (Note) 1. Financial assets at FVTPL, loans and other financial assets, and available-for-sale financial assets are included in “Other financial assets” in the consolidated statement of financial position. 2. Financial liabilities at FVTPL and financial liabilities at amortised cost are included in “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position. 137 (3) Financial risk management policy The Group is exposed to financial risks such as The Group limits the use of derivatives to credit risks, liquidity risks, and foreign exchange risks in transactions for the purpose of hedging financial risks operating businesses, and it manages risks based on its and does not use derivatives for speculation purposes. policy to mitigate them. (i) Credit risk (a) Credit risk management (c) Maximum exposure to credit risk Receivables, such as trade receivables, resulting from Other than guaranteed obligations, the Group’s the business activities of the Group are exposed to the maximum exposure to credit risks without taking into customer’s credit risk. This risk is managed by grasping account any collateral held or other credit the financial condition of the customer and monitoring enhancements is the carrying amount of financial the trade receivables balance. Also, the Group reviews instruments less impairment losses in the consolidated collectability of trade receivables depending on the statement of financial position. The Group’s maximum credit conditions of customers and recognises an exposure to credit risks of guaranteed obligations as of allowance for doubtful accounts as necessary. 31 March 2016 and 2017 were ¥1,379 million and ¥444 Securities held by the Group are exposed to the million, respectively. issuer’s credit risk, and deposits are exposed to the credit risk of banks. Also, derivative transactions that the (d) Collateral Group conducts in order to hedge financial risks are The Group has securities and deposits received as exposed to the credit risk of the financial institutions collateral for certain trade receivables and other which are counterparties of those transactions. In regard receivables. The carrying amount of securities held as to securities transactions and deposit transactions in collateral is ¥1,088 million at 31 March 2017 (¥1,478 fund management, the Group only deals with banks and million at 31 March 2016), and the carrying amount of issuers with certain credit ratings and manages deposits received is ¥72 million at 31 March 2017 (¥85 investments within the defined period and credit limit, in million at 31 March 2016). accordance with Global Cash Investment Policy. In addition, regarding derivative transactions, the Group only deals with financial institutions with certain credit ratings in accordance with Astellas Global Treasury Policy. (b) Concentrations of credit risk In Japan, like other pharmaceutical companies, the Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers. Sales to the four largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 75% of the Group’s sales in Japan, and the amount of trade receivables due from those four wholesalers are ¥121,505 million at 31 March 2016 and ¥106,464 million at 31 March 2017. 138 The analysis of aging of financial assets that are past due but not impaired is as follows: (Millions of yen) Past due but not impaired Neither Between Between Allowance past due Within three six months for nor three months and and one Over doubtful impaired months six months year one year accounts Total Balance at 31 March 2016 Trade and other receivables ¥331,749 ¥17,740 ¥2,080 ¥1,889 ¥934 ¥(2,689) ¥351,702 Loans and other financial assets 25,572 1 － 6 － － 25,579 Total ¥357,321 ¥17,740 ¥2,080 ¥1,895 ¥934 ¥(2,689) ¥377,281 Balance at 31 March 2017 Trade and other receivables ¥296,263 ¥12,563 ¥1,187 ¥1,076 ¥858 ¥(1,250) ¥310,697 Loans and other financial assets 23,955 1 － － 6 － 23,961 Total ¥320,218 ¥12,564 ¥1,187 ¥1,076 ¥864 ¥(1,250) ¥334,658 Financial assets that are individually determined to be impaired are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Trade and other receivables (gross) ¥ 132 ¥29,939 Allowance for doubtful accounts (132) (8,556) Trade and other receivables (net) ¥ － ¥21,383 Loans and other financial assets (gross) ¥ 52 ¥ 14 Allowance for doubtful accounts (52) (14) Loans and other financial assets (net) ¥ － ¥ － The movement of the allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Balance at the beginning of the year ¥2,509 ¥2,873 Increase during the year 477 9,704 Decrease due to intended use (7) (229) Reversal during the year (33) (2,351) Other (74) (176) Balance at the end of the year ¥2,873 ¥9,820 139 (ii) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk management The Group is exposed to liquidity risk that the Group of financial obligations and respond flexibly to strategic might have difficulty settling financial obligations. investment opportunities. Also, the balance is reported However, the Group is maintaining the liquidity on hand monthly to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). that enables the Group to meet the assumed repayment Financial liabilities by maturity date are as follows: As of 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Between Between Between Carrying Contractual Within six six months one year and two years Over amount cash flows months and one year two years and five years five years Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 351 ¥ 351 ¥ － ¥ 351 ¥ － ¥ － ¥－ Subtotal 351 351 － 351 － － － Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 183,157 183,157 181,107 452 112 1,486 － Other 1,875 1,875 911 242 308 411 3 Subtotal 185,033 185,033 182,018 694 420 1,897 3 Total ¥185,384 ¥185,384 ¥182,018 ¥1,045 ¥420 ¥1,897 ¥ 3 As of 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Between Between Between Carrying Contractual Within six six months one year and two years Over amount cash flows months and one year two years and five years five years Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 626 ¥ 626 ¥ － ¥ 626 ¥ － ¥ － ¥－ Subtotal 626 626 － 626 － － － Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 183,266 183,266 181,507 1,319 313 127 － Other 2,306 2,306 927 245 405 703 26 Subtotal 185,571 185,571 182,433 1,564 718 830 26 Total ¥186,197 ¥186,197 ¥182,433 ¥2,190 ¥718 ¥830 ¥26 140 (iii) Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk management currencies. Also, the balance of derivative transactions The Group operates globally and the Group’s business is reported monthly the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). results and financial position are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign exchange sensitivity analysis The Group’s long-term basic policy is to mitigate the The financial impact on profit before tax for the years foreign exchange risks by controlling the amount of the ended 31 March 2016 and 2017 in the case of a 10% Group’s net assets denominated in foreign currencies to appreciation of Japanese yen, which is the Company’s the level corresponding to the business scale of each functional currency, against the U.S. dollar and euro is area. In the short term, the Group uses derivatives such as follows. as forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the Also, it is based on the assumption that currencies impact of exchange rate fluctuations arising from import other than the ones used for the calculation do not and export transactions denominated in foreign fluctuate and other change factors are held constant. (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Profit before tax U.S. dollar ¥ (190) ¥ (34) Euro (7,912) (745) (Note) The above negative amounts represent the negative impact on profit before tax in the event of a 10% appreciation in Japanese yen. (4) Fair values of financial instruments (i) Fair value calculation of financial instruments Financial assets at FVTPL Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial assets at FVTPL comprise mainly debt Financial liabilities at FVTPL comprise contingent securities and forward foreign exchange contracts. The consideration for business combinations and forward fair value of those financial instruments is measured foreign exchange contracts. based on prices provided by counterparty financial The fair value of contingent consideration for institutions. business combinations is calculated based on the estimated success probability of development activities Loans and receivables and the time value of money. The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts short period of settlement terms. is measured based on prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. Available-for-sale financial assets The fair value of marketable securities is based on Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost quoted market prices at the end of the period. The fair Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise value of unquoted equity shares is measured mainly trade and other payables and other financial liabilities. based on the discounted cash flows. The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short period of settlement terms. Cash and cash equivalents The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short maturities of the instruments. 141 (ii) Financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis Fair value hierarchy The levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: − Level 3: Fair value measured using significant − Level 1: Fair value measured using quoted prices unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities. (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; The level of the fair value hierarchy is determined − Level 2: Fair value measured using inputs other based on the lowest level of significant input used for than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are the measurement of fair value. observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly The Group accounts for transfers between levels of or indirectly; and the fair value hierarchy as if they occurred at the end of each quarter. The breakdown of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy, is as follows: As of 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ － ¥ 290 ¥ － ¥ 290 Other － 6,087 2,005 8,092 Subtotal － 6,377 2,005 8,382 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 55,995 － － 55,995 Unquoted equity shares － － 13,861 13,861 Other equity securities － － 0 0 Subtotal 55,995 － 13,861 69,856 Total financial assets 55,995 6,377 15,866 78,238 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts － 351 － 351 Subtotal － 351 － 351 Total financial liabilities ¥ － ¥ 351 ¥ － ¥ 351 (Note) Financial assets at FVTPL and available-for-sale financial assets, and financial liabilities at FVTPL are included in “Other financial assets” and “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position, respectively. 142 As of 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Other ¥ － ¥7,864 ¥ 2,897 ¥10,762 Subtotal － 7,864 2,897 10,762 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 26,170 － － 26,170 Unquoted equity shares － － 14,258 14,258 Other equity securities － － 0 0 Subtotal 26,170 － 14,258 40,428 Total financial assets 26,170 7,864 17,156 51,190 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts － 626 － 626 Subtotal － 626 － 626 Total financial liabilities ¥ － ¥ 626 ¥ － ¥ 626 (Note) 1.Financial assets at FVTPL and available-for-sale financial assets, and financial liabilities at FVTPL are included in “Other financial assets” and “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position, respectively. 2. The above amounts do not include the contingent consideration for business combinations. For details on the contingent consideration, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 143 The movement of fair value of financial assets categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy is as follows: For the year ended 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Financial Available-forassets sale financial at FVTPL assets Total Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥ 750 ¥16,121 ¥16,871 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note 1) (153) 240 87 Recognised in other comprehensive income － (1,024) (1,024) Purchases, issues, sales, and settlements Purchases 1,408 744 2,152 Sales (1) (664) (664) Transfers to Investments in associates and joint ventures － (576) (576) Transfers to/from Level 3 (Note 2) － (657) (657) Other － (322) (322) Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥2,005 ¥13,861 ¥15,866 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note 1) ¥(151) ¥ － ¥ (151) (Note) 1. This is included in “Finance income” and “Finance expense” of the consolidated statement of income. 2. These financial assets were transferred from Level 3, since a significant input that affects measurement of fair value became observable. For the year ended 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Financial Available-forassets sale financial at FVTPL assets Total Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥2,005 ¥13,861 ¥15,866 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note) (60) (150) (211) Recognised in other comprehensive income － 280 280 Purchases, issues, sales, and settlements Purchases 952 482 1,434 Sales － (10) (10) Other 1 (204) (203) Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥2,897 ¥14,258 ¥17,156 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note) ¥ (60) ¥ (135) ¥ (196) (Note) This is included in “Finance income” and “Finance expense” of the consolidated statement of income. 144 The financial assets categorised within Level 3 are The fair value of unquoted equity shares is composed mainly of unquoted equity shares. measured by relevant departments of the Company and The fair value of significant unquoted equity shares each Group company in accordance with the Group is measured using discounted cash flows. The fair value accounting policy every quarter. The results with of unquoted equity shares is categorised within Level 3 evidences of changes in fair value are reported to a because unobservable inputs such as estimates of superior and, if necessary, to the Executive Committee future net operating profit after tax and WACC are used as well. for the measurement. The WACC used for the In regards to financial instruments categorised within measurement of fair value depends on region or Level 3, there would be no significant change in fair industry. In the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2017, value when one or more of the unobservable inputs is the WACC used for measurement was 8.0%. Generally, changed to reflect reasonably possible alternative the fair value would decrease if the WACC capital were assumptions. higher. ■ 34. Operating Leases Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Not later than one year ¥13,017 ¥13,237 Later than one year and not later than five years 26,850 20,776 Later than five years 2,349 3,167 Total ¥42,217 ¥37,179 Future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Future minimum sublease payments expected to be received ¥2,286 ¥1,819 Minimum lease payments and sublease payments received recognised as expenses are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Minimum lease payments ¥17,634 ¥17,050 Sublease payments received (229) (211) Total ¥17,405 ¥16,839 The Group leases buildings, vehicles and other assets terms of purchase options, and escalation clauses. In under operating leases. addition, there are no material restrictions imposed by The significant leasing arrangements have terms of the lease arrangements. renewal, but there exist no contingent rents payable, 145 ■ 35. Commitments The breakdown of commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Intangible assets Research and development milestone payments ¥251,978 ¥299,099 Sales milestone payments 153,833 290,749 Total 405,812 589,848 Property, plant and equipment ¥ 8,715 ¥ 5,114 Commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets The Group has entered into research and development “Sales milestone payments” represent obligations to collaborations and in-license agreements of products and pay the amount set out in an individual contract technologies with a number of third parties. These agreement upon achievement of a milestone determined agreements may require the Group to make milestone according to the target of sales. payments upon the achievement of agreed objectives or The amounts shown in the table above represent the when certain conditions are met as defined in the maximum payments to be made when all milestones are agreements. achieved, and they are undiscounted and not risk “Research and development milestone payments” adjusted. Since the achievement of the conditions for represent obligations to pay the amount set out in an payment is highly uncertain, it is unlikely that they will all individual contract agreement upon achievement of a fall due and the amounts of the actual payments may vary milestone determined according to the stage of research considerably from those stated in the table. and development. ■ 36. Related Party Transactions (1) Major companies the Group controls A list of major companies the Group controls is presented in “Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates”. (2) Compensation of key management personnel The table below shows, by the type, the compensation of key management personnel: (Millions of yen) 2016 2017 Rewards and salaries ¥1,253 ¥1,353 Share-based payment 98 164 Other 420 430 Total compensation ¥1,771 ¥1,947 Key management personnel consist of 21 people (22 during 2016) including Directors, Corporate Audit & Supervisory Board Members and members of the Executive Committee. 146 ■ 37. Business Combinations For the year ended 31 March 2016 (1) Outline of business combination (i)Name and business description of the acquiree Name of the acquiree: Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (“Ocata”) (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) Business description: Research and development of new therapies for ophthalmic diseases in the field of regenerative medicine (ii) Acquisition date 10 February 2016 (iii) Percentage of voting equity interests acquired 100% (iv) Acquisition method Tender offer to purchase all issued and outstanding shares of common stock in cash (v) Primary reasons for the business combination The Group strives to create a solid and resilient Ocata has an advanced technology that can establish continuity of growth over the midto long-term through fully-differentiated cells from pluripotent stem cells. the pursuit of the three main strategies of Strategic Plan Ocata also has strengths in clinical studies for cell 2015-2017 (“the Strategic Plan”) – “Maximizing Product therapy. Value,” “Creating Innovation” and “Pursuing Operational The acquisition of Ocata represents the coming Excellence.” Especially in “Creating Innovation,” the together of two companies with significant Group recognises the importance of advancing into new accomplishments and a shared commitment to develop opportunities in addition to enhancing capabilities to innovative therapies that address the unmet medical deliver innovative medicines. The Group added muscle needs of patients suffering from severe ophthalmic diseases and ophthalmology to its focused disease diseases. The acquisition also represents a step toward areas for research and is promoting drug discovery achieving the Strategic Plan. Further, acquiring Ocata research in those areas. Further, the Group invests will enable the Group to establish a presence in proactively in regenerative medicine, particularly in cell ophthalmology and a leading position in cell therapy. therapy and next-generation vaccines as initiatives Strategic rationale behind the acquisition: involving new technologies and new modalities.  Establish a presence in ophthalmology  Establish a leading position in cell therapy by Ocata is a clinical stage biotechnology company obtaining Ocata’s world-class capability focused on the development and commercialization of new therapies in the field of regenerative medicine. 147 (2) The fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and purchase consideration transferred as at the date of acquisition are as follows: (Millions of yen) Property, plant and equipment ¥ 151 Other intangible assets 14,321 Deferred tax assets 3,679 Cash and cash equivalents 1,084 Other assets 41 Other liabilities (2,494) Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (net) 16,782 Goodwill 26,955 Total 43,737 Fair value of purchase consideration transferred (cash) ¥43,737 Certain items had reflected provisional fair values as of a result, goodwill and deferred tax assets increased by 31 March 2016, however, the Group completed the ¥2,460 million and ¥481 million, respectively, while other purchase price allocation during the year ended 31 intangible assets decreased by ¥2,941 million. Goodwill March 2017. Along with this, the Group retrospectively mainly comprises the value of expected synergies revised the corresponding balances in the consolidated arising from the acquisition and future economic statement of financial position as of 31 March 2016. As benefits, which is not separately recognised. (3) Cash flow information (Millions of yen) Fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥43,737 Cash and cash equivalents held by the acquiree (1,084) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired ¥42,653 (4) Acquisition-related costs Acquisition-related costs: ¥939 million Acquisition-related costs were recognised in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of income. (5) Effect on the consolidated statement of income (i) Profit (loss) before tax of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 March 2016: ¥(638) million (ii) Profit (loss) before tax of the combined entity for the year ended 31 March 2016 assuming the acquisition date had been at the beginning of the fiscal year (unaudited): ¥(5,357) million (Note) This effect is calculated based on the business results of Ocata from 1 April 2015 to the acquisition date. 148 For the year ended 31 March 2017 (1) Outline of business combination (i) Name and business description of the acquiree Name of the acquiree: Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG (“Ganymed”) Business description: Development of antibodies against cancer (ii) Acquisition date 20 December 2016 (iii) Percentage of voting equity interests acquired 100% (iv) Acquisition method Acquisition of all shares of common stock in cash with contingent consideration to be paid when certain milestones are achieved in the future. (v) Primary reasons for the business combination Ganymed is a formerly privately-held biopharmaceutical stages including IMAB362. Through the acquisition, company founded in 2001 and focuses on the Astellas will expand its oncology pipeline with antibody development of a new class of cancer drugs. Ganymed program in the late-stage to build upon its leading has several pipeline assets in pre-clinical and clinical oncology franchise as a platform for sustainable growth. (2) The fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and purchase consideration transferred as at the acquisition date are as follows: (Millions of yen) Provisional fair Provisional fair Fair value value value adjustments (as adjusted) Property, plant and equipment ¥ 272 ¥ － ¥ 272 Other intangible assets 62,275 23,758 86,033 Cash and cash equivalents 629 － 629 Other assets 1,103 － 1,103 Deferred tax liabilities (18,679) (7,127) (25,806) Other liabilities (5,066) － (5,066) Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (net) 40,534 16,631 57,164 Goodwill 28,799 (5,486) 23,313 Total 69,333 11,145 80,478 Cash 51,544 － 51,544 Contingent consideration 17,789 11,145 28,934 Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 69,333 ¥11,145 ¥ 80,478 149 During the year ended 31 March 2017, further facts incomplete as of 31 March 2017 as the Group is still in came to light and additional analysis was performed on the process of finalizing the fair value measurement. the fair value measurement of the assets acquired and Goodwill mainly comprises the value of expected liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. As a result, synergies arising from the acquisition and future the provisional fair values were adjusted as above. The economic benefits, which is not separately recognised. initial accounting for the business combination is (3) Contingent consideration The contingent consideration relates to certain The contingent consideration is classified as Level 3 milestones based on progress in the development of within the fair value hierarchy. For details on the fair IMAB362, Ganymed’s clinical program. Maximum value hierarchy, please refer to Note “33. Financial potential future cash outflows associated with the Instruments”. The fair value of the contingent contingent consideration total 860 million euros consideration increases if the estimate of the success (¥103,019 million). The fair value of the contingent probability of the clinical program, which is the consideration is calculated based on the estimated significant unobservable input, is raised. success probability of the clinical program adjusted for the time value of money. The movement of the contingent consideration for the year ended 31 March 2017 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥ － Business combination 28,934 Settlements － Movement of fair value 35 Exchange differences (519) Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥28,450 The balance of scheduled payments of the contingent consideration by maturity date as of 31 March 2017 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Not later than one year ¥ 1,198 Later than one year and not later than five years 14,543 Later than five years 13,241 Total ¥28,982 150 (4) Cash flow information (Millions of yen) Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 80,478 Fair value of contingent consideration included in purchase consideration transferred (28,934) Cash and cash equivalents held by the acquiree (629) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired ¥ 50,915 (5) Acquisition-related costs Acquisition-related costs: ¥101 million Acquisition-related costs were recognised in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of income. (6) Effect on the consolidated statement of income (i) Profit (loss) before tax of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 March 2017: ¥(1,151) million (ii) Profit (loss) before tax of the combined entity for the year ended 31 March 2017 assuming the acquisition date had been at the beginning of the fiscal year (unaudited): ¥(3,825) million (Note) This effect is calculated based on the business results of Ganymed from 1 April 2016 to the acquisition date. 151 ■ 38. Contingent Liabilities Legal Proceedings various state laws, APUS misused the Citizen Petition The Group is involved in various claims and legal process for the sole purpose of delaying the approval of proceedings of a nature considered common to the generic tacrolimus by the U.S. Food and Drug pharmaceutical industry. Administration, thereby injuring the plaintiffs. In June These proceedings are generally related to product 2011, the U.S. Judicial Panel on MultiDistrict Litigation liability claims, competition and antitrust law, intellectual ordered that the cases be consolidated before the U.S. property matters, employment claims, and government District Court for the District of Massachusetts. investigations. In January 2015, APUS settled all claims brought In general, since litigation and other legal against it by the direct purchaser plaintiffs. In May 2015, proceedings contain many uncertainties and complex the Court approved the settlement and dismissed the factors, it is often not possible to make reliable judgment case. regarding the possibility of losses nor to estimate In February 2016, APUS settled all claims brought expected financial effect if these matters are decided in against it by the indirect purchaser plaintiffs. In a manner that is adverse to the Group. November 2016, the Court approved the settlement and In these cases, disclosures would be made as dismissed the case. appropriate, but no provision would be made by the Group. Prograf Litigation Astellas Pharma US, Inc. (APUS), one of the Company’s indirect US subsidiaries, was named as a defendant in 2011 in several separate lawsuits brought by plaintiffs in various federal courts on behalf of themselves and proposed classes of all direct and indirect purchasers of Prograf. These lawsuits involve allegations that under the federal antitrust laws and 152 ■ 39. Events after the Reporting Period Acquisition of Ogeda SA (1) Outline of business combination (i) Name and business description of the acquiree Name of the acquiree: Ogeda SA Business description: Development of small molecule drugs targeting G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) (ii) Acquisition date 16 May 2017 (iii) Percentage of voting equity interests acquired 100% (iv) Acquisition method Acquisition of all shares of common stock in cash with contingent consideration to be paid when certain milestones are achieved in the future.  Cash 500 million euros  Milestone payments Total 300 million euros based on the progress in the development of fezolinetant (v) Primary reasons for the business combination Ogeda SA is a privately owned drug discovery company development in multiple therapeutic areas including founded in 1994 and focuses on the discovery and inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Through the development of small molecule drug candidates acquisition, the Group will expand its late stage pipeline, targeting GPCRs. Ogeda has fezolinetant in the clinical thereby further solidifying its mediumto long-term development stage. In addition, Ogeda has several growth prospects. small molecules targeting GPCRs in pre-clinical Detailed information on the accounting treatment is not disclosed as the initial accounting treatment for this business combination has not been completed by the approval date of the consolidated financial statements. 153 154 Financial Information and Data Investor Information Common Stock (as of March 31, 2017) Transfer Agent for Common Stock in Japan Authorized: 9,000,000,000 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Issued: 2,153,823,175 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Japan (including 87,917,718 treasury stock) Number of shareholders: 114,997 Major Shareholders (as of March 31, 2017) Shares owned Percentage of total common (Thousand shares) shares outstanding The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 152,044 7.35 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 113,642 5.50 State Street Bank and Trust Company 80,827 3.91 Nippon Life Insurance Company 64,486 3.12 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385632 53,215 2.57 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 39,311 1.90 State Street Bank West Client Treaty 505234 37,239 1.80 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385147 34,367 1.66 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 7) 30,101 1.45 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 1) 29,209 1.41 Notes: Shares owned are rounded down to the nearest thousand shares, while the percentage of total common shares outstanding is rounded down to two decimal places. Astellas holds 87,917 thousand shares of treasury stock, but it is not included in the above list of major shareholders. Breakdown of Shareholders (as of March 31, 2017) Other companies 3.4% Treasury stock 4.1% Securities companies 3.5% Individuals and others 9.1% Foreign companies and others 49.3% Financial institutions 30.7% 155 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Corporate Data Company Name Founded Astellas Pharma Inc. 1923 Head Office Professional Institution Affiliation 2-5-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho, Chuo-ku, International Federation of Pharmaceutical Tokyo 103-8411, Japan Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) TEL: +81-3-3244-3000 https://www.astellas.com/en/ Stock Exchange Listing Tokyo (Securities Code: 4503) Capital (as of March 31, 2017) ¥103,001 million Independent Auditors Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Representative Hibiya Kokusai Building, 2-2-3 Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Yoshihiko Hatanaka Tokyo 100-0011, Japan Representative Director, President and CEO Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates (as of March 2017) Astellas is a group of companies engaged solely in the pharmaceutical business. The Group consists of 92 companies, which include Astellas Pharma Inc., 81 consolidated subsidiaries and 10 affiliates accounted for by the equity method. Major Group companies are listed as follows: Japan Manufacturing Base Astellas Pharma Tech Co., Ltd. R&D Bases Astellas Research Technologies Co., Ltd. Astellas Analytical Science Laboratories, Inc. Other Astellas Business Service Co., Ltd. Astellas Learning Institute Co., Ltd. Astellas Marketing and Sales Support Co., Ltd. Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 156 Financial Information and Data Americas Sales Bases Holding Company in North America • Astellas Pharma Ges. mbH (Austria) • Astellas US Holding, Inc. • Astellas Pharma B.V. (Belgium) 1 Astellas Way, Northbrook, IL 60062-6111, U.S.A. • Astellas Pharma s.r.o (Czech Republic) Regional Headquarters • Astellas Pharma A/S (Denmark) • Astellas US LLC • Astellas Pharma S.A.S (France) 1 Astellas Way, Northbrook, IL 60062-6111, U.S.A. • Astellas Pharma GmbH (Germany) TEL: +1-800-888-7704 • Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE (Greece) R&D Bases • Astellas Pharma Kft. (Hungary) • Astellas Pharma Global Development, Inc. • Astellas Pharma Co., Limited (Ireland) • Agensys, Inc. • Astellas Pharma S.p.A. (Italy) • Astellas Research Institute of America LLC • Astellas Pharma B.V. (Netherlands) • Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine • Astellas Pharma International B.V. (Netherlands) Sales Bases • Astellas Pharma Sp.zo.o. (Poland) • Astellas Pharma US, Inc. • Astellas Farma Limitada (Portugal) • Astellas Pharma Canada, Inc. (Canada) • JSC Astellas Pharma (Russia) • Astellas Farma Brasil Importação e Distribuição de • Astellas Pharma d.o.o (Slovenia) Medicamentos Ltda. (Brazil) • Astellas Pharma (Proprietary) Ltd (South Africa) • Astellas Farma Colombia S.A.S (Colombia) • Astellas Pharma S.A. (Spain) Other • Astellas Pharma A.G. (Switzerland) • Astellas US Technologies, Inc. • Astellas Pharma ilac Ticaret ve Sanayi A.S. (Turkey) • Astellas Venture Management LLC • Astellas Pharma DMCC (United Arab Emirates) Note: All subsidiaries for which no country has been indicated are located in the U.S. • Astellas Pharma Ltd. (United Kingdom) EMEA Asia & Oceania Holding Company in EMEA Sales and Other Bases • Astellas B.V. • Astellas Pharma China, Inc. (Sales and manufacturing, China) Sylviusweg 62, 2333, BE Leiden, The Netherlands • Astellas Pharma Hong Kong Co., Ltd. (Hong Kong) TEL: +31-71-5455745 • Astellas Pharma Taiwan, Inc. (Taiwan) Regional Headquarters (Astellas EMEA Operations) • Astellas Pharma Korea, Inc. (Korea) • Astellas Pharma Europe Ltd. • Astellas Pharma Philippines, Inc. (Philippines) 2000 Hillswood Drive, Chertsey, Surrey, KT16 0RS, U.K. • Astellas Pharma (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) TEL: +44-203-379-8000 • P.T. Astellas Pharma Indonesia (Indonesia) R&D and Manufacturing Bases • Astellas Pharma India Private Limited (India) • Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. • Astellas Pharma Australia Pty Ltd. (Australia) (R&D and manufacturing, Netherlands) • Astellas Pharma Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) • Astellas Ireland Co., Limited • Astellas Pharma Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. (Malaysia) (Development and manufacturing, Ireland) 157 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Introduction Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Inclusion in SRI Indexes Astellas is included as a constituent stock in the following global socially responsible investment (SRI) indexes. Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index (DJSI Asia Pacific), the Asia Pacific version of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) FTSE4Good Index, an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 158 Astellas Pharma Inc. 2-5-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8411, Japan https://www.astellas.com/en/ Please direct inquiries concerning Annual Report 2017 to: Astellas Pharma Inc. Corporate Communications TEL: +81-3-3244-3202 FAX: +81-3-5201-7473 This report is printed with environmentally friendly vegetable-based inks on FSCTM-certified paper made of wood sourced from responsibly managed forests, Issued in August 2017 using a waterless printing process. Printed in Japan
