about this report STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CEO LETTER G4-1 Fairmount Santrol is proud to share our 11th Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report, Staying True. Our commitment to sustainable development (SD) remains unwavering, and our Family Members elevated our performance in 2016. We were inspired to see beyond the challenging market conditions, remaining an employer and business partner of choice. Save EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM From left to right: From left to right: Michael F. Biehl, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer; Daniel N. Gerber, Operations; Robert B. Larson, Engineering & Supply Chain Operations; George W. Magaud, Chief Strategy & Innovation Ofﬁcer; Jenniffer D. Deckard, President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; Gerald L. Clancey, Chief Commercial Ofﬁcer; Brian J. Richardson, Chief People Ofﬁcer; David J. Crandall, General Counsel and Secretary Fairmount Santrol believes that Staying True to our principles—ethics, safety, environmental stewardship, social responsibility, empowerment, personal excellence, shared ownership, fun and more—leads to better business outcomes. Our culture drives collaboration, innovation, and makes us think about the world around us. Our Do Good. Do Well. culture inspires us to do better, work harder, give more and rise above—strengthening our business, Family Members, communities and planet for the long-term. In 2016, this was evident as we reported sales performance that was greater than the overall proppant market growth. Our Family Members’ can-do attitude and dedication to sustainable advancements inspired us to make signiﬁcant progress on our People, Planet and Prosperity commitments, set bold Vision 2020 SD goals and accomplish the following: Family Members achieved 101 percent of our 2016 SD Team goals and individual facilities achieved 97 percent of their SD goals. Our continued focus on safety enabled us to outperform the industry average Safety statistics and to surpass our record for our best year in Total Case Incident Rates (TCIR). Family Members dedicated 9,826 volunteer hours to the communities in which we live and work. We achieved zero waste at 27 of our 31 facilities in operation, including our largest facilities. We implemented efﬁciency upgrades across our operations and logistics processes that improved our energy consumption. To fully sequester our 2015 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, we funded or planted over 102,000 trees, with 10 percent of the trees planted by our Family Members. We shipped the highest volume of raw frac sand in our company’s history. We celebrated the opening of our new, state-of-the-art Wedron 7 production facility, which is industry leading in size, cost and efﬁciency. Through our foundation we donated $1.2 million to our communities, funding the health, wellness, and education of the next generation as well as the health of our planet. By Staying True to our long-standing belief that investing in People, Planet, and Prosperity pays, our people remain inspired, our efﬁciency has improved, and our stakeholders are reaping the beneﬁts from both previous and current efforts. As market conditions continue to shift, we will remain focused on the efﬁcient use of our ﬁnancial and natural resources, ensuring that our customers beneﬁt from our logistical efﬁciencies and product innovations, all of which reduce our environmental impact. Finally, core to who we are, we will invest in the development of our people, ensuring that we have the talent required to lead our company as we look to 2017 and beyond. In reading this report, produced in alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and the UN Global Compact’s Communication on Progress (COP), you will learn ﬁrsthand what Staying True means to the Fairmount Santrol Family. Best Regards, Jenniffer Deckard, President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer FMSA VOLUME SOLD (THOUSANDS OF TONS) PERCENT OF SHIPMENTS VIA UNIT TRAINS TERMINALS IN FMSA FOOTPRINT* TERMINALS IN FMSA FOOTPRINT WITH UNIT TRAIN CAPABILITIES *Includes owned, leased, and contracted terminals for our oil and gas business. FMSA FUTURE SAND RESERVES* (THOUSANDS OF TONS) *Values reﬂect prior year end. our company STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT G4-4 Headquartered in Chesterland, Ohio, Fairmount Santrol (NYSE: FMSA) is a leading provider of highperformance sand and sand-based products used by oil and gas exploration and production companies to enhance the productivity of their wells. The company also provides high-quality products, strong technical leadership, and applications knowledge to end users in the foundry, building products, water ﬁltration, glass, and sports and recreation markets. Fairmount Santrol is a global expert in the science and art of transforming sand into value-added products whose performance far exceeds ordinary expectations. We are customer-focused and values-driven with strategically located facilities in North America, Europe, and Asia, supported by a global distribution and customer support network. Our global logistics capabilities include a wideranging network of distribution terminals and thousands of railcars, both of which allow our company to effectively serve customers wherever they operate. Fundamental to our mission, vision, and culture, Fairmount Santrol embraces the principles of sustainable development. We make investments in our people, our communities, and our environmental stewardship programs to help secure our ability to operate today, and also create a bright future for our business and the communities where we live and work. We, the Fairmount Santrol Family, are united in our commitment to exceed all expectations while fulﬁlling our economic, social, and environmental responsibilities. View Mission & Principles. our company STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT O R G A N I Z AT I O N A L P R O F I L E G4-6, G4-8, G4-10, G4-11 Our company is comprised of a dedicated and talented employee population that reaches across North America, Europe, and Asia. We have strategically placed our Family Members in locations that best serve our customers’ need for reliable and timely product delivery. We have proven that our team comes together to create powerful and innovative solutions that advance People, Planet, and Prosperity. VIEW OUR LOCATIONS EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY Save United States 716 Canada 5 China 10 Mexico 4 Denmark 9 Total 744 EMPLOYEES BY ROLE EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY Operations 54% Administrative 9% Hourly 63% Salary 37% Management 22% Sales 3% Professional 10% Technical 2% UNION EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BY GENDER Non Union 83% Union 17% Male 82% Female 18% EMPLOYEES BY ETHNICITY EMPLOYEES BY AGE White 80% 40 & Over 54% Under 40 46% Hispanic/Latino 13% Asian 4% Black/African American 2% American Indian/Alaskan Native <1% Two or More <1% our company STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E G4-34 We embed our commitment to People, Planet, and Prosperity within every layer of our company. Our board of directors considers sustainable development (SD) foundational to our culture and continued growth. They are regularly updated on our SD progress, and provide strategic guidance for future initiatives through participation on the Audit, Nominating and Governance, and Compensation Committees. In addition, they are invited to attend all Fairmount Santrol Appreciative Inquiry Summits. Our President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Jenniffer Deckard, and our Director of Sustainable Development, Beau Daane, lead our SD Advisory Committee—composed of 15 executives and directors from key functions across the business—in developing and executing our sustainable development strategy. Our Regional SD Coordinators engage Family Members with SD practices and monitor progress at our facilities, uniting our Family across the world in our SD efforts. More than 45 percent of our Family Members voluntarily participate in our 13 SD Teams, which develop and implement annual goals and initiatives. We hold all SD Team Members, Regional SD Coordinators, and SD Advisory Committee Members accountable through reporting relationships that monitor and provide incentive for SD performance. Fairmount Santrol and our board of directors are committed to sound corporate governance practices and conducting business activities according to the highest ethical standards. In carrying out this responsibility, the board of directors has adopted corporate governance guidelines in accordance with the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, as well as a code of business conduct and ethics applicable to employees, directors, and ofﬁcers. Our policies are publicly available on our Investor Relations’ Corporate Governance page. our company STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PA RT N E R S A N D C O L L A B O R AT I O N G4-16 We elevate our commitment to sustainable development by forming partnerships and engaging with industry associations, nonproﬁts, and academic organizations that share our values. Our leaders help to improve industry standards and share best practices for SD, raising our industry’s collective level of responsibility. Together with our partners, we increase education, transparency, and support for responsible sand mining. Alzheimer’s Association American Chemistry Council Crystalline Silica Panel American Foundry Society American Institute of Chemical Engineers American Petroleum Institute American Red Cross American Society for Quality American Society of Safety Engineers American Systems Registrar (ASR) American Water Works Association Casting Industry Supplier Association Corporate Sustainability Network at Cleveland State University Ductile Iron Society Dunn County Economic Development Corporation Foundry Association of Michigan Foundry Educational Foundation Fowler Center for Business as an Agent of World Beneﬁt at Case Western Reserve University Geauga Growth Partnership Golf Course Builders Association of America Golf Course Superintendents Association of America Greater Cleveland Partnership Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers (IAAP) Indiana Cast Metals Association Industrial Energy Consumers Association Industrial Minerals Association – North America (IMA-NA) Institute for Sustainable Business at Baldwin Wallace University International Society of Mine Safety Professionals Marcellus Shale Coalition Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA)/li> Momentum West National Association of Manufacturers National Freight Transportation Association National Industrial Sand Association National Safety Council North American Rail Shippers Association Ohio Cast Metals Association Ohio Parks and Recreation Association Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Pennsylvania Parks and Recreation Association Pierce County Economic Development Corporation Saving Birds Thru Habitat Society for Human Resource Management Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Afﬁliates Society of Petroleum Engineers Synthetic Turf Council Texas Cast Metals Association Trees for the Future Trout Unlimited United Nations Global Compact United Way University of Wisconsin – Eau Claire U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development Water Environment Federation Western Reserve Land Conservancy Wildlife Habitat Council Wisconsin Industrial Sand Association Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce Wisconsin Partners for Clean Air Wisconsin Sustainable Business Council our company STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT AWA R D S A N D R E C O G N I T I O N We are proud that during 2016 the following organizations recognized our SD commitments: Recognized as Green Tier, a Wisconsin Department of Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers (IAAP) Natural Resources program – Hager City**, Maiden Rock Solid Safety Bronze Award – Wedron, IL Rock*, and Menomonie, WI Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers (IAAP) American Foundry Society Metalcasting Safe Year Community Relations Award – Wedron, IL Award – Benton Harbor, MI, Chardon, OH, Detroit, MI, Hamilton, Ontario, Troy Grove, IL, Wedron, IL, and Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers (IAAP) Wedron, IL – Resin Certiﬁcate in Achievement In Environmental Excellence Gold Award – Wedron, IL Bronze Award and Sustainability Award from the Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Afﬁliates Industrial Minerals Association-North America (IMA(SOCMA) NA) Recognition Program for Excellence in Worker Safety – Chardon, OH Green Masters Award from the Wisconsin Sustainable Business Council – Hager City**, Maiden Rock*, and Mine Safety and Health Administration Certiﬁcate of Menomonie, WI Achievement in Safety – Harrietta, MI*, Maiden Rock, WI*, Menomonie, WI, and Shakopee, MN *Facilities closed or idled in 2016 **Idled/closed in 2016; currently functioning as a terminal about this report STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT G4-23 We at Fairmount Santrol are proud to present our 11th annual Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report, which is written in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines “Core” option and fulﬁlls our UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) submission. Our online reporting supports a thriving planet by reducing paper use and saving fuel in processing and mailing. The report is available for download as a PDF. Our company’s motto and action orientation “Do Good. Do Well.” encompasses three pillars of sustainability—People, Planet, and Prosperity. In late 2014, we engaged internal and external stakeholders in an in-depth materiality assessment to determine our most signiﬁcant environmental, social, and economic impacts and sustainable development (SD) priorities. In 2015, for each priority area—or material topic—we assigned topic owners to ensure accountability for managing and monitoring each topic. In 2016, we worked with topic owners and SD Teams to develop Vision 2020 goals, long-term goals for their key topics. This is in addition to the role our Director of Sustainable Development plays in advancing the management and measurement of each topic. We also closely align our SD Team goals to material topics. Throughout the People, Planet, and Prosperity sections, you will ﬁnd our management approach, performance, and key highlights for each material topic. Many of our SD goals and initiatives emerge from our Appreciative Inquiry (AI) Summits, historically held every three years. During our AI Summits, Family Members and external stakeholders come together to envision and co-create the future for sustainable development. Our 13 SD Teams take these aspirations and conduct research, determine alignment with our material topics, and develop goals and action plans to positively impact People, Planet, and Prosperity. Throughout this report, you will ﬁnd the many contributions made by our SD Teams to advance the management of our material topics. The Fairmount Santrol Family has Stayed True to our values, dedicating ourselves to being more than the leading provider of high-performance sand and sand-based products. We believe that our company is an agent of world beneﬁt. about this report STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT S TA K E H O L D E R E N G A G E M E N T A N D M AT E R I A L I T Y G4-12, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Our relationship with our Family Members and external stakeholders strengthens our business. By soliciting perspectives and feedback from our board of directors, Family Members, customers, suppliers, partners, investors, community members, and regulators, we gain insights which enable us to make strategic decisions based on what matters most. In 2014, we conducted a robust materiality assessment to identify our most relevant environmental, social, and economic impacts, risks, and opportunities across our value chain. We worked with stakeholders to understand their perspective, incorporating their input with our knowledge of global and industry trends to prioritize our SD topics. The results of this work serve as a roadmap for our sustainable development initiatives, ensuring we are investing our resources where we can have the most positive impact. Each year the SD Advisory Committee and the board of directors challenge our SD Teams to reach higher, setting SD goals that stretch us to new accomplishments. We plan to refresh our materiality assessment every three years as priorities for our business, our markets, and the world evolve. Since 2005, we have held an Appreciative Inquiry (AI) Summit approximately every three years, bringing together Family Members and a strong representation of our external stakeholders to co-create a pathway towards a ﬂourishing future. Our ﬁrst AI Summit led to the formation of our SD Teams, open to all Family Members interested in driving our sustainability progress. We held our fourth AI Summit in 2014, where nearly 500 Family Members and 60 external stakeholders united to deﬁne Fairmount Santrol’s values and strengths, and discuss, design, and deploy our vision for the future. These AI Summits powerfully accelerate our organizational leadership and engagement and strengthen our overall commitment to SD. Building upon the outcomes of the 2014 AI Summit, we took steps to scan the marketplace for leading sustainability practices, looked across our value chain for impacts, risks, and opportunities, and engaged key internal and external stakeholders in one-onone conversations. This assessment was aimed at identifying and ensuring we are managing our most signiﬁcant SD material topics. Appreciative In August 2014, more than 500 Family Members and nearly 60 external stakeholders attended our three-day Inquiry (AI) AI Summit. During the AI Summit, our Family Members discussed strengths and values that we should Summit continue to use and build upon, as well as ideas for taking our SD commitment to the next level. We used these strengths, values, and 17 forward-looking high-priority topics as critical input to the materiality assessment. Benchmarking We benchmarked industry and aspirational peers to compare and contrast focus areas. We also benchmarked sustainability topics discussed by our top 10 customers in our two complementary business segments— Proppant Solutions and Industrial and Recreational (I&R). Research We conducted expansive research to determine material topics in the mining and manufacturing industries, as well as the oil and gas industry. Sources included: Mining and Manufacturing Industries: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Mining Sector Supplement Governance & Accountability (G&A) Institute International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Principles Industrial Minerals Association – North America (IMA-NA) National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) National Mining Association (NMA) Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Oil and Gas (Customer) Industry: G&A Institute GRI Oil and Gas Sector Supplement SASB Oil and Gas Industry Standards We also invested in third-party research to learn about media topics relevant to our business, and about the signiﬁcant impacts in our value chain, based on publicly available life cycle assessments (LCAs), respectively. Impact Mapping A cross-functional group of 24 senior leaders came together to discuss benchmarking and research results. The group then identiﬁed signiﬁcant economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities across our value chain. We then outlined and individually rated the 35 topics of importance in terms of distinguishing Fairmount Santrol as a leader in both the industry and sustainable development. External We interviewed more than 40 external stakeholders for their perspectives on which SD topics are most Stakeholder important to proactively manage. These included oil and gas customers, industrial and recreational Interviews customers, chemical suppliers, transportation suppliers, community members, industry associations, regulatory authorities, and experts in the ﬁelds of mining and transportation. Board of Directors Interviews Six of the nine members of our board of directors (at the time) participated in interviews in 2014 to describe the highest-priority SD topics that both add value and mitigate risk. Validation Workshop In December 2014, the SD Advisory Committee, composed of 14 senior leaders from across the business, discussed the results of the materiality assessment and validated the prioritization of the material topics. Fairmount Santrol identiﬁed stakeholders to engage in the materiality assessment based on one or more of these criteria: Have a deep knowledge of Fairmount Santrol Inﬂuence Fairmount Santrol’s operations and prosperity Are signiﬁcantly impacted by Fairmount Santrol’s operations and prosperity Possess expertise related to industry and/or sustainability topics relevant to Fairmount Santrol Have the ability to collaborate with Fairmount Santrol to address key impacts, risks, and opportunities Through the robust research, benchmarking, and stakeholder engagement, the following topics surfaced as most critical: Safety Providing Family Members with proper safety training and reminders, equipment, and safe working conditions; having emergency preparedness and response plans. Boundary: all internal operations; external operations – on-site suppliers and contractors in our areas of operation Employer of Choice Providing Family Members with best-in-class training and education, personal and career development, and health and wellness assistance; empowering Family Members to make a difference at work, in their own lives, and in the world through SD and volunteerism. Boundary: all internal operations Compliance and Making ethical and responsible decisions in daily practices, adhering to governance policies, and complying Ethical Behavior with applicable environment and social laws and regulations. Boundary: all internal operations Product Health and Safety Having proper equipment in place to manage silica dust; providing Family Members and customers with communication/training on proper use of products and dust management techniques to prevent silicosis; chemical exposure and disclosure; green chemistry initiatives and/or certiﬁcation—reducing or eliminating chemicals of concern. Boundary: internal operations in which products are created and handled; external operations – customer operations globally, communities in our areas of operation Community Impact Managing our impact on communities in which we operate, including truck trafﬁc, noise, and blasting impacts; and Partner of Choice engaging in dialogue with local communities to enable permitting and develop an ongoing positive relationship; being present, accessible, transparent, and proactive in explaining SD practices and addressing concerns. Boundary: external operations – communities in our areas of operation Stakeholder Education Educating and supporting suppliers, customers, peers, partners, and local businesses in the adoption of and Inﬂuence sustainable practices; educating investors about our commitment to SD and its value. Boundary: external operations – suppliers, customers, peers, partners, investors, and businesses in our areas of operation and globally Air Quality Reducing GHG emissions, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, volatile organic compounds, and particulate matter (e.g., dust) emitted from our operations; frequency of internal and third-party testing. Boundary: internal manufacturing and mining operations; external operations – communities in our areas of operation Transportation Logistics, Fulﬁlling customer demand/orders accurately, safely, and on time; planning for, securing, and effectively Efﬁciency, and Emissions executing efﬁcient and reliable transportation; Managing utilization of railcars, trucks, and barges—ﬁlling to maximum capacity and reducing excess transportation; reducing GHG emissions, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, volatile organic compounds, and particulate matter released from transporting products. Boundary: internal transportation and logistics operations; external operations – supplier and transportation carrier operations Water Use and Quality Increasing the efﬁciency of freshwater withdrawals for use in operations; increasing the use of recycled water; managing impacts on groundwater and surface water supply; managing the quality of water output from mines and facilities that drain toward local surface water and groundwater resources; protecting local aquifers from damage or contamination; frequent internal and third-party testing. Boundary: internal manufacturing and mining operations; external operations – communities in our areas of operation Solid Waste Properly characterizing solid and liquid waste and identifying non-landﬁll beneﬁcial reuse alternatives; reducing waste sent to landﬁll; managing proper disposal of waste sand; reducing packaging waste. Boundary: internal manufacturing and mining operations; external operations – communities in our areas of operation Land Use, Evaluating, managing, and remediating damage to natural habitats resulting from mining activities; positively Reclamation, impacting species diversity and their ability to thrive during mining operations and post-closure. and Biodiversity Boundary: internal mining operations; external operations – communities in our areas of operation Energy Use Reducing energy consumption; adopting renewable sources of energy. Boundary: internal operations; external operations – communities in areas of operation Community Investment Hiring from local communities; using local suppliers; investing in local infrastructure; giving ﬁnancial donations to local organizations; volunteering time to enhance local communities; deeding acreage; contributing to sustainable communities beyond closure. Boundary: external operations – communities in our areas of operation Product Innovation Solving customer challenges and investing in innovation and technologies that advance sustainable products and practices. Boundary: internal research and development operations; external operations – customer operations globally Prosperity of Providing economic prosperity for Family Members through competitive wages, beneﬁts, and proﬁt sharing; Family Members providing the opportunity for meaningful work and long tenure. Boundary: all internal operations Commodity Pricing Foreseeing, planning for, and managing the impacts from ﬂuctuating prices and demand for oil and gas, and and Demand industrial sand. Boundary: all internal operations; external operations – customer operations globally Product Quality Providing consistent, high-quality products with proper handling/storage to preserve product integrity. Boundary: internal manufacturing and mining operations; external operations – customer operations globally PEOPLE 1 Safety (T1) 2 Employer of Choice (T1) 3 Compliance and Ethical Behavior (T1) 4 Product Health and Safety (T1) 5 Community Impact and Partner of Choice (T2) 6 Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence (T2) 7 Diversity and Equal Opportunity (T3) 8 Labor Management Relations (T3) 9 Human Rights and Labor Practices in Supply Chain (T3) 10 Indigenous Rights (T3) PLANET 1 Air Quality (T1) 2 Transportation Logistics (T1) 3 Water Use and Quality (T1) 4 Solid Waste (T2) 5 Transportation, Efﬁciency, and Emissions (T2) 6 Land Management, Remediation, and Biodiversity (T2) 7 Energy Use (T2) 8 Product Lifecycle Management (T3) 9 Environmental Certiﬁcations (T3) 10 Water Use in Customer Operations (T3) 11 Water Quality in Customer Operations (T3) PROSPERITY 1 Community Investment (T1) 2 Product Innovation (T1) 3 Prosperity of Family Members (T1) 4 Commodity Pricing and Demand (T2) 5 Product Quality (T2) 6 Intellectual Property (T3) T1=Tier 1, T2=Tier 2, and T3=Tier 3 By engaging and listening to our internal and external stakeholders, we can better drive innovation, strengthen our capabilities, develop best practices, and be good neighbors. Below are the stakeholder perspectives we gathered through our Appreciative Inquiry (AI) Summits, materiality assessment, and other engagement mechanisms. STAKEHOLDER TYPES OF FREQUENCY OF TOPICS OF IMPORTANCE GROUP ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT Board of Directors AI Summits, in-person Regularly, customized as Commodity Pricing and Demand, Compliance and meetings, calls needed Ethical Behavior, Employer of Choice, Product Health and Safety, Product Innovation, Product Quality, Prosperity of Family Members, Safety Leadership Team AI Summits, in-person Regularly, customized as Commodity Pricing and Demand, Community Impacts meetings, calls needed and Partner of Choice, Community Investment, Compliance and Ethical Behavior, Employer of Choice, Intellectual Property, Product Health and Safety, Product Innovation, Product Quality, Prosperity of Family Members, Safety, Transportation Efﬁciency and Emissions, Transportation Logistics Family Members AI Summits, Employee Regularly, customized as Air Quality, Community Investment, Employer of Choice, Engagement Survey, needed Innovation, Prosperity of Family Members, Stakeholder in-person meetings, calls Inﬂuence, Transportation Efﬁciency and Emissions, Transportation Logistics Customers AI Summits, surveys, Regularly, customized as Compliance and Ethical Behavior, Product Health and interviews, in-person needed Safety, Product Innovation, Product Quality, meetings, calls Transportation Logistics Communities and Public hearings, open Ongoing, customized as Air Quality, Biodiversity, Community Impact and Partner Regulatory Agencies houses, newsletters, calls, needed of Choice, Community Investment, Compliance and in-person meetings, local Ethical Behavior, Land Management, Remediation, media sources Safety, Water Use and Quality Subject Matter Experts AI Summits, in-person Annually, as needed Air Quality, Community Impact and Partner of Choice, meetings, calls Compliance and Ethical Behavior, Safety, Transportation Efﬁciency and Emissions Suppliers AI Summits, surveys, Ongoing Commodity Pricing and Demand, Product Innovation, (Transportation, in-person meetings, calls Safety, Solid Waste, Stakeholder Education and Chemical, etc.) Inﬂuence, Transportation Efﬁciency and Emissions, Transportation Logistics Investors AI Summits, quarterly Ongoing Commodity Pricing and Demand, Community Impact calls, press releases, and Partner of Choice, Product Innovation, in-person meetings Transportation Logistics Peers and Industry AI Summits, Regularly, customized as Air Quality, Biodiversity, Compliance and Ethical Associations membership/attending inneeded Behavior, Land Management, Remediation, Product person meetings, calls Health and Safety, Safety, Solid Waste We sincerely appreciate our stakeholders’ interest in engaging with us and the valued time they gave to assist us in prioritizing our most important topics. Their support helps Fairmount Santrol Stay True to our ongoing commitment to sustainable development. The materiality assessment validated many topics we have historically known to be important to our organization. We identiﬁed topic owners for each of the 17 material topics and worked to better understand how each topic is being managed. We continue to align our management and SD Team efforts with our material topics and strengthen our measurement of key performance indicators. And in late 2016 and early 2017 we developed Vision 2020 Goals for each topic to propel us toward a ﬂourishing future. Throughout the People, Planet, and Prosperity sections you will learn about our management approach and progress. In late 2017 we plan to refresh our materiality assessment prior to our next AI Summit currently planned for 2018. about this report STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOALS AND PROGRESS 2016/2017 GOALS VISION 2020 GOALS G4-23 Each year, our SD Advisory Committee and SD Teams set goals that positively impact our business. We then closely monitor and measure progress on our goals. To reward our Family Members for Staying True to our SD goals, we provide ﬁnancial incentives for achieving them. We aim for these goals to make a positive impact on People, Planet, and Prosperity, in topic areas that are material to our business. In 2016, here are some of our notable accomplishments: We outperformed the industry average Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and surpassed the record for our best year Total Case Incident Rates (TCIR). Our Family Members dedicated more than 9,800 volunteer hours to the communities in which we live and work. We achieved zero waste at 27 of our 31 facilities in operation, including our largest facility in Wedron, Illinois. To sequester 100 percent of our Q4 2015 through Q3 2016 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, we funded the planting of over 102,000 trees, with 10 percent of the trees planted by our Family Members in our communities. Due to the generosity of our investors’ contributions in years past, we donated $1.2 million to our communities through the Fairmount Santrol Foundation, with a signiﬁcant portion of that funding the health and wellness and education of the next generation. Our SD investments positively impact our people, our communities, and the planet, and also drive prosperity for our business through cost savings and revenue generation. We track our investment in SD and the return on our investment, calling this “SD Pays.” Annually, our SD Pays Standardization Committee manages our measurement methodology, clearly outlining which types of projects create SD Pays, the SD expenses to include, and how to calculate the project value. This helps our business and stakeholders to clearly see how sustainable development at Fairmount Santrol drives value creation. Total SD Pays $9,000,000 SD Expenses $1,500,000 Net SD Pays $7,500,000 SD TEAM 2016 HIGH-LEVEL 2016 YEAR-END 2017 HIGH-LEVEL BOLD GOAL STATUS BOLD GOAL Best Practice Implement 12 best practice productivity Achieved Implement 12 best practice productivity projects and achieve a minimum of projects and achieved $300,000 in SD $250,000 in SD Pays. Pays. Business Innovation Partner with another SD Team or Business Achieved Establish an Open Innovation Unit to benchmark industry best practices Management (OIM) platform to generate for a Tier 1 materiality topic. new ideas from Family Members. Clean Water Continue to improve water efﬁciency at Achieved 94% of goal Evaluate and improve quality and sources facilities through sharing best practices, of drinking water at facilities. enhancing water management plans, and tracking opportunities for water reduction, as well as educating our Family Members and communities around water reduction. Communications Develop and implement an AI Achieved 96% of goal Strengthen appreciative culture by and Appreciative Connections platform for introducing developing and delivering AI workshop Inquiry (AI) Family Members across locations. to Family Members. Environmentally Implement or improve environmentally Achieved 81% of goal Advance product and process innovation Responsible Products responsible products and processes that through three initiatives: publishing a and Processes achieve a total annualized SD Pays of white paper, proposing a mill coating $250,000. product, and improving resin processes. Engage customers in product innovation Engage oil & gas and foundry customers and sustainable development. on innovation and sustainable development. Empower U Roll out two new courses and achieve the Achieved Roll out one course offering and one equivalent participation of at least one Learning Challenge. Achieve the Empower U-sponsored course offering equivalent of at least one hour of per Family Member. Empower U sponsored course education per Family Member and have 20% participation in the Learning Challenge. Health and Wellness Design three wellness challenges and Achieved Present an employee wellness award and achieve 25% participation from Family achieve 45% participation in at least one Members. wellness challenge. Quest for Sequester 100% of GHG emissions from Achieved 87% of goal Sequester 100% of GHG emissions from Eco-Efﬁciency Q4 2014 – Q3 2015. Q4 2015 – Q3 2016. Implement an energy efﬁciency project to Implement one conservation project per eliminate one half of 1% of Fairmount active region and one energy efﬁciency Santrol’s 2015 GHG emissions. project. Complete three biodiversity conservation projects. Recover, Recycle, Reuse Reach zero waste to landﬁll for all Achieved 96% of goal Reach zero waste to landﬁll for all Fairmount Santrol facilities globally. Fairmount Santrol facilities globally, and audit all operating facilities for zero waste. Safety Achieve better than industry, and better Achieved 80% of goal Achieve better than industry, and better than our best year, Lost Time Incident than our best year, Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and Total Case Incident Rate Rate (LTIR) and Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR). (TCIR). Achieve 1,000,000 safe working hours. SD TEAM 2016 HIGH-LEVEL 2016 YEAR-END 2017 HIGH-LEVEL BOLD GOAL STATUS BOLD GOAL Social Responsibility Increase the average total volunteer Achieved 94% of goal Increase the average total volunteer hours (paid and personal) per employee hours (paid and personal) per employee throughout Fairmount Santrol. throughout Fairmount Santrol. Sustainable Mobility Through max-loading, increase total Achieved Sustain high railcar utilization railcar loading efﬁciency across the rates, increase unit train utilization rate, company. and improve truck load out time. Sustainable Advance one of the key SD materiality Achieved Find and implement a solution to one Value Chain topics by partnering with members of our pressing business challenge. Meet with value chain (customers, suppliers, and/or Family Members from ﬁve operational innovators) to identify and implement facilities to evaluate opportunities to one value chain initiative. innovate with suppliers and customers. Additional details regarding our 2016 accomplishments are integrated throughout the People, Planet, and Prosperity sections. about this report STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOALS AND PROGRESS 2016/2017 GOALS VISION 2020 GOALS We are pleased to announce our Vision 2020 Goals. These goals strengthen the prioritization of the topics identiﬁed in our Fall 2014–Spring 2015 materiality assessment. They represent the culmination of our SD Teams’ work to date and strong vision for the future. Safety Safety for life: 100% safety at work and at home every one, every day, every time Employer of Choice Develop a robust learning and development platform to advance and retain Family Members Compliance and Ethical Behavior Evaluate risk management proﬁle and then provide corresponding robust and comprehensive compliance and ethical behavior training program for 100% of Family Members annually Product Health and Safety By 2020 we will have commercialized at least two new products from a new and environmentally-friendly chemistry Community Impact and Partner of Choice Create a documented community engagement plan for every single FMSA facility (plant, ofﬁce, or terminal) Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence Inﬂuence suppliers: 50% percent of our spend will be with suppliers who advance in SD, as measured by survey responses and/or GRI/UNGC reporting Air Quality Produce products with lower potential dust, reducing potential dust for customers by 80 % vs. 2016 baseline Reduce GHGs / ton of product shipped by 10% Transportation Logistics, Efﬁciency, and Emissions 100% of all oil & gas product shipped via rail will be shipped as unit trains Water Use and Quality Improve water efﬁciency (fresh water use) per ton produced by 10% by 2020 Solid Waste All FMSA facilities will be zero waste to landﬁll Land Use, Reclamation, and Biodiversity All current and former sand production facilities will be Wildlife Habitat Certiﬁed by 2020 Energy Use Install a renewable or cleaner alternative source of energy, or secure a power purchase agreement (PPA) to supply at least 5% of all energy used company-wide Community Investment Get to 100% volunteering participation, achieving 20,000 hours of paid volunteer time in one year, above an average of 25 hours of paid volunteer time per FMSA Family Member per year by the end of 2020 Product Innovation Generate at least ten new patents by 2020 Prosperity of Family Members Achieve Family Member retention rate at or above 85%; achieve 100% participation in annual Survey and > 80% positive score Commodity Pricing and Demand Diversify portfolio to allow optimization of plant assets: Double I&R sales from 2016 baseline of 2.5 million tons to 5 million tons while maintaining or reducing the current cost per ton Product Quality Improve our customer satisfaction rate for raw sand and for value added products to 100% Fairmount Santrol sees alignment between our Vision 2020 goals and the following United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), improving the lives of people across the world: people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Throughout ﬂuctuating market conditions, Fairmount Santrol has Stayed True to investing in what we believe is key to a thriving business—People. We are committed to doing everything it takes to ensure our Family Members work and arrive home safely, every day. Our leading compensation and beneﬁts program, our appreciative culture, and the opportunities we provide our Family Members to develop new skills and participate in our sustainable development initiatives all make Fairmount Santrol a special place to work. We are committed to ethical business practices, making a positive impact in our communities, and raising standards across our industry and the industries we serve. Our mission to “Do Good. Do Well.” extends to those who handle, use, or are impacted by our products. We work with and educate suppliers, customers, and various community groups to elevate safe and sustainable practices. The pages throughout the People section of this report describe our organizational approach, goals, and performance for each of these topics. Safety Product Health and Safety Employer of Choice Community Impact and Partner of Choice Compliance and Ethical Behavior Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence 20YRS Fairmount Santrol has reported SAFETY We continually outperform the 650+ More than 250 Family Members zero cases of silicosis for more than industry average on important completed 650+ hours of Survival 20 years safety measures Training people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SAFETY OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Every day, Fairmount Santrol works to ensure our Family Members are safe and healthy at home, at work, and at play. We aim to protect our Family Members and stakeholders by continuously improving our safety management practices and performance indicators. Health and safety is a core value at Fairmount Santrol for “Every One, Every Day, Every Time.” In 2009, we established the Fairmount Santrol Safety and Health Management System (SHMS) to promote a culture that encourages safe behaviors and strives for continuous performance improvement. We utilize this system to identify, manage, and eliminate risks to Family Members and stakeholders at facilities within our control or inﬂuence. The Fairmount Santrol SHMS includes programs and guidelines to meet or exceed compliance with all local, state, and federal legislation, standards, regulations, and policies. It includes the following Procedural Modules: Safety and Health Policy Operational Control Hazard Identiﬁcation, Risk Assessment, and Emergency Preparedness and Response Determining Controls Performance Measurement and Monitoring Legal and Other Requirements Evaluation of Compliance Objectives and Programs Incident Investigation, Non-Conformity, Corrective Resources, Roles, Responsibility, Accountability, and Action, and Preventative Action Authority Control of Records Competence, Training, and Awareness Internal Audit Communication, Participation, and Consultation Management Review Documentation Industrial Hygiene Control of Documents Job Safety Analysis (JSA) Each of our facilities aims to achieve compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Speciﬁcation (OHSAS) 18001 System as part of its SHMS within ﬁve years of opening or being acquired. To monitor and report our core safety data requirements, we use an industry-leading software application that we continually update and improve. We conduct regular internal audits of our 31 health and safety programs, as well as speciﬁc auditing for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OHSA) and the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), to identify opportunities for improvement. During incident investigations, we utilize the “Five Why, Five How” process of probing questions to drill down to the most effective solution. In addition to the Fairmount Santrol SHMS, we have an Emergency Action Plan (EAP) and a Crisis and Media Relations Management Plan. All Family Members who work in operations attend EAP training upon hiring and annually thereafter, and we hold a minimum of two emergency action drills at each facility annually. The EAP addresses: Blood-borne Pathogens Hurricanes Civil Emergencies Incident Reporting Guidelines Crisis Management Team Means of Egress, Emergency Drills Earthquakes Medical Emergencies Emergency Notiﬁcation Pest Controls Emergency Response Security Evacuation Systems Severe Weather and Floods First Aid and CPR, Automatic External Deﬁbrillator Tornadoes (AED) Program Vehicular Accidents Fire and Explosion Warnings and Alarm Systems Groundwater Management Workplace Violence Prevention and Response Our training program guides all Family Members to consider safety for “Every One, Every Day, Every Time.” It is imperative that safety training starts in our new employee orientation process. For our Family Members working in logistics, manufacturing, and mining, this initial safety training can range from a minimum of eight hours to 40 hours. We provide additional safety orientation in the ﬁeld including task-based training. Supervisors attend annual safety training sessions and receive one-on-one training to incorporate safety measures into their facilities. In addition, at each facility, our regional safety coordinators provide support for our health and safety initiatives. Production facilities hold monthly training sessions to address core safety requirements outlined in the annual health and safety agenda. We also require all Family Members who spend time in the ﬁeld to complete annual safety refresher training, including our ofﬁce staff. Our safety team customizes safety modules to each location, ensuring the information provided is engaging and applicable. To further reinforce the importance of safety, we begin all meetings, regardless of their nature, with a safety message. For example, each meeting of our board of directors, senior executive management team, ﬁnance, HR, SD, and production employees begins with a safety message to remind all Family Members of the value and importance of safety. To further encourage the adoption of our safety training material into practice, we administer a proactive incentive system that rewards our Family Members for their individual, facility, and company-wide safe work practices. When our teams meet safety targets, we pay bonuses to continue encouraging Family Members to demonstrate safe work behaviors, and to reinforce that safety is our number one priority. According to the National Safety Council, most injuries occur outside of working hours. Our “Bringing Safety Home” program encourages Family Members to keep their homes safe and positively inﬂuence family and friends by sharing simple reminders about safety for daily living. As part of this program, Family Members receive a quarterly safety magazine, and have access to personal protective equipment for children, smoke detectors, and ﬁrst aid training sessions for their families. Additionally, we publish a family health and safety calendar that promotes safe practices at home, such as the use of ﬁre extinguishers and safe practices during outdoor activities such as swimming or gardening. Our Independent Contractor Safety Program includes contractor training on hazard warning recognition and decreasing occupational risks. This includes site-speciﬁc training for all visitors to FMSA sites, and additional education for contractors working on-site for extended periods of time. We regularly monitor our facilities to ensure all contractor activities comply with applicable federal and state regulations and the requirements and policies of each facility. Our Environmental, Health, and Safety and Qualiﬁcation Evaluations enable us to maintain consistency, provide continuous improvement opportunities, and quantify contractor compliance with our guidelines and policies. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SAFETY OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-LA6 Fairmount Santrol has Stayed True to our ongoing annual safety goal to achieve a better-than-industry and better-than-our-best-year Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) and Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR). In 2016, we outperformed the industry average for both metrics. We also surpassed our best year TCIR, with only 1.2 recordable incidents per 100 full-time employees. TOTAL CASE INCIDENT RATE (TCIR) Total Case Incident Rate: The number of recordable incidents per 100 full-time employees in a given time frame. FMSA Industry LOST TIME INCIDENT RATE (LTIR) Lost Time Incident Rate: The number of lost time cases per 100 full-time employees in a given time frame. FMSA Industry Family Member Participation in Incident Investigation In 2016, we conducted incident investigation training across all Fairmount Santrol locations. Our safety department trained and provided resources to all facility managers, who shared virtual modules with Family Members at our July monthly meetings. Our Experience Modiﬁcation Rate (EMR), calculated based on industry classiﬁcation and workers’ compensation claims activity, is the primary factor in determining workers’ compensation insurance premiums. Our strong safety culture has resulted in an average EMR of 0.6 since 2010, which is much lower than 1.0, the industry average. Due to our robust safety efforts, over the last seven years, we estimate that Fairmount Santrol has saved approximately $2.4 million in workers’ compensation premiums. Bridgman, MI* Chardon, OH Hager City/Bay City, WI** Harrietta, MI* Maiden Rock, WI* Menomonie, WI Roff, OK Shakopee, MN* Troy Grove, IL Wedron, IL Yixing, China *Facilities closed or idled in 2016 **Idled/closed in 2016; currently functioning as a terminal American Foundry Society Metalcasting Safe Year Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers (IAAP) Award – Benton Harbor, MI, Chardon, OH, Detroit, MI, Rock Solid Safety Gold Award – Wedron, IL mine Hamilton, Ontario, Troy Grove, IL, Wedron, IL, and Wedron, IL – Resin Industrial Minerals Association-North America (IMANA) Recognition Program for Excellence in Worker Mine Safety and Health Administration Certiﬁcate of Safety – Chardon, OH mine Achievement in Safety – Harrietta, MI*, Maiden Rock, WI*, Menomonie, WI, and Shakopee, MN* *Facilities closed or idled in 2016 In 2016, we improved our safety program and performance in various ways: We added 11 online training modules for ofﬁce safety that cover topics such as ergonomics, ofﬁce lighting, computer/desk posture, parking lot safety, and taking standing breaks. We modiﬁed transloaders at our Pleasanton, Sweetwater, and Somerville locations to minimize risk of injury during railcar loading and maintenance activities. Our safety department worked with operations and logistics to create Job Safety Analysis documents that share best practices and risks for four different operational positions. They also completed checklists that our operations team members can use to ensure they address all safety needs at facilities. We formed a Housekeeping Best Practices Team to standardize procedures for safely cleaning and maintaining plant work areas and facilities. Our Safety SD Team hosted a slogan contest to educate and engage Family Members. We also hosted an educational campaign during Rail Safety Month in September. We progressed towards our goal of having all Fairmount Santrol Family Members complete Red Cross First Aid and CPR training. 47 percent of our population is currently certiﬁed in First Aid and 35 percent is certiﬁed in CPR/AED. Protecting Our Family Members from Snake Bites In our Southern region in Texas, rattlesnakes can be a safety concern. We are committed to protecting Family Members who mow, weed, or complete other work on the land surrounding our facilities. In 2016, Fairmount Santrol purchased a supply of snake bite treatment to ensure we are prepared for any emergency situations. We also provide equipment such as snake proof chaps that helps to protect our Family Members. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYER OF CHOICE OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, G4-LA10 Fairmount Santrol aspires to attract and retain top talent by fostering an appreciative culture, encouraging engagement in sustainable development (SD), and empowering Family Members to innovate and advance SD. We strive to be an employer of choice by providing Family Members with training and education, personal and career development, health and wellness programs, and strong employee beneﬁts. We aim to empower Family Members through our appreciative culture. Appreciative Inquiry (AI) is a strength-based methodology to inspire positive, whole-system change, building on our best. It is centered around the principal of systematic discovery to envision a future based on strengths. At Fairmount Santrol we conduct Appreciative Inquiry Summits, every three to four years, where Family Members and our external stakeholders co-create a vision for a sustainable future focused on using our strengths, values, and bold ideas. Our fourth AI Summit was held in 2014 and was attended by nearly 600 Family Members and 60 external stakeholders. We will host our next AI Summit in 2018. We offer growth opportunities to Family Members by taking on SD responsibilities. We encourage Family Members to join one of our 13 SD Teams, lead or co-lead an SD Team, or add an SD dimension to their daily job. For example, any Family Member can join an SD Team and help contribute ideas, conduct SD research, innovate new processes, or manage an SD-related project. SD involvement advances our “Do Good. Do Well.” Mission, and many Family Members ﬁnd it to be personally fulﬁlling while developing new skills and advancing their careers. Engagement in SD Teams provides diverse learning experiences that adds value to Fairmount Santrol. Furthermore, our SD Advisory Committee allows executives and senior leaders to contribute their leadership skills to SD for several years, with membership changing over time. We also encourage our Family Members’ growth through education. Our Empower U SD Team and various other SD Teams develop and deliver training on a wide range of key topics to our Family Members annually. Family Members can access hundreds of unique training courses on our online learning platforms. We currently use Udemy, a platform with cost-effective and diverse course offerings. Through midyear and annual Development Dialogues, Family Members may discuss performance and development opportunities with their managers—focusing on their strengths, accomplishments, and annual objectives. This process aligns individual goals with departmental and organizational goals, ensuring that all Family Members feel a part of fulﬁlling our company vision. Family Members can also create Individual Development Plans (IDPs) that serve as catalysts for strengthening their leadership and career development opportunities. We have trained 60.2 percent of our salaried Family Members on the Development Dialogue process, as well as a portion of our hourly team. In the future, we aspire to train all Fairmount Santrol Family Members. Healthy employees are happier, safer, and more productive. Through our voluntary wellness program, smoking cessation tools, and wellness challenges, Fairmount Santrol encourages our Family Members to live healthy lifestyles at home and at work. To plan for future medical expenses, Family Members may choose to divert pre-tax income to a Health Savings Account (HSA), a wealth accumulation vehicle that allows users to save money tax-free to pay for medical costs. In addition, our Welli Award recognizes Family Members who have demonstrated commitment and success in personal health and wellness. Fairmount Santrol is committed to promoting diversity and inclusion (D&I) within our workforce. In 2016, our Human Resources team developed a comprehensive D&I strategy to attract and retain women, minorities, veterans, LGBTQ individuals, and hiring applicants with criminal convictions. We also began planning for a cross-functional Diversity Council, which will begin implementing the four-phase plan in 2017. Retaining Family Members is a high priority at Fairmount Santrol. Beyond our unique culture, we offer a best-in-class employee beneﬁts plan and solicit regular feedback from our Family Members. We believe our Family Members choose to work at Fairmount Santrol because they share our commitment to ethics, sustainability, and community investment. They understand that SD creates opportunities, which can improve prosperity for our entire Fairmount Santrol Family. In 2017, we plan to conduct a formal employee survey to assess levels of Family Member engagement. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYER OF CHOICE OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-LA10 Our Empower U SD Team developed and implemented two special training courses in 2016. First, our Mind, Body, Advancement (MBA) course focused on helping participants to manage stress by improving wellness and strengthening the mind-body connection. 155 Family Members took the course. In addition, the Empower U SD Team offered a Survival Training course that educated participants on survival techniques for emergency situations. We teamed up with Corvus Training Group, a company started by disabled military veterans who are trained in special operations and explosive ordnance. The course was hands-on; for example, it allowed Family Members to start a ﬁre by using something as simple as a battery and a steel wool pad. Our Family Members appreciated their expertise and shared positive feedback about the course. In total, 259 of our Family Members completed over 650 hours of Survival Training. 2016 EMPLOYEE TRAINING HOURS TOTAL AVERAGE PER EMPLOYEE 13,293.5 hours 17.87 hours In 2016, Fairmount Santrol hosted several challenges to encourage our Family Members to embrace a healthy lifestyle. Our Biggest Winner competition included teams of four that supported each other in shedding a total of 1,955 pounds collectively. Nearly 50 percent of our Family Members participated, and we held a drawing at the end to reward 19 winning teams for their commitment. Our S.M.A.R.T. (Speciﬁc, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, and Time-Bound) challenge rewarded employees who completed goals outlined on a bingo card. These included actions such as eating more fruits and vegetables and completing a random act of kindness. We had over 200 Family Members participate, approximately 30 percent of our population. Lastly, our Healthy Habits competition rewarded teams that completed habits such as eating healthy meals, exercising for 30 minutes, and getting more than 7 hours of sleep. Announcing Our First Welli Award Winner In 2016, our Health & Wellness SD Team implemented our ﬁrst “Welli Award.” The award recognizes a Family Member that demonstrated commitment and success in managing their personal health and wellness. Christy Blain was our 2016 Welli Award winner. Her commitment to health and ﬁtness includes several marathons and Ironman triathlons. As part of the prize, Christy received a $1,000 charitable contribution, which she chose to donate to The Blazeman Foundation for ALS. Staying True to our commitment to investing in people, Fairmount Santrol aims to offer our Family Members opportunities to assess and enhance their performance. To date, we have trained about 40 percent of our employee population on the Development Dialogue process. Of this group, 28 percent completed Development Dialogues with their managers in 2016. In 2017, we plan to train more Family Members on this process. EMPLOYEE RETENTION RATE* *Rates exclude seasonal and temporary employees and involuntary turnover. Congratulations to the 2016 SD Employee of the Year and Bill Conway Founders Award Winner: Kevin Traun, Menomonie, Wisconsin Each year we open the Sustainable Development (SD) Employee of the Year nomination process to all Family Members to nominate their peers from any facility. We select one winner from each location. From those winners, our co-founder, Bill Conway, selects one individual for his or her outstanding commitment to SD and recognizes him or her with the Bill Conway Founder’s Award. For 2016, we are pleased to recognize Kevin Traun. Kevin embraces the ideals and principles of Sustainable Development through his personal contribution of time, talent, and treasure. Kevin works in electrical engineering at our Menomonie, Wisconsin facility where he plays an integral role in helping the facility exceed 100% We also select SD Employees of the Year at each of our facilities. LOCATION 2016 SD EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR Beaver, OH Ryan Christopher Benton Harbor, MI Scott Meyer Black Lab – Chardon, OH Kurt Krebs Black Lab – Serena, IL Matt Shinnick Chardon mine, OH Jeff McKay LOCATION 2016 SD EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR Chesterland/Chardon, OH Janelle Burnheimer Detroit, MI Charlie Mifsud Lakeshore, Ontario, Canada Mike Perkins Menomonie, WI Kevin Traun Ottawa Corp/Wedron Tech Center, IL Amanda Valdez Santrol De Mexico Eloy Selinas Santrol Yixing Proppant, China Cindy Fan SSP Roff, OK Cindy Kile Sugar Land, TX Tanya Kellner TechniSand Roff, OK Patsy Payne Terminal – Elk City, OK Joshua Jackson Terminal – Monahans, TX Abel Sandoval Terminal – Pleasanton, TX Joseph Trevino Terminal – Sweetwater, TX Albert Martinez Voca Sand, TX Jeremy Shields Wedron, IL Ellen Anderson people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C O M P L I A N C E A N D E T H I C A L B E H AV I O R OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, G4-56 Ethics unite Fairmount Santrol in our vision for sustainability. Our three pillars of Honesty, Trust, and Integrity form the foundation of this commitment. We empower our Family Members to make ethical decisions throughout their work. This also includes meeting or exceeding all local, state, and federal regulations. Fairmount Santrol’s commitment to ethics begins with our executive management team. Our executives demonstrate ethical behavior and drive our adherence to all applicable rules and regulations. They drive our ethics and compliance program, which includes comprehensive policies, procedures and controls, training and communication, observation and analysis, and evaluation and improvement. Our legal department administers the program, continually making improvements and determining disciplinary actions. We expect all Family Members to take ownership of compliance and perform all tasks with honesty and integrity. Our governance policies deﬁne what we expect of our people and our business partners. They set forth clearly written standards for behavior, including: Anti-Corruption Policy Corporate Authorization Policy Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Governance Guidelines Financial Code of Ethics Insider Trading Policy Public Disclosure Policy Related Party Transactions Policy Social Media Policy Whistleblower Policy We expect Family Members to know and adhere to all the compliance and ethical behavior standards with respect to their job function. When performing daily tasks, we want all associates to show the utmost respect for the company, their peers, and the communities in which we operate. Fairmount Santrol provides access to a conﬁdential, anonymous hotline for reporting questionable accounting and compliance matters through www.mysafeworkplace.com. The whistleblower hotline can be reached 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Our Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics forms the core of our program. The Code guides our business conduct so that we lead with honesty, trust, and integrity in all decisions. We require all Family Members to read, understand, and follow the Code both in the workplace and our communities. It covers issues such as: Avoiding potential conﬂicts of interest Ensuring fair relationships with customers and suppliers Protecting data Properly using company assets Our legal team leads education, consultation, monitoring, and assessment for our Code and compliance practices. Family Members receive a variety of ethics and compliance training courses and messages each year administered by our Director of Securities and Compliance. We offer in-person and online training to all Family Members with company-provided email addresses. In the fourth quarter of each year, Family Members receive an online course certifying their understanding and compliance to our Code. We supplement this with additional courses, role-dependent trainings, and brief ethics-related messages throughout the year. Additionally, all Family Members read and sign our Employee Handbook, which outlines our company values, practices, and policies for ethics. Our dedication to integrity extends to our supply chain. We assess our suppliers for compliance and ethical conduct before establishing a formal relationship. Our internal and external stakeholders unite to uphold compliance and ethical behavior across our supply chain. We believe in generating shared success with our suppliers through fair and balanced agreements. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C O M P L I A N C E A N D E T H I C A L B E H AV I O R OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-56 As Fairmount Santrol strengthens our foundation for future growth, we hold ourselves accountable for Staying True to the highest ethical standards. We made several enhancements in 2016 to our corporate compliance program. For example, we reﬁned our Corporate Authorization Policy included in our governance standards. The policy establishes the appropriate internal control procedures and acceptable best practices for obtaining review and approval of transactions, agreements, and commitments that bind the Company and decisions that expose the Company to risk. The primary objectives of this Policy are to provide the appropriate level of responsibility and accountability and establish review levels and dollar amounts that make sense given the Company’s current organizational structure and business processes. We also developed and launched an ethics and compliance communications campaign. With the support of our board of directors and executive management team, this initiative aligns with industry best practices for corporate ethics and compliance programs. The campaign includes two-minute “Ethical Moment” videos with key ethics-related messages, for example: Think Before You Click; Ponder Your Posts; Avoiding Conﬂicts of Interest; Conﬁdential Information: Loose Lips; and Speak Up: Raising Concerns at Work. In 2017, we will continue to drive awareness by integrating ethics and compliance messaging into meeting agendas and additional educational opportunities for Family Members without email access. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P R O D U C T H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, INDICATOR, G4-LA6 Our dedication to safety extends to all who create, handle, distribute, and use our products. We take steps to ensure our Family Members are safe and healthy in the workplace, our customers know how to responsibly handle and use our products, and our product formulations are safe. Fairmount Santrol is vigilant in protecting our Family Members from potential crystalline silica dust exposure. Our Silicosis Prevention and Occupational Health Programs include the following practices that keep our team safe: We continually look for ways to minimize potential respirable silica dust across our products’ lifecycle. We provide training to every Family Member who may be exposed to respirable silica dust. We monitor sites to ensure use of personal protective equipment and safe product handling practices. Our facilities utilize state-of-the-art technology and engineering methods to manage the potential for respirable silica dust exposure. We periodically test 100 percent of Family Members who could be exposed to silica dust. Due to these efforts, the average potential exposure to respirable crystalline silica dust for our Family Members is below the threshold deemed protective by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). Fairmount Santrol requires all new employees to complete a screening process to establish a baseline for respirable silica dust exposure. Every two years, we evaluate the well-being of 100 percent of Family Members who could be exposed to silica dust, with health testing, pulmonary evaluations, and X-rays. To gather data, we ask a representative sample of workers to wear sampling systems that collect respirable dusts. These illustrate what the individual could be breathing. While regulation only requires a sample from one percent of our population, we submit samples from 10 percent. We publish test results through the National Industrial Sand Association (NISA) and have had no reported cases of silicosis for more than 20 years. Furthermore, we work to raise the industry’s health and safety standards through our leadership position with NISA. Our customers share our high standards for safety. To ensure compliance with the Occupational Safety and Mine Safety Health Administrations (OSHA and MSHA), we continually update and provide Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) for all of our products. We also work with an external consultant to review and strengthen the information we provide. These SDS sheets help our customers develop safety guidelines and proper handling procedures. We train our sales and marketing teams on the latest safety information, which they share with our customers as needed. Further, we make safety-related resources about our products available to the public. We regularly seek feedback and respond to customer inquiries to ensure the health and well-being of their workforces. We are dedicated to formulating solutions that enable safer product handling and use. We craft products that follow EPA, MSHA, and OSHA regulations and take pride in being compliant with ISO 9001, 14001, and 18001. Our Research and Development (R&D) department completes a due diligence process and impact assessment before we use any chemical in our products or processes. Product managers work closely with our Safety and R&D teams to develop Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) for handling, usage, and disposal. From there, we route all product information through our environmental, production, quality, and sales teams as needed to provide responses for all customer inquiries. Fairmount Santrol’s commitment to product health and safety also strengthens relationships with customers by exceeding or meeting their needs. Both our Proppant Solutions and Industrial and Recreational (I&R) customers rely on us to develop environmentally preferable chemistries and products to improve industry performance. While the proprietary nature of our products prevents us from fully disclosing our product formulations, we work closely with customers to educate them about our products and their safe use. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P R O D U C T H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-LA6 Fairmount Santrol goes beyond compliance for practices that impact our Family Members’ and stakeholders’ safety. Staying True to this commitment, in 2016 we set an ambitious goal to achieve levels of less than 50 percent of the Occupational Health and Safety Administration’s (OHSA) new limits for potential silica dust exposure. OHSA regulates permissible levels of respirable silica dust exposure in workplaces. These rules apply to all stakeholders across our value chain and vary by industry. Beginning in 2018, OSHA will reduce the silica dust exposure limit by 50 percent for sand used in foundry applications. In June 2021, a 50 percent reduction will also apply to respirable silica PEL for all our proppant products. Fairmount Santrol has developed a new, silica dust suppressant product (currently a developmental proppant) that during its ﬁrst oil ﬁeld trial passed the new OSHA regulations. We have planned additional ﬁeld trials at various oil basins in 2017. Due to the safety focus of our Family Members and customers, Fairmount Santrol is proud to have met these compliance standards ahead of the deadline. We’ve also gone further—by aiming to maintain facility exposure levels below 50 percent of the new limits. Our safety department and Best Practices SD Team developed a comprehensive strategy in 2016 that includes conducting benchmarks and incorporating best practices across facilities. They will continue implementing the plan in 2017. Once again, Fairmount Santrol reported zero cases of silicosis in 2016, a goal we have upheld for more than 20 years. Fairmount Santrol works to continually improve product safety while remaining cost-competitive. We made progress in 2016 to improve the dust mitigation performance of our products. Our ongoing goal is to actively identify partners that can help generate dust mitigation solutions for both our raw and resin-coated sand. This year, we also completed a comprehensive study verifying there are no leachable chemical components (leachates) of concern in our phenolic Novolac resin-coated products. We plan to publish a white paper in 2017 to educate customers and other stakeholders about our product safety performance. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C O M M U N I T Y I M PA C T A N D PA RT N E R O F C H O I C E OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, G4-SO1, G4-HR8 Fairmount Santrol is dedicated to being a responsible corporate citizen and welcomed neighbor. We believe there is a difference between simply adhering to a permit, and operating responsibly with a commitment to go beyond compliance. We actively address public interests early in the permitting process, engage in community dialogue, embrace transparency, and determine ways to meet our communities’ needs. We include information about our management approach and commitment to sustainable development within our permit applications, which address: Air quality Mine reclamation Biodiversity Noise, lighting, and blasting – mine hours of operations/time of day Direct and indirect economic impacts Plant design/aesthetics – views from the roadside Ground vibration from controlled blasting operations Social interests – property values, tourism, etc. Groundwater and surface water quality and quantity Trafﬁc Our aim is to maintain an open line of communication with our communities. We customize our management approach to ﬁt each community’s unique needs. Our plant managers have responsibility for community engagement, responding to inquiries, opportunities and concerns, and determining solutions. Communication occurs via open houses, public meetings, community reports and newsletters, telephone calls, local media, and community events. For instance, when townships or clubs host monthly meetings, we periodically send a representative to serve as a source of information about our values, standards, and practices. We proudly welcome community members to open houses and site tours where we share our story and allow others to see how we operate. Fairmount Santrol does not operate in areas of indigenous peoples—groups protected by national or international legislation as having a set of speciﬁc rights based on their historical ties to an area. Additionally, our Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct encourages our suppliers to share our commitment to protecting human rights. Fairmount Santrol monitors and addresses all federal, state, and local regulations that apply to our operations. We distinguish ourselves as a responsible operator by going beyond compliance for many regulations, especially those regarding environmental management and the health and safety of our communities. We uphold required standards for groundwater and air quality monitoring and control at all of our facilities. During blasting, our Family Members and contractors use seismographs to collect data on air and ground vibrations. They produce blast reports, which show we are consistently below state and local regulation standards. In addition, we manage noise within our operations and respond to public concerns through modiﬁcations that eliminate, reduce, or refocus noise. At many of our facilities, we select equipment with a lower noise rating. We also install noise barriers to limit how far noise can travel beyond our property boundaries. Fairmount Santrol has been recognized for successfully managing impacts and going beyond compliance. For example, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources has designated our Wisconsin mining sites as Green Tier certiﬁed. Green Tier is a program which recognizes companies “that voluntarily exceed legal requirements related to health, safety, and the environment, resulting in continuous improvement in the state’s environment, economy, and quality of life.” Fairmount Santrol is the ﬁrst mining company to receive Green Tier status. We seek contractors that value sustainable development and work with them to mitigate community impacts. Contractors must sign an agreement that requires safety, environmental, and community practices both on and off Fairmount Santrol property. If contractors return for more than a year, they must re-sign the agreement. We also expect all on-site contractors to comply with our zero waste initiatives by recycling, composting, and using waste-to-energy receptacles. In addition, we require all contracted truck drivers to sign a code of conduct, which our dispatch company reviews annually. The code states that drivers must have personal protective gear, use fall protection, obey speed limits, and avoid the use of engine brakes, among other practices. We evaluate local trafﬁc patterns and aim to reduce trafﬁc associated with our operations during peak hours, such as school or work rush hours. To lessen this impact, in some communities we have built additional turning lanes in and out of facilities to enable safer merging. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT C O M M U N I T Y I M PA C T A N D PA RT N E R O F C H O I C E OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-SO1 Fairmount Santrol holds ourselves responsible for protecting the well-being of our communities. Through all our business activities, we seek to continually improve our standards and practices for managing community impacts. For the ﬁfth year in a row, in 2016 we earned recognition by the Wisconsin Sustainable Business Council as a Green Master. The program highlights companies that have demonstrated strong performance through sustainability initiatives. By pursuing these types of awards, Fairmount Santrol demonstrates to our communities that we are committed to sustainable development. In 2016, we celebrated the opening of our new, state-of-the-art Wedron 7 production facility in Illinois. From the beginning of the permitting process, Fairmount Santrol Stayed True to our belief in stakeholder inclusion by engaging our community in the expansion. We collaborated with the Environmental Protection Agency to hold a public information meeting to discuss our plans for managing impacts. These include constructing Wedron 7 in the interior of our Wedron site, which reduces noise and other community impacts. We also discussed construction trafﬁc patterns. In May of 2016, we hosted a grand opening for the facility. We invited our Illinois Family Members and valued partners who worked on the project to celebrate. As we continue to operate our Wedron facilities, we are committed to engaging our community members and valuing their feedback. Due to market conditions, Fairmount Santrol has idled or closed several facilities in recent years. Though inactive, we continue to monitor impacts and maintain permit requirements at these locations. To learn more about our approach to managing impacts, please refer to the Air Quality and Land Management, Remediation, and Biodiversity sections of this report. For more information on the ways in which we are involved in our local communities, read our Community Investment section. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT S TA K E H O L D E R E D U C AT I O N A N D I N F L U E N C E OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, G4-LA14 Our motto and action orientation to “Do Good. Do Well.” has proven to be a differentiator for Fairmount Santrol. While we continuously raise our own standards, we also make it a point to share our expertise, successes, and best practices with our stakeholders. We invest time in educating suppliers, customers, peers, partners and other businesses on the adoption of sustainable practices. We also educate investors about our commitment to SD and its value. Each year we publish our annual Corporate Social Responsibility report and other resources, such as a Report to the Community in our northern region. We highlight data about our SD initiatives during stakeholder presentations, such as safety metrics, employee training data, and return on investment statistics through our SD Pays measurement. Our plant managers, SD Coordinators, and other Family Members host educational sessions for school children, colleges and universities, local clubs and businesses, government agencies, national associations, and conferences. Fairmount Santrol participates in industry associations to raise standards and increase adoption of responsible practices. The Wisconsin Industrial Sand Association (WISA) is a statewide organization that promotes safe and environmentally sound sand mining standards, fact-based discussions, and positive dialogue among the industry, citizens, and government ofﬁcials. WISA requires all members to hold a Green Tier Certiﬁcation from the Department of Natural Resources (DNR). Fairmount Santrol was the ﬁrst mining company in Wisconsin to qualify for this designation because of our robust environmental management system, historical performance, and willingness to exceed regulatory requirements. In the past, Fairmount Santrol has contributed to newsletters that illustrate how WISA member companies are committed to sustainable development. We collaborate with peers to publish white papers on topics like crystalline silica, water soluble polymers, and groundwater. Furthermore, our third-party studies on air quality generate dialogue with regulatory agencies and peers to improve industry standards. We also engage with the Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers (IAAP). For example, we routinely sponsor school teachers for the yearly science teacher workshop hosted by the IAAP Public Information and Education Committee, where teachers receive education about the beneﬁts of mining in Illinois. Fairmount Santrol submits annual safety data to the Industrial Minerals Association of North America (IMA-NA) and participates in the group’s silicosis prevention program. The IMA-NA holds us accountable for compliance with dust management and testing standards. We share our Safety and Health Management System with peers to enhance the well-being of all mining workers in the industry. We also lead sustainability efforts for the American Foundry Society. This includes publishing white papers, giving conference presentations, and engaging with our customers to serve on panel discussions. By working together to raise standards, responsible practices, and transparency, we strengthen our industry for the long term. In addition, Fairmount Santrol’s support of the Foundry Educational Foundation (FEF) provides scholarships and funding for universities that prepare students for careers in the metal casting industry. We contribute to the FEF’s general fund, award the annual William E. Conway scholarship, and have several Family Members who provide sustained ﬁnancial support. We provide leadership for the organization’s executive team and committees, and are involved on several university advisory boards. Furthermore, we offer internship experiences for students at Fairmount Santrol facilities. On the energy side of the business, at the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ Annual Technology Conference and Exhibition, Fairmount Santrol recently engaged in a sustainability sponsorship. The company showcased water conservation practices by providing reusable water bottles and water stations for easy ﬁlling. We continuously inform our suppliers about Fairmount Santrol’s sustainable development practices. We ask all new suppliers to complete our supplier survey, which includes questions on compliance, environmental stewardship, safety, wellness, community engagement, reporting, and civil rights. Through our SD blog and other channels, we educate our suppliers on our sustainable development practices and goals and look for partnership opportunities to help us improve our performance. In turn, we share best practices with our customers to increase responsible behaviors and raise industry standards. Our intent is to help customers reduce impacts, manage risks, and increase transparency through partnerships, innovation, and increased communication. For example, we publish an oil and gas industry blog where we share perspectives on how our products can enable strong business and sustainability performance. On an annual basis, we take advantage of a digital email survey campaign through which customers can provide direct feedback to Fairmount Santrol. We also partner with customers on community, sustainability, and technology-driven projects. Stakeholder engagement is a collaborative effort. By sharing our best practices, we also gain ideas for enhancing sustainable development. Our stakeholder engagement fosters strong relationships that ensure we can operate in an informed, sustainable, and proﬁtable manner. people STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT S TA K E H O L D E R E D U C AT I O N A N D I N F L U E N C E OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-LA14, G4-EN32 In 2016, Fairmount Santrol Stayed True to our commitment to maintaining transparent stakeholder relationships. We launched a new blog to share our perspectives on product innovations and efﬁciencies with the oil and gas markets. We also continued to share our support of People, Planet, and Prosperity through our sustainable development blog. Furthermore, we provided tours and educational presentations for many of our stakeholders. In 2016, these included: Colleges and universities in the Northeast Ohio area Community groups such as the United Way, Habitat for Humanity, and the YMCA Educational groups at our Wedron, Illinois facility Membership organizations such as the Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs The Ottawa Chamber of Economic Development Task Force The Young African Leaders Institute at the University of Wisconsin-Stout University and community groups at our Menomonie, Wisconsin location We continued our support in 2016 of regional and national industry associations. For example, we contributed to Wisconsin Industrial Sand Association initiatives such as strategic analyses for sand mining, upholding standards, making permitting changes, and supporting response materials for regulatory efforts. Although we deferred membership in 2016 due to market conditions, we continued to sponsor the annual teacher education workshop hosted by the Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers. We also supported the Foundry Educational Foundation by awarding two student scholarships of $2,000 each in 2016. Supporting Communities Through Leadership Geauga Every year, a Fairmount Santrol Family Member participates in the Leadership Geauga training program in our Eastern region. Leadership Geauga develops and encourages the leader in everyone, through personal growth, leadership development, and community engagement. The year-long program identiﬁes current and future leaders from a cross-section of Geauga County, exposing them to the community’s realities, opportunities, and challenges so that they may positively contribute to Geauga’s economic, social and civic development. Leadership Geauga focuses on: Convening community around key issues Equipping individuals for personal and professional impact through leadership development and county education planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Fairmount Santrol’s products and services contribute to the United States’ energy independence as well as the use of natural gas, a cleaner fuel. Foundries use our sand to make products such as ﬁberglass, which increase the energy efﬁciency of buildings and homes. While these product uses are noble, it is critical that we take full responsibility for producing our sand products with minimal environmental impacts. Through upcycles and downcycles, we Stay True to our commitment to be good stewards of air, water, and land. We proactively work to maintain clean air, minimize our energy, fresh water, and land use and reduce our waste. Our transportation strategies and investments incorporate advancements in energy efﬁciency. At Fairmount Santrol, we embrace the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management. In 2016, three facilities were ISO-certiﬁed through mid-year. However, market conditions led to the idling of those facilities. Regardless of third-party certiﬁcation, our operational facilities strive to achieve compliance with the ISO 14001 standard. To learn more about our environmental practices, we encourage you to read through the various Planet sections. Air Quality Solid Waste Transportation Logistics, Efﬁciency, and Emissions Land Management, Remediation, and Biodiversity Water Use and Quality Energy Use 100% We funded the planting of ~70% We increased our use of unit trains 99.6% We reduced waste to landﬁll by 100,000+ trees to sequester 100% from ~50% in 2015 to ~70% in 99.6% from 2009 through 2016 of our annual Scope 1 & 2 GHG 2016, reducing environmental emissions impact planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT AIR QUALITY OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Fairmount Santrol understands that healthy communities need clean air to thrive. We protect air quality by establishing control mechanisms in our operations, and reducing and offsetting our greenhouse gas emissions. Fairmount Santrol manages potential fugitive silica sand dust emissions through several control mechanisms. Some facilities with exterior sand stockpiles use water or special agents to address fugitive emissions. We use an automated technology at our Menomonie, Wisconsin, facility that monitors wind speed and activates sprinklers when needed. Additionally, a few of our locations use ﬁlter belts to eliminate the need for stock piles, transporting sand directly to our dryers. Further, water scrubbers and dust collectors reduce point source particulate emissions. Water trucks, water sprays and vacuum sweepers manage any potential fugitive particulate emissions. Following our engineering standards, we periodically empty the dust collectors into our plant return water. This enables us to pump the particles directly to our waste disposal location for processing, reducing the risk of fugitive emissions during transport. Our engineering and operations departments collaborate to evaluate control technologies for regulated air pollutants. For example, some of our sand coating operations generate volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and we use high temperature oxidation to address nearly all of our VOC emissions. During the permitting process for new plants or expansion of existing facilities, we assess our potential to emit regulated air pollutants. We design and implement the best equipment for emissions control. Once in operation, we monitor equipment and submit data for permit compliance and applicable regulations. Fairmount Santrol is committed to protecting climate health by monitoring and managing our greenhouse gas emissions. Our facility managers and engineering department collect site-speciﬁc Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data. Along with our Quest for Eco-Efﬁciency SD Team, they identify and implement energy efﬁciency projects that reduce our GHG emissions. Additionally, each year we plant enough trees to offset our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from the previous year. We assume an 80 percent survivability rate across 50 years and plant more trees than required to ensure full sequestration of our emissions. Our Family Members plant approximately 10 percent of the trees through our volunteer events, while Fairmount Santrol ﬁnances the planting of the remaining trees via third parties. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT AIR QUALITY OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18 In 2016, we set a goal to elminate 0.5 percent of Fairmount Santrol’s GHG emissions, based on 2015 GHG emissions, as well as sequester 100 percent of our Q4 2014–Q3 2015 GHG emissions. In 2016, we decreased our GHG emissions by 1.74 percent, exceeding our goal, and decreased emissions per ton sold by 2 percent. We also met our sequestration goal. With our move to ﬁscal year emissions data, going forward we will offset ﬁscal year emissions. SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS (THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENTS) Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, heating, cooling, or steam. FY 2014 Direct Sources 180.3 Indirect Sources 11.4 Total 291.7 FY 2015 Direct Sources 162.0 Indirect Sources 101.5 Total 263.6 FY 2016 Direct Sources 157.7 Indirect Sources 101.3 Total 259.0 SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY (METRIC TONS/TONS SOLD) Staying True to our commitment to protect air quality, Fairmount Santrol implemented several technology upgrades across our facilities in 2016 to reduce emissions and manage air quality. When we purchased our Voca, Texas, facility, we saw opportunities to improve dust control mechanisms. We continued to make these improvements in 2016. For example, we added an actuator system for our loadout dust controls, which conserves energy by turning dust controls on only during loadout, which is approximately 10 percent of the day. We also made upgrades to our dust collectors and ducting system. At both our Voca, Texas, and Wedron, Illinois, facilities, we installed dust collector valves that enable direct disposal of particles to designated waste locations. This eliminates the potential health risks posed by worker transport of dust. Our Best Practice SD Team also implemented a weekly inspection process to assess operating equipment control booths for dust contamination. Fairmount Santrol continually evaluates opportunities to improve air quality. In 2016, we assessed dust control technologies at our Black Lab location in Serena, Illinois. Our Family Members implemented several low-cost improvements, such as installing dust shrouds and switching to a water-based ﬂoor sweeping compound. They also identiﬁed additional design improvements that we plan to implement in the future. To sequester 100 percent of our Q4 2014–Q3 2015 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, Fairmount Santrol funded the planting of 102,145 trees. Each year we plant enough trees to account for survivability rates. Our Family Members planted more than 10,000 trees in 2016, approximately 10 percent of the total number planted. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT T R A N S P O RTAT I O N L O G I S T I C S , E F F I C I E N C Y, A N D E M I S S I O N S OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, G4-EN30 Fairmount Santrol continually invests in providing best-in-class transportation and distribution. Our goal is to move full capacity loads as resourcefully as possible to terminals near our customers. By managing and improving our logistics efﬁciency, we minimize our costs and climate impacts from fuel consumption and emissions. We have the industry’s most fully integrated logistics network. Our 41 active proppant distribution terminals enable us to directly deliver sand to all North American major oil and gas producing basins. Three-quarters of these terminals are exclusive to Fairmount Santrol. This competitive position improves our efﬁciency and ability to meet customer demands. Year over year we expand our unit train capabilities. Unit trains ship nonstop from origin to destination, bypassing railroad switch yards and gaining priority on the rails. They save fuel, time, and cost of delivering product to our customers. Whenever possible, Fairmount Santrol prioritizes this transportation method over single railcar and truck shipments. We maximize the use of unit trains better than anyone else in our industry, with more than 70 percent of our shipments via unit trains. Railcars have a weight limit. When we load railcars to the maximum possible capacity, we reduce the number of railcars and shipments needed to transport our product. This reduces both transportation costs and carbon emissions. Our Sustainable Mobility SD Team identiﬁes methods to load railcars to maximum capacity, improving year over year. Our third-generation optimization model simulates planning scenarios and provides a comparison analysis of supply plans. This tool aids in both short-term, tactical planning and long-term, strategic planning, allowing us to build a transportation vision over the next ﬁve years. On a weekly basis, we monitor our logistics performance using Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). These allow us to make targeted adjustments to delivery plans and available reserves across our operations. Additionally, we actively manage our transportation logistics in the following ways: Build strong relationships and communication with all of our transportation partners Have full-time expeditors available 24 hours, seven days a week Hold daily conference calls with logistics partners Use efﬁcient transportation of materials via conveyors between facilities when applicable Use optimization software to manage daily shipments In addition to managing our own emissions, Fairmount Santrol supports our suppliers in mitigating impacts from product transportation. Several of our primary transportation suppliers participate in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency SmartWay program. SmartWay is a public-private initiative to help companies in the freight transportation sector to monitor and reduce emissions and environmental risks. Selecting these transportation partners naturally aligns with our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT T R A N S P O RTAT I O N L O G I S T I C S , E F F I C I E N C Y, A N D E M I S S I O N S OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-EN30 As the oil and gas market worked toward recovery in 2016, Fairmount Santrol continued to strengthen our transportation capabilities. We positioned ourselves to serve customer demands for increased product volumes while Staying True to our commitment to reduce our emissions footprint. Utilizing maximum loading techniques, Fairmount Santrol increased our railcar utilization rate and generated a signiﬁcant annual savings in freight cost avoidance. We aim to ﬁll railcars to max capacity without overloading, which can incur slowdowns and ﬁnes, and we will continue to increase railcar utilization in 2017. Most of our sand currently ships from Wedron, Illinois, streamlining our decision-making process for matching supply to origin. However, these decisions will become more complex as markets recover. To manage this, we will scale the use of our supply chain planning optimization tool. This software evaluates factors such as supply location, cost, and ﬁnal destination to identify the best method for producing and delivering our product. Unit trains continue to provide a competitive advantage, moving product nonstop from origin to destination, reducing our cost and environmental impact. In 2016, Fairmount Santrol increased our number of terminals with unit train capabilities from seven to eight. We shipped 74 percent of our Northern White Sand via unit train, a signiﬁcant increase from 44 percent in 2015. FMSA VOLUME SOLD (THOUSANDS OF TONS) PERCENT OF SHIPMENTS VIA UNIT TRAINS MODES OF TRANSPORT (NORTHERN WHITE SAND) 2013 2014 Rail 76.5% Rail 74.4% Truck 21.3% Truck 22.3% Barge 2.2% Barge 3.2% Conveyor 0.0% Conveyor 0.0% 2015 2016 Rail 82.5% Rail 87.3% Truck 11.5% Truck 8.9% Barge 3.0% Barge 1.0% Conveyor 3.0% Conveyor 3.0% Throughout market changes, Fairmount Santrol has evaluated our transportation network and destination terminals needed to best serve our customers. In coming years, we will continue to increase our use of unit trains. When it becomes economically viable, we will also consider the possibility of incorporating liqueﬁed or compressed natural gas into our truck vendor ﬂeet. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT WAT E R U S E A N D Q U A L I T Y OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, G4-EN10 Fairmount Santrol understands the importance of conserving clean water today and into the future. We are committed to transparency and open dialogue with community members to alleviate water-related concerns. Managing our water use and discharge enables us to reduce expenses while protecting our communities and building positive stakeholder relationships. We are dedicated to meeting water standards established by state and local regulatory agencies. These include regular water testing and results reporting, storm water pollution prevention plans, and compliance with permit requirements. We align our water management plans with the goals outlined in our environmental policy for reducing the use of natural resources. Our Clean Water SD Team leads this effort by supporting most of our facilities with the creation and execution of their water management plans. Fairmount Santrol uses water in our operations for extracting, washing, processing, and cooling. We track daily well use at each facility with a continued goal to decrease consumption and increase the use of recycled water, through wastewater treatment. In fact, we estimate that we recycle more than 90 percent of the water used in our operations. For example, we developed on-site basins and pumping systems that allow us to reuse sand processing water. At several sites, the basins also capture precipitation that we incorporate back into water recycling efforts. We supplement any recycled water lost during operations with natural surface and groundwater resources. All the deposits that Fairmount Santrol mines contain natural silts and clays, which we wash from our sand to make pure, ﬁnished products. The resulting water can be cloudy—measured in “turbidity.” We clarify this water for reuse through a settling process that separates out the solids and decreases its level of turbidity. Furthermore, we can use the remaining silts and clays for mine reclamation purposes. Fairmount Santrol retains water on our properties for recycling needs. At times, we must discharge this water into local surface and groundwater resources. When doing so, we conduct internal and third-party testing to ensure our practices comply with regulatory limits. We also obtain all appropriate permits for water discharge that maintains ecosystem health. ® We use Curlex blocks at our largest production facility as a best practice for the management of storm water runoff. The blocks, composed of a cross-section of ﬁlter media wrapped in textile, improve the quality of storm water runoff by controlling turbidity. This technology is more effective than more traditional methods, such as straw bale barriers or silt fences. In the future, we may install ® Curlex blocks at additional sites as needed. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT WAT E R U S E A N D Q U A L I T Y OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-EN10 Fairmount Santrol is Staying True to our responsibility to continually monitor our water consumption and impacts on local water quality. This year, we realized the beneﬁts of a new water clariﬁcation tank at our Wedron South facility. Our Illinois, Minnesota, Missouri, Texas, and Wisconsin mines now have water clarifying tanks, improving the speed of water recycling and reuse. Our Clean Water Team reviewed the water management plans at 22 facilities in 2016. They made improvements to our strategies and identiﬁed best practices to share across our locations. For example, we installed a variable speed drive on the water pump at our Chardon, Ohio, location, leading to both water reduction and energy cost savings. Fairmount Santrol also encourages our Family Members to be conscious of water consumption habits. In 2016, the Clean Water SD Team facilitated or sponsored 33 presentations at our sites on water conservation practices at work and home. These sessions empower Family Members to make daily contributions to our water goals. Water Efﬁciency Improvements in Texas Our Voca, Texas, facility implemented several water improvement projects in 2016. Replacing the packing on a pump reduced water loss signiﬁcantly, approximately 50 to 100 gallons per minute. Following the best practices of other facilities, our Voca Family Members evaluated evaporation rates for tracking purposes and implemented improved processes. In 2017 the Clean Water SD Team plans to evaluate fresh water access at all Fairmount Santrol facilities and install technologies that help reduce bottled water use. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT S O L I D WA S T E OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Fairmount Santrol set a bold goal to inspire and enable all facilities to reach zero waste to landﬁll. A growing number of our facilities have reached that goal, made possible through the efforts of our Recover, Recycle, Reuse (3R) SD Team, facility managers, and SD Coordinators. Fairmount Santrol is committed to decreasing waste throughout our production processes. Our primary by-product streams include off-spec sand, metal, wood, cardboard, and paper. To minimize packaging waste, we order bulk supplies and reuse and recycle packaging materials. We send off-spec sand from most of our manufacturing plants to either cement production facilities or to landﬁlls to be used for daily cover. Our ﬁrst goal is to reduce, recycle, compost, and reuse our industrial by-products. We equip many of our facilities and ofﬁce spaces with recycling bins to capture and convert as much waste as possible. In addition, we partner with waste-to-energy companies to manage non-compostable and non-recyclable waste. These services convert waste destined for landﬁll into fuel for steamgenerated electricity. Fairmount Santrol ships over 90 percent of our products via trucks, trains, or barges that require no packaging. We transport the remaining product using bulk packaging, which we recycle and reuse, and ask our customers to do the same. Fairmount Santrol’s commitment to waste reduction extends to our Family Members and communities. We ask all locations to hold zero waste activities that promote waste reduction, recycling, and composting—both in our facilities and local communities. Our Family Members hold webinars, engage with our customers, and work with local businesses to share best practices for waste management. Responsible resource management is a reinforcement of our “Do Good. Do Well.” motto. It positively affects our bottom line by reducing landﬁll expenses—showing once again how sustainable development drives business value. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT S O L I D WA S T E OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-EN23 Staying True to our vision of zero landﬁll waste, Fairmount Santrol set a goal in 2015 to bring 100 percent of our legacy facilities— those active in 2009 when we began tracking waste—to zero waste to landﬁll. As of December 2016, 27 of our 31 operating facilities met this target. Most notably, our largest facility in Wedron, Illinois, operated with zero waste for all of 2016. This was achieved through the hard work of our Recover, Recycle, Reuse (3R) SD Team, SD Coordinators, and Family Members. In 2016, Fairmount Santrol achieved a 99.6 percent reduction in waste to landﬁll, from our 2009 baseline. This included the diversion of more than 4,100 tons of off spec sand through arrangements with a company that provides by-products as inputs for cement manufacturing. Zero Waste to Landﬁll in Voca, Texas Given the rural location of our Voca, Texas, facility, it does not have the same recycling options as our other facilities. We were left to transport high volumes of waste to disposal locations. In 2016, we installed a compactor to compress waste into bales. We ship these bales in bulk to our waste-to-energy partner in Oklahoma, to generate fuel. Not only did this enable our facility to become zero waste to landﬁll, it also reduced truck trafﬁc, fuel consumption, and our transportation costs. TOTAL WASTE TO LANDFILL (CUBIC YARDS) planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT L A N D M A N A G E M E N T, R E M E D I AT I O N , AND BIODIVERSITY OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA For Fairmount Santrol and our stakeholders to thrive, it is important that we preserve ecosystem health. We are committed to protecting land quality and conducting our mining practices with respect and care for local species. Fairmount Santrol must obtain permits to operate our mines. During the approval process, we work with state and local regulatory agencies to develop land management and reclamation plans. These include site maps, managing overburden removal and mineral deposits, reclamation procedures, on-site audits, and ﬁnancial assurance for the completion of site reclamation. Fairmount Santrol is unique with respect to industrial sand mining and processing companies; approximatley 45 percent of the acres of our mining sites that are active or in development are at facilities that are earmarked for underground mining. As opposed to surface mining, underground mining only requires small areas of surface disturbance to install and maintain access points and ventilation shafts to the mine. In fact, less than 1/2 of 1 percent of Fairmount Santrol’s underground mines have surface disturbance associated with our activities. Furthermore, we plan to operate underground at over 75 percent of acreage designated for future development. This preserves wildlife habitat and biodiversity. To protect agricultural and forested land affected by our surface mining operations, Fairmount Santrol develops and implements reclamation plans. We collaborate with stakeholders to restore land, wildlife habit, and viable pastures at these locations. This includes planting native species and removing invasive ones. In some cases, we have reclaimed areas previously dominated by row crops to mixed shrubbery, trees, and grasslands. At other sites, we have restored land for agricultural purposes such as row crops and pastures. Some of our reclamation efforts produce graded areas that allow seasonal precipitation to pool, supporting plants and wildlife accustomed to standing water and/or wet soil conditions. At locations where there is insufﬁcient overburden to backﬁll mined areas, our reclamation plans allow for quarries to partially ﬁll with water, which we stock with ﬁsh to support local wildlife. Wildlife in our local communities include bats, bees, birds, butterﬂies, ﬁsh, and native plants. Fairmount Santrol actively works to protect habitat areas through education, partnerships, and funding. We partner with organizations such as the Wildlife Habitat Council, Saving Birds Thru Habitat, and the Wisconsin Bat Program to protect species diversity near our facilities. Through the Wildlife Habitat Council, we educate the community on topics such as the importance of pollinators, particularly bees, to our ecosystem. Our Family Members work with school groups to plant pollinator gardens and construct bee habitats in the communities where we operate. Our two Wisconsin underground mines support the second and third largest populations of hibernating cave bats in Wisconsin. We support and work with researchers from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) to monitor bat activity, research bat life cycles, and study white nose syndrome (WNS) in and around portions of our underground mines. WNS is a fungal disease which has decimated large populations of bats in the eastern half of the United States. We proudly support efforts to protect bat populations, and have protocols in place to mitigate the chance for our operations to inadvertently spread WNS. In 2011, we received an award from Wisconsin DNR commemorating our efforts to assist the DNR’s bat research. We were recognized with the Wildlife Habitat Council’s Bat Conservation Action Award in 2012. Fairmount Santrol consistently goes beyond compliance for land management standards by participating in national and state environmental certiﬁcation programs. One such program, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources’ Green Tier program, recognizes Fairmount Santrol’s robust environmental management system, our history of a good environmental record, and a willingness to exceed regulatory requirements. We are proud to be the ﬁrst mining company in Wisconsin to receive the Green Tier certiﬁcation. All three of our Wisconsin mining facilities have attained this recognition. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT L A N D M A N A G E M E N T, R E M E D I AT I O N , AND BIODIVERSITY OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-EN13, MM1 We have a strong commitment to responsible land management and the protection of biodiversity. This year, we achieved certiﬁcation for land management, remediation, and biodiversity practices at the following sites: Wildlife Habitat Council “Conservation Certiﬁcation” Chardon, OH Hager City/Bay City, WI** Maiden Rock, WI* Menomonie, WI Wedron, IL Saving Birds Thru Habitat Certiﬁcation Hager City/Bay City, WI** Maiden Rock, WI* Shakopee, MN Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources Green Tier Certiﬁcation Hager City/Bay City, WI** Maiden Rock, WI* Menomonie, WI *Facilities closed or idled throughout 2016 **Idled/closed in 2016; currently functioning as a terminal Leading the Rush River Clean-Up On April 23rd, Fairmount Santrol organized and participated in the 11th annual Rush River Clean-Up in our Northern region. The 60 volunteers included Fairmount Santrol Family Members as well as members of Trout Unlimited, Fly Fishing Women of Minnesota, and the Eau Galle Rush River Sportsmen Club. Together, we cleaned approximately 25 miles of the Rush River in Pierce County, Wisconsin. Our total materials collected included 17 tires, nearly 300 pounds of scrap metal, 150 pounds of recyclables, and 440 pounds of waste. FACILITY TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL PERMANENTLY PERCENT ACREAGE UNDISTURBED DISTURBED RESTORED DISTURBED Bay City, WI** 1,493 1,492 1 0 <1% Beaver, OH 307 263 44 0 14% Brewer, MO* 353 268 50 35 14% Chardon, OH 623 335 207 81 33% Diamond Bluff, WI 2,684 2,684 0 0 0% Grand Haven, MI 143 91 27 25 19% Harietta, MI* 341 43 171 127 50% Katemcy, TX 848 848 0 0 0% Maiden Rock, WI* 1,940 1,915 7.5 17 <1% Menomonie, WI 368 228 129 11 35% Shakopee, MN 208 197 10 1 5% Voca, TX 1,962 1,552 410 0 21% Wedron, IL 1,992 1,295 532 165 27% Total 13,262 11,211 1,588.5 462 12% *Facilities closed or idled throughout 2016 **Idled/closed in 2016; currently functioning as a terminal Across regions we plant trees, pollinator and vegetable gardens, build bird and duck houses and more. Regardless of our activity level due to market conditions, Fairmount Santrol Stays True to commitment to operate responsibly. We monitor idled facilities, maintain permit compliance, and continue to foster positive relationships within all communities where we have active or idled facilities. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENERGY USE OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Mining is an energy-intensive business—electricity and natural gas account for nearly 30 percent of the cost to produce a ton of sand. Therefore, Fairmount Santrol makes it a priority to manage energy consumption as we seek to “Do Good. Do Well.” Drying sand and heating sand for resin coating are our two most energy-intensive procedures. We optimize energy usage throughout these processes by reusing heat, idling machinery, and optimizing control strategies on dryers to increase thermal efﬁciencies. We consume energy throughout other steps of mining and processing sand, as well as in our ofﬁce locations. Fairmount Santrol shares responsibilities for managing energy use among our teams. Our plant managers track energy use at each of our facilities, and our Quest for Eco-Efﬁciency SD Team and engineering group conduct periodic audits to identify future projects. Company-wide, our engineers install energy reduction technologies through facility design. These include temperature controls, LED lighting, and motion sensors for interior lighting. Our business beneﬁts when Family Members incorporate sustainable habits into their daily routines. Fairmount Santrol encourages our team to conserve energy at work and at home. We have a company-wide policy that limits unnecessary travel and asks Family Members to choose teleconferencing when possible. Fairmount Santrol has two solar energy installations, one in Chardon, Ohio, and the other in Menomonie, Wisconsin. Over the years, these investments have contributed to our SD Pays. Our Menomonie array has saved more than 450,000 lbs. of CO2 and $25,800 across its lifetime, and our Chardon array has saved more than 138,000 lbs. of CO2 and $10,900. planet STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENERGY USE OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-EN3, G4-EN5 Fairmount Santrol demonstrates Staying True to our energy reduction commitment by setting an annual goal. In 2016, we set a goal to eliminate 0.5 percent of Fairmount Santrol’s GHG emissions, based on 2015 GHG emissions, and reducing energy is import to reaching that goal. As you can see below, our energy consumption in 2016 decreased and energy intensity held constant. ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWH) ENERGY INTENSITY (ENERGY USE IN MWH/TONS SOLD) FUEL USE BY TYPE FUEL TYPE FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Electricity (GWh) 170 157 166 Coal/Lignite 0 0 0 3 Natural Gas (10 cu.m.) 71,337 61,827 65,110 3 Oil/Diesel (10 cu.m.) 6.5 5.7 3.9 We increased our focus on energy efﬁciency in 2016. Some of this occurred naturally with efforts to cut costs in the down market. We moved most of our production to our strategically located, low-cost, state-of-the art facility in Wedron, Illinois. In 2016, Wedron was awarded over $1 million in rebates from Ameren Power for our purchase of energy-efﬁcient motor controls. We also implemented processes to recover sellable sand that had been previously mined at the site. This process eliminated the need to consume stripping and blasting related energy for the recovery of previously mined sands. This resulted in a substantial energy and ﬁnancial savings. Many of our 2016 improvements were low-cost projects that required small investments, but collectively impacted our energy performance. For example, we upgraded equipment at our Wedron, Illinois, facility that resulted in hundreds of thousands of SD Pays in the next ﬁve years. Additional projects include: Automating the dust control sprinklers at our Menomonie, Wisconsin, facility Upgrading the propane system and burners at our Voca, Texas, facility Consolidating the compressor pumps at our Wedron, Illinois, location Education for Energy Efﬁciency Our Quest for Eco-Efﬁciency (QEE) SD Team supports our Family Members in adopting energy-saving habits. When our Family Members practice efﬁciency in their daily lives, they are more likely to support our energy reduction initiatives. In 2016, the QEE Team implemented an Energy Efﬁciency Education Program to increase Family Member engagement across our facilities. The program taught strategies such as turning off lights, powering down electronic equipment, and automating thermostat controls. These techniques and others can be used at work and home to save energy. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our innovative spirit, unwavering commitment to sustainable development, and cost consciousness leads us to continuously craft the industry’s broadest product suite of cutting-edge, high-quality, safe, environmentally-friendly, and efﬁcient products. When combined with our logistics and distribution footprint and growing unit train capabilities, we deliver a strong value proposition to our customers. The prosperity we generate is shared with our stakeholders—our shareholders, Family Members, and communities. We believe that Staying True to the triple bottom line, People, Planet, and Prosperity, is a key factor in driving our long-term success, making Fairmount Santrol the employer and partner of choice. You will see that theme weaved throughout the Prosperity section. Community Investment Commodity Pricing and Demand Product Innovation Product Quality Prosperity of Family Members $ 1.2MM In 2016, our foundation HIGHEST We shipped the highest raw frac > 13HRS Family Members volunteered an contributed $1.2 million to the sand volumes in our company’s average of 13 hours each, giving vitality of our communities history in 2016 back to our communities prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITY INVESTMENT OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, G4-EC1, G4-EC7 Fairmount Santrol believes that when our communities thrive, everyone beneﬁts. Our Family Members make a powerful impact on the communities where we live and work by investing their time, talent, and treasure. Our Community Investment Policy divides our support into four areas of focus: the environment, health and wellness, education, and discretionary funding. We use discretionary monies to address speciﬁc needs identiﬁed and supported by our Fairmount Santrol Family Members. For example, we have a gift matching program that enables Family Members to request donations for non-proﬁts of their choice. We invest in communities through cash grants, in-kind donations, and corporate volunteer efforts. Our goal is to donate 1.5 percent or more of our annual pre-tax/pre-equity earnings to organizations under the United States Internal Revenue Services’ 501(c) regulations. Each plant contributes to serving community needs by choosing activities or local organizations to support. Examples of local initiatives our facilities sponsor include: Aiding local schools in a variety of ways, including updating their facilities, and providing supplies and new technology Community clean-up days and Adopt-a-Highway Ecosystem improvements such as river cleanups, native plant gardens, local wildlife habitat protection, tree planting, and more Improving parks, playgrounds, and other public spaces Supporting emergency services such as local ﬁre departments through ﬁnancial donations and volunteer time Supporting organizations that help people in need within our communities Fairmount Santrol’s contributions signiﬁcantly impact local communities by improving the health, wellness, and quality of life for residents, advancing sustainability education among students and local businesses, and enabling wildlife to ﬂourish. Our Corporate Community Investment Committee and Site Community Investment Committees at each facility oversee the meaningful appropriation of funds for donations. Our Community Investment Policy provides guidelines for contribution requests, matching gifts, allocation of investments, focus areas, product donations, eligibility, and volunteerism. Fairmount Santrol provides our Family Members 40 hours of annual paid volunteer time to give back to their communities. Also, 25 percent of personal volunteer time (up to 10 hours) is applied towards our corporate goal, reﬂecting our emphasis on bringing sustainable development home. Family Members who complete personal volunteer time can earn a donation from Fairmount Santrol to the charity of their choice. On an annual basis, our Social Responsibility SD Team engages Family Members at our facilities with the goal of increasing volunteer hours. Our SD Coordinators and facility managers collaborate with local communities to identify and organize volunteer opportunities. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITY INVESTMENT OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-EC1, G4-EC7 FOUNDATION DONATIONS BY CATEGORY We are proud to report that in 2016, we Stayed True to our promise to invest in our local communities, contributing $1.2 million through the Fairmount Santrol Foundation. This was possible due to the generosity of our shareholders, who created the Fairmount Santrol Foundation in 2010. Their contributions enable us to continue supporting communities, even during challenging market conditions. These dollars support the health, wellness, and education of the next generation and help to build thriving communities. In 2016, our Social Responsibility SD Team focused on engaging Family Members who seldom volunteer to ensure they have opportunities to do so. We updated our policy to allow up to 10 hours per Family Member of Health and Wellness $600,000 personal volunteer hours to be counted towards our Education $400,000 Environment $140,000 corporate goal. This change reinforces our belief that Discretionary $90,000 People, Planet, and Prosperity extend beyond the Total $1.2MM boundaries of our business. AVERAGE VOLUNTEER HOURS PER EMPLOYEE* TOTAL VOLUNTEER HOURS* *Numbers include domestic volunteer hours only. Our Family Members dedicated just over 9,800 paid volunteer hours to the communities where we live and work. In addition, our Family Members logged over 1,300 personal volunteer hours outside of work. Examples of volunteer projects included: Hosting Week of Caring events across our facilities Tree planting at parks and other community locations Organizing Earth Week events for local school children Sponsoring a muscular dystrophy nonproﬁt in Denmark Supporting nursing homes near our facility in Mexico Raising Funds for Diabetes Awareness Our Roff, Oklahoma, Family Members are passionate about supporting awareness and research for diabetes. Each year, Family Members participate in the American Diabetes Association Step Out® Walk to Stop Diabetes. In 2016, the FMSA team organized fundraisers leading up to the November event and contributed $3,100 to the American Diabetes Association of Oklahoma. They also hosted a Sand Art booth free to all walkers at the event. In total, 500 walkers participated raising more than $32,000 for diabetes. Personal Care Boxes for Students in Need In 2016, Family Members at our Chardon, Ohio, facility recognized the importance of personal care products for pride and the ability to succeed. They collected donations to pack personal care boxes for students in need. They hosted donation drives to collect toothbrushes, toothpaste, shampoo, soap and more. Through these donations, our Family Members provided more than 500 personal care boxes to students. Supporting Children with Cancer Family Members at our Ottawa, Illinois, location organized a Cutting Off Cancer event in 2016. Twenty-two of our Family Members and relatives donated 243 inches of hair to Children With Hair Loss. The non-proﬁt organization provides hair replacement free of charge to more than 300 children per year. Our team also raised over $2,600 for Relay for Life and $400 in direct donations for the children. These Family Members truly embody our mission to “Do Good. Do Well.” for our communities. Aiding Communities Impacted by Flooding Our community volunteerism is not always planned. In May 2016, two Family Members at our Somerville facility took action when southeast Texas experienced severe ﬂooding. They saved more than 40 horses belonging to a local nonproﬁt organization supporting children with mental disabilities. Fairmount Santrol is proud of our Family Members for stepping up when their community was in need. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P R O D U C T I N N O VAT I O N OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Product and process technology play a key role in making Fairmount Santrol a partner of choice for our customers. Our R&D Teams, SD Teams, and Family Members create innovative, industry-leading customer solutions. We focus our innovation efforts on developing differentiated products that offer a strong value proposition. Aligned with our commitment to SD, we differentiate ourselves by reducing water, energy, and potential pollutants to conserve resources and enable safer product handling. In the oil and gas industry, our products are referred to as “proppants” because they prop fractures open during hydrocarbon production to allow oil and gas to ﬂow. Proppant transport, or the means to place proppant efﬁciently inside these fractures, has long been an issue for oil and gas companies—which is why we brought a solution to the market. ® Our Propel SSP Proppant Transport Technology takes proppant higher and farther into fractures to produce more oil and gas while using less water, fewer additives, and providing other operational advantages to our customers. The technology has gained momentum with our customers as they continue to see success from its use. Currently, we are advancing this proppant technology to deliver the same ﬁeld-proven performance in brackish, recycled, and produced water instead of fresh water. We offer advanced resin-coated proppants which are environmentally safe and provide value for both shortand long-term investment horizons. By preventing proppant ﬂowback, a common occurrence when fracturing certain formation types, operators can reduce well maintenance, increase hydrocarbon production, and protect their capital investment. Over the long-term, operators will enhance hydrocarbon recovery and cut down on well operating expenses because resin-coated proppants provide proppant ﬂowback resistance, improved crush resistance, and superior conductivity. These beneﬁts all contribute to maximizing the net present value of wells. We continue to pursue greener chemistries for our resin-coated proppants. For raw sand products, we are focused on maintaining safe air quality levels and enabling ease of handling during the production and enduser phases. Our industrial and recreation customers include companies who support foundries, glass, water ﬁltration, building products, and sports and recreation. For this segment, we innovate to reduce emissions and waste streams both at Fairmount Santrol and customer facilities. We do this by enhancing our product lines with process efﬁciencies and improved raw material sourcing. Consistent with this mission, we have developed a more robust resin-coated foundry sand with an improved environmental footprint as compared to traditional resin coated sands. We also continue to innovate sand-based products for landscapers, contractors, and homeowners to make patio and paver construction projects easier, safer, and more maintenance free. Product and process innovation is critical to meeting ever-evolving market needs as well as retaining market leadership. In 2012, our Business Innovation SD Team created our Stage Gate process for managing product and process enhancement projects. Family Members submit ideas to our online platform, which we then evaluate for potential return on investment for our customers, stakeholders, and business. If selected, ideas move through seven steps that test and validate for potential impact. Fairmount Santrol provides human and ﬁnancial capital that bring innovative products and processes through to a successful launch. Further, in 2013 our proppants solutions business implemented a full-blown Stage Gate process for effectively leading innovation in the ﬁelds of advanced proppants, transport technologies, and downhole diverting agents. Our MOC guidelines outline our disciplined and controlled approach for process changes in product manufacturing and managing safety, health, and environmental risks throughout the innovation process. In addition to our dedicated R&D teams, we are proud of Family Members’ increased participation in innovation through our SD Teams. Our SD Teams empower Family Members to identify ideas that will meet our customers’ needs, drive cost reduction and efﬁciencies, reduce our carbon footprint, and differentiate ourselves in the marketplace. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P R O D U C T I N N O VAT I O N OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE In 2016, Fairmount Santrol once again demonstrated our Staying-True-to-SD mindset, innovating in ways that improve the value and environmental impacts of our products to better serve our customers. Our 2016 product innovations include: Development of low-cost alternatives to premium resin-coated proppants that maintain strong performance for proppant ﬂowback resistance Dust mitigation advancements across our products, enabling compliance with incoming, stricter OSHA regulations ® Propel SSP Proppant Transport Technology advancements allowing the use of produced water, rather than fresh water, for hydraulic fracturing Continued reduction of free phenols in our resole and other phenolic resins Development of an efﬁcient recycling process for a phenolic raw material waste stream, leading to positive impacts on the environment In 2016, our Business Innovation SD Team collected 75 ideas through our Stage Gate Process for innovation. Of these ideas, 21 progressed from the ideation to the feasibility testing phase, and nine made it to the development stage. The Team also implemented regular Idea Routing Meetings, which increased efﬁciency and effective communication for our idea submission process. This ensures we review every new idea for potential advancement in the Process. Additionally, our Environmentally Responsible Products and Processes (ERPP) SD Team surveyed a sample of our customers for interest in collaborating on sustainable product innovations. We received many valuable responses that informed our approach in 2016, particularly for our industrial and recreation customers. Looking toward 2017, we aim to increase engagement with our foundry and oil and gas customers. NUMBER OF FAMILY MEMBERS SUPPORTING INNOVATION Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs): R&D Team Members, Business Innovation (BI) SD Team Members, and Environmentally Responsible Products and Processes (ERPP) SD Team Members. *In 2015, we expanded calculation to include ERPP SD Team Members. **In 2016, we expanded calculation to include members of our Business Innovation Team and Stage Gate Sub-Team Assessing the Safety of Resin-Coated Products Fairmount Santrol develops products that provide sustainable value to our customers. In 2016, we completed a comprehensive study of our phenolic novolac resin coated products. The study showed no measurable levels of free formaldehyde, reinforcing the safety of our resin-coated products. We shared these results with several of our primary customers and plan to publish a technical paper in 2017. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P R O S P E R I T Y O F FA M I LY M E M B E R S OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA, G4-EC1, G4-LA10 Our Family Members continually Stay True to advancing People, Planet, and Prosperity. Fairmount Santrol believes in sharing the prosperity we generate with our Family Members. Fairmount Santrol’s leadership team aims to provide a fulﬁlling experience for all Family Members. This goes beyond ﬁnancial compensation. We create a culture that invites Family Members to bring their whole selves to work. Our Human Resources department and various SD Teams manage and lead initiatives to help Family Members achieve their professional, personal, and ﬁnancial goals while adding value to Fairmount Santrol. Fairmount Santrol offers a competitive salary, bonus potential, and 401(k) match. Our commitment to SD generates opportunities for our Family Members to develop skills outside of their primary job functions. Through our SD Teams, they can contribute to the health and vitality of our people, company, and communities. We encourage all Family Members to get involved in SD and invest in our communities by using their 40 annual hours of paid volunteer time. Our prosperity extends beyond our Family Members to their families. Each year, we fund our Aspire and Sustainable Development Scholarships to provide ﬁnancial assistance to eligible Family Members’ dependents. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT P R O S P E R I T Y O F FA M I LY M E M B E R S OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-EC1, G4-LA10 Despite recent market conditions, Fairmount Santrol has Stayed True to what is unique, positive, and special about our company— our unwavering commitment to sustainable development. In 2016, we continued to offer competitive salaries and beneﬁts. We make a conscious choice to invest in employee development, knowing it will help our business to thrive now and in the future. Fairmount Santrol maintained a consistent employer contribution in 2016 for those participating in a Health Savings Account (HSA). We transitioned to a new medical provider that provides a broader service network and implemented a new online enrollment system for Family Members to view their beneﬁts and coverage levels. In 2017, we will increase our 401(k) match to 100 percent of the ﬁrst three percent deferred, and 50 percent of the next two percent deferred. Fairmount Santrol measures employee prosperity by the voluntary tenure of our Family Members. When Family Members choose to stay employed with Fairmount Santrol, they indicate satisfaction with multiple aspects of their jobs—ﬁnancial, positive relationships with co-workers, sense of higher purpose, and meaningful, interesting work. In 2016, Fairmount Santrol continued to have higher-than-average voluntary employee tenure. Unfortunately, due to challenging market conditions, we had to make additional workforce reductions. Consistent with our values, we treated each of our affected Family Members with compassion, support, and respect in their transition. FMSA Average Employee Tenure** 7.06 years U.S. Median Employee Tenure* 4.2 years FMSA Median Employee Tenure** 4.92 years *According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics in January 2016 **For domestic, full-time equivalent employees Mind, Body, Advancement Training for Better Well-Being Family Member prosperity begins with the health and wellbeing of every individual. In 2016, our Empower U SD Team created a new workshop for Family Members—Mind, Body, Advancement (M.B.A.). Research shows that meditation can reduce stress and improve focus, problem-solving, creativity, and interpersonal skills. The M.B.A. training teaches meditation practices and other mind-body awareness exercises. 155 Family Members participated in 2016. Michelle’s Story: Michelle Pezanoski, VP and Corporate Controller “I started working at Fairmount Santrol as a Staff Accountant in 1997. Even then, before we had a formal SD program, we focused on sustainable development and doing the right thing. Knowing that healthy employees provide better work and better attitude, I worked with HR to form a health and wellness team, that eventually became our Health & Wellness SD Team. On that team, I moved from a team member to team lead. Through this work, I developed relationships with people outside of the accounting department, built better communication skills, and learned how to work with diverse groups. This helped me grow into my current role, VP and Corporate Controller. Participating in SD provides an avenue for Family Members to contribute more—empowering them to be leaders in our company and our communities.” In 2016, we awarded six Sustainable Development Scholarships, ranging from $500 to $5,000, to eligible Family Members’ dependents who are pursuing post-secondary education and have demonstrated an elevated commitment to SD. This year, the recipients completed several innovative projects that demonstrated passion for sustainable development and will have a lasting impact on communities. We also awarded two Aspire Scholarships, in the amount of $3,000 each, to offset post-secondary tuition costs for eligible Family Members’ dependents based on ﬁnancial need. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMODITY PRICING AND DEMAND OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA The oil and gas market has historically experienced cycles in demand and supply. Over the last 30 years we have seen and managed through roughly ﬁve downturns. Prior to 2015 and 2016, the most recent down cycle was in 2008 and 2009, when oil prices dropped by approximately 70 percent, peak to trough. Oil prices recovered, then dropped again by nearly 65 percent in 2015. Monitoring commodity pricing and demand enables us to adjust our strategy when markets ﬂuctuate. We manage through down cycles with strategies that include: Implementing cost reduction initiatives Driving efﬁciencies throughout the business Consolidating to a more cost-effective footprint Reﬁning and optimizing our terminal network Increasing unit train capabilities Selectively investing to position our business for the future Combined with the strength of our Family Members, stakeholder relationships, and commitment to sustainable development, this approach differentiates us as a partner of choice in the oil and gas industry. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMODITY PRICING AND DEMAND OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE In 2016, Fairmount Santrol shipped the highest raw frac sand volumes in our company’s history—a signiﬁcant accomplishment in a down market. We believe part of this success came from Staying True to SD, and to our ongoing dedication to “Do Good. Do Well.” Our Family Members showed incredible resilience, courage, and dedication throughout 2016. To continue managing our commitment to Prosperity, we made several decisions that will strengthen our performance during future cycles. These included: Consolidating facilities and investing in our new low-cost, state-of-the-art Wedron, Illinois, facility Engaging our Family Members, SD Teams, and suppliers in determining efﬁciencies and cost reductions Adopting a highly-disciplined approach to company spending Improving our balance sheet through two equity raises and signiﬁcant debt repayment Growing our Industrial and Recreation business Though market conditions were tough, our Family Members’ morale remained high. We increased our employee communications in 2016 to remain transparent, answer questions, and engage our Family Members. At Fairmount Forums, we explained organizational changes and how Family Members could contribute to our success. We also continued to fund employee development programs, including our SD teams, which we view as investments in our future. There is always uncertainty in the oil and gas industry, but markets began to show signs of recovery near the end of 2016—with increases in oil prices and rig counts. Fairmount Santrol will carefully evaluate ﬁnancial decisions and which of our idled mines to ® reopen. We will continue to test new products and promote our Propel SSP Proppant Transport Technology, which increases production per well. In 2017, we will focus on growing not only our Proppant Solutions business, but also our Industrial and Recreational (I&R) business, which has stable demand and balances our business. We successfully managed through a difﬁcult year, and are even more committed to People, Planet, and Prosperity for the years to come. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PRODUCT QUALITY OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Fairmount Santrol creates high-quality, safe, and effective products. We continually deliver industry-leading solutions that excel in meeting our customers’ expectations for performance and efﬁciency. Fairmount Santrol’s Director of Product Quality leads our efforts to maintain strong product quality and performance. Plant managers, regional quality managers, and terminal supervisors report on and have responsibility for quality at each of our facilities. Each site has key performance indicators speciﬁc to their products and processes. Quality managers and lab technicians assist plant managers in implementing quality practices throughout all levels of our business. All plant managers sign and acknowledge our quality policy, displayed beside our environmental and safety policies at every facility. Furthermore, our quality and operations teams have separate reporting relationships to prevent conﬂicts of interest. Fairmount Santrol conducts quality testing for all our products several times throughout the production process—taking initial samples from blasting, during processing, and before loading material for transportation. We follow the standards and methods of ISO and ASTM certiﬁcations, as well as the American Petroleum Institute, American Foundry Society, American Water Works Association, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. We comply with National Foundry Society (NFS) best practices at all locations. Furthermore, we are active in efforts by the American Petroleum Institute industry committee to deﬁne industry-wide test standards for proppant quality. Testing occurs either on-site at each plant, at our Innovation Center (IC) in Ottawa, Illinois, or at our Technology Center (FSTC) in Sugar Land, Texas. Each ﬁnal shipment contains a certiﬁcate of analysis (COA) and a safety data sheet (SDS) that veriﬁes quality and informs how to safely handle the product. Additionally, 100 percent of our production facilities undergo regular quality audits. Our certiﬁed internal auditors conduct assessments on a regular basis. We maintain quality standards that meet requirements set by the American Systems Registrar, the certifying body for ISO 9000 standards. Fairmount Santrol understands that product quality issues can occur from transportation, weather, and handling methods during shipment. Our goal is to ensure products arrive to customers clean and safe. To achieve this, we have completed the following: Invested in terminals to enable us to directly supervise product handling Transitioned many deliveries from system railcars to private railcars, reducing the risk of contamination from previous shipments Increased shipments in sealed railcars that prevent weather and other environmental factors from impacting product quality Partnered with our suppliers to improve packaging durability Our customer promise is to deliver quality products, on time, and with exceptional customer service. We track customer feedback and address concerns through our customer service representatives and annual online survey. The survey evaluates our performance on order placement, delivery, quality, service, and packaging. Our ongoing goal is to have a Customer Satisfaction Index of 100%. prosperity STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PRODUCT QUALITY OUR APPROACH ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Fairmount Santrol is truly committed to providing our customers with excellent product quality. In 2016, we transitioned to new corporate quality standards that combine industry standards and best practices to provide uniform products across our organization. Over the past years, we evaluated and updated close to 50 documents related to product quality. These include: Calibration methods Truck and railcar inspection Sieve analysis Acid demand value (ADV) testing Turbidity testing Iron testing We make our up-to-date policies available through SharePoint, our centralized documentation system. This ensures all facilities have access to our corporate quality standards. Fairmount Santrol values our customers’ feedback on product quality. In 2016, we achieved a 30 percent response rate for our Customer Satisfaction Index survey. Our overall score of 99 percent shows that customers are satisﬁed with Fairmount Santrol as their partner of choice. Customers provide insights and suggestions that we incorporate into our processes. For example, in 2016, one customer noted that truck drivers did not always receive the Certiﬁcate of Analysis (COA) that accompanies each delivery load. As a result, we implemented an email system that ensures all truck drivers across our facilities automatically receive the proper COA. Another customer requested increased veriﬁcation of delivery load quality. Fairmount Santrol responded by implementing photo records of truck loads at resin facilities. Upon customer request we can provide these images along with shipments, reinforcing our customers’ conﬁdence in our product quality. Continued Partnership with Oil and Gas Customer In 2016, we continued our partnership with a signiﬁcant oil and gas customer to improve sand cleanliness and reduce turbidity—the cloudiness caused by suspended sand particles. This project tracked turbidity levels from the plant to the ﬁeld to assess whether sand turbidity changes during transportation. In 2015, we conducted a six-week study to gauge turbidity levels and reached less than 100 FTU of turbidity, well below the industry standard of 250. This year, we continued our partnership through a collaborative study of conductivity based on turbidity. We plan to examine turbidity from raw sand in coming years. Fairmount Santrol continued compliance with ISO 9001 standards in 2016. We also began aligning our management plans with ISO 9001 updates that will take effect in 2017. Our 2016 ISO 9001 certiﬁed sites include: Chardon, OH Fredricia, Denmark Hager City/Bay City, WI** Menomonie, WI Maiden Rock, WI* Roff – Hickory, OK Troy Grove, IL Wedron, IL Yixing, China *Facility was closed or idled in 2016 **Idled/closed in 2016; currently functioning as a terminal PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT GENERAL DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Number of Full-Time Employees 1229 856 744 Domestic 1128 808 716 International 101 48 28 Number of Part-Time Employees 7 9 7 Number of Temporary Employees 17 7 4 % of Women in Workforce 18% 18% 18% % Minorities in Workforce 23% 20% 20% % Employees Unionized 12% 15% 17% ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT Community Spending $3.9 Million $2.26 Million $1.2 Million ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES ENERGY Total Energy Consumption (GWh) 1,090 980 977 Energy per Unit of Production (Energy Use in MWh/Tons Sold) 0.11 0.12 0.11 Electricity Used (GWh) 170 157 166 Fuel Used – Coal/Lignite 0 0 0 Fuel Used – Natural Gas (103 cu.m.) 71,337 61,827 65,110 Fuel Used – Oil/Diesel (103 cu.m.) 6.5 5.7 3.9 BIODIVERSITY Land Management – Percent of Total Owned Acreage Disturbed 19% 19% 12% Certifications for Land Management, Remediation, and Biodiversity Land Management, Remediation, and Biodiversity EMISSIONS Scope 1/Direct GHG/CO2e (Th Tonnes) 180.3 162.0 157.7 Scope 2/Indirect GHG/CO2e (Th Tonnes) 111.4 101.5 101.3 Total GHG Emissions (Th Tonnes) 291.7 263.6 259.0 Emissions Reduction Initiatives Goals and Metrics EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Total Waste to Landfill (Cubic Yards) 2,845 1,751 113 TRANSPORT Percent of Shipments via Rail 74% 83% 87% Percent of Rail Shipments via Unit Trains 30% 49% 70% FairmountSantrol.com Proppant Solutions SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Supplier Survey Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct OTHER – ISO CERTIFICATION ISO 14001 Certified Sites (% Sites Certified) 10 (37%) 3 (12%) 3* (15%) ISO 9001 Certified Sites (% Sites Certified) 11 (41%) 10 (38%) 9 (45%) Number of Sites 27** 26** 20** SOCIAL DISCLOSURES EMPLOYMENT Domestic Employee Turnover % 16.5% 52% 22.9% (Excluding seasonal, temporary, retired, and deceased employees) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Lost Time Incident Rate 0.5 0.3 0.5 Total Recordable Incident Rate 2.2 1.7 1.2 Fatalities – Employees 0 0 0 Fatalities – Contractors 0 0 0 Fatalities – Total TRAINING AND EDUCATION Employee Total Training Hours 12,356 14,379 13,294 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES Supplier Survey Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct OTHER – SOCIAL POLICIES Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics INDIGENOUS RIGHTS Incidents of Violations Involving Rights of Indigenous Peoples 0% 0% 0% LOCAL COMMUNITIES Community Impact and Partner of Choice *These facilities were ISO-certified through mid-year; market conditions led to the idling of these facilities. Regardless of third-party certification, all operating facilities strive for ISO 14001 standards. **All plants, mines, and coating facilities FairmountSantrol.com Proppant Solutions about this report STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC COP The General Standard Disclosures were not externally assured. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES LOCATION/DIRECT ANSWER Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO Letter Organizational Proﬁle G4-3 Fairmount Santrol G4-4 About Our Company, Products G4-5 Chesterland, OH G4-6 Organizational Proﬁle, Locations G4-7 10-K Annual Report, pages 7, 29, 44, 57, 92 G4-8 Organizational Proﬁle, Industries, Products, Locations G4-9 10-K Annual Report, pages 6–7, 9–13, 24, 31–38, 49, 67, 69, 75 G4-10 Organizational Proﬁle G4-11 Organizational Proﬁle G4-12 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality G4-13 10-K Annual Report, pages 6–10, 29, 31–38, 47, 57, 92 G4-14 Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct G4-15 Global Reporting Initiative, United Nations Global Compact G4-16 Partners and Collaboration Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES LOCATION/DIRECT ANSWER G4-17 10-K Annual Report, Exhibit 21.1 (List of Subsidiaries); all entities in Exhibit 21.1. are covered in this report G4-18 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality G4-19 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality, GRI Content Index G4-20 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality G4-21 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality G4-22 We did not restate any data from our 2016 report. G4-23 In 2016, we idled or closed several facilities (noted throughout the indicators), and expanded our Wedron facility. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality G4-27 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality; Our response to key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders is described in our disclosures on our management approach for each material topic throughout this report. Report Proﬁle G4-28 Calendar year G4-29 Our most recent previous report was published in 2016. G4-30 We report annually. G4-31 For questions regarding our report or its content, please contact Beau Daane, Director of Sustainable Development, at Beau.Daane@FairmountSantrol.com. G4-32 Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines “Core” option. G4-33 This report is not externally assured. Governance G4-34 Corporate Governance; Our board of directors is composed of ten members, one woman and nine men, including one executive, nine independent directors, and eight shareholders. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Compliance and Ethical Behavior about this report STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC COP The Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures were not externally assured. DMA AND INDICATORS LOCATION/DIRECT ANSWER OMISSIONS Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA Prosperity of Family Members, Commodity Pricing and Demand G4-EC1 Prosperity of Family Members, Community Investment, 10-K Annual Report Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Community Investment G4-EC7 Community Investment Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Energy Use G4-EN3 Energy Use; Our energy consumption metric We do not track fuel consumption from includes electricity (indirect) and fuel (direct). renewable compared to non-renewable Fairmount Santrol does not sell any electricity, resources at this time. The information is heating, cooling, or steam. currently unavailable. We will take steps in 2017 to determine if we can collect this information. G4-EN5 Energy Use; The ratio is comprised of fuel used directly by Fairmount Santrol and electricity sourced from suppliers. Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Water Use and Quality DMA AND INDICATORS LOCATION/DIRECT ANSWER OMISSIONS G4-EN10 Water Use and Quality The total volume of water recycled and reused is currently unavailable. Although water withdraw for some operations is large, we estimate that approximately 90% of the water used across our operational footprint is recycled. We track water usage, but cannot make statements about the total volume until we can more accurately account for it. Due to resource restrictions, we are currently unable to do so. When market conditions rebound, we will reconsider allocating resources to improve the accuracy related to the total volume of water usage and percent recycled and reused. Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA Land Management, Remediation, and Biodiversity G4-EN13 Land Management, Remediation, and Biodiversity MM1 Land Management, Remediation, and Biodiversity Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Air Quality G4-EN15 Air Quality; Our chosen base year is 2013 so we can compare our emissions year over year. We include CO₂, N₂O, and CH₄ from fuel sources in our calculations. We do not have any biogenic emissions for this reporting period. Our source for emissions factors is the U.S. EPA, Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 1990–2002, Annex 6. Our chosen consolidation approach is operational control. G4-EN16 Air Quality; Emissions included in our calculations are CO₂ from electricity. Our chosen base year is 2013 so we can compare our emissions year over year. Our sources include the U.S. DOE/EIA, 2004 Annual Energy Outlook , 2004, Appendix H and the U.S. EPA, Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 1990–2002, Annex 6. Our chosen consolidation approach is operational control. G4-EN18 Air Quality; Our emissions intensity ratio includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We include CO₂, N₂O, and CH₄ from in our calculations. Material Aspect: Efﬂuents and Waste G4-DMA Solid Waste G4-EN23 Solid Waste; We dispose of our waste through Waste by disposal method is currently recycling, composting, waste to energy, and unavailable. Our waste is tracked by landﬁlls. Our waste disposal method has been estimated volume rather than weight. determined by our direct disposal of waste and Measuring by weight would be more accurate, information provided by waste contractors. however, that would tie up our scales which are needed for shipments. Due to resource restrictions, we are currently unable to measure waste by disposal method. When market conditions rebound, we will reconsider allocating resources to do so. DMA AND INDICATORS LOCATION/DIRECT ANSWER OMISSIONS Material Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Transportation Logistics, Efﬁciency, and Emissions G4-EN30 Transportation Logistics, Efﬁciency, and Impacts from transporting members of the Emissions workforce is not applicable due to the fact that it is not material compared with the transportation footprint of shipping our products. Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence G4-EN32 Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Safety G4-LA6 Safety Safety rates by region and gender, and contractor safety metrics are currently unavailable. We benchmark our safety metrics against our industry and do not track data by gender and region at this time. We work very closely with contractor populations to manage safety training and daily implementation. In 2017 we will look into the possibility of measuring by region, gender and contractor population. Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Employer of Choice G4-LA10 Employer of Choice; Regarding assistance in managing career endings, Fairmount Santrol treats Family Members fairly and works with outplacement ﬁrms to provide assistance to those transitioning out of the organization. Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence G4-LA14 Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence Category: Social Sub-Category: Human Rights Material Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-DMA Community Impact and Partner of Choice G4-HR8 Community Impact and Partner of Choice; Fairmount Santrol had zero incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. Category: Social Sub-Category: Society Material Aspect: Local Communities DMA AND INDICATORS LOCATION/DIRECT ANSWER OMISSIONS G4-DMA Community Impact and Partner of Choice G4-SO1 Community Impact and Partner of Choice; All Fairmount Santrol facilities proactively engage with their local communities and abide by applicable laws. MM7 We did not have to use any grievance mechanisms in 2016. Non-GRI Material Aspects Indicator: Total volunteer hours and average Community Investment volunteer hours per employee Indicator: Engagement from Full-Time Product Innovation Equivalents (FTE) in innovative research and development technology projects Indicator: Number of sites that have achieved Planet, Safety OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation and ISO 14001 certiﬁcation out of total number of sites Indicator: Percentage of employees: a. ﬁtProduct Health and Safety tested for respirators and b. who undergo biennial health testing Indicator: Number of sites that have achieved Product Quality ISO 9001 certiﬁcation out of total number of sites PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION LOCATION 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Policies environmental responsibility Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct Implementation Goals and Progress Product Innovation Community Impact and Partner of Choice Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence Planet 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Implementation of environmentally friendly technologies Product Innovation Energy Use Water Use and Quality Solid Waste 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Policies including extortion and bribery Anti-Corruption Policy Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics our company STAYING TRUE | 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC COP PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION LOCATION 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Policies internationally proclaimed human rights Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct Implementation Safety Product Health and Safety Employer of Choice Prosperity of Family Members Community Investment Community Impact and Partner of Choice 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human Policies rights abuses Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct Whistleblower Policy 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Policies effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Policies forced and compulsory labor Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child Policies labor Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Policies respect of employment and occupation Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Policies environmental challenges Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct Implementation Corporate Governance Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Community Impact and Partner of Choice Stakeholder Education and Inﬂuence Planet
