KT Integrated Report 2017 KT Integrated Report 2017 This report is printed on FSCTM certified paper using soy ink. ABOUT THIS REPORT This report is KT's 12th integrated report consisting of corporate sustainability management strategies as well as sustainability management activities and performances to deliver the strategies. The integrated report refers to a way of sustainability reporting that covers both financial and non-financial performances. KT has been publishing its integrated report since 2006 to disclose the economic, environmental, and social values in a balanced way. Characteristics of This Report In order to improve the understanding of stakeholders about KT's sustainability goals, strategies, and systems, KT has reflected the KT Sustainability Model to this report. Under the long-term sustainability goal, 'Realizing Global GiGAtopia,' we have been promoted the corporate-wide A warm-hearted innovative technology sustainability management in three dimensions and six areas aiming to accomplish the ecowith a human face. nomic prosperity (GiGA Prosperity), environmental preservation (GiGA Planet), and social The world of GiGAtopia, where humans progress (GiGA People). and all things are connected by the GiGA infrastructure providing comfort and happiness. KT Sustainability Model It is the sustainable future KT creates. Sustainability Transparent Management Management A Prosperity GiG Shared Growth Customer First Management Management ople GiG A Pe Pl an GA Gi et Talent Environmental Management Management The world of innovative technology where 5G presents. The era of infinite possibilities that goes beyond Reporting Period & Boundary the bounds of time and space, and everyone This report covers performances of total 517 sites including the headquarters and branches, in the world is connected. from January 2016 to December 2016; meaningful activities until the end of May 2017 are KT leads the Fourth Industrial Revolution. partially included as well. Besides, data of the recent 3 years are provided enabling the comparison between yearly performances. Reporting Standards This report complies with the Comprehensive option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 100-400 and G4 guidelines, the international guideline for the sustainability reporting. Also, it was prepared in accordance with the <IR> framework of International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Financial performances are reported based on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). CONTENTS Message from the Chairman, 04 GiGAtopia – Create the Future Board of Directors Message from the CEO 05 KT is taking a significant leap into tomorrow through the fastest Company Overview 06 and most innovative GiGA Infrastructure and ICT Convergence services. PEOPLE. 08 TECH LEADERSHIP 10 TECHNOLOGY. GLOBAL GiGAtopia 12 Special Feature INNOVATION 14 SUSTAINABILITY 16 A warm-hearted innovative technology with a human face. GiGA Prosperity. 18 Sustainability Management 20 The world of GiGAtopia, where humans Transparent Management 26 and all things are connected by the GiGA infrastructure providing comfort and happiness. It is the sustainable future KT creates. GiGA Planet. 34 Customer First Management 36 Environmental Management 44 GiGA People. 54 Talent Management 56 Shared Growth Management 64 Appendix 76 Major Financial Indicators 77 KT Environmental Profit & Loss 78 KT Social Profit & Loss 80 Sustainability Performance of Group 82 GHG Verification Statement 87 Third Party Assurance 88 The world of innovative technology where 5G presents. Global Sustainability Partnerships 90 The era of infinite possibilities that goes beyond GRI Standards Index 91 the bounds of time and space, and everyone Major Awards & Memberships 96 in the world is connected. For More Information 97 KT leads the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Cover Story 'PEOPLE. TECHNOLOGY.' is delivering KT’s willingness to lead the global ICT innovation through a warm-hearted Innovative technology with a human KT Integrated Report 2017 face. The cover expresses KT, the Korea’s representative company who has advanced together with the communications history of the country is now advancing into the global by bringing the better future forward based on 5G innovative technology. KT Integrated Report 2017 Message from Message the Chairman, from Board of Directors the CEO KT will do its best to create a better future KT Making the future with innovative technology for humanity through sustainability management! for the people. People. Technology. The year 2016 was a year of confirming the feasibility of the imKT has built a solid sustainability management system at the base It is the age of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Since KT's decHowever, using ICT technology, KT proposed a countermeasure plementation of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). of these social contributions. KT firmly believes that not only laration in 2015 that it will lead the Fourth Industrial Revolution against infectious diseases from a totally different perspective. We have discussed the sustainable future of humankind in many creating economic value but also accomplishing benefits for with GiGA Infrastructure and ICT convergence, KT has been strivKT's proposal received a lot of attention and thus, KT promoted countries, businesses and social communities around the world. the people and protecting the environment are the company's ing to show various innovative technologies for people. Now, for the participation of world leaders at the G20 Multi Stakeholder KT has also announced the implementation of SDGs through ICT responsibility and way to enhance corporate value. the Fourth Industrial Revolution is not only a global trend, but also Conference held in Germany this year. convergence technology. Korea's growth engine, and KT is making change in the center of This year's Board of Directors has ordered the strengthening of the Revolution. As an engineer and KT's CEO, I am truly excited, As a result of cooperation between the Bangladesh government As a representative Korean corporation, KT has contributed to human rights management and ethical management, as well as having been thinking about how to transform society and bring and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in the past the resolution of the information gap in Korea for a long time. enhancement of environmental management to cope with climate about economic development through technological innovation. two years, in April 2017, GiGA Island, which provides remote medThe IT supporters, which started in 2007 and celebrated their 10th change, in resolving the 2017 sustainability management plan. ical and education services based on high-speed Internet network, anniversary last year, are typical activities. The number of beneThrough these activities, KT will contribute to the implementation However, looking at those around us there are still many who are was built in Mohejsikali. GiGA Island will not only become a new ficiaries from elderly, low-income, handicapped, and multicultural of the UN's SDGs while improving corporate sustainability. alienated from ICT benefits and suffering from diseases worlddevelopment model for developing countries using ICT technology, families is over 3 million over 10 years. wide. I believe that encouraging companies to participate in the UN but will also be a leading model for the implementation of SDGs. 2017 will be a meaningful year in which sustainability management Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with innovative solutions In addition, KT has been promoting the 'GiGA Story' project, which and SDGs will spread thanks to new government policies. The KT is a creative solution to the challenges facing humanity. As such, KT constantly strives to overcome the limitations of has bridged the information gap in remote areas through ICT Board of Directors will actively support the corporation as a leadhumankind and solve global problems with innovative technologies technology since 2014. In April, we not only opened 'Kyodong GiGA ing company in sustainability management so that it can contribute At the UNGC Leaders Summit in New York in June 2016, KT profor people such as 5G, Big Data, and AI. KT and all its employees will Island' in Ganghwa-gun, but also created a 'Global GiGA Island' to Korea's development as well as the better future of humanity. posed a plan to prevent the spread of infectious diseases using Big do their best for sustainable development around the world as well in Mohejikali Island, Bangladesh, and have received praises from Data. Until now, solutions for infectious diseases have mainly been as services that provide convenience and comfort in the future. many interested parties both at home and abroad. Thank you. made by pharmaceutical companies and bio companies. Your affection and interest in this would be much appreciated. As a Chairman of the Board of Directors, I also attended the opening Thank you. ceremony of 'Kyodong GiGA Island' and have seen KT's creative and innovative ICT technology. Chairman, Board of Directors Do-Kyun Song CEO Chang-Gyu Hwang 04. 05. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Company Overview Current Status and Key History Number of Users by Services (Unit: thousand persons) Established as Korea Telecom in 1981, KT has been Korea's largest comprehensive communications operator. KT is leading Category 2014 2015 2016 the era of innovations and has been advancing with Korea. KT merged with its subsidiary, KTF, in 2009 and is leading the smart 50,677 49,599 era by introducing smartphones in Korea. KT is identifying and cultivating ICT convergence services in diverse industries through Wireless Communications* 17,328 18,038 18,892 48,576 GiGA-class wire & wireless network infrastructure and cutting-edge information & communication technology. Based on its innoPSTN** 13,849 13,268 12,791 Wire Telephone vative technology capabilities, KT is advancing into the global No. 1 telecommunication company. VoIP 3,411 3,413 3,436 High-speed Internet 8,129 8,328 8,516 IPTV 5,859 6,552 7,042 Total 48,576 49,599 50,677 2014 2015 2016 Company name KT Corp. * Wireless Communications: CDMA, WCDMA, LTE, MVNO, ** PSTN: Data combining general calls (excluding enterprise calls), internal communications, ISDN, and DID Date of establishment 10 December 1981 CEO Chang-Gyu Hwang Sales by Businesses (Unit: KRW billion) Headquarters 90, Bulljeong-ro, Bundang-gu, Category 2014 2015 2016 Seongnam City, Gyeonggi-do, Korea 22,743.7 Wireless 7,316.1 7,370.7 7,418.3 22,311.7 www.kt.com/eng/main.jsp 22,281.2 Wire 5,540.0 5,158.7 5,064.9 Media Contents 1,508.4 1,662.3 1,921.6 1981 Korea Telecom was founded 2009 Merged with its subsidiary, KTF 2017 GiGA Internet surpassed 3 million subscribers Financial Rental 3,221.4 3,411.0 3,427.8 1994 KORNET was commercialized 2014 GiGA Internet was commercialized for the first time in Korea for the first time in Korea Products 3,250.5 2,767.4 2,736.6 Other Services 1,475.3 1,911.0 2,174.5 Total 22,311.7 22,281.2 22,743.7 2014 2015 2016 * In accordance with performance announcement and K-IFRS 주요 그룹사 현황 Current Status of Group Companies (As of December 2016) Information and Communications Technology Media & Content Financial Real Estate & Others kt is kt telecop whowho@company kth BC Card T Commerce; distribution Operation of call center; Provision of security services Spam blocking service Purchase and issue of contents and ICT business 114 service www.telecop.co.kr www.whox2.com of credit card www.kthcorp.com www.ktis.co.kr www.bccard.com kt cs kt ds kt linkus kt m&s kt skylife Genie music Smartro kt commerce Satellite broadcasting Provision and distribution Agency for purchasing & B2B purchasing agency Operation of call center; Provision of IT services (ITO, SI) Operation and maintenance Sales and rental www.ktskylife.co.kr of music service verifying credit & debit card www.ktcommerce.kr 114 service www.ktds.com of public phone of communications devices www.geniemusic.co.kr www.smartro.co.kr www.ktcs.co.kr www.ktlinkus.co.kr www.ktmns.com kt sat kt M mobile kt powertel nasmedia kt investment kt sports Rental of satellite repeater MVNO business Distribution of TRS & Advertisement Specialized credit Operation of sports events www.ktsat.net www.ktmmobile.co.kr IP-PTT terminals marketing agency financial business www.kt-sports.co.kr www.ktpowertel.co.kr www.nasmedia.co.kr www.ktinvestment.co.kr kt service South kt service North Autopion kt NexR skylife TV kt mhows VP kt innoedu Education business for adults Wire communications & Wire communications & Operation of brand taxi service Development of Big Data Operation of broadcasting Sales & distribution Online credit card & companies after service after service www.autopion.com platform & analysis solution channel (development of mobile-based gift card transaction verification www.ktinnoedu.com www.ktservice.net www.ktservice.co.kr www.ktnexr.com of contents included) www.vp.co.kr kt submarine INITECH kt-SB data service N Search www.mhows.com H&C Network kt estate www.skylifetv.co.kr Marketing Construction & maintenance of Development of IT service Provision of data center service Subcontract business Development & submarine communications cable and solution for Japanese customers Online advertisement marketing www.hncnet.co.kr rental of real estate and electrical cable www.initech.com www.kt-sb.com agency and consulting www.ktestate.com www.ktsubmarine.co.kr www.nsm.co.kr 06. 07. KT Integrated Report 2017 TECH LEADERSHIP INNOVATION GLOBAL GiGAtopia SUSTAINABILITY KT Advances and Benefits the World Through an Innovative Technology with a Human Face Innovative Realization of Innovative UN Sustainable Technology for Future Global GiGAtopia Platform Service Development Goals Innovative technology of The world without limits Realization of diverse Quantum leap the Fourth Industrial Revoluintroduced by the global platform services and new and soaring of KT, tion, developed by KT, leader, KT. The challenge for world of ICT technology the sustainable company Korea's representative future of KT that the whole through KT’s innovative that provides innovative corporation and has been world watches technology solutions against problems leading and growing with that the world is facing the ICT industry of Korea 08. 09. KT Integrated Report 2017 Waving the banner of innovation vigorously, KT has been leading the ICT industry of Korea 5G Mobile Communication and has advanced with Korea and her people. Succeeded the First Call* based on 5G standard the first in the world (October 2016) Now KT is opening up the new era of innovation once again. Speed * First call: 'End-to-End'  data communication in connection with all components covering device, base station and infrastructure network KT is presenting the innovative technology that will drastically change the life of humankind through the Fourth Industrial Revolution. GiGA IoT 5G Networks KT's IoT Platform, IoT Makers Qualified the International Connectivity Standard Certification (November 2016) TECH LEADERSHIP Technology GiGA Big Data Advocated the World's First Project on Global Infectious Capacity Disease Prevention Project by using on Big Data (June 2016) Intelligent 5G Network GiGA AI 5G network refers to the next-generation mobile communication technology characLaunched the world's first AI set-top box, GiGA Genie terized by high-speed, seamless connection, and large capacity. KT has secured about Intelligence (January 2017) 90 core technologies on 5G, and is leading the international standards since we have succeeded in the demonstration of the world's first 256Gbps 5G wireless transmission Leading the International in 2016. In the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, the 5G will evolve into 'IntelliStandard for Intelligent gent Network' by mutually integrating IoT, Big Data, AI, etc. Furthermore, the 'Intelli5G Network gent Network' will be the key to resolve problems that humankind is facing including environmental issues, diseases, etc. 10. 11. KT Integrated Report 2017 Technology to Communicate 100 Times Faster than 4G 5G network refers to an innovative mobile communication technology which can connect 1 million devices within 1km with the maximum download speed of 20Gbps. Since succeeding 5G data communication for the world's first in February 2016, KT is planning to introduce the world's first 5G service at 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics as well as commercializing the 5G in 2019. Hence, KT is concentrating the corporate capability in developing 5G technology and for global standardization. 5G Mobile Communication Smart Technology that Connects Between Human and Things Internet of Things (IoT) is the core technology to realize KT's dream of GiGAtopia, where 5G Networks information is shared via wire & wireless network connection among diverse things in daily life. KT establishes IoT Data Ecosystem (IDE) with Global system for Mobile communications Association (GSMA) to excavate various ICT convergence service with IoT network based on our top-class Big Data analysis competency. TECH GiGA IoT LEADERSHIP Technology to analyze a huge amount of data Technology The world is currently facing an era of a new industrial revolution due to ICT technology advancement. KT is standing tall leading the Fourth Industrial Revolution where intelligent factories are emerging through 'Soft Power' and cutting-edge products are released. Hence, KT is endeavoring to enlarge its ICT regions of Korea based on its top-class Big Data analysis Intelligent capability and ICT technology. 5G Network GiGA Big Data Technology for Intelligent Network 인공지능 TV Artificial Intelligence (AI) and robot technologies are the key technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and for the new generation future technology Genie which can innovate our lives. KT has opened a new market by launching GiGA Genie, the world's first AI IPTV based on voice recognition. Also KT is striving to secure an integrated AI technology covering language, voice, prediction and image. Leading the International Standard for Intelligent 5G Network GiGA AI 10. 11. KT Integrated Report 2017 The world is the stage for our business. KT will widely open a new era of innovative technology Intelligent Network to the world that has never been before. Infrastructure Intelligent Network Realization of GiGAtopia through the intelligent network The era of high-speed and hyper-connected that KT is presenting. Infrastructure infrastructure The KT's challenge towards world without limits is in progress. Infectious Disease Prevention Management Goal Project Big Data Solution Global Infectious Disease Prevention Project by using Big Data GOAL Realization of GLOBAL GiGAtopia World, Where Everyone Deserves Comfort far Beyond Convenience 5G Pyeoungchang Realization of innovative technology through 5G Pyeoungchang 5G Realization Accomplishment of Management Goal GiGA Story Project in GiGAtopia which KT pursues is a world without limits where everyone deserves comBangladesh fort far beyond convenience based on intelligent network infrastructure. KT has Global GiGA Story Expansion of world without limits through global caused sensations in the world by introducing the future that the next-generation GiGA Story projects intelligent network will bring at international stages such as UN Global Compact and Realizing Harvard Business School. In fact, We have been contributing to improving the quality Global GiGAtopia of life for humankind based on ICT capability such as providing innovative solutions using Big Data to prevent infectious diseases that threaten humankind. KT's challenge for sustainable future that the whole world watches will be continued. 12. 13. KT Integrated Report 2017 Realization of GiGAtopia through Intelligent Network Infrastructure In September 2016, KT showcased 'Intelligent Network' as a next-generation network at the speech in Harvard Business School. The intelligent network is characterized by high-speed, large capacity, and seamless connection by providing convergence solution in its own network beyond simple delivery of information such as voice and data. Through the intelligent network, KT will realize 'GiGAtopia', which provides safer and more convenient life of humankind and creates new opportunities. Intelligent Network Infrastructure Promotion of Global Infectious Disease Prevention Project by using Big Data Analyzing roaming information of mobile phone users all around the world enable us to track the accurate dissemination route of infectious diseases threatening humankind. This is a Management Goal proactive way of preventing the dissemination of the disease. At the end of 2016, KT has installed smart quarantine system based on loaming Big Data with Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and has been establishing 'Big Data Initiative on Disease Diffusion Mapping' system with major global communication operators. Thanks to those efforts, KT has received positive responses from the world as it was introduced at 'G20 Multi Stakeholder Conference' in 2017 as well as mentioned as one of agendas in Health area at 'G20 Summit GOAL Infectious Disease Declaration.' Realization of GLOBAL Prevention Project GiGAtopia World, Where Everyone Deserves Comfort Realization of Innovative Technology through 5G Pyeongchang far Beyond Convenience KT is preparing to demonstrate the world's first 5G network test bed and to provide a new and innovative technology that has never been before at Pyeongchang in 2018. Especially, KT will present the charms of 5G at Pyeongchang through diverse services based on 5G intelligent network such as 360 degree VR live, real-time hologram live, 5G security service and 5G automatic driving bus. To achieve this, KT successfully developed the world's first Accomplishment of common standard of 5G, 'Pyeongchang 5G standard' in June 2016. We plan to complete the network construction optimized for 5G service by September 2017. Management Goal 5G Pyeoungchang Expansion of World without Limits through Global GiGA Story GiGA Story is a next-generation shared value creation project to advance the living environment by providing GiGA Infrastructure and customized solutions at remote regions and areas where information gap is intensified. Since 2014, KT has promoted community-based projects in nation such as Imja Island, Baengnyeong Island, Cheonghakdong Village, and Kyodong Island. Based on the accumulated experiences, KT has successfully launched the first overseas GiGA Story project in Bangladesh in April 2017 and is implementing KT's dream for a world without limits. Realizing Global GiGAtopia GiGA Story Project in Bangladesh 12. 13. KT Integrated Report 2017 The limit of communication is fading away. Media Platform KT is overcoming limits of time and space, while creating GiGAtopia Launched 'TV Ssok,' the World's First IPTV Hyper VR Service Platform 1 (May 2017) where everyone deserves comfort far beyond convenience. KT is opening a new horizon of ICT through a drastic challenge of providing diverse platform services beyond its communication services, while expanding its business territory from Korea to the global. Smart Energy Platform Opened KT-MEG Center, the World's First Integrated Energy Platform 2 Management Platform (December 2015) The Five Platforms INNOVATION Financial Trade Platform Launched K Bank, the Korea's First Internet Bank (April 2017) Platform 3 New Growth Engine Cultivating Disaster, Safety and the Five Platforms Security Platform Platform 4 Promoted Projects for Public Safety Network including National Emergency Network, LTE-Railway, and LTE-Maritime. A platform is a system for providing various services or products. As a result of drastic development of IT technology such as IoT and Big Data, new innovative services are Value Empowerment Platform releasing in the form of AI technology convergence. Hence, the role of platform has Resolved Customer’s needs by cooperating with partners Platform 5 become more important than ever, as it can create and lead a new market. Cultivating KT is advancing into the platform operator based on its 5G intelligent network and the Five Platform Services providing differentiated services by defining the five future platforms: media, smart energy, financial trade, disaster, safety & security and value empowerment. 14. 15. KT Integrated Report 2017 A platform business providing new media consumption experience and leading the next-generation media based on Korea's No. 1 IPTV Major services – AI TV 'GiGA Genie,' realistic media including VR and AR. Media Platform A business which creates new energy market based on the KT-MEG, the world's first integrated energy management platform Major services – Provision of intelligent service throughout the entire sectors: production-consumption-trade including renewable energy, energy efficiency, demand response (DR) and EV charging. The Five Platforms Smart Energy Platform A platform business which provides customized financial trade service for customers based on its fintech capability such as verification and payment INNOVATION Major services – Onand offline integrated payment, next-generation verification, financial intermediation, and financial intelligence (credit rating information and financial big data). New Growth Financial Trade Platform Engine Cultivating Intelligent Safety business which delivers service and infrastructure for 'safety and reliable' for people based on intelligent analysis and monitoring the Five Platforms platform Major services – Intelligent video service ('GiGAeyes'), information security solution, fire and environmental safety solution and next-generation public safety network. Disaster, Safety and Security Platform A business system for value empowerment by integrating KT Group's technology capability and know-how Major services – Empowerment of differentiated customer values through systematized and specialized Total Pull Marketing. Cultivating the Five Platform Services Value Empowerment Platform 14. 15. KT Integrated Report 2017 The world of GiGAtopia, which KT dreams of, Quality Education is the era of new innovative technology that considers and benefits people. Providing quality education tools through next-generation UN SDG 04 media technology and digital service A wider world through innovation. Happiness through the innovative technology. KT is opening a new era of prosperity through 5G intelligent network and platform convergence services. Affordable & Clean Energy Expanding Smart Energy Business through UN SDG 07 the environmental ICT service Transforming Our World Industry, Innovation SUSTAINABILITY & Infrastructure UN SDG 09 Realizing value empowerment through innovative 5G technology Implementing Sustainable Cities & Communities UN SDGs Realizing new 5G Safety services through intelligent 3D, UN SDG 11 and drone controlling technology The UN Sustainable Development Goals are the global midto long-term development plan of the United Nations consisting of 17 goals. It is being executed in order to Decent Work & Economic Growth solve economic, environmental, and social problems around the globe for the upcomProviding financial service based on Big Data, K Bank, UN SDG 08 the Korea's first Internet bank ing 15 years, from 2016 to 2030. In order to create a better world, KT actively supports Implementing and participates in the UN Sustainable Development Goals through the 5G intelligent UN Sustainable Development Goals network and provision of the five platform services. To realize a sustainable plan of the UN, KT executes multidimensional efforts to implement the core goals closely related to communication business. 16. 17. KT Integrated Report 2017 Providing quality education tools through next-generation media technology and digital service UN Goal – Ensuring inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning by 2030. Major activities KT is providing quality education tools through next-generation media technology and digital service. In addition, KT has established the communication infrastructure for the accessibility of information and knowledge through a series of channels such as mobile phones, tablets and computers via internet. Quality Education Expanding Smart Energy Business through environmental ICT services UN Goal – Ensuring access to sustainable energy by increasing the share of renewable energy and doubling the energy efficiency by 2030. Major activities – Since KT has opened the world's first open-type complex energy management platform, KT-MEG in December 2015, we have provided about 16,000 sites with real-time Transforming integrated monitoring services such as energy efficiency, operating of demand-side resource, EV charging and renewable energy plants. Our World Affordable & Clean Energy Realizing value empowerment through innovative 5G technology UN Goal – Promoting sustainable industrialization through energy efficiency improvement, environment-friendly technology development, and innovation by 2030. SUSTAINABILITY Major activities – In 2013, KT promoted route optimization for late-night bus in Seoul through wireless communication Big Data. KT is endeavoring to enhance value empowerment. In March 2017, we succeeded demonstration on automatic driving bus based on 5G network at Pyeongchang, the next Winter Olympics site. Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure Realizing a new 5G Safety service through intelligent 3D, drone controlling technology Implementing UN Goal – Making sustainable cities by supplying houses, improving transportation systems, UN SDGs and expanding urbanization by 2030. Major activities – In February 2017, KT has newly opened the Korea's first 'Cyber Security Center,' combined security control system of network and IT. Hence we are realizing a safe society through intelligent 3D locating technology, mobile security platform (Wizstick) and drone controlling technology. Sustainable Cities & Communities Providing financial service based on Big Data, K Bank, the Korea's first Internet bank UN Goal – Pursuing peaceful and inclusive society and system for sustainable development by 2030. Major activities – KT has faithfully fulfilled its role as the main driver to develop the economy and make progress in the financial industry of Korea by launching K Bank in April 2017. K Bank is the Korea’s first internet bank, which provides credit rating, medium interest rate, and easy loan based Implementing UN Sustainable on Big Data Development Goals Decent Work & Economic Growth 16. 17. GiGA Prosperity New Era of Prosperity Created by GiGA Infrastructure GOAL 2020 Investing total KRW 13 trillion into GiGA Infra and ICT Convergence by 2020 GiGA Planet GiGA Prosperity GiGA Transparent Management People Sustainability Management Focal Area 01 Focal Area 02 Sustainability Management Transparent Management Management Approach Strategy Driver Objective Driver Strategy Driver Objective Driver Management Approach Beyond communication between people and people, and connections between people Transparent and ethical corporate management is the first step toward building trust. Accomplishing Realizing Improving Pursuing and things; a world where everyone can enjoy comfort beyond convenience. KT will improve As a trustworthy representative Korean corporation, KT has established a transparent corporate Global No. 1 Sustainable Corporate Healthy the economy, protect the environment, and lead the way for our society to progress governance structure, established a healthy corporate culture through ethical management Competitiveness Future Transparency Economic Growth through a warm-hearted innovative technology with a human face. activities, and endeavored to secure management stability through integrated risk management. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Prosperity Sustainability Management Sustainability Management | Transparent Management Corporate Driving Forces Today, the world is experiencing the most rapid changes in human history due to the emergence of new technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, and the Internet of Philosophy & Things and the spread of confluence among industries. In order to achieve sustainable growth in such Three Management Strategies for Innovative Technology a business environment, it is essential to establish a new level of corporate goals and to mobilize We are fully committed to achieve the corporate mission and vision successfully through the establishment of a management Strategy innovation capabilities to lead the market. goal, the 'Realizing GiGAtopia' in 2014. GiGAtopia refers to the world where humans and all the things are connected through KT's Approach KT is advancing beyond telecom carriers in the traditional sense to become platform GiGA Infrastructure thus enjoy comfort beyond convenience. KT will realize GiGAtopia and advance into a company with www.kt.com/eng/corp/vision.jsp operators based on intelligence networks with advanced ICT (Information, Communication, Technology) No. 1 innovative technology leading the Fourth Industrial Revolution by driving the three corporate strategies: 5 platform capabilities. KT is the No. 1 innovative technology company to lead innovation that raises the combusiness development, delivering differentiated value through intelligent network and customer first management. SDG Alignment petitiveness of the industry as a whole. Goal 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 16 Corporate Philosophy 01 The Five Platform Business Development Mission and Vision Core Values Based on intelligent network and technology in ICT convergence, KT has selected the five platform busiKT explicitly announces its reason for existence and corporate The core values of KT presents detailed code of conduct to all employees funcness and promoted as the future core businesses: Media, Smart Energy, Financial Trade, Disaster, Safety philosophy through the corporate mission: the best national tioning as standards of behavior and decision-making to accomplish the corporate & Security and Value Empowerment. The five platform businesses can utilize KT's existing asset and company that provides the fastest and most innovative ICTvision, 'Global No. 1 KT.' We aim to become the global No. 1 with the best qualcapability in the most efficient way based on its competitiveness of main business. KT will be the Global No. 1 Company leading the Fourth Industrial Revolution through the five platform businesses. based telecommunications and convergence services for ity and differentiated services while advancing altogether and breaking through the convenience of customers. In order to realize the mission the limits. KT is also striving to break walls between departments through listening Establishment of KT-MEG Center (December 2015), Completion of major demonstration projects for public safety LTE (June 2016), The number of subscribers to IPTV reaching 7 million (Nosuccessfully, we have established the vision of 'Global No. 1 KT' and collaborating centered on the 'Top Rank Workshop,' a unique innovation platvember 2016), Launched internet bank 'K Bank' (April 2017), The number of subscribers to GiGA and have been leading innovative technologies. We are highly form of KT. Furthermore, we will not merely mobilize all our resources and capacInternet reaching 3 million (May 2017) valued from the world for expanding future convergence ICT, ities to provide the best service to our customers but we will promote a brighter presenting global GiGA solutions and leading the international future for the company with the right decision-making and business ethics as well. 5G standard. KT starts taking one step further toward promising tomorrow with the strong con02 Delivering Differentiated Value Through Intelligent Network viction and passion of its people. KT is leading the wire & wireless GiGA Infrastructure such as the world's first GiGA LTE and Korea's first GiGA Internet to realize GiGAtopia. In responding to the upcoming 5G era, KT is not only providing Mission Vision Goal Core Values Strategy simple connection & fast speed but also KT's differentiated network value by integrating intelligence capability such as Cloud, Big Data, AI and IoT. Commercialization of GiGA Internet for the nationwide (October 2014), Commercialization of GiGA LTE (June 2015), Completion of Pyeongchang 5G standard (June 2016), Achievement of 5G first call (October 2016) The best national 03 Customer First Management company that provides Global No. 1 Realizing GiGAtopia KT has innovated the customer value by subdividing customer experiences into about 2,000 the fastest and most units to provide the best customer service from the total CS perspective. In addition, the corpo* GiGAtopia innovative ICT-based It refers to the world where humans rate-wide Total CS system has been renovated by newly establishing the 'Customer First Manand all the things are connected agement Headquarter' while the execution capability for the customer first management has telecommunications through GiGA Infrastructure thus enjoy been secured through the Committee with Customers in Priority mainly consisting of top execucomfort beyond convenience tives. Furthermore, KT will advance into a company with No. 1 innovative technology beneficial to and convergence people by establishing a customer awareness of 'telecommunications is an innovative technology.' services The Grand Prize of Korea Service Grand Prix 2016 (July 2016), The Grand Prize for customer satisfaction of KMAC 2016 (December 2016) for the convenience of customers KT Explicitly Announces its Advancement into a Company with No. 1 Innovative Technology Number 1 KT Single KT Customers First Right-path In March 2017, KT held the 'Group Management Strategy Day in the First Half of 2017,' with 400 employees of KT and the Aim to become the global Advance altogether Mobilize all our resources Management Group companies. Starting the second management term, Chang-Hyu Hwang, CEO of KT, declared that KT will concentrate the number 1 with the best through borderless comand capacities to provide Promote a brighter future Group-wide capability to become a platform business operator and take one step forward to be a group with No. 1 innovative quality and differentiated munication and cooperation the best service for the company services between departments to our customers with the right decisiontechnology leading the global market. Moreover, employees are asked to internalize the 'communication and cooperation' as making and business ethics the KT's unique corporate culture. In order to be the innovative leader to enhance competitiveness of all industries, KT will fortify the 'Five Platforms' as core businesses for the future, and the platforms are as following: media, smart energy, financial trade, disaster & safety, and value empowerment. Group Management Strategy Day 20. 21. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Prosperity Sustainability Management Sustainability Management | Transparent Management Sustainability Driving Forces The world is currently facing the most challenging era throughout human history, caused by various factors such as the global climate change, demographic changes and worsening resource depletion. 3 Sustainability 6 Sustainability Long-term Sustainability Target & Management Areas Management Areas Management These demands of the times provide companies with the momentum of change to solve the problems that Performance Indicators humankind is facing through the development and application of innovative technologies while gaining System momentum for new growth. Sustainability Long-term Target KT's Approach KT has led the era of innovation at every corner of Korean history, and is now advancing Management Investing KRW 13 Trillion by 2020 www.kt.com/eng/sustainability/overview.jsp into a sustainable world through innovative technology for humankind. KT has established 'Global AREA 01 Realizing the global economic prosperity through promotion SDG Alignment SDG Alignment GiGAtopia' as a vision of corporate-wide sustainable management for the whole world and estabGiGA Sustainability strategy establishment, Monitoring, of the Fourth Industrial Revolution by investing total KRW 13 trillion Goal 8, 9, 10, 12 lished long-term goals and key sustainability indicators in 2020 to promote sustainable management Goal 16 throughout the company. Prosperity KSI* management * KSI: Key Sustainability Indicators in GiGA Infrastructure and ICT convergence sectors New Era of Prosperity Performance Indicator Goal 2020 (KRW 100 million) Transparent Created by 130,000 Management Investment in GiGA Infrastructure and ICT convergence technology & service GiGA Infrastructure Strategy and Organization for Sustainability Management AREA 02 Revenues of ICT convergence business 26,462 Governance, Revenues of global business 20,000 KT, as the global telecommunication company, has concentrated its IT technology and capability to establish the Ethical management, Profit from dissemination of GiGA Internet long-term sustainability management strategy for improving the sustainability of the humankind and the world. In 629,000 Risk management April 2016, KT has established the 'Sustainability Management Committee' under the Board of Directors to deliver the strategy corporate-wide effectively, which was the first time in the Korean industry. Moreover, the Sustainability Management Center, a responsible practical body, has established for the promotion of sustainability management strategy and active execution of activities. On the other hand, the 'Sustainability Management Advisory Committee' delivers advices for the sustainability management. Hence, KT has A Prosperity established sustainability management strategy which includes the three susGiG Customer First tainability management goals for 2020 as well as the KT Sustainability Index Long-term Target Management (KSI) in six management areas based on the model of creating shared value AREA 03 Offering Annual Environmental Benefits which creates corporate and social value at the same time. Customer management/R&D, Worth of KRW 3 Trillion in 2020 GiGA Brand management, Offering annual environmental benefits worth of KRW 3 trillion SDG Alignment Long-term Planet Information security in 2020 through environment-friendly ICT product & service Goal 6, 7, 13, 14, 15 Realizing Global GiGAtopia Sustainability Management Goal Environmental ople New Era of Innovation GiGA Opened Up by Management Performance Indicator Goal 2020 (KRW 100 million) Pe P GiGA Infrastructure la Corporate-wide Sustainability Management Organization AREA 04 Environmental benefit due to environment-friendly ICT service and energy efficiency 31,411 n 12,393 Environmental policy & system, Customer benefit due to Smart Energy service GA Environmental performance 8,300 et Customer benefit due to Networked Transportation service BoD Gi management, Response to climate change Organization Sustainability Management Committee Review & Reporting feedback Steering Sustainability Counseling Sustainability Organization Management Management GiGAtopia refers to a world where humankind Long-term Target Advisory Talent Center Committee and things are connected through GiGA Infrastructure Accomplishing Annual Social Values Management and thus everyone enjoy comfort far beyond Identifying and AREA 05 Worth More than KRW 4 Trillion in 2020 Reporting executing agenda convenience. KT is devoting to realize GiGAtopia throughout the world by executing and spreading GiGA Labor & human rights, Human resource development, Accomplishing annual social values worth more than KRW 4 trillion in 2020 by expanding social ICT product & service, SDG Alignment Goal 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Steering Committees its corporate-wide sustainability management. People Compensation social contribution, and shared growth Group Social Environmental Shared Group Ethical New Era for Humankind Shared Growth Performance Indicator Goal 2020 (KRW 100 million) Contribution Management Growth Management Presented by Management Committee Committee Committee Committee GiGA Infrastructure Social value created through social ICT, social contribution, and shared growth 41,561 AREA 06 Revenues of Next-generation Media service 1,348 ·Public business ·Promotion ·Shared growth ·Proactive risk Social contribution, ·Voluntary service of Green IT policy management Supplier management, Contribution to health promotion through Life-enhancing Care service 2,730 ·Reduction of ·Mediation relevant Social cooperation ·Social cooperation to sustainability Contribution to social progress through Integrated Safety service 1,691 energy use of conflict with supplier management ·Response to environmental ·Response regulation to relevant regulation 22. 23. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management | Transparent Management Material KT has selected material sustainability issues and applied to its management regarding the International <IR> Definition and Engagement Sustainability Issues Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC) based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiaof Stakeholders tive) Standards 100-400 and G4 guidelines that are the international guidelines for the sustainability reporting evSustainability Aspect Group Type and Frequency of Engagement ery year. For acquiring the accountability of the issue selection process and evaluation result, in addition, we have reflected the three principles of inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness which AA1000 requires; AA1000 Sustainability GRI Aspect Academia •KT Economic and Managerial Management * Strategy and Analysis, * Organizational Profile, & Experts Research Institute (Year-round) is the international sustainability reporting assurance standard. * Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries, •ICT Research Website 'Digieco' p. 20-25 * Stakeholder Engagement, Economic Performance, (Year-round) Indirect Economic Impacts •Joint Research with University & STEP 01 STEP 02 Distribution of Stakeholder Value Research Institute Sustainability Issues •'Future on' (Year-round) Identifying Sustainability Issues Prioritizing Sustainability Issues 1 Enhancing capability in communications, •Gyeonggi Creative Economy Identifying sustainability issues Prioritizing material issues excavated KRW 2,016 billion GiGA 7 Establishment of vision and goal, 9 Fostering new growth business, 12 Generation of economic outcome, Innovation Center (Year-round) through the analysis of internal through the materiality test Employees Total annual salary; Prosperity 24 Contribution to national economy, total retirement payments 32 Overseas advancement and external environment Total 10,073 internal and external stakeholders and employee benefits KT created a list of 340 sustainability issues participated in the online survey about KT's susTransparent GRI Aspect Shareholders •General Shareholders' Meeting (Annually) by the benchmarking of international guidelines, tainability issues; the importance of each issue Management * Governance, * Ethics and Integrity, Anti-corruption, & Investors •CEO Management Information Session (Annually) industry analysis, media research, and review was analyzed in aspects of external interest KRW 2,402.2 billion Public Policy, Anti-competitive Behavior •Earnings Announcement (Quarterly disclosures, p. 26-33 conference calls) on internal & external managerial materials. and internal impact. Suppliers Total procurement Sustainability Issues from suppliers •IR News (Once or twice a month) Reflecting the internal and external importance, Purpose and service costs 3 Transparent corporate governance, 6 Business •Domestic & Overseas NDR (Year-round) a total of 33 issues in 6 areas have been selected. To recognize material interests and expectations ethics and law compliance, 14 Fair competition •IR Website of diverse stakeholders and trade, 16 Risk management and response, Benchmarking of International Guidelines 17 Management of midto long-term strategic risk Utilization Government •Press Release (Year-round) Conducted benchmarking on international standards KRW 81.11 billion To review approach of sustainability management and and index such as GRI G4, ISO 26000, and DJSI Local & Media •Press Conference and Public Hearing (Year-round) use as reference in planning KT Integrated Report 2017 Total investment Industry Analysis Communities in community, donation, •PR Channel on Website Period and sponsorship Identified issues material in the industry through 20 March 2017 29 March 2017 (10 days) analyzing sustainability issues that domestic and overseas communications companies report Survey channel Customer First GRI Aspect Customers •Pool of Customers (200 Customers, three regular surveys per year, Media Research Survey email, KT website KRW 195.98 billion Management Products and Services, Marketing Communications, four to five special surveys per year) Analyzed total 5,448 articles reported Shareholders •Regular Online Surveys (10,000 Respondents, twice a year) Customer Privacy by domestic press in 2016 p. 36-43 & Investors Cash •Product Trial Student Team (10 Members, eight months) Review on Internal & External Managerial Materials dividends Sustainability Issues •Household Panel Reflected external trends surrounding KT as well as 2 Information protection and enhanced security, •Customer Product Evaluation Panel (177 Customers, one year) internal material issues 4 Customer first management, 5 Innovative Management and R&D, 10 Online security, GiGA 19 Brand management Planet Environmental GRI Aspect Environment •Environmental Management Committee (Year-round) Management Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity, Emissions, •Verification of GHG Emissions (Twice a year, scope I, II and III) p. 44-53 Effluents and Waste STEP 03 General Issues Material Issues Core Sustainability Issues Sustainability Issues Validating Material Issues 2 21 Energy, 23 Electromagnetic wave, 3 28 Environmental policy and system, Validating and selecting 1 29 Greenhouse gas (GHG), material issues 31 Climate change strategy, 33 Waste 4 5 KT conducted an in-depth internal review 7 6 on whether the issues identified have a signifi9 cant influence on the company. Moreover, 10 Talent GRI Aspect Employees •Labor & Management Council (Quarterly) 14 the issues have been subdivided into three 11 Management Employment, Labor & Management Relations, •Local LM Council, Unit LM Council, LM Policy Council categories regarding the correlation with corpoOccupational Health and Safety, Training and Education, (Permanent, year-round) 8 p. 56-63 rate strategies and validity: 15 core sustainability 20 Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Equal Eemuneration •Management Conference (Held in various formats for 13 23 for Women and Men full-time and contracted employees respectively) issues, 25 material issues, and general issues. 12 Sustainability Issues •Grievance Center, KT 119 (Offline) They have been reflected to the integrated re24 18 17 15 •Company Newspaper, In-house News, port according to the level of reporting by issues. 26 8 Appraisal and compensation, 11 Human resource 21 In-house Online Forum, and Frequent Messaging 16 and capability development, 13 Work-life balance, Core Sustainability Issues 27 25 15 Employee health and safety, 22 Human rights Issues that interest and influence of the entire 22 protection and diversity stakeholder group are extremely high 19 Material Issues 31 29 28 GiGA Issues that interest of external stakeholders or influence 30 People Shared Growth GRI Aspect Suppliers •Partner's Camp (Year-round) of employees is high Management Suppliers, Local Communities •Information Sharing Council (Year-round) General Issues •On-site Shared Growth Discussion (Year-round) Other sustainability issues that are included in KT's 33 p. 64-75 Sustainability Issues •KT Partner's Conference (Year-round) management activities 18 Law compliance of suppliers, 20 Sustainable suppliers 32 management, 25 Engagement with local communities Local •Discussion with Local Communities, Survey, SNS, Website and aid for disaster relief, 26 Narrowing the gap of information access, 27 Shared growth policy, 30 Social Communities •Supporting Local Children Center (Dream Center) •IT Education (Year-round) contribution www.kt.com/eng/sustainability/disclosure.jsp * General Standard Disclosure Aspects of GRI G4 Aspect that are applied to all organizations 24. 25. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Prosperity Transparent Management Sustainability Management | Transparent Management Transparent Driving Forces Establishment of transparent corporate governance is the foundation for sustainable development. By establishing a sound and efficient governance structure based on balance and The corporate governance model of KT is based on 'Independent board of director.' For the transparent decision making through the efficient monitoring and professional advices, the share of non-executive Independence and Corporate containment, a management environment that enables rational decision-making can be created. This Diversity of the BoD directors on the Board is 73% and the Chairman of the Board is selected among non-executive directors and appointed by the resolution of the BoD. The authorities of non-executive directors have the rights to enables companies to execute successful business practices to drive innovation and growth. Governance KT's Approach Inordertoensuretransparencyincorporategovernance,KTadoptscorporategovernancebest Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System evaluate management contract of CEO, to recommend dismissal of CEO, and to determine the compensation method for CEO and executive directors. (DART), Financial Supervisory Service practices recommendations, in line with international standards and promotes responsible management by dart.fss.or.kr www.kt.com/eng/ir/governance.jsp professional managers. In addition, the independent Board of Directors contributes to the enhancement Moreover, the CEO is recommended by the CEO Nominating Committee and nominated by the Chairman of corporate value through effective checks and professional advices in the decision-making process. of the Board by the resolution of the general shareholders meeting. The Chairman recommends executive SDG Alignment directors excluding the Chairman with the consent of the BoD. The Non-executive Director Candidate Goal 16 Nominating Committee recommends non-executive directors to the general shareholders meeting reKT Sustainability Index garding the Board Diversity and the complementarity of skills. According to the strict recommendation standards, the Committee excavates experts in each field who can give professional advices to the shareWe have selected the Korea Exchange (KRX) Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) Governance Index 73 % holders meeting for the development of KT. Information regarding the Board's articles of association, responsibilities, and resolutions can be found on KT website. In addition, we regularly report the BoD-related Corporate Governance that satisfies the Global Standard. Thus, we have consolidated the management by professional managShare of Independent Directors ers and transparent corporate governance system by the independent Board of Directors. Particularly, information which we have a duty to disclose through the Data Analysis, Retrieval, and Transfer System Principles on the Board of Directors the objective and independent governance system was established by separating the CEO and (DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service. the Chairman of the Board in 2002. Through the enactment and announcement of 'KT Governance Charter' KT Governance Charter in 2007, the corporate-wide transparent management has been actively promoted as well. In 2016, In order to increase the professionalism and efficiency, KT is operating 6 standing committees and 2 temfile.kt.com/kthome/ir/finance/irinfo01/ constitution.pdf KT received the A level on the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Evaluation of the Korea porary committees in the BoD. In April 2016, moreover, the 'Sustainability Management Committee' was Operation of Corporate Governance Service (CGS). newly established in the Board for reinforcing the corporate-wide sustainability management system. Committees in the BoD KT's Corporate Governance Model If necessary, the BoD can find additional committees. Current Status of Committees in the BoD KT Sustainability Index Efforts to Advance Corporate Governance and Promote Transparent Management (As of March 2017) Category Composition Objective and Authority Transparent Corporate Governance A 01. Independence 02. Improvement 03. Responsible Management Corporate Governance Committee 4 non-executive directors; 1 executive director Improvement of corporate governance of the Board of Directors of Shareholder Value by Professional Managers A Level ESG Evaluation of the Korea Audit Committee 4 non-executive directors Auditing of accounting and tasks Corporate Governance Service in 2016 Independence of Board Payback to shareholders Nomination and management composition and operation ·Retirement of shares; dividends contract Evaluation and 4 non-executive directors Management contract for the CEO and relevant assessment · Separation of CEO and Chairman (share Protection of shareholders · Candidates recommended by CEO Compensation Committee of non-executive directors on the Board: Nominating Committee approximately 73%) · Cumulative & written vote · CEO appointed at general Related-party Transaction between special parties as an approval by the BoD ·Audit, Evaluation and Compensation, shareholders' meeting 4 non-executive directors in accordance with the 'Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act' and Insider Trading Committees solely Protection of shareholder rights Transactions Committee composed of outside directors · Management contract signed by new CEO and 'Commercial Act' · CEO compensation linked to stock price KT Sustainability Index · Annual evaluation for management Transparency in nomination performance conducted by the Board Sustainability 4 non-executive directors; of Directors Sustainability management performance, plan, and strategy process of non-executive Management Committee 1 executive director 1 Rank st directors Compensation and dismissal · Operation of Non-executive Director Management Committee 3 executive directors Matters entrusted by the BoD for general management issues · CEO compensation determined based on Candidate Nominating Committee management performance · Hiring of third-party Advisory Council CEO Recommendation All non-executive directors; Research and review about CEO candidates and recommendation The 1st Rank in the Most Committed · Dismissal of CEO that the Board to find candidates can possibly recommend to general Committee 1 executive director to general shareholders' meeting Corporate Governance in Korea shareholders' meeting in case of insufficient (Finance Asia, Asia's Best Companies 2016) Authority of non-executive performance by the CEO directors Outside Director Candidates All non-executive directors*; Research and review about non-executive director candidates · Right to evaluate management contract Recommendation Committee 1 executive director and recommendation to general shareholders' meeting of CEO and recommend dismissal of CEO ·Right to determine the compensation method of CEO and executive directors * Excluded the non-executive directors whose term had been expired Current Status of the BoD (As of March 2017) Executive director Executive director Executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Chang-Gyu Hwang Heon-Moon Lim Hyeon-Mo Ku Do-Kyun Song Sang-Kyun Cha Jong-Goo Kim Suk-Gwon Chang Dae-Keun Park Dong-Wook Chung Gae-Min Lee Il Im CEO & President Member of Sustainability Member of Corporate Board Chairman Director of Sustainability Director of Audit Director of Corporate Director of Related-Party Director of Evaluation and Member of Corporate Member of Evaluation and Chairperson of Management Committee Governance Committee Member of Evaluation and Management Committee Committee Governance Committee Transactions Committee Compensation Committee Governance Committee Compensation Committee Management Committee Member of Management Member of Management Compensation Committee Member of Audit Member of Corporate Member of Evaluation and Member of Audit Member of Audit Member of Related-Party Member of Related-Party Committee Committee Member of Corporate Committee Governance Committee Compensation Committee Committee Committee Transactions Committee Transactions Committee (Current) CEO, KT (Former) President & (Current) Head, (Current) Head, Governance Committee (Current) Professor, (Current) Corporation lawyer, Member of Sustainability (Current) Professor, Member of Sustainability (Former) Advisor, Korea News Member of Sustainability National CTO, Chief Marketing Office, KT Chief Operating Office, KT Member of Related-Party College of Electrical Engineering New Dimension Law Group Management Committee College of Economics and Management Committee Editors' Association Fund Management Committee Office of Strategic R&D Planning (Former) Head, (Former) Head, Transactions Committee & Computer Science, (Former) 46th Minister of Justice Finance, Hanyang University (Former) Editor-in-chief, (Current) Dean of School of (Current) Senior Counsel, (Current) Professor, Business Customer Business Group, KT Chief Secretary, KT Seoul National University The Korea Economic Daily Business, Hanyang University Law Firm Kim, Choi & Lim Administration, Yonsei University (Current) Advisor, Bae, Kim & Lee LLC 26. 27. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Transparent Corporate Governance GiGA Prosperity Transparent Management Sustainability Management | Transparent Management In 2016, KT held 9 Board meetings to deliberate and resolve on a total of 44 agendas including 'Establishment and Composition of Sustainability Management Committee (draft).' Moreover, KT has reinforced Reinforcement Driving Forces Ethical management is the basis for maximizing the efficiency of the market and the people, and for maintaining corporate sustainability from regulatory risks. Ethical management is becomOperation and Assessment of the BoD communication by holding 7 advance conferences for BoD and 2 management information sessions for newly appointed directors. Resolution of the BoD is made by the attendance and majority vote of the majority of of Ethical ing increasingly more important as the 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' is being enforced, and the level of corporate ethics has become more relevant to the formation of reputation among consumregistered directors if not stated otherwise in the Korean Commercial Law or the Article of Association. To ensure the efficient operation of the BoD and the accountability of the directors, the Board evaluates its Management ers through social media channels. members on their BoD activities and individual performance each year; the results are voluntarily disclosed KT's Approach As a responsible national corporation, KT is committed to internalizing ethical management, through our annual accounts. The result of BoD evaluation in 2016 is 4.24 out of 5. www.kt.com/eng/social/ethics.jsp establishing fair competition, and complying with tax obligations. By strengthening the ethical management system centering on the company code of ethics, we are raising the ethical minds of all employees and Group SDG Alignment companies. As a participant in the 'Fair Player Club' led by the UN Global Compact, we are taking the lead in Goal 16 Current Status of BoD Activities establishing ethical management culture for our cooperative companies and business partners. Number of attending KT Sustainability Index No. Date Agendas non-executive directors (Maximum number) KT acknowledges that the ethical management is a basis to fulfill its social responsibility and to estab4.24 Points 1 28 January 2016 Approval of the 34th (separate and consolidated) financial statements (draft) and 4 other agendas 8 (8) Ethical Management System lish the foundation for customer first management. Hence, we have identified the five major behavioral practices based on 'New Ethical Business Principles.' Furthermore, KT has been trying its best to reinforce Partial changes in the articles of association (draft) Board Evaluation Score in 2016 2 3 March 2016 and 13 other agendas 8 (8) the ethical culture within the organization by implementing a series of activities: execution of the ethical Unit: points (out of 5 points) 3 25 March 2016 New frequency assignment plan (draft) and 1 another agenda 8 (8) management, lectures & campaigns and operation of communication channels. Establishment and Composition of Sustainability Management 4 28 April 2016 8 (8) Ethical Management Principle and System Committee (draft) and 6 other agendas 5 22 May 2016 2.1GHz frequency re-assignment plan (draft) 8 (8) 6 28 July 2016 Reporting of financial statements (separate and consolidated) 7 (7) No. 1 KT's New Ethical Business Principles for first half of FY 2016 and 5 other agendas 7 23 September 2016 Revision of the BoD rules (draft) 6 (7) We lead the future of the company through making the right decisions and practicing ethical judgments-so that KT evolves into a global Reporting of financial statements (separate and consolidated) No. 1 company. To this end, we define Customer First, Compliance, Back to the Basics, Ownership, and Social Responsibility as the five 8 28 October 2016 7 (7) for third-quarter of FY 2016 and 4 other agendas behavioral principles for the ethics management that all KT employees share, live by, and vow to practice in their everyday work lives. 9 8 December 2016 Management plan for 2017 (draft) and 2 other agendas 7 (7) Customers are our top priority. Principle 1. 1-1. We respect and thoroughly protect the value and information of our customers. * An executive director Jung-Tae Park resigned on 31 December 2015 Customer First 1-2. We ceaselessly create differentiated value that assists our customers. * A non-executive director Dai-Won Hyun resigned on 8 June 2016 We fully comply with all regulations and standards. Principle 2. 2-1. We act fairly and transparently in accordance with the law and business ethics. Law-compliance Management To establish a management system where the CEO as a professional manager is accountable for the business 2-2. We secure and maintain management transparency and strictly protect trade secrets. Management of Professional operation, the BoD of KT determines the terms and conditions of the management contract with the CEO. We stick to the basics and principles. For the fair evaluation of the CEO’s performance, the Evaluation and Compensation Committee consisting Principle 3. 3-1. We value the interest of the entire company in making reasonable and objective decisions Executives with Responsibility and in responsibly representing the company. of only non-executive directors determines the management goals of CEO based on the annual goals set by Fulfilling the Basics and Performance 3-2. We separate private matters from those of work life activities and take the lead in creating a sound the BoD while executing quantitative and qualitative evaluations at the end of the each business year and reand ethical corporate culture. Compensation System porting the results to the general shareholders’ meeting. According to the 2016 performance evaluation, the We believe in our own solidarity as a company with a self-initiated sense of ownership. CEO remuneration was 18.87 times the median value of all KT employees. Every year, the BoD determines Principle 4. 4-1. We do not fear failure: we continuously push ourselves to reach higher. Ownership and reports the remuneration criteria and methods for the CEO in accordance with business performances. 4-2. We seek efficiency gains through autonomy and empowerment. To improve the fairness of the BoD resolution concerning the remuneration of the CEO and executive diWe fulfill our social responsibility and obligation as a people's company. rectors, the CEO and executive directors are prohibited from participating in the decision-making process Principle 5. 5-1. We protect the rights and interests of shareholders and improve the 'quality of life' for our employees. as stipulated by the Article of Association. Social Responsibility 5-2. We value and respect the environment, safety, and human rights. 5-3. We commit ourselves to social contribution initiatives and forge shared-growth partnerships with business partners. Limit and Status of the Remuneration of BoD Members (As of 31 December 2016, Unit: KRW 100 million) Ethical Management System Limit approved by Average Category the general shareTotal remuneration remuneration holders' meeting per person Ethical Management Ethical Management Ethical Management KT Sustainability Index Practices Education & Campaign Communication Channels Executive directors (3 persons) Standards Education Preventive channels 18 Cases 42.92 14.31 · Signed the pledge to abide · Conducted ethical management · Ethical Management FAQ by the New Ethical education for employees (monthly) · Clean 365 Center Management Principles Non-executive directors who serve · Provided direct lecturing on ethical · Risk Consultation Channels 59 3.42 0.85 Ethical Management Education ·Distributed 'Code of Conducts management (by departmental heads) Audit Committee (4 persons) by Executives and Employees for for Employees in 2016 (Annual) Post-reporting channels Management of Corporate-wide Risks' Campaign ·Revised and announced Practical · Reports of violation cases Non-executive directors who do not ·Promoted Clean 365 campaign against business ethics 3.00 1.00 Guideline for Ethical Management for employees serve Audit Committee (3 persons) Principle · Hotline to the Chairman of the Board ·Implemented integrity obligation ·Revised and executed a special of Audit and Inspection for employees stipulation Ethical Practices *T  he number of directors: As of 31 December 2016, the amount of total remuneration is the total remuneration made in 2016 and it includes the amount of remuneration of retired and resigned directors. Monitoring * Average remuneration per person is the amount of total remuneration simply divided by the number of registered directors ·Launched year-round and special at the end of fiscal year. initiatives to monitor Ethical Practices 28. 29. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Reinforcement of Ethical Management Sustainability Management | Transparent Management Enhancement of Ethical Management Standard Enhancing Autonomous Compliance of Fair Competition Reinforcement of For efficient execution of New Ethical Management Principles, KT has established 'Guideline for New Ethical KT has made efforts to settle the fair competitive culture within the industry and to reduce regulation risks Ethical Management System Management Principles.' It stipulates decision making, standards of behavior and reporting procedures about KT Sustainability Index by operating the Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program: reporting center for unfair behaviors, priethical issue that employees face in work. In September 2016, to comply with 'The Improper Solicitation or examination for the fair competition, and online education for employees. We also conducted total 235 prior and Graft Act' in a corporate-wide level, KT has intensified the standards of ethical management. Hence, examinations for the fair competition in 2016. The employees' awareness of the compliance has been reinforced we revised and materialized the guideline for principles to reinforce the ethical management standards. 235 Cases as well through online education about the fair competition and offline education half yearly. In 2017, we conducted Furthermore, all employees have expressed willingness and responsibility to comply with the law faithfully by Prior Examination internal audits in a regular basis to check the compliance of the Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program writing certificate of compliance. for the Fair Competition in 2016 within the Group, thus minimized the possibility of legal violation while reinforcing the fair competition system. Status of Judgement by Regulatory Institutions Education System for Ethical Management In 2016, the Korea Communications Commission imposed two sanctions against KT with a penalty of about Direct lectures on the ethical management have been representative KT's education program since 2014: on KRW 590 million for legal violation cases including 'Telecommunications Business Act.' The Fair Trade Commisa monthly basis, heads of every department provide employees with lectures according to the 'New Ethical sion also sentenced corrective orders on KT for 'Broadband LTE coverage and advertisement of unreasonable Management Principles,' such as concept and system of the ethical management as well as about the current comparison of quality' KT faithfully implemented corrective measures according to orders of regulatory institustatus of KT's ethical management, thus helping to foster the ethical consciousness of employees. Moretions. Furthermore, we are trying our best to prevent the reoccurrence of infringement and to comply related over, the Head of Ethics Center offered lectures to newly-appointed management executives including senior regulations by tightening the prior reviews throughout the business activities and sharing the regulation trends. managers; the Head of Ethics Center is the chief of the ethical management within the company. Besides, a mandatory education is being executed for all employees with the e-learning ethical management contents Ethical Management Page on KT's Intranet so that employees can be given the education at any time. In 2016, prior to the enforcement of 'The Improper Category Date Result of Judgement Administrative Agency Solicitation and Graft Act', KT published and distributed 15 types of 'Casebook for The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act in each Division' which defines precautions for each task. In 2017, we have provided systematic Doing considerable harm to the interests of consumers for false Korea Communications offline job specific education to the ethical management staffs. 19 January 2016 Penalty: KRW 560 million advertisement of bundled commodities Commission with broadcasting communication Expansion of Ethical Management into Group Companies Concluding a contract of use in In order to fortify the 'Single KT,' at the ethical management level, we have also provided the Group compaviolation of the procedures set forth Korea Communications in the Terms of Use, such as 8 March 2016 Penalty: KRW 31.9 million nies with workshops and ethical management educations for responsible personnel on a quarterly basis. We Commission discounts different against the terms, are sharing the best and problematic cases of the ethical management with the Group companies through exemption of discount return the regular education. In addition, we provide support by posting education materials and reference cases on Unreasonable comparison the bulletin board of Group companies so that they can reform their ethical management infrastructure at any advertisement on Broadband LTE 21 October 2016 Corrective Order Korea Fair Trade Commission coverage and quality time. Since 2015, we have been providing in-depth practical education for Group company's ethical management staffs through 'Management Diagnosis Academy,' which consists of internal or external experts. In order to comply with the tax obligation and to pay taxes in a efficient way, KT has established and monitored Breach Reporting and Ethical Improvement Observance of taxation policies and strategies while disclosing all relevant information in a transparent manner. We maintain Reporting Channel of Violation Against For the sound corporate culture, we have been operating a 24-hour reporting channel for ethical violation Taxation Duty a relationship based on honesty and trust, with the tax authorities of each country including the National Tax Business Ethics cases, such as bribery and entertainment for compensation, unfair pressure, and information leakage; reports Service and pay taxes faithfully in accordance with each country's laws. We also fully recognize that the company www.kt.com/corp/sinmun_01.jsp are accepted and processed in real time in a transparent manner. In addition, all submitted reports are kept and tax authorities can have different legal interpretations during the business execution. Therefore, KT is preventconfidential in order to protect the anonymity of informants while reference numbers are given to informants ing any conflicts with the National Tax Service by drawing reasonable results through the proactive consultation. enabling the real-time status check. Reported cases that concluded to punishments due to violations on busiTransparent External Announcement ness ethics in 2016 are total 27 cases, reduced by 20.6% compared to the previous year. Through annual audit reports as well as the Data Analysis, Retrieval, and Transfer System (DART) of the Financial Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System Supervisory Service, KT reports and publicly discloses information about the corporate tax, deferred corporate (DART), Financial Supervisory Service Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program (CP) tax, and effective tax rate. In particular, temporary differences of each item caused by differences between dart.fss.or.kr Settlement of As a Korea's representative communications company who owns the national network, KT is fully aware accounting assets & liabilities and taxation assets & liabilities are provided with relevant information; KT's effecFair Competition of its responsibility to improve the convenience of people by leading the fair competition in the market. tive tax rate in 2016 disclosed through the audit report was 21.8% where the figure is lower than the maximum Therefore, we have introduced and operated the Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program corporate tax rate (including local income tax rate), 24.2%. The difference between tax rates occurs because since 2001 to settle the transparent and fair trading culture. Also, as part of the program, the prior exthe difference between profit and loss in accounting and those in taxation was adjusted and reflected. Moreover, amination center was opened in 2005. The program is being conducted by professional lawyers while KT never tolerates any tax evasion practices such as tax avoidance, illegal practices on the tax law, and fake establishing fair competition organizations for regular examination. report. We promise to faithfully deliver the tax obligations. Seven Elements of Autonomous Compliance Program KT Establishes a Fair Society Without the Improper Solicitation 01. 02. 03. 04. 05. 06. 07. To observe 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' actively, KT has revised and enforced Imposing Establishing 'Guideline for Ethical Management Principles' and 'Special Clause for Ethical Practices' in 2016. Expressing Designating Writing Operating Establishing sanctions on document commitment and operating and distributing The prohibited matters defined by laws have been applied to the practical guideline regarding education programs a monitoring system employees violating management and interest of CEO compliance officers compliance manual relevant legislation system the ethical issues that employees and suppliers face in work. In addition, we have drived to raise internal awareness by encouraging all employees to sign the pledge to comply the law Practical Guidance for Employees about Advertisement Poster for 'The and distributed education and promotional materials for all employees. 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' 30. 31. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Prosperity Transparent Management Sustainability Management | Transparent Management Proactive Driving Forces The company's ability to respond to risks that arise both internally and externally has a significant impact on its own existence and development. Technological advances, intensified competiProactive Risk Management Reinforcement of Corporate-wide Risk Assessment In order to engage each division to actively identify and respond to the potential risks, KT is operating Risk tion, and socio-environmental changes are accelerating and preemptive risk management is becoming more the corporate-wide self-diagnosis system for corporate-wide risks, which is to inspect risks related to important. This enables us to identify potential hazards in advance, minimize potential losses, and identify business, system, and work process on a regular basis. Since 2014, in order to fortify the diagnosis and Management opportunities for midto long-term development. response against risks, we have expanded the system from once a year to twice a year. In 2016, to intenRisk Assessment Matrix sify self-diagnosis of the standardized risk, we have distributed 'Risk Self-assessment Manual.' Each task KT's Approach KT builds a midto long-term strategic risk system to define megatrends and idenmanagers can analyze the risks frequency and impact as well as establish detailed response measures by www.kt.com/eng/sustainability/overview.jsp tify potential risks that may arise during operation. Through these efforts, we will strive for stable using correspondence strategies generated from the risk assessment matrix. In addition, we encourage 5 operation by preventing crisis situations preemptively. We are also strengthening our future comemployees to participate the assessment implementing 'Exemption System for Voluntary Engagement.' SDG Alignment petitiveness and sustainability by identifying new opportunities and commercializing them based on High High frequency, With the system, employees can be exempted from disciplinary action or punishment relief regarding Goal 7, 8, 11, 12, 13 4 systematic midto long-term future prospect analysis. frequency, High impact Low impact (Immediate innovation the risks identified by the risk diagnosis. (Preventative and improvement 3 approach) are required through re-engineering) For the corporate-wide integrated risk management, we founded a dedicated organization in 2004 that has the 2 Risk Education and Operation of Consultation Channel Low Low frequency, We are implementing regular educations for risk to fortify the risk response competency of employees and Establishment of exclusive responsibility for the risk management. In 2014, the risk management system was further reinforced frequency, High impact through establishing a comprehensive measure to minimize corporate risks. Also, we are trying our best to inte1 Low impact (Monitoring while internalizing the risk management culture into the company. For all employees and responsible personnel for Integrated Risk (Acceptable improving system grated management of the five risks: strategy, finance, operation, regulation, and event. In order to effectively after risk and process gradually) the risk management, the customized education for risk response is being provided; the handbook of 'Code Management System reduction) of Conducts by Executives and Employees for Management of Corporate-wide Risks' has been distributed to respond to risk that can possibly occur, KT has actively promoted risk prevention activities and set the follow-up 1 2 3 4 5 process by risk types. Additionally, prior and follow-up measures have been executed under risk owner desupport employees to effectively respond to risks that may occur during work. In 2016, particularly, KT newly partments, and when a critical risk occurs, KT organizes a Task Force (TF) for the prompt treatment of the risk. established the 'Risk Consultation Channel' ensures the anonymity. This Channel is to provide consultation In 2016, to reinforce the risk management system, we newly established 'Current Issue of Management Day,' for employees about their worry, conflict and problematic awareness about work, thus identify and solve KT Sustainability Index the potential risks. the enterprise-wide risk management council so that senior executives including head of departments share the status of key risks and setting the direction of a response. In addition, we newly founded and expanded risk management organizations within the business and operation division. In 2017, we are establishing the ‘selfmanagement process for risks,’ so that employees can manage their own risks in their work. 299 Cases Prior Risk Review Before Service Launch Prior Risk Review Since 2010, KT has been promoting the 'Prior Risk Review before Launching Service' for every new serBefore Service Launch in 2016 vice prior to launch in order to avoid damage to customers and the company cau sed by insufficient The economic, environmental and social issues of the world have been drastically spread such as the globservices. Besides, each professional department conducts in-depth reviews for risks in four aspects: Management of Midto al climate change, increasing population, scarcity of energy and resource. KT believes that advancement operation, law, fair competition, and information protection. Long-term Risk Strategy of innovative technology is the key to solve the problems that the earth is facing and to realize the era of new opportunity. Besides, through carrying out the analysis of 2030 outlooks, we identified the six megatrends In 2016, we defined 69 Key Risk Indicators through quantification by risk characteristics. In addition, we have that are closely related to the telecommunication business defining key risk & opportunity factors; thus, been identifying the signals of loss incurring events proactively by monitoring risks variation for the 43 key we have been concentrating on applying the opportunities to our business strategy. risks index of new core business. Six Megatrends of Telecommunication Business (Outlook for 2030) Midto Long-term Risk Strategy · Shifting the axis of competition in · Intensifying competition in price and · Vicious cycle such as reduced investment communications market to focus on quality Megatrend 04. Demographics Megatrend 01. Climate Change Megatrend 03. Technology marketing between business operators and lower service quality occurred due to · Continuing innovation in management while the growth of global communications reduced profitability in the communications infrastructure such as reducing expenses market continues to be stagnant business and considering customers as top priority Intensifying ·Expanding investment in new infrastructure ·Increasing investments in infrastructure ·Generating actual performance of new Competition such as GiGA Internet and 5G to reinforce such as GiGA Internet and 5G growth engines, such as the five key future competitiveness ·Concerning about potential distortion convergence businesses and penetration ·65+ aged population reaching 1 billion ·20% increase in GHG emissions by energy [IEA] ·Extensive spread of ICT-based technology [Kerr] ·Diffusing risks of market regulations in market competition based on subsidy into the global market [UN Population Division] for preventing intensified competition and rather than essential elements such as ·Expanding the noncommunications business ·Cost increase due to climate change ·Universal use of robots in manufacturing ·The youth bulging in emerging countries [UK Government] [The Economist] raising demands of civic groups product, service, and technology sector such as Fintech and security based on [UN Population Division] capability in communications Midto Longterm Strategic Economic Aspect Environmental Aspect Social Aspect Definition of Risk Impact on Business Measurement Risk System · Standardizing the network technology and leading the identification of technology Megatrend 05. Wealth Megatrend 02. Resource Megatrend 06. Urbanization ·Possible drastic change in the market · Rapidly increasing initial investments in sectors ·Establishing an image as leader of the global Stress such as evolving into GiGA super-broadband such as GiGA Internet, 5G, and UHD TV 5G by supporting successful implementation wired and wireless network ·Intensifying competition with various of national events such as 2018 Pyeongchang Enabling ·Domination of players in other industries operators including the entire domestic Winter Olympics such as platform, terminal device, content, and overseas value chain in dominating ·Promoting strategies for differentiation through Technology and expansion of competition areas the market first making partnerships with operators in various · Reducing profitability due to creating · Need to secure profitability under sectors and using core capability in Cloud & Big Data ·60% of world's population in middle class ·Worsening resource depletion due to population ·Urban growth driven by developing world open-type ecosystem new market ecosystem ·Excavating innovative ideas through [UN Development Program] growth [2030 Water Resources Group] [UN Population Division] Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center ·50% of world's population with internet access ·40% increase in energy demand ·60% of world's population living in cities and K-Champ [European Union Institute for Security] [International Energy Agency] [UN Population Division] 32. 33. GiGA Planet New Era of Innovation Opened Up by GiGA Infrastructure 2020 GOAL Offering annual environmental benefits worth of KRW 3 trillion in 2020 GiGA Planet GiGA Prosperity Customer First Management GiGA People Environmental Management Focal Area 03 Focal Area 04 Customer First Management Environmental Management Management Approach Management Approach Strategy Driver Objective Driver Strategy Driver Objective Driver KT has transformed the lives of its customers dynamically through innovative services Environmental management is now becoming increasingly important as a future growth engine that pioneer the era as a representative Korean corporation that has been working with Korea's Innovation of Realization of Minimizing Maximizing that creates new business beyond merely reducing energy. Accordingly, KT focuses on communications history. We will continue to do our best to become the 'No. 1 customer Product & Service Customer Environmental Environmental enhancing environmental efficiency throughout its business activities and improving its global recognition company' that is loved by the people by providing the best customer experience Satisfaction Impact Benefit environment through innovative and environment-friendly services. through continuous service innovation. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Planet Customer First Management Customer First Management | Environmental Management Best Driving Forces Being able to provide the 'Best Customer Experience' in a rapidly changing business environment is the essence of our competitiveness. Creation of customer value through continuous To always listen to our customers, we operate the 'Responsibility System to Improve Customer Opinions' enabling all executives and employees of the entire company to share Voice of Customers (VOC) recorded by the call Communication with No. 1 Customer service innovation leads to trust and choice of customers, and it is the path that enables continuous Customer-awareness center. Thus, we are striving for establishing improvement plans for each department as well as advancing customer services. In 2016, particularly, we have improved convenience of customer center and have provided difgrowth of the company. Service KT's Approach Based on our corporate culture of 'customer-first', KT is making every effort to beferentiated customer services such as anniversary celebration letter, hand letter, and white clover for new house celebration for call center users. As a result, complimentary VOC was increased by 38.4% from the previous year. come the 'No. 1 Customer Recognition Company' that the people love the most. In particular, we are www.kt.com/eng/social/customer.jsp striving to provide the best customer experience and customer value through continuous service Establishment of Prompt Infrastructure for Customer Center innovation, and to secure the safety of the communication network as a telecommunications carrier Since established the Integrated Call Center System in 2014, KT is running the Korea's grandest integrated cusSDG Alignment with national network. tomer center of about 11,000 employees covering wire, wireless, and collection. We have strived to provide Goal 16 KT Sustainability Index the highest standard of service accessibility through touchable ARS, visible ARS, voice recognition ARS, SMS ARS, and cyber consultation (e.g. 24 hours SNS consultation), the largest number of ARS type in Korea. In 2016, 1 Rank st under the 'Improvement Project for ARS Convenience', we have simplified the initial menu and ARS tree. Hence, Vision of Customer First Management we have achieved to reduce the greeting and initial message from 20 to 12 seconds. In addition, wire products Infrastructure Competitiveness Reinforcement of Customer For the CS vision, KT has set 'the World's top class company realizing customer satisfaction (CS) by heartful comof Customer Center, Won the Grand customer center reduced its menu from 58 menus of 4 stages to 48 menus of 3 stages, and the wireless prodFirst Management munication and trust,' and is implementing the management for the customer satisfaction regarding its customers Prize from Stevie Awards ucts call center simplified its service from 103 menus of 5 stages to 78 menus of 4 stages. Moreover, we have Sales & Customer Service in 2017 as the first among everything. For instance, we continue to innovate customer contact channels, wire & wireless improved the response rate by 1.6%p through collaboration with 'kt is' and 'kt cs' by executing daily forecast communications products and services while offering services that can care customers' emotional aspect. for inbound call, standardization of labor input, real-time inbound call management system. In 2017, we will develop a 'Customer Customized (Intelligent type) ARS' service based on big data while reducing the average waiting time for customers to provide better customer services. Total Customer Satisfaction in Customer-first Perspective Believing that the value creation for customers is a key factor which realizes the growth of KT as well as KT Sustainability Index the sustainable future. Thus we are implementing corporate-wide improvement activities by defining Internalization of Customer's Perspective the four key areas (CS, network, product and channel) and subdividing the customer experiences into about For 'Communication with No. 1 Customer Awareness,' KT has been constantly improving the level of internalization of customer's perspective. In 2016, we have executed Critical To Quality (CTQ), and improved by 1 Rank st 2,000 phases. To further actively promote the improvement activity, beside, KT is operating the 'Customer First Management Office,' which enables KT to execute the performance evaluation system with the pracsystematically defining complaint factors of products and services in the perspective of users rather than tical indicators in the customer's perspective. In 2016, KT has settled the 'No. 1 brand awareness' as the top suppliers. Also, we acknowledged the customer center is the starting point for innovation as 94% of VOC Competitiveness in Customer Frist Management, 1st Rank in Wired-phone priority task and concentrated its corporate-wide capability through customer first execution committee to is processed by the center. Therefore, KT has promoted cultivation of site professionals at the customer and Internet Phone in 2016 innovate quality of customer experiences, expert in customer connections point and customer centers. contact point. Furthermore, through the three projects to improve N-VOC, we have made efforts to resolve customer's complaints regarding human error, quality and areas of policy & system. Thanks to our efforts, the N-VOC was reduced by 15.5% from the previous year. Customer First Management System Key Indicators for Communication with Customers 2016 2015 Vision for Customer Satisfaction (CS) Average Talk Time (ATT) Follow-up Process Time (Annual average) Response Rate Service Level within 20 Seconds Monthly World-class CS company through continual communication and trust between KT and its customers Average Talk Response Rate Time and 186 77 of Customer 97.4 83.9 Follow-up Center and Process Time Service Level (Unit: seconds) 197 88 95.8 82.3 Model of Customer Satisfaction (CS) (Unit: %) KT will continue to be a trustworthy company to its valued customers Customer First Management Poster who have trusted and relied on KT over the years VOC Regarding Response Delay & Inconvenience Self-processing Rate Waiting Time VOC Regarding in Auto Response System (ARS) Rate of Response Delay Average Self-processing & Inconvenience 59,966 (First half) 25.8 (Annual) Waiting Time 13 for Customer Promoting Total CS in Perspective for Customer First in Auto Response Complaint for Customer System (ARS) (Unit: seconds) 75,384 (First half) (Unit: %) 24.4 (Annual) 16 (Unit: cases) 1. Quality of 2. Turning to 3. Differentiated Customer Experience Customer First Mindset Customer Service KT Stands Tall as the Customer First Oriented Company We were selected as the 1st rank in wire and wireless communications sectors for 2 consecutive years on the '2016 Korean Standard Contact Service Quality Index (KS-CQI)' that is an authoritative evaluation about customer centers. Thus, our sincere efforts for the highest brand awareness have been proven. In order to realize the customer Quality First Customer Needs Competitive Performance impression, KT has improved convenience of customer contact channels: call center, store, homepage, mobile Starting from quality of detailed Increasing simplicity and convenience Developing into customer experience that satisfies and solving Pain Point for higher quality the Global No. 1 & 1st and applications, and SNS. Furthermore, under the goal of 'Reduce customers' waiting time even one second,' KT has hidden needs of on-site & customer experience winning the quality competition been accomplishing substantial achievements such as reducing customers' waiting time through simplifying the ARS menus and applying a visible ARS service. Visible ARS 36. 37. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Best Customer Service Customer First Management | Environmental Management Product Evaluation with Customers KT's services, which regard customers as the top priority has been highly recognized with meaningful Product with No. 1 KT conducts product verification constantly with customers prior to launch a product by pursuing technology Service with No. 1 achievements in representative customer satisfaction evaluations in Korea. In 2016, KT accomplished outCustomer-awareness for people. In particular, the 'Customer Product Evaluation Panel' is a specialized product evaluation process Customer-awareness standing performances on the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) by the Korea Productivity Center of KT, who regarding customers as the top priority. Since 2011, the customers and experts of 'Customer Prod(KPC): 1st rank in wire phone sector (18 consecutive years), 1st rank in internet phone sector (7 consecutive uct Evaluation Panel' have been contributing to develop the best product by making various opinions in the years). On the Korean Standard Contact Service Quality Index (KS-CQI) by the Korean Standards Association perspective of customers prior to launch for seven years. www.ncsi.or.kr/ncsi/ncsi_new/winner01.asp (KSA), we were selected as 1st rank in wire communications (3 consecutive years) and 1st rank in wireless communications sectors (2 consecutive years). Moreover, we achieved 1st rank in IPTV and international Composition of Customer Product Evaluation Panel phone call (KS-SQI), 1st rank in mobile phone and internet (KS-QEI), 1st in high-speed internet, IPTV, internet phone and wire phone (KCSI) by KMAC, and the best customer center in wire and wireless customer sector (KSQI). Likewise, our sincere efforts for the highest brand awareness have been proven. •Identifying and improving complaint factors through product evaluation before launch 261 •Upgrading and optimizing complaint factors through follow-up verification after launch Results of National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) (Unit: points) 152 109 •Providing differentiated customer & site-focused product ideas Wire Internet Customer On-site KT Sustainability Index Phone 76 Phone 76 Welcome Day Event of Customer Product Evaluation Panel 75 Evaluation Panel Evaluation Panel Total Key Responsibility 74 74 (Customers) (On-site employees) 72 1 Rank st 1st 1st Key Activities of Customer Product Evaluation Panel Satisfaction for Customer Center 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 In 2016, total of 261 panels including housewives, college students, workers, and employees of customer 1st in Wire & Wireless Communications contact points made efforts to develop customized products for customers' needs by reflecting the voice of cusSectors for 2 Consecutive Years KT Sustainability Index from Korean Standard Contact Service tomers. The Customer Product Evaluation Panel promoted a range of activities in all areas related to a product, Quality Index (KS-CQI) in 2016 Mobile High-speed 88 Cases such as verifying new products, improving existing products, and proposing product ideas; it conducted 88 product Internet Phone Satisfaction for Service 73 74 74 74 74 evaluations in 2016. Especially, we have done an online survey and it has encouraged the execution of activity 72 Awarded a Grand Prize from Korea Product Evaluation Activities in 2016 by analyzing the customer needs for key trend products in the market. As a result, for example, it contributed to Service Grand Prix (KSGP) in 2016 new customer-first products through the intense usability verification before the launch of services such as 'GiGA 2nd 2nd Genie,' 'GiGA IoT Air Doctor,' 'Wiz Stick,' and 'CLiP 2.0.' In 2017, we will elaborate the Customer Product Evaluation 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Panel centering experts while developing new products and reinforce the competitiveness of the products in the perspective of sites, thus, KT will strive to listen more carefully to the ideas from customers and sites. Key Activities of Customer Product Advanced Network Monitoring System Evaluation Panel (2014~16) 2014 2015 2016 Service Stability with No. 1 As the communications company who owns the national network, KT operates the cutting-edge network Customer-awareness monitoring system to provide stable services under any circumstances. Through the Network Monitoring Analyze customer needs for major trend Analyze customer needs for major trend Center, we monitor the nation-wide network comprehensively and direct activities for the prevention and Direction of Expanded the scope of activities products in the market through online surveys products in the market through online surveys Activity to the entire product sector and operations to enhance the execution and operations to enhance the execution prompt recovery of national and social emergencies as well as breakdowns or disasters. In addition, the netof activities through 'On-site Evaluation Panel' of activities work monitoring system is being consistently operated by regional monitoring centers while the nation-wide wire & wireless operation centers are responsible for the stable operation, and repair & maintenance • Improving GiGA Wi-Fi AP speed and coverage •Improving speed and coverage of GiGA Wi-Fi Home • Applying customer feedback on launch of GiGA Genie •A  ddressing showed areas for Wibro egg and transition •Improving errors relevant to olleh tv UHD STB general viewing • Improving error and app usability of GiGA IoT Air Doctor of communications facilities. By newly building a Cyber Security Center under the Network Monitoring Center Evaluation of of LTE network •Improving errors relevant to the launch of 'Kakao Friends • Improving error and quality of Wiz Stick through in 2016, we have enhanced our capability of the response system against cyber-attacks and hackings that New Product • Improving customer complaints for other rate systems for olleh tv' service user experience and combination products •Improving customer complaints for other rate systems and • Improving inconvenient details of other rate plans and combination products combined products based on customer perspective President and the Ministry are rapidly increasing. Also, we have founded a system to prevent damages on our customers due to SMS of the Science, ICT and Future Planning phishing and pharming. In 2017, KT newly established a platform controlling center to develop the future cut• Improving the main page of olleh.com and raising • Improving the main page of olleh.com and raising • Improving customer convenience, UI & UX of CLiP 2.0 2012, 2014~2016 competitiveness of olleh membership competitiveness of olleh membership • Improving customer-friendly UI & UX of Olleh TV mobile Communication and ting-edge network technology by controlling and operating KT's future business based on ICT platform such Improvement Citation Disaster Sector • Improving performance for enhancing customer convenience • Improving performance for enhancing customer convenience and smart set-top as smart energy, IoT, image safety and security service. of Existing of olleh navi of olleh navi Product • Improving customer-friendly UI/UX for Genie, OTM, • Improving customer-friendly UI/UX for Genie, OTM, and and smart set-top smart set-top Communication Service Emergency Recovery The significance of stable communication service has been increased due to rapid climate change and earthquake in Korea. In preparation for cases when the communications service is disrupted because of general KT Was Highly Recognized for an Innovative Rate System breakdown and disasters such as a typhoon and earthquake, KT has established the emergency recovery plan by damage types and conducted regular trainings. Furthermore, in order to minimize damages, KT conIn November 2016, KT won the 'Most Disruptive Pricing Strategy' for the Y24 and Yteen rate system by the Global ducts comprehensive safety inspections for communication facilities in vulnerable period such as thaw, rainy Telecoms Awards 2016, the notably authoritative awards in the world for communication sector. Those two rate and winter season. In 2016, particularly, KT has consolidated the stability of national network by actively resystems are highly recognized as it reflected customized needs for teenagers and twenties such as 'Unlimited Data for sponding to the threats to communications as well as thoroughly prepare for the data traffic that skyrockets three-hours every day,' 'Data Doubling' and 'Data Swap.' KT has proved that the superiority of its mobile rate systems Emergency Recovery Training in cases of major events of the country such as the 20th presidential election, Olympic, North Korea's nuclear by winning the global prize two years in a row. Last year, KT has become the Korea's first communication operator missile launches, and grand scale candlelight demonstrations. Therefore, since received the presidential cireceiving a global award in market strategy sector by winning the 'Mobile Pricing Innovation' for 'Data Push and Pull' by tation in 2012, KT's outstanding capability in disaster response has been highly recognized with meaningful the same Award. achievements such as winning institutional citations of the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning for The Global Telecoms Awards 2016 3 consecutive years since 2014. 38. 39. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Planet Customer First Management Customer First Management | Environmental Management Protection Driving Forces With the development of information and communication, security threats related to personal information are becoming more sophisticated. Leakage of customer information leads to Enhancement of Customer Protection Activity for Each Stage of Customer Information Life Cycle We prevent the leakage of personal information by analyzing the entire life cycle from the gathering to of Customer a decline in corporate credibility and customer detachment. In addition, legal sanctions such as punitive damages and statutory damages compensation have been strengthened recently. As such, continuous Information Protection destruction of information by applying technical and administrative protection measures optimized for each stage. For instance, we introduced the response system against APT attacks in order to proactively Information monitoring and improvement of the customer information protection system and security awareness in the supply chain are critical issues that directly affect the sustainability of the corporation. block websites and emails with malicious codes included. The information leakage risk due to storing excessive information has been averted by deleting personal information of customers who have not been KT's Approach For KT, who regards customer-first management as its core value, customer information using for more than 1 year and personal information stored on PC. The 'White Hacker' group also routinely inside.olleh.com/html/privacy.asp protection is the first principle of corporate value. In order to preemptively and structurally respond simulates hacker attacks to the website in order to identify and improve weak points. Through the Privacy to increasingly intelligent security threats, KT will make every effort to strengthen its customer inImpact Assessment, we identify and improve infringement factors of personal information prior to change SDG Alignment Goal 16 formation protection management system and practice culture throughout the Life Cycle of customer or introduction of the new system which utilizes personal information. information and to guarantee customer rights as information subjects. Privacy Impact Assessment Since acquired the Information Security Management System (ISMS) certification in 2013, the national inReinforcement of Manageformation protection management system, we are annually conducting the reauthorization and thus operment System for Customer ating a customer information protection management system according to the national standard. The level of technical and administrative measures to protect customer information has been constantly improved Ex-ante Analysis Analysis of Personal Information Arrangement of Privacy Implementation Information Protection through the regular check on the security status of systems and suppliers that handle with the customer Management Status Impact Assessment Result Inspection Review necessity of the privacy Analyze personal information trend Establish improvement plans Implementation Inspections information. In 2016, KT has advanced the security status inspection for customer contact points such as impact assessment Analyze personal information Prepare the impact assessment report Establish plans for the privacy breach factor retail stores. In addition, prediction, detection, analysis and response system was founded based on the Big impact assessment Risk assessment and identification Data analysis platform, which leads to the consolidation of the information security system. of an improvement plan Information Protection and Security System Establishment of Cyber Security Center In 2017, KT opened the IT and network integrated Cyber Security Center for the first time in Korea. Thus, we Protection of Users established a comprehensive response system covering device, network and server. Also, we are reinforcing the security for PC and mobile device in order to deal with the security threats in Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Four Protection Areas environment, where smart devices are utilized in work. Customer Information Corporate Information Service Protection & Network Security Protection Protection Provision of Values To reinforce the customer information protection throughout the value chain, all employees, Group companies, Dissemination of Culture and suppliers are cooperating to establish a culture that everyone participates in protecting the customer into Protect Customer formation with a sense of responsibility. Hence, all employees are to make a pledge on the personal informaISMS Certificate Internet Security & Infrastructure Security tion protection every year while the information protection training is constantly provided. Every employee Information Governance Policy Process Compliance is receiving online trainings about the personal information protection. Furthermore, we have made efforts to improve the efficiency of training by implementing customized education tailored to each job and task for Three Protection Boundaries employees who handle customer information with a high risk of information security. In addition, KT is establishing an environment where employees are voluntarily participate in protecting information by operating an KT Group Companies Suppliers in-house reporting center for security issues and Clean Office, while sharing practice measures through information protection poster, PC wallpaper. In 2016, we have raised security awareness of suppliers by holding 'Meetings for Representatives of Suppliers Dealing Customer Information.' Through the meeting, KT has shared Technical∙ Administrative Measures to Protect Customer Information Meetings for Representatives of Suppliers Dealing the following agendas; laws to comply in a case of entrustment and consignment of personal information, Achieved the the Highest Rank Customer Information results & plans for information security examination and the best practices for the information protection. for the First Time in Korea Security Assessment + for Readiness of Ministry AAA of Science, ICT and Future Planning, 2016 Technical Protection Measures Administrative Protection Measures Customer Service for KT is protecting its customers from SMS phishing scams and preventing the information leakage due to the loss of smartphones through its diverse information protection services. We are operating Olleh Information Protection anti-smishing app (for cases in which apps with malicious code or potential malicious code are installed, · Integrated Security Control System to monitor suspicious · Security Coding required during the software development users are advised to delete the apps), Information protection notification (informs various cyber threats behaviors that seem to be hacker's attack · Conduct the Privacy Impact Assessment through SMS), personal information usage check service, and information protection channel to enable to ·Enhancement of the approval and authentication process of the Access Control System · Destruction of social security number gathered reply promptly about inquiries on the personal information. ·R egular inspection and improvement activity conducted ·Establishment of Firewall, Intrusion Detection System, and for loopholes Access Control System Service Link for Major Customer Information Protection ·S imulation tests for infringement accidents with relevant · Encryption of privacy Inquiry on Information Protection organizations such as the government ·DRM (Digital Right Management) and DLP (Data Loss ·Information destruction of customers not using KT's service privacy@kt.com olleh smartblog.olleh.com/2780 KT, Acquired 'Certificates for Cloud Security' of Korea Prevention) Solutions for more than 1 year Anti-smishing App Internet & Security Agency for the First Time in Korea · Further application of DB Access Control System · Destruction of personal information on PC & server and enhancement of privacy control Information Protection product.olleh.com/wDic/productDetail.do?ItemCode=485 · Response to APT attacks Notification ·Prediction, detection, analysis and response system based on Personal Information the Big Data analysis platform inside.olleh.com/html/olleh_clean_sub12.asp Usage Check Service 40. 41. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Planet Customer First Management GiGA Planet Customer First Management Customer First Management | Environmental Management Brand Driving Forces It is an age when the value of a brand is recognized as the value of goods and services. In addition, due to the expansion and diversification of customer contact channels, communication Innovation Driving Forces With the development of information and communication technology, social and economic activities through smart phones and the internet are increasing, ICT industry is changing the paradigm Value Creation between companies and customers has become more direct. As a result, the importance of brand Management and facing a new era of advancement. In order to respond to such a rapidly changing business environment value creation is increasing in order to gain competitive advantage in the industry and to ensure and provide products and services that are selected by consumers, innovation must be a routine task. continuous customer satisfaction and reliability from customers. KT's Approach In order to provide differentiated customer value, KT is constantly implementing programs KT's Approach KT is a leader in innovative technology that surpasses the limitations of existing to define 'Communication, Cooperation and Empowerment' in 2014 as a unique corporate culture and to www.kt.com/eng/pr/film.jsp communications, and is leading the way in creating brand value by introducing new and innovative www.digieco.co.kr establish the entire company in order to lead the rapidly changing information and communication market. marketing communication activities every year. KT will continue to lead the market through custom'Communication, Cooperation and Empowerment' programs play an important role in developing innovative SDG Alignment SDG Alignment er-participatory communication and raise its position as Korea's leading innovative company brand. products and services by promoting communication and collaboration within and among departments. Goal 9 Goal 8 In order to attract interests and generate sympathy of customers to create meaningful message and further KT has been innovating the work environment through the communication, cooperation and empowerment Integrated Marketing enlarge and evolve it, KT has introduced the Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) method to compreInnovation through to establish corporate culture where employees take new challenges based on their passion and endurCommunication hensively utilize all customer contact channels. Communication, Cooperation ance. In order to provide prompt and exact customer service. In particular, KT has allowed the autonomy to on-site departments such as branches and centers where customers contact with KT employees while and Empowerment creating environment where employees take new challenges with different view point. Introduction of New Brand Slogan KT introduced a new brand slogan, 'PEOPLE. TECHNOLOGY.' in March 2017. Through the slogan, KT has fortified its corporate identity of 'the company who advances and benefits the world through an innoCommunication, Cooperation and Empowerment Programs vative technology with a human face.' The 'People. Technology.' brand campaign began with 2 advertise'Top Rank Workshop' is the most representative communication, cooperation and empowerment proments with themes of 'Korea' and 'Human.' gram of KT that innovates the way of working by identifying basic problems at sites. 'No. 1 Teaming' has Brand Slogan become a foundation of encouraging employees and helping them to deliver satisfactory customer services In addition, we will promote our image of leading 5G based the Fourth Industrial Revolution with through the advanced teamwork and active communications. In 2017, leveraging the 'Top Rank Workshop' the theme of people using innovative technology and service such as 5G based realistic service, GiGA as a performance creation tool, KT will reinforce the initiative of executives and leaders for changes and Genie (AI service), and connected car. innovation. In addition, we will advance No. 1 Teaming for communication and cooperation among contactInnovate Meeting Culture! 'Top Rank Workshop of KT' ing customers, staff, growing industry for future departments and supporting departments. Leading the Era of 5G Through GiGA Campaign In 2016, we delivered messages about GiGA LTE and GiGA internet in a friendly manner through Programs to Strengthen Communication, Cooperation and Empowerment the corporate PR advertisement under the slogan of 'GiGA Era Be upon Korea.' In addition, we delivered Key Performance Future Plan Effect our corporate image as a 5G leader by using cinematic techniques and produced GiGAtopia brand film  ince September 2014, excavated 1,889 tasks and identified •S •In 2017, established a goal of 'Hange Booster, take •Contributing to realization of group philosophy and core values which brought a fresh emotion from the customers. performance creation and problem solving measures through new challenge and promote practical performance' by discussing and implementing regarding subjects aligned in-depth discussions with 25,370 employees until 2016 to the management direction such as No. 1 brand awareness •Operated flexible methods in accordance with diverse and cost innovation Top Rank •KT service southern branch, selected as the best task discussion topics such as establishment of entirely different The follow up campaign of 'Towards 5G with GiGA', has clearly delivered our efforts on innovative in Top Rank Workshop in 2016, has accomplished more than goal, breaking stereotype ideas and open theme subjects •Contributing to performance improvement by enhancing Workshop 99% of customer satisfaction. The branch utilized the Top Rank cross-departmental cooperation and execution ability technology and value creation such as autonomous driving network and leading global standard for 5G. Workshop to execute standardization, to adopt manual •Planning to enhance initiative of executives and leaders New Advertisement Campaign of 'PEOPLE.TECHNOLOGY.' against change and innovation by operating the divisional for opening & after service, to establish Field Data integrated Also we have delivered our image as a technology leader, young and active through the world's first VR management system and to expand on-site maintenance team 'Top Rank Workshop' as a performance generating tool baseball live broadcast and the international drone racing contest for the first time in Korea. •Since April 2015, 'team work empowering program' started •In 2017, planning to further advance and execute the program •Building strong teamwork by enhancing interdepartmental as 'Empowering Seminar' recorded high increase rate that leads an entirely different communication and cooperation communications and trust in organization atmosphere and willingness to achieve the goal among customer-contact department, staff department, future •Establishing foundation for performance generation No. 1 while total 640 teams with 6,900 employees and participated growing business department and supporting department. Expansion of Customer Engagement Campaign by encouraging teams Teaming •Participated departments will excavate requirements on •Contributing in encouraging for site by focusing In 2016, KT has enriched communication with customers through active campaigns with customer partictheir own to establish a challenging atmosphere based on on the customer-contact department to accomplish passion and endurance, and the various obstructing processes ipation. We held GiGA legend match and technology convergence film festival with VR and drone, so that No. 1 brand awareness will be improved customers were able to experience our advanced technology. Advertisement Campaign of 'Towards 5G with GiGA' The 'Y24 plan' is the Korea's first plan for customers with age under 24. KT has promoted advertisement with preferred models targeting customer's age group: models, idols, and hip hop musicians. Also [Value Creation Activity] Category Case Major project the events such as Y24 campus attack, launching showcase and student dance contest brought many issues Value Creation Through Expansion of Consulting Business and spread in online as well as offline. External 10 cases Management consulting Corporate-wide Nomad Consulting Group (NCG) is an in-house consulting group of KT that is composed of experts of various Strategy 13 cases cost innovation project Furthermore, KT has actively utilized social media channels such as webtoon that linked to the Rio fields. Since its foundation in 2011, it has provided professional solutions for projects and cross-functional Received Social Media Olympic and a viral video with the 'Catty,' a cat as the main model, thus, KT was loved by customers. issues of each business department. In 2016, we have reformed a project execution in a Value Creating way, Sophisticate BM for StartGrand Prize New Biz 8 cases up companies in Creative Especially, the advertisement series of 'Answer 1988,' which contains the behind-story of the soap which is based on the importance and necessity of corporate-wide strategies. Also, in order to contribute Internal Economy Innovation Center 'Answer 1988,' from the Minister of the Science, drama 'Reply 1988,' attracted a lot of attentions and selected as the TOP 10 advertisements on to society as a Korea's representative company, we have expanded the scope of the project to cover outside Grand Prize ICT and Future Planning of group including small and medium sized companies and executed total of 33 projects. Particularly, we have Group Current status and Youtube in 2016. Companies 2 cases differentiating plan for KT reduced costs by KRW 54.2 billion by promoting the corporate cost innovation projects. Furthermore, we have Service MOT supported companies in the Creative Economy Innovation Center to accomplish new investments worth of KRW Total 33 cases 970 million and enter the overseas markets through a commercialization consulting. 42. 43. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Planet Environmental Management Customer First Management | Environmental Management Environmental Driving Forces Due to global climate change and energy depletion, the ability to efficiently manage energy in most sectors is becoming a core competitiveness for the company. As customers' demands for new Re-establishment of Environmental Management Strategy KT believes that environmental management policy of a company shall act beyond the traditional Strategy and System for Management environmental services and products increase, its significance as the future growth engine is growing. Environmental Management level of 'Do Not Harm' that simply not harming environment, but need to take a big step forwards to the level of 'Do Good', where actively improving environment by developing environment-friendly techSystem KT's Approach KT will present a new paradigm for the environmental ICT industry by identifying and fostering new environment-friendly businesses in order to solve the environmental issues facing nology and service. In June 2017, KT proclaimed a strategy of 'Carbon Impact 2020,' expressing its willingness to advance into the environmental ICT field by defining the environmental management as humankind through the development and provision of innovative technologies. In addition, we will the new growth engine of the company. Furthermore, in order to protect and improve environment in www.kt.com/eng/social/environment.jsp grow to become a sustainable company by minimizing the environmental impacts of energy, GHG, a systematic way, KT has introduced 'KT Environmental Management Policy', and strived to create a suswater, and waste generated by its business operations. tainable foundation for humankind by realizing the co-existence between nature & human and preservation SDG Alignment Goal 7, 13, 14, 15 of environment & economic development through innovative technology. Management Strategy By 2030, it is expected that the ICT industry will be playing a leading role in responding to the global climate • Carbon Impact 2020 • Risk Factor Strategy Driver KT Sustainability Index Midto Long-term Analysis change. According to the Global e-Sustainability Initiative* , the global research organization for sustainability, Minimizing environmental Improving environmental of Environmental Trends 20% of global GHG emissions could be reduced by 2030 through ICT technology development and services. impacts form KT's operation efficiency Thus it is anticipated that the global GHG emissions could be reduced to the emissions level in 2015. Converting it to fossil fuel, it is a equivalent amount to saving 25 billion barrels of crude oil per year. Carbon-free Company Pursuing at the same time Realizing at the same time Included Carbon Management KT pursues to minimize environmental impacts * Global e-Sustainability Initiative: Representative sustainability initiatives mainly consist of the global telecommunications companies Honors Club at the 2016 Carbon from its operation, while maximizing environmental such as BT, Verizon, AT&T, Deutsche Telekom and Swisscom Disclosure Project (CDP) Award benefits from its services. Through development Opportunity Factor Objective Driver for 4 Consecutive Years and provision of an innovative environmentBusiness Outlooks by Environmental ICT Against 2030 Maximizing environmental www.smarter2030.gesi.org friendly ICT service, KT will accomplish Containing climate change Carbon-free Company by 2020 benefit from KT's service GHG Emissions Energy & Resource Economic Effect New Customer Reduction Preservatiaon Creation Excavation Enlargement of Organization for Environmental Management A far stable and more strategic environmental management has been realized and systematically executed by founding a 'Sustainability Management Committee' under the Board of Directors in April 2016. 20 % 25 billion barrels USD 11 trillion 2.5 billion customers 'The Environmental Management Committee' is being also operated for accelerating the execution of the corporate-wide environmental management. Furthermore, in order to realize the 'Carbon Impact 2020' strategy effectively, in April 2017, KT has expanded the Committee into 4 different divisions: response Expected to save 25 billion Anticipated to create economic Forecasted to secure Enable to reduce the global GHG emissions by 20% barrels of crude oil and benefits worth of more than 2.5 billion to climate change, energy & resource efficiency, environment-friendly SCM and energy ICT services. 300 trillion liter of water annually USD 11 trillion per year new customers The Committee holds regular meetings twice a year while holding departmental meetings frequently. The departmental meetings play a role to discuss and establish implementation strategy about material environmental management issues in the perspective of the corporate-wide. Reinforcement of Portfolio for Environmental ICT Services Smart Energy business (smart grid, energy analysis solution, building & factory energy solution and Organization for Environmental Management cutting-edge energy management service) is attracting attentions as a core industry that can have a direct impact on energy efficiency. In addition, Smart Transportation business such as real-time traffic BoD Organization Sustainability Management Committee information, smart logistics and intelligent lightings has been emerging as a new growth business as it surpresses use of fossil fuel and reduces fine dust. Reporting Review & feedback Steering Benefit Analysis by Environmental ICT Industry Against 2030 Sustainability Management Organization Sustainability Management Center Counseling Advisory Committee Reporting Identifying and executing agenda Smart Energy Smart Business Smart Transport Smart Industry Smart Agriculture Environmental Management Committee Response to Climate Change Energy & Resource Efficiency Environment-friendly SCM Energy ICT Service • Responsible for environmental • Corporate-wide energy reduction • Support environmental • Energy efficiency management management for suppliers improvement business • Waste management • Response to environmental and reduction • Expansion of environment• Renewable energy business regulation friendly procurement • Saving water at office buildings • Other energy businesses • Response to sustainability index Virtual Manufacturing, Smart Agriculture Building Energy Solution, Real Traffic Information, Customer-oriented (Increased productivity Smart Grid Telecommuting, Smart Logistics, Production, Circular by 30%, and reduced and Cutting-edge Energy Electronic Commerce EV, Intelligent Light Supply Chain water usage by 250 Management Service and other ICT Solutions and Smart Service trillion liter) Reinforcement of Portfolio for Environmental ICT Services Through midto long-term trend analysis, KT has expanded its environmental ICT services in to 5 diviReduced GHG emissions Sales of USD 1.8 trillion Reduced GHG emissions by 2.0 GtCO2eq sions according to the business areas: Smart Energy, Smart Business, Smart Transport, Smart Industry Carbon Impact Outlook by 3.8 GtCO2eq Reduced GHG emissions Reduced GHG emissions in Environmental ICT Reduced energy costs Reduced 100 working hours a year by 3.6 GtCO2eq by 2.7 GtCO2eq Generated economic and Smart Agriculture. KT will expand its service boundaries beginning with the Smart Energy division benefits worth of gesi.org/portfolio/report/84 by USD 0.4 trillion (per E-work user) USD 1.9 trillion which has been operating business for several years based on the KT-MEG Center, KT's energy platform. 44. 45. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Environmental Management System Customer First Management | Environmental Management Major Environmental Agendas The global climate change and associated risks such as energy, exhaustion of resource, water scarcity have emerged as a serious threat to the humankind. As a corporate citizen of society, company takes responsibility basically to protect the environment that provides the basis for all business. Under the strategy of 'Carbon Impact 2020' and KT Environmental Policy, Agenda 1. Agenda 2. Agenda 3. Agenda 4. Agenda 5. KT will minimize negative environmental impacts while maximizing positive Climate Change Energy Resource Environment-friendly Environmental environmental impacts through KT's Adaptation Efficiency Efficiency SCM ICT Services business. Hence, KT has defined five environmental agendas and endeavored to manage it effectively. •O peration of Environmental • Reinforcement of Waste Management Management System • Carbon Neutral Management • Smart Energy •E xcavation and Adoption of Waste •R einforcement of Environmental • Carbon Footprint Management • Energy Efficiency Improvement • Smart Business Reducing Items Performance Management • Reinforcement of Carbon Offsets • Application of Energy Reducing Items • Smart Transport • Reduction of Water Usage •Evaluation, Audits and Follow-up Measures •C arbon Reduction Objectives • Expansion of Renewable Energy • Smart Industry •E xcavation and Adoption of Water Usage •Execution of Environmental Education and Monitoring • Smart Agriculture Reducing Items •E xpansion of Procurement for Environment-friendly Products Key Performance Index for Environmental Management Scope I Emissions Scope Ⅱ Emissions Scope Ⅲ Emissions Breakdown (Unit: tCO2eq) Energy Consumption Renewable Energy Generation (Unit: tCO2eq) (Unit: tCO2eq) Category 2014 2015 2016 (Unit: MWh) (Unit: KWh) 1,044,655 1,054,698 1,043,152 Wire Devices 251 106 98 44,073 41,368 2,460,536 2,472,342 623,832 41,355 Wireless Devices 1,472 1,595 1,294 597,139 Emissions from 2,217,900 555,038 the Supply Chain Communications Service-based Facilities 47,240 30,798 18,411 Management (SCM) Stage Total 48,963 32,499 19,803 Home Terminals 35,026 32,883 161,009 Mobile Terminals 199,790 153,673 19,361 Emissions from Internet Terminals 226,692 295,517 111,414 the Service Use Stage 2016 CDP Korea Carbon Total 461,508 482,073 291,784 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Management Honors Club Award Water Use 932 918 785 Household Waste 357 686 2,854 Scope III Emissions Total Emissions Waste Treatment Recyclable Waste 650 1,297 830 Waste Generation Water Usage KT Leads the World Environmental Management Construction Waste 113 847 215 (Unit: tCO2eq) (Unit: tCO2eq) (Unit: tons) (Unit: tons) 1,643,067 Within Downtown 296 215 331 Inclusion in CDP Carbon Management Honors Club for 4 Consecutive Years 1,623,115 2,807,124 2,766,418 Business Trips Long Distance 669 714 524 5,860.1 534,387 547,014 1,428,660 In November 2016, KT was selected as one of the best companies who are awarded Overseas 1,677 4,072 3,215 4,883.2 2,364,119 344,140 Other Scope Ⅲ 4,761.5 'Carbon Management Honors Club' at the 2016 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Award, Emissions By Bus (Local, Express) 877 747 728 the most authoritative environmental management index; the CDP Award is to nominate By Subway 57 59 69 Commuting By Private Vehicles 17,828 22,397 22,622 companies with outstanding attainments in responding to the climate change. Achieving By Train 22 24 25 100 points on the all sector, KT accomplished the 1st rank in the global communications Mixed (Bus & Subway) 438 464 355 sector and its efforts and performances for the environmental management have been 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Total 23,916 32,442 32,553 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 highly valued. 46. 47. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Planet Environmental Management Customer First Management | Environmental Management Response Driving Forces Environmental issues such as global climate change and the resulting energy, resource depletion and water scarcity pose a serious threat to humankind, and companies must protect the environManagement of Scope Ⅰand Ⅱ Emissions We calculate the GHG emissions and report the results to the government annually in order to fulfill GHG Management to Climate ment as the basis of all business activities as a member of society. There is a fundamental responsibility the corporate responsibility in managing the Scope I and Ⅱ emissions according to the 'Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth.' The reporting scope includes all facilities that are under the managerial control to do so. Change KT's Approach KT recognizes and responds to the impacts of climate change on a proactive KT Sustainability Index of KT covering every communications facility such as buildings, front-line sites, base stations, and relay stations. For the accurate calculation of emissions, in addition, KT has strictly complied with the 'Guideline for basis. We are strengthening our global carbon management leadership by participating actively GHG Emissions Calculation' and 'Guideline for GHG Target Management.' www.kt.com/eng/social/csr_08.jsp in national greenhouse gas (GHG) policies, such as establishing carbon management targets linked to national GHG reduction targets, promoting GHG emissions reduction activities, and 1,084,512 tCO2eq There are various emissions sources such as diesel, gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, LNG, electricity, and SDG Alignment leading the GHG emissions trading system. GHG Emissions in 2016 heat(steam). Electricity for the wire & wireless communications equipment and operation of IDC server Goal 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 accounts for the largest portion, which is more than 95% of the total emissions. Carbon Management Strategy & Goal Scope Ⅲ Emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) Management of Scope Ⅲ Emissions Carbon Management System In order to accomplish the strategy of 'Carbon Impact 2020' and contribute to the achievement of Scope Ⅲ emissions, other indirect emissions, refer to the indirectly emitted GHG due to the business ac2014 2015 2016 the national GHG reduction target, we are actively executing the carbon management strategy with tivity. KT subdivides the Scope Ⅲ emissions by emissions sources into three categories: emissions from Emissions from the Supply Chain an aim to reduce the GHG emissions by 35% compared to the emissions of 2007 until 2030; KT's goal Management (SCM) Stage the supply chain management (SCM) stage, emissions from the service use stage, and other Scope Ⅲ KT Sustainability Index has been set to proactively correspond to the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) 48,963 emissions. for Korea determined by the Conference Of the Parties (COP21) in December 2015, which is to reduce 32,499 35 % the GHG emissions by 37% compared to the BAU (Business As Usual) until 2030. Moreover, we will contribute to curbing the estimated temperature increase of the Earth by 2 degrees. Thus, KT has 19,803 1) Emissions from the Supply Chain Management (SCM) Stage Emissions from the Service Use Stage Long-term GHG Reduction Goal, established the reduction goal by excavating annual tasks for each organization through the EnvironIt is the emissions caused by suppliers during manufacturing products that are to be supplied to KT. mental Management Committee as well as defined the departmental role and responsibility (R&R) about 461,508 The methodology has been developed according to the 'Corporate Value Chain (Scope Ⅲ) Accounting Reducing GHG emissions by 35% until 2030 compared to 2007 the energy saving. Thanks to the active promotion of these reduction activities, we are accelerating 482,073 and Reporting Standard' of World Resources Institute (WRI). The emissions from the SCM stage in 2016 the achievement of the midto long-term GHG reduction goal. 291,784 were 19,803tCO2eq. Other Scope Ⅲ Emissions Leadership in Carbon Management 23,916 2) Emissions from the Service Use Stage Performance of Carbon KT, who established the GHG inventory system in 2010 for the first time among domestic communications 32,442 Management in 2016 (Unit: tCO2eq) It refers to the emissions generated when customers use KT products and services; we calculate the emiscompanies, greatly expanding the scope of managing the GHG to the Scope III emissions. Especially, the cred32,553 sions of the B2C services for ordinary customers. The calculation scope is limited to the electricity consumed 1,276,872 ibility of the data has been acquired through the annual third-party verification about the Scope Ⅰ, Ⅱ and Ⅲ by modems and set-top boxes installed at home for services like the internet and IPTV. The emissions from 1,100,074 1,084,512 emissions and calculation methodology. We are also complying with legal obligations faithfully by submitting the service use stage in 2016 were 291,784tCO2eq. energy and GHG reports as well as monitoring plans to the government. Performance of Carbon Management 3) Other Scope Ⅲ Emissions For attaining the GHG reduction goal, the energy consumption by wire & wireless communications, elecIt is defined as the emissions due to the use of water and waste treatment within the company and business tricity of IDC, and building operation has been persistently reduced. Thanks to this, moreover, we are trips & commuting by KT employees. KT calculates the emissions following the methodology of 'Guideline for accomplishing positive financial performances by decreasing the energy saving cost. The total GHG emisLow-carbon Events (Ministry of Environment),' 'Standard for Carbon Footprint Labelling Certification (Korea 2007 GHG 2016 Goal 2016 GHG Emissions Emissions sions (Scope Ⅰ,Ⅱ) of 2016 is 1,084,520tCO2eq while the total energy consumption is 22,179TJ; we reduced Environmental Industry & Technology Institute),' and methodology presented by Life Cycle Inventory Datathe emissions by 15.1% compared to 2007. Through the provision of environment-friendly and low-carbon base (LCI DB). The other Scope Ⅲ emissions in 2016 were 32,553tCO2eq. Reduced GHG Emissions by 15.1% GHG Verification Statement Compared to 2007 products and services, the social GHG emissions were reduced by 1,090,343tCO2eq in 2016; the figure is 99.5% of KT's total GHG emissions. KT Has Enhanced its Carbon Management Competency [Value Creation Activity] Value Creation Through Video Conference System Through GHG Inventory Advancement Performance of Video Conference System in 2016 KT's video conference system based on its own ICT capability has generated diverse positive effects such as cutting In 2016, KT has implemented system advancement for GHG inventory. GHG inventory system is the cost for business trip, decreasing time spent for decision making and travel, and curbing the GHG emissions. Video 439,000 persons 41,992 hours the management system to manage KT's corporate-wide energy consumption and GHG emissions conferencing also significantly contributes to the settling of a smart working environment of a company; the number Number of Hours Spent Video Conferencing Users for Video Conference and it has been leading the industry since establishment in 2010. Through the system advancement of users has been skyrocketing every year: starting 348,000 in 2013 and 439,000 in 2016. KT not only reduced for GHG inventory, KT has improved to flexibly synchronize between e-power system and GHG the cost for business trip by KRW 6.89 billion but also decreased the GHG emissions by 3,713tCO2eq in 2016. To expand 25,113 times 6.89 KRW billion inventory which manage the in-house energy consumption. Thus, we can manage the energy the video conferencing, KT has advanced the system to 2.0 version, thus, the number of users are expected to be Number of Reduced Cost consumption and GHG emissions more systematically and efficiently. Moreover, KT has upgraded its further increased. In 2017, KT will expand the video conference to the Group-wide level by developing Group account Video Conferences for Business Trip GHG management competency by including Scope Ⅲ management function in the inventory system. GHG Inventory System management system. 48. 49. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Planet Environmental Management Customer First Management | Environmental Management Energy & Driving Forces Environmental issues have long been classified as 'extra-financial,' but the limitation of fossil fuels continues to increase energy costs, which has a significant impact on the cost side of the enRenewable Energy Business KT promotes production and utilization of renewable energy while striving to expand production of energy Energy Diversification Resource terprise. In addition, the rapid growth of the global market is expected to increase the cost of purchasing such as PV power generation. Starting Establishment of a PV plant with 7.5 MW capacity in Daecheok in 2014, we are implementing various types of PV businesses: rooftop PV installed on the roof and floating natural resources and raw materials in the future. Efficiency KT's Approach KT is strengthening its energy efficiency capabilities through ICT technology innovation PV on idle surface of reservoir. Furthermore, we are applying energy reducing items to save energy such as geothermal energy facilities for the office building, where energy consumption is high. and pursuing diverse energy saving projects, thereby becoming a leading ICT company of the future. www.kt.com/eng/social/csr_08.jsp In addition, we have established a management and measurement system to improve resource efficiency in order to conserve resources and reduce costs. Expansion of Photovoltaic (PV) Power SDG Alignment For the past 5 years since it constructed a PV plant within the land of Gangneung receiving station (19,720m2) Goal 7, 8, 11, 12, 13 in 2011, we have constantly invested in the renewable energy facility. We also built additional PV plants at Jangseong and Icheon in 2016 as well as in Taehwa Mountain, Gwangju in 2012. A PV plant is a highly critical facility since it generates electricity without consuming fossil fuel and thus practically reduces GHG emissions. In 2016, the total amount of the electricity generated at the 5 PV Plants in nation was 597,139 KWh. The wire & wireless data traffic has gone through a drastic increase as the smart devices such as smart Moreover, we sold the generated electricity according to the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard (RPS) Energy Efficiency phone and smart pad are becoming widely used; the IoT will be the starting point of the era of commuachieving the profit of KRW 223.17 million as a result. Improvement nications by things where the data traffic will skyrocket accordingly. Therefore, KT is doing its best to Gangneung PV Plant reduce the energy consumption by expanding cutting-edge technology such as network energy efficiency PV Power Generation technology, green IDC, and energy saving technology as well as introducing electric cars for business-use. Gangneung Gwangju Cheonan Jangseong Icheon Category Total PV Plant PV Plant CDC PV Plant PV Plant Network Energy Efficiency KT Sustainability Index KT has established and operated hundreds of thousands of communication equipments such as front-line Electricity Generated 542,365 36,691 17,514 373 196 597,139 597,139 KWh in 2016 (KWh) facility, base station, and repeater for the provision of stable services. The equipments consume 80% of KT's overall energy use. In order to reduce the energy consumption and GHG emissions from the KT's PV (KW) 423 27 21 255 350 1,076 communication equipment, KT is conducting diverse activities to reduce energy consumption such as masAmount of PV Power Generated in 2016 ter cooling system, air intake, network optimization, and temperature scientification of communication Use of Geothermal Energy room based on IoT. Also, in order to reduce GHG emissions at telegraph offices all over the nation effecBeyond the PV power, KT has been actively expanding the scope of renewable energy to the geothermal enertively, KT has constantly promoted energy reducing activities such as replacing light with high-efficiency gy. Since the underground water in the cable tunnel which is up to 30m deep maintains its temperature within LED, high-efficient boiler, and replacing cooling system. the range of 16 and 17 degrees, we are taking it as the energy source using a thermal heat pump. In 2016, air conditioning and hot water were provided to 3 office buildings including Banghak Office by the thermal energy; Introduction of Electric Car for Business-use we also accomplished the reduction of the energy cost which is worth about KRW 100 million. KT is planning to replace its 1,000 business-use vehicles to electronic vehicles in 2017 to significantly reduce GHG emissions caused by business-use vehicles and to contribute in resolving the nation-wide issue of fine dust. Hence, KT is planning to expand environment-friendly transportation infrastructure by installing charging stations for electronic vehicles at office buildings throughout the country. We are Waste Management actively considering a scheme to replace all business-use vehicles at replacement period to electric veManagement of For the environment conservation and cost reduction, KT has established and operated management and measurement systems improving resource efficiency. For example, the advanced waste management hicles. KT Group is currently operating approximately 10,000 business cars and is planning to expand use Resource Efficiency of electric cars into the whole Group. system was established through the project of 2012 to settle the process in managing waste. Moreover, KT Electric Cars for Business Use the role and responsibility (R&R) between departments on the management of waste resources has been defined. Wastes generated by KT are classified into the household waste, recycled waste, communicaExpansion of Green IDC tions material waste, and construction waste while recyclable wastes are all reused. The amount of waste KT Sustainability Index In order to reduce energy consumption at Internet Data Center (IDC), KT excavates and applies items in 2016 is total 4,761.5 tons which has been reduced by 2.5% compared to 4,883.2 tons of 2015. to reduce energy consumption such as air conditioning by air intake and high-efficiency temperature A++ chamber. As a result, KT Bundang IDC and Mokdong IDC received the green data center certification in 2016. Green data center certification of Korea Information Technology Service Industry Association is to Definition of Waste Result of Green Data Center certify an IDC that consumes energy efficiently and operates environmental friendly. KT has received cerCertification in 2016 tification as a green data center for 5 consecutive years since 2012. KT is maintaining the highest standard Telecommunication Household Waste Recyclable Waste Construction Waste of PUE, and achieved A+ for Mokdong IDC and A++ for Bundang IDC. Material Waste Construction waste Unrecyclable Waste paper, bottle, Cable, equipment, by telecommunication household waste plastic, and etc. generator and etc. construction KT Has Opened Korea's First Intelligent Data Center contractors As the largest Internet Data Center (IDC) operator in Korea, KT has opened a new era of data center by opening Mokdong IDC KT Sustainability Index center 2, the Korea's first intelligent data center in October 2016. Mokdong IDC center 2 has secured stability at the global Water Management level and reinforced the level of service quality by four times than existing IDC centers. Therefore, the Mokdong IDC center 2 has advantage that the maintenance cost is 20% lower than other IDC centers located in metropolitan areas. Especially, it applied the air condition which automatically intakes outside air into the server room if the outside temperature is low. As 14.5 % For further reducing the water use, KT has installed a variety of water-saving devices such as automated flushing bidet and bubble foam-typed faucet at the office building while the water purification system is Reduction Rate being operated at KT buildings such as Namcheongju Office and thus recycling effluents of cable tunnels. a result, Mokdong IDC center has electricity efficiency of PUE 1.4, which is 30% more efficient than the average of domestic data center of PUE 2.0. for Water Usage in 2016 The amount of water used within KT buildings in 2016 is 2,364,119 tons that decreased by about 14.5% Mokdong IDC Center 2 compared to 2,766,418 tons of 2015. 50. 51. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA Planet Environmental Management GiGA Planet Environmental Management Customer First Management | Environmental Management Expansion of Driving Forces Protecting and improving the environment is an indispensable critical issue for human happiness and global economic development. As recent technological advances and industrial Compliance with Driving Forces As mobile communication services become wider and more diverse, the installation of base stations and repeaters continues to expand and customers are becoming more anxious about the effects Environmental convergence are accelerating, new environmental ICT services are emerging that can contribute Electromagnetic of electromagnetic waves. It is necessary to strive for industry-wide efforts to comply with laws and conduct reto improving the global environment. lated research to provide a mobile communication service environment that customers can use with confidence. ICT Services KT's Approach Since 2014, KT has secured an environment-friendly ICT service foothold by concenLimits KT's Approach KT measures and manages the electromagnetic waves of mobile phones and complies trated investment on smart energy sector. Based on this, KT intends to expand its business portfowith government standards to provide a mobile communication service environment that considers www.kt.com/eng/social/csr_08.jsp lio in all areas of smart business, smart transport, smart industry, and smart agriculture. Through www.kt.com/eng/environment/electromagnetic.jsp the customer's health as the top priority. It also conducts industry-university cooperation research innovative technology, KT seeks to create a sustainable future that coexists with nature, people, with other mobile communication companies and the Korea Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering SDG Alignment SDG Alignment environmental protection and economic development. and Science, working to reduce the electromagnetic wave's effect on humans. Goal 7, 8, 12, 13 Goal 3 KT is considering the business environment changes related to environment as an opportunity rather In order to proactively prevent negative impacts of electromagnetic wave on the human body, KT ensures full Environmental ICT Services than a crisis. Hence, KT has been fostering the environmental issues integrated with ICT as one of its new Compliance with compliance with electromagnetic limits. Also when installing base stations for mobile communication, KT volgrowth engines for the future. In 2014, the Smart Energy Division was newly founded in order to take Electromagnetic Wave untarily measures the electromagnetic intensity according to the Radio Waves Act as well as reports the result the responsibility for executing the new energy business which is now a solid basis for multilateral energy to the relevant governmental department, the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning. By conducting Standards & Strength businesses KT has been promoting since 2015. strict inspections on a regular basis, moreover, we are trying our best to maintain the electromagnetic level beMeasurements low the limitation of Specific Absorption Rate (SAR)* exposure set by the government. In 2016, we carried out The Ministry of Science, ICT, inspections of the electromagnetic wave at 27,040 base stations nationwide. As a result, 100% of the stations KT-MEG Center, Integrated Monitoring of Energy and Future Planning were found to be in the 1st class, which means the electromagnetic level is lower than 50% of the standard level. In December 2015, KT opened the KT-MEG Center in Gwacheon Network Control Center. At the KT-MEG www.ekcc.go.kr Hence, it has been proved that all areas are maintaining the safe electromagnetic level. Center, experts in the energy field are managing the renewable energy, energy efficiency of clients, and * Specific  Absorption Rate (SAR): Expressed in numeric value for the electromagnetic waves that generated and absorbed to human body demand-side resource service in an efficient manner. Furthermore, through the integrated monitoring of by the use of electronic devices (mobile phone, computer, microwave) the Center, we support various services: improving the efficiency of renewable energy power facility, generating energy, monitoring the reduced amount, operating facility stably, and responding to disorder of facility. Not merely does KT provide safe mobile telecommunication service thorough check-up and management but In 2016, particularly, KT launched 'Enereyes Free' version, a service that analyzes the energy consumption Offering Electromagnetic diverse efforts have been concentrated on building the safe environment for customers. Additionally, KT is pattern of the building based on the big data. In 2017, it is planned to launch a light version that provides Enereyes striving to protect customer health by measuring the electromagnetic waves of all mobile phones it sells in professional consulting for energy cost reduction and a premium version that includes real-time monitoring Information and Gathering order to select models with the level of below 1.6w/kg. KT has always attained the prior consent of all residents and installation & replacement of equipment. Stakeholder Feedbacks before installing new transmission antennas in residential or commercial areas; when the electromagnetic level KT EMF Measurement Service is measured according to the Radio Waves Act, we are reporting the result to the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Expansion of Smart Grid Business www.ktemf.co.kr Future Planning. Also, we have posted the measurement result of our base stations & repeaters on the KT EMF It is determined that Korea is required to reduce the GHG emissions by 37% compared to the Business As Measurement Service website. KT Sustainability Index Usual (BAU) until 2030. Therefore, energy efficiency for factories was selected as a method to achieve the goal. The industrial complex is a representative high energy consuming region since numerous factories KT is focusing its capability as well as investments in the R&D to minimize the impact of electromagnetic wave are concentrated in. However, most of companies in the complex were SMEs and under budget constraint. on the human body. For example, we invested KRW 3 billion for 10 years since 2000 collaborating with profesElectromagnetic Research Hence, in 2016, KT was certified as an operator of 'Smart Grid Spreading Business' by the Ministry of Trade, sional research institutes: Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI), and Korean Institute of Smart City Sector 'KT-MEG', Industry and Energy and has been providing consultation and establishing energy reducing facilities & FEMS Electromagnetic Engineering and Science. Consequently, we promoted a research project 'Research on Impact Honored the Best Mobile Prize for companies in the complex. Therefore, we are responding against 'Guideline for GHG Target Management,' of Electromagnetic Wave on Human Body,' which consisted of 1st (2000-2004) and 2nd (2007-2012) rounds. from MWC Global Mobile Awards 2017 and 'Cap and Trade Scheme' by reducing GHG emissions and energy consumption level (approximately from Furthermore, we have been investing additional KRW 1.5 billion since 2014 for the 'Research on Safety of Elec20% to 50%) compared to the pre-existing facilities. tromagnetic Wave for Human Body' project; the investment for the project will continue for 5 years. KT is also operating the Mobile EMF Forum composed of experts in the field as well as contributing to the government-led research on electromagnetic wave as an advisory member. Therefore, we have realized the public and private Demand Response (DR) Business cooperation for the environment-friendly mobile communication. In February 2017, KT base station information KT has been contributing to reducing the electricity by expanding the demand response (DR) business have disclosed to academia and industry so that they can use the information for their electromagnetic research. constantly since 2012. The demand response (DR) business refers to the business where customers who consume a large amount of electricity (e.g. factory and building) are registered as the participant and receive financial rewards for reducing the electricity as the Korea Power Exchange determines. KT and Daewoo E&C, 'Smart Air Quality Management Guidelines to Use Mobile Phone Safely Solution' Expansion of Environment-friendly ICT Services Mobile Phone is a low-power wireless transceivers, so that the intensity of the electromagnetic waves changes Through expansion of environment-friendly ICT service, KT has contributed to responding against air polby the user environment. Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) can be reduced by referring to the following aspects: lution such as fine dust as well as reducing electricity consumption. In April 2017, KT has applied 'Smart 1. The level of electromagnetic wave exposure rapidly decrease correspond to the distance of the mobile phone from the human body Air Quality Management Solution' to 'Central Park Prugio, Okjeong' for the first time. The air quality of inincreases. Therefore, it is better to use hands free items (earphone and bluetooth) rather than to call directly. side and outside of the apartment can be checked in real time based on the IoT technology. In addition, 2. In region where the received signal is indicated low, the intensity of electromagnetic waves increases. Therefore it is suggested not KT has signed a contract with Jeju Island and is planning to set a prompt response system for air quality manto use for long time in such a region. agement by establishing the 'Smart Air Quality Management Solution' all across the Jeju Island. 3. Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) can be reduced by using the mobile phone touching the left and right face in turns. KT and Jeju Island, 'Air Quality Improvement Business 4. Since the influence to growing child on the electromagnetic waves is bigger than adults, it is better to refrain child from using mobile phone. Contract Ceremony' 52. 53. GiGA People New Era to Humankind Presented by GiGA Infrastructure 2020 GOAL Accomplishing annual social values worth more than KRW 4 trillion in 2020 GiGA Planet GiGA Prosperity GiGA People Shared Growth Management Talent Management Focal Area 05 Focal Area 06 Talent Management Shared Growth Management Management Approach Strategy Driver Objective Driver Strategy Driver Objective Driver Management Approach Through systematic human resource development, KT helps employees to grow into innovaKT reflects the characteristics of telecommunications companies and pursues systematic Pursuing Work-life Advancing Expanding Realizing tive talents, and operates a variety of welfare programs to maintain work and life balance. social contribution activities centered on people, society and culture, while also promoting Balance Quality of Life Shared Value Shared Growth In addition, we are striving to realize human rights protection and enhancement for humanity various shared growth programs and strengthening the capabilities of the entire value chain Creation Society through innovative technology. pursuing human development and social progress. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA People Talent Management Talent Management | Shared Growth Management Fostering Driving Forces In the modern society, the internal and external management environment is rapidly changing, such as rapid technological advancement, emerging global market, and diversification of demands of In order to identify and dominate new growth opportunity in the telecommunications market rapidly changing, fortifying the employee capability as well as the corporate competitiveness have became more important than ever. Enhancing Innovative various customers. Today, securing innovative talents that combine professional competence and enthusiInnovative Capability For this reason, KT is aiming to nurture employees who are 'members with initiative and endurance,' 'leaders leading change and performance,' and 'experts whose performance is recognized in the Market.' Hence, KT has established asm is increasingly important as a way that determines the company's future competitiveness. Talents www.kt.com/recruit/system.jsp and executed the following three education systems: education about core values, education for fostering leaders, KT's Approach By securing excellent talents and fostering innovation as a driving force for corpoand education for fostering job experts. Group Institute of HRD Resource, the headquarter of Group education, rate growth and development, KT is doing its best to realize its corporate mission of being 'the best has been leading efficient design of organization, development & upgrade of education contents, and evolution of www.kt.com/recruit/rpolicy.jsp national company that provides the fastest and most innovative ICT-based telecommunications and KT Sustainability Index education infrastructure. Especially, we manage and use HRD efficiently through an education portal established to convergence services for the convenience of customers.' improve capability of all Group companies. In addition, we provide E-learning education, Trend insight penetrating SDG Alignment Goal 4, 5, 8, 10 63.5 Hours Fourth industrial revolution, book sum-up video, and education video made by the best expert in the company. Training Hours per Employee in 2016 KT Value Shared Program: Cultivating Members with Initiative and Endurance Based On Core Values KT conducts education on the Group's value so that all employees within the Group advance forward in one Excavation and cultivation of innovative talents are the driving force for growth and development of a comdirection in accordance with the 'Single KT,' one of the core values. We have reinforced the pride as a KT Ideal Employee of KT pany. For this reason, we have defined the ideal employee of KT as those who 'fulfill the basics and principles, person and the sense of belonging by internalizing the case oriented four core values ('Number 1 KT,' 'Single communicate continuously to realize customer value, and face challenges with perseverance' and hiring approKT,' 'Customers First,' and 'Right-path Management'). Also, we provide educations such as strengthening the priate talents with passion. Employees are hired based on their capability through the fair and open process. sense of belonging and sharing KT's value for newly appointed and promoted employees. Since 2016, by opTherefore, KT has established a corporate culture of capability based, where employees can maximize his or erating promotion education as a Group education, we have enhanced required capabilities for each position. her capability by themselves through educations in accordance with KT Expert Program. Also, through Change and Innovation Academy, we have cultivated employees as a catalyst for change and innovation. We have also made efforts to actively cultivate a 'No. 1 KT person' who has core capabilities Ideal Employee of KT through Work Smart Academy with a keyword of 'Innovation the way of work.' As a result, in 2017, KT will further enhance cultivation of talents for KT Group's sustainable growth through diffusing educations on the KT Sustainability Index The talent continuously ·Achieving the best results by not yielding to hardship and adversity and continuing to challenge goals Group's value and reinforcing customized education course for sites. takes on challenges ·R ealizing differentiated services by leading changes and innovation Change and Innovation Academy 76.2 Points The talent communicates ·C ontinuously striving to ensure mutual growth and development by communicating with colleagues KT Leadership Program: Fostering Leaders Leading Change and Performance · Creating synergistic effects by cooperating with each other for the success of KT KT conducts leadership education to develop leadership of Group leaders and cultivate management leader. without barriers Status of Domestic & International MBA & Competitiveness for Talent Management, Master's Course Supported by KT Especially, to systematically train the next-generation leaders of the Group, KT has completed the Group Employee Satisfaction in 2016 The talent respects ·C onsidering interests and satisfaction of customers in conducting all tasks Course Institute leader 'cultivation track,' which cultivates director assistants, executives and senior executives. Furthercustomers ·R especting customers and fulfilling promises with customers more, we have regularized Group-wide directors' education and are leading organization management, MBA in Major uniersities including The talent complies FullKorea Seoul National University talents cultivation, and leadership development. Besides, opportunities to study MBA and other master's ·Conducting tasks with the pride of being the owner of a company with the basics time ·A cting based on ethical decisions and taking responsibility for the results Course MBA in Universities among courses in Korea and other countries are constantly provided to KT employees so that they can acquire and principles Foreign Countries the top 30 in United States outstanding capability and grow into the global No. 1 leaders. In 2017, we will accomplish a leader cultivaMaster course such as tion system of KT through advancement in the global highest executive course, early implementation of In order to hire qualified employees to the ideal employee of KT, we operate the fair and transparent Part-time Course EMBA and Media cultivating for management leaders, expansion of action learning, extension of Group companies for training Expanding Recruitment recruiting process and provide equal opportunities to all applicants. Furthermore, we actively excavate and Information major directors and cultivation program for team leaders. of Capable Talents capable talents who will be the new growth engine for the future of KT through open recruitment programs such as nationwide 'KT Star Audition.' Thus, in 2016, we hired 332 new employees and 74 experienced employees, which is increased approximately twice compared to the previous year of 208. Also contracted KT Expert Program: Nurturing No. 1 Job Experts Whose Performance is Recognized in the Market workers are hired regarding the characteristic of work. We fairly treat our contracted workers complying with Through the job capability evaluation to cultivate job experts based on capabilities, KT is operating a customrelevant laws. ized education program that suggests an appropriate education course according to the evaluation results, that enables individual to supplement its own capabilities by themselves. In 2016, especially, the program practicalStatus of KT Employees (As of 31 December 2016) ly contributed to improving the performance of KT by enhancing connectivity between the existing education for capability improvement and the business strategy direction. Thus, in 2017, we will reinforce training for Category 2014 2015 2016 innovative technology and ICT based capability educations such as Smart Energy, IoT and AI, while establishKT Sustainability Index Male 19,085 19,117 19,436 Full-time ing cultivation system based on task assessment through the corporate-wide capability modeling by task unit. Female 3,661 3,744 3,827 Education for Smart Energy (KT-MEG Center) 7.40 % Employment Temporary Male Female 64 8 365 216 31 12 Type (persons) Male 389 71 66 Proportion of Female Executives Others Site-oriented Education Culture Hours and Expenses of Employee Education (As of 2016) in 2016 (Level Higher than Directors) Female 28 18 23 Male 19,538 19,553 19,533 Hours of Education Total KT has introduced an informal learning program called 'No. 1 Education Organization' and settled as a KT's Category Offline e-Learning Education Expenses per Female 3,697 3,978 3,862 Education per Person Person (KRW unique education culture. The 'No. 1 Education Organization' enables our employees to learn by working at sites. (hours) thousand) Patriots and Veterans 1,154 1,153 3,862 Social Minority (persons) The activation of learning at sites has been continued such as expansion of academic organization convergence People with handicaps 477 469 480 Course which creates synergies among positions and organizations, and encouragement in the organizational level based 1,034 1,519 (courses) Employee 15.91 16.26 16.51 Ratio of Female Workers on the performance of the education organization. Furthermore, in order to support strategic tasks in the view 63.5 718 Manager 13.09 14.25 13.96 by Positions (%)* of HRD, we have developed and used infrastructures which share various knowledge & information utilized Trainee Top executives 6.71 7.18 7.40 82,158 201,378 at sites. This will allow us to connect to the future business strategy such as IoT, Big Data, AI. Thus, it brings (persons) *E mployee: Exclusion of exchanged employees and dispatched contract employees from full-time employees academic motivation for employees and creates performance for each division. Top executives: Top executives, executives, senior managers above team directors 56. 57. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Fostering Innovative Talents GiGA People Talent Management Talent Management | Shared Growth Management KT is constantly excavating measures for mutual growth of the organization as well as individuals by operating a personnel system that fortifies the fairness of appraisal and compensation system and promotes long-term Human Rights Driving Forces Since the declaration of the UN's 'Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights' in 2011, the international community is increasingly demanding respect for human rights, protection Fair Appraisal and Compensation performance improvement. Hence, KT is striving to maximize its corporate capability through transparent and fair appraisal of employees' performance and providing appropriate compensations corresponding to the appraisal. Protection and relief. Responsible global corporations are responding to these demands in an effort to minimize the negative effects of human rights on its business operations. www.kt.com/recruit/system.jsp and Promotion KT's Approach KT is committed to respecting and protecting at the highest level of human rights in Enhancement of Fairness for Appraisal and Compensation System every region in which it operates, while fulfilling its social responsibilities and roles. KT will achieve We conduct an annual performance evaluation and provide a fair compensation such as an increase of wage, wwwdev.kt.com/eng/social/ethics_08.jsp sustainable growth by proactively preventing possible violation of human rights within its business and KT Sustainability Index promotion, and reward assisting to encourage a better performance; the standard and process of evaluation throughout the value chain, while contributing human rights promotion through ICT. are clearly disclosed to all employees. Moreover, the fairness of the evaluation has been reinforced through SDG Alignment an education for appraisers, calibration between primary and secondary appraisers, acceptance of an objecGoal 5, 8, 16 KRW 263.8 Billion tion about the result, and afterward monitoring. KT applies the differential rate of the income increase based on the individual performance; evaluation ranks are divided into S, E, G, N, and U. Based on relevant regulaEmployee Benefit Expenses in 2016 tions, employee wages are paid in a fair manner according to work, performance, and service year; there is KT believes that corporate human rights policy shall act beyond the traditional way of protecting human no wage difference between genders. The wage level of newly-hired employees of KT is 163% of the legal KT Human Rights Policy rights and take a big step towards promises and commitments to promote human rights. Hence, KT has esminimum wage. In 2017, we will enhance evaluation capability through a practice-oriented coaching education and Compliance with tablished 'KT Human Rights Policy,' it reflects KT's strong will and effort to protect and promote human rights, for performance management and re-education for managers with low satisfaction score of the evaluation. while striving to accomplish the world where every human being is enjoyable the modern conveniences and Furthermore, KT will improve the fairness and acceptance of the evaluation by reinforcing the monitoring International Standards pursues happiness through innovative technologies. In addition, as a responsible global communications comfor 'one takes all excellent evaluation' practice. pany, KT publicly endorses global standards on human and labor rights such as the UN Universal Declaration UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) of Human Rights, ILO Conventions, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and UN Guiding Principles Compensation for Employees Wage Severance Pay* Welfare & benefits (KRW 100 million) www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/ on Business and Human Rights. Since joined the UN Global Compact in 2008, which is an international agreeparticipants/5955-KT#cop ment on the corporate social responsibility, we have actively delivered the ten principles in the four areas of 2016 15,833 1,689 2,638 20,160 human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. 2015 15,215 1,534 2,562 19,311 In order to minimize negative human rights impacts, KT proactively identifies the potential issues regarding Human Rights human rights violations within its business operations or the entire value chain. Hence, we have established 2014 16,282 1,477 2,958 20,717 and implemented an organization, operation structure, monitoring, correction and internal & external reportProtection System ing process in accordance with the human rights due diligence process defined by the UN Guiding Principles * KT offers both Defined Benefit (DB) and Defined Contribution (DC) pension plans. KT Human Rights Risk Exposure on Business and Human Rights. Therefore, in 2013, KT has developed 'KT Human Rights Assessment FrameEvaluation Areas work' based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as well as conducted human rights risk assessment for all sites every year. In addition, in order to protect human rights, we have developed and Multidimensional Performance Appraisal Policy Declaration operated human rights risk assessment and due diligence process for the entire business areas. In order to secure the fairness and to promote improvement of job specialty, KT conducts a Job CompeEvaluation for human rights policy, Evaluation for tency Assessment for performance evaluation, which enables a 360 degree appraisal for all employees human rights education level, Diffusion to suppliers Human Rights Risk Assessment and Due Diligence Process in an annual basis i.e. him or herself, co-workers (up to three people), and seniors (up to three people). Policy Implementation The evaluation result is used as a reference for the promotion of first line managers, employee relocation, Human rights risk exposure assessment and performance & competency appraisal. This evaluation is applied to assessments of not only 'common Assessment for human rights risks of the supply (Once a year) chain, Assessment for human rights risks of business, job level' but 'specific job level' which is an indicator for individual job. Assessment for human rights risks of service Business risk assessment Supplier ESG risk assessment Prior risk review before launching (Throughout the year & compulsory) (Once a year) (Throughout the year & compulsory) No. 1 KT Employee Award Human Rights Remediation Transparent Promotion System Reporting system, Reporting process, Personal information protection for KT Personal information protection Information protection for customer Relief process (Throughout the year & compulsory) for suppliers (Throughout the year & compulsory) (Throughout the year & compulsory) KT has introduced the rank & promotion system since 2014 to motivate employees to improve their performances. Employees' positions are subdivided into five categories: employee, assistant manager, KT & Subsidiaries Upstream value chain (Supply chain) Downstream value chain (Service) manager, deputy general manager, and head of department. In a case of promotion, we apply an income increase rule of quantum-jump corresponding to the pay-band for each position. Employees subject to In order to promote and improve human rights, KT realizes an integrated human rights management throughthe promotion are selected in the order of scores they have acquired by adding mileages granted each Human Rights out the entire value chain, which covers not only KT and the Group companies, but also suppliers, distribution year based on the personal performance & capability and internal & external activities. Thus, we have Promotion System channel (upstream), service distribution, and customers (downstream). In order to minimize negative human rights established an organizational culture where everyone pursues long-term performances. impacts while maximizing positive human rights impacts throughout the value chain, it is necessary for suppliers, sub-contractors and business partners to cooperate with KT based on mutual trust. KT has actively applied the best practices and shared knowledge across the entire value chain, aimed for human rights protection and promotion. Encouragement and Reward KT pursues a talent who continuously takes on challenges, thus, we have been actively leading a corporate Human Rights Remediation Process culture to praise and encourage employees whenever necessary. Furthermore, we are operating the 'Branch Manager Commendation' enabling immediate rewards without being bound by procedures. For increasing Compulsory human rights education the pride and loyalty of awarded employees, a special awarding ceremony is conducted as well where (Once a year) team leaders visit the recipient or recipient's family is invited to the company; 'Presents Encouraging Human rights relief Improvement activities for Services for customer at business sites suppliers with high-risk information protection Family' are also provided so that recipients and families can share the impression and joy of the rewards. (Throughout the year & voluntary) (Throughout the year & compulsory) (Throughout the year & voluntary) Moreover, we disclose the detailed achievements of those honored with the CEO Citation or the KT Award Pursuing work-life balance Supplier shared growth activity KT social contribution program on the website. Accordingly, the transparency of rewards has been secured while improving interests and (Throughout the year & compulsory) (Throughout the year & voluntary) (Throughout the year & voluntary) Human Rights Promotion Activity engagement level of employees. Through Social Contribution Program KT & Subsidiaries Upstream value chain (Supply chain) Downstream value chain (Service) 58. 59. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA People Talent Management Talent Management | Shared Growth Management Pursuing Driving Forces In the era of low fertility and aging society, social demands for work and life balance are intensifying. Supporting employees to enjoy a stable family life and to design a stable second life Refresh Leave Program KT provides an incredible refresh leave program for employees with more than 10 years of service with Self-realization Work-life not only increases social benefits, but also enhances the company's competitiveness by improving of Employee outstanding performance. The selected employees receive a 6-months paid vacation and KT presents them opportunities for the self-development and recharge. Benefitting employees thus can have diverse options work concentration and securing talented personnel. Balance KT's Approach KT creates an innovative work environment that helps employees to work and live harwhat they wanted to do, such as self-improvement activity, travel and language study. The vacation period, in particular, is counted as the service year for it is considered as ordinary working year, which also means moniously, and to engage in work based on creativity and enthusiasm. KT's diverse efforts, including all benefits for employees are remained still. Besides, we have applied the income increase rate during the www.kt.com/recruit/benefits.jsp flexible and efficient use of working hours, care programs for women's lifecycles, support planning leave as well while preventing any possible disadvantages in the promotion from occurring. after retirement, and resolving grievances, are leading to midto long-term productivity increases. SDG Alignment Goal 3, 8, 16 Support Program for Outplacement By operating our own 'KT Life Plan,' we are assisting employees to adapt to the social environment rapidly changing as well as to prepare for their second half of life after the retirement. For instance, the 'Change Management Program' for all current employees consists of value enhancement courses, vocational deExpansion of Flexible Working Scheme velopment courses, capability enhancement for start-ups courses, and career development & management Innovative In order to realize the work-life balance, we have operated the flexible working scheme expanding the scope courses. Additionally, employees who are subject to the regular retirement in a near future can participate Working Environment to cover all employees. The flexible working scheme breaks a traditional concept of working time allowing emin the 'Professional Education Program'; it supports a successful outplacement by maximizing one's career ployees to efficiently adjust the time to start and end work regarding circumstances and characteristics of indiand capability. It is composed of programs to support professional start-up, job placement & return to farmSupport Program for Outplacement viduals. Besides, KT is operating various flexible working schemes by reflecting work characteristics: since 2014, ing village and achievement of professional certifications while providing a 1-to-1 consultation service for employees in the R&D and IT departments distribute working hours by themselves through the discretionary starting business. working system. On the other hand, the CoreTime working scheme is being operated at customer contact points so that employees can care customers not bound by their work time. Since 2015, we have strived for supporting Leave System for Supporting to Start Business the flexible working scheme in the perspective of the virtuous circle to improve employee's capability as well In order to provide an opportunity for employees to switch their career and to activate start-up ecosystem, as customer satisfaction. KT has supported registered employees who challenge for start their business since 2009 when introduced a leave system to assist the start of a business for the first in Korea. Particularly, we conduct an evaluation for applicants who have served the company for a long period of time and are subject to the retirement. Female Life Cycle Caring Program Through the evaluation, we provide a leave that is up to 3.5 years at its maximum and wages of a certain KT is providing a caring program by life cycles of female (stage of pregnancy, childbirth and child rearing) for level. Hence, the selected employees can successfully plan their second half of life. the happy work environment where female employees can achieve the self-realization through the balance between work and home. For the pregnancy stage, we provide financial supports for medical expenses, leave for fetus check-up, and shortened working hours. A leave before and after childbirth is also offered with a subFor helping employees reduce work-family conflict and thus achieve the work-life balance, KT has defined sidiary for childbirth. Moreover, emotional care programs for childbirth are also available. At the stage of child every Wednesday as a 'family day' encouraging all employees to leave the office on time. On the family Family-oriented rearing, KT provides various supporting activities by cutting working hours, allowing to use nursery facilities at day, heads of each department voluntarily become a model by leaving the office on time so that other Corporate Culture the workplace, and granting scholarships. Thanks to the efforts, KT has proved the excellence of the working employees can follow. Moreover, work orders after the quitting time are prevented. With the rule of not Use of Women Talents and Gender Equality of KT environment for female by receiving the grand prize for Female Talents Management from the Minister of having company gatherings and meetings for drinking after the working hour, we are striving to settle the Strategy & Finance and the grand prize for Asia Female Index from the Minister of Gender Equality & Family. family day as a part of the organizational culture. In addition, employees can leave work early on their or their spouses' birthdays and wedding anniversary contributing to the firm balance between work and Ratio of Returning to Work after Parental Leave home. In order to realize a work place where families are happy, we have additionally conducted family-friendly programs in 2016 such as 'invitation of employee family' event. Ratio of Returning to Work Awarded the Grand Prize from Employees Using Parental Leave (Unit: persons) Female Talents Management after Parental Leave (Unit: %) Welfare and Benefit Programs 2016, Grand Prize Corporate Sector Support for Support for Support for 98 Support for Education for Support for Medical Check-up Leisure, Culture Family Events 215 Life Stability Children Pension Plan 170 95 & Expenses & Well-being & Disaster Relief 92 91 91 87 147 Female 2014 2015 2016 In-house Recreational Facility Operating inSupport for housing house recreational funds to buy or Support Ratio of Working for 12+ Months rent a house for Supporting medical facilities at 6 expenses for offices (Gyeongju, expenditures for after Returning to Work (Unit: %) employees who do congratulations & Operating employees, their Geoje, Jiri Mountain, not own their own condolences and 8 nursery facilities spouses, and Muju, Dogo, and homes funeral supplies & for employees' children Daegwanryeong) on Providing a regular basis condolence flowers children Application for Support for 61 57 a dormitory and group insurance by Operating R&R Support insurance pension savings company housing Granting 30 96 the company facilities for for mutual for employees scholarships to summer protection policy 84 living alone or from employees' children Supporting medical 76 73 and funeral service other regions who go to check-ups for Providing selective Male 62 high school (in matching grant 59 employees and welfare points for method) Lending funds for their spouse self-help, culture & stabilizing living leisure, healthcare, condition and etc. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 60. 61. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Pursuing Work-life Balance GiGA People Talent Management Talent Management | Shared Growth Management Corporate Culture The 'communication' is a foundation of corporate culture for KT. A corporate culture of an open communication is necessary in order to promote the sustainable growth of the company and employee benefits. Health Driving Forces Establishing a healthy and safe workplace is a starting point for securing sustainable corporate competitiveness. Occurrence of safety accidents and employee stresses lead to loss of human for Communications Consequently, KT is actively handling employee's grievances proactively to improve the work satisfaction so that employees are able to immerse in their work. Furthermore, we have consolidated the labor & and Safety and economic losses and morale. And with the frequency of domestic earthquakes increasing, it is the more important for corporate disaster response capabilities to become more competent. management relations for a mutual growth through the operation of various communications channels. for Employees KT's Approach In order to provide a healthy and safe working environment for its employees, KT has reinforced the health and safety system. Especially, since 2016, KT has concentrated its efforts in Grievance System order to improve the integrated response competency of the Group against disaster and safety risks, Performance of KT 119 KT is currently operating diverse grievance channels for preventing employee grievances and addressing Grievance Center in 2016 thus, we have expanded the Safety Conference to the Group-wide and held on a quarterly base. them swiftly. At 252 offices, the 'Grievance Committee' has been installed which consists of labor & SDG Alignment 1,972 Grievance Case (Cases) management representatives. Also, through 'KT 119,' a website for reporting grievances as well as the 'Labor & Management Mutual Growth Center,' the corporate-wide grievance control tower has Goal 3 been operated to provide an integrated solution to accept and resolve employee grievances in a swift 1.3 Follow-up Process Time (Days) manner. The Center is operated with a strict confidentiality for the protection of users; by diversifying To realize a safe work place, we have established annual occupational health and safety plans and executed the reporting channels such as phone, email, text message, and website, so that providing convenient reporting channels. KT will further devote to solving the basic problem of grievances by a range of efforts Establishment of Preventive detailed plans at the level of on-site departments. While promoting the four-stage daily safety activity for such as submitting key topics to the Labor & Management Mutual Growth Committee as meeting Health and Safety System the zero accident by on-site departments, we hold a Safety Check Day on a monthly basis; the Safety Check agendas as well as promoting the improvement cases through newsletters every week. In 2016, in order Day has various themes by seasons such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), health check-up and prevento improve the quality of grievance for sites, KT has revised and distributed the Standard Operating tion of food poisoning & car accidents. In particular, KT strives to prevent severe disasters by sending a safety Procedure (SOP) for grievance work, while conducting educations customized for site visits aimed to message in a case of emergency including heavy snow, rain and frozen road. In addition, we are encouraging our enhance the capability for the members of 'Grievance Committee.' In 2017, we will support grievance employees to establish the safe corporate culture through the annual Occupational Health and Safety Contest works for retirees and will enhance professional knowledge for the members of 'Grievance Committee.' where sites are awarded for their excellent safety performance and zero accident records. In 2017, we will Furthermore, we will promote active communications between the central organization and the 'Grievgather opinions at sites as well as reinforce safety measures by holding the video conference of departmental ance Committee' by distributing monthly newsletters. managers before the event. KT will also improve contents of the safety education by themes and CPR skills education. Hence, the healthy and safe corporate culture will be established and further consolidated. Labor & Management Mutual Growth Committee Labor & Management Relations for Mutual Growth KT guarantees an employee's freedom to join or withdraw from the Labor Union in accordance with ArtiReinforcement of Health & Safety Education Division for 'Respected No. 1 KT' The safety education is necessary in order to prevent unexpected accidents. Being fully aware of this, cle 5 of the Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act and Article 3 of the Collective Agreement Addressing grievances health and safety issues; in the Labor Union Act. Besides, KT is operating the Union Shop system where all employees join as KT is delivering knowledge about safety regulations and the promotion of health through regular health innovating working conditions; improving the quality of life a member of the Labor Union upon entering the company by the collective agreement. As of December and safety educations. Also, KT employees participate in the CPR education regularly so that they can 2016, the ratio of members of the Labor Union is 79.6% of KT's total employees, which is increased by execute first-aid measures in emergency. In 2016, we made it compulsory for employees to receive Division for 'Making Advanced Labor & 1.9%p from the previous year. KT is operating Labor & Management Council in accordance with Act On the CPR education at least once a year. Additionally, the annual number of beneficiaries of supports Management Culture' Finding and spreading the best cases; The Promotion Of Works' Participation and Cooperation. We have been leading the labor & management for CPR and AED Certificate have increased to 600 from 400. Group companies and suppliers that are fulfilling social responsibility; finding role models for stationed within the KT headquarters will be also supported with educational equipment and joint educaculture of Korea by operating the regular Labor & Management Mutual Growth Committee, which is the Labor & Management culture; taking the global lead CPR Skills Education creative and active communications body between the Labor Union and the management. The Committee tions, so that reinforced support to save life from unexpected accidents. Since 2017, we have advanced Labor & Management Mutual Center and Council held total of 15 meetings in 2016 to discuss and resolve measures to encourage employees education level for the emergency preparedness training reflected that the significance of disaster correAccepting reports regarding grievances, safety and promote the employee welfare. KT will constantly develop the communication organization between spondence has been escalated due to frequent earthquake in Korea recently. and health 24 hours a day, processing reports the labor union and the management. Thus, the Labor Union and the company can communicate about in possible promptest time and providing scope expanded one-stop process for retirees the current status of business and major policies, improve working environment and handling grievances Performance of Psychological Consultation Center in 2016 (Unit: persons) Healthcare for Employees and Prevention of Diseases for employees as well as promote mutual cooperation and value creation of labor & management. The joyful corporate culture starts from healthy employees. Thus, we are endeavoring for the early Personal Consultation Group Consultation diagnosis and treatment of disease by conducting comprehensive medical check-ups for all employees By introducing retirement pension plans in 2011, we have supported a stable later life of our employees. 434 1,034 and their spouses at least once a year even though the National Heath Insurance Act regulated to conduct KT's retirement pension plans are being operated in Defined Benefit (DB), Defined Contribution (DC) plans medical check-ups for office-job once every two years. When an employee is found to have a disease Stable Pension Plans and combination of these two; employees can select their own pension plan. In addition to the retirement Visit & Consultation Healing Camp such as a cancer, the employee can receive medical costs through the Group health insurance KT employpayments from KT, furthermore, the amount employees pay to the individual retirement pension account 186 334 ees have joined. In addition, KT operates the psychological consultation center for the stress management is deducted as well guaranteeing the finance for later. As of December 2016, the amount of retirement of employees while measuring their stress level cooperating with a professional agency to offer the payments of the DB plan is KRW 67.39 million while that of the DC plan is KRW 6.06 million. Education Stress Test customized stress management service. In 2017, we will realize 'automatic guidance SMS sending function Retirement Pension Plans (As of 31 December 2016) Benefitting Employees of Pension Plans 4,794 17,157 three days before the check-ups' within the ERP medical check-up system and promote comprehensive medical check-ups by sending card-type emails to all employees. 2.8 (Unit: %) Pension Category System Retirement Pension Plan Holder Company operates retirement payments by saving at 16,963 22.8 Performance of Safety Management Defined KT Sustainability Index Benefit (DB) a financial institute; employees receive designated persons KT has retained the low accident rate by operating the comprehensive safety management system amount (average wage x service years) (74.4%) Total KT Sustainability Index and establishing the preventive safety & health system. Thanks to our diverse efforts, the number of 22,813 Defined Company saves retirement payments for 1 year to DC 5,202 industrial accidents decreased by 23% and we achieved zero critical accident in 2016. Consequently, KT's 67.39 Million 74.4 persons Contribution 0.07 % account; employees operate retirement payments persons KRW (DC) thus the final amount is determined by employees (22.8%) accident rate of the past 3 years has recorded at 0.07% which is 30% lower than the industry average of 0.10%. The Lost Time Injury of 2016 is 0.16, improved from the previous year of 0.22 (in 200,000 man Average Severance Pay Considering advantages of DB and DC plans, a retirement 648 Defined Benefit (DB) : 16,963 persons of Defined Benefit Plan in 2016 Combined payment is operated in DC type before changing the plan persons Defined Contribution (DC) : 5,202 persons Average Accident Rate of Past 3 Years hours). With the aim to decrease the accident rate by 50% compared to the previous year, KT has established and in DB plan after the changing point (2.8%) Combined : 648 persons the 2017 Disaster Safety Plan and actively promoted activities against industrial accidents. 62. 63. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA People Shared Growth Management Talent Management | Shared Growth Management Social Driving Forces Society is the driving force of corporate growth that provides a platform for business activities and at the same time provides new customers and consumption. As a member of a responImplementation of UN SDGs Through Social Contribution Activities of KT Group Contribution sible society, global corporations faithfully fulfill their social responsibilities for mutual coexistence outside the local community, while taking various measures to identify and address social needs. PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PEACE Strategy KT's Approach KT is considering ways to contribute to the local community in line with the devel01 No Poverty 06 Clean Water and 07 Affordable and 16 Peace, Justice and opment of rapidly changing technologies and changes in the social environment. To this end, KT has Sanitation Clean Energy Strong Institutions www.kt.com/eng/social/csr.jsp been diversifying its social contribution divisions around people, society, and culture in order to create an equal world in which everyone is connected and enjoys the benefits of GiGAtopia. SDG Alignment ·Supporting independence and selfGoal 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 supporting for poor region through ·Improving the health of residents ·Improving energy efficiency by ·Donating by establishing a fund to Dongja Hope Sharing Center in poor regions through cultural installing photovoltaic facility at protect the Dokdo (Island) through (KT Group) support and operation of public community service (KT Group) 'Dokdo Keeper' plan (kt telecop) bath (KT Group) 02 Zero Hunger 12 Responsible Consumption 08 Decent Work and PARTNERSHIP and Production Economic Growth ㆍ IT Supporters ㆍ Employee ㆍ Dream School Volunteer Group KT's Mission KT Social Contribution Goals Better People ㆍ Global Mentoring ㆍ Scholarship 17 Partnerships Programs for the Goals ·Operating the Red Food Truck for ·Supporting circulation activation by underprivileged (BC Card) ·Holding Flea Market for organizing SMEs' product broadcasting ㆍ GiGA Story ㆍ Dream Center social companies (kt commerce) (kth) Better Society ㆍ Dongja Hope ㆍ Digital Inclusion The best national company Sharing Center 03 Good Heath and ·Helping community through 3-color Better Future Well-being 09 Industry, Innovation and sharing activities for vulnerable that provides the fastest 13 Climate Action Infrastructure class (tickets revenue, seats and and most innovative ICTRealizing talents of players) (kt sports) ·Manufacturing and donating products based telecommunications a better future in collaboration with NGO ㆍ KT Chamber Hall (N Search Marketing) and convergence services for through key capability Better Life ·Promoting NGO campaign on ㆍ Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign · Conducting Healing Hearing of KT Giftishow banner screen (kt mhows) the convenience of customers Impairment Campaign for ·Creating social value through ·Raising fund from revenue rehabilitation of hearing-impaired ·Conducting climate change prevention telephone booths (kt linkus) children (KT) campaign (kt m&s) of in-house cafe (nasmedia) ·Operating Antenna of Love to provide UHD TV and satellite ·Operating Give Square that KT has been growing with Korea and her people expanding its management philosophy, 'the best national broadcasting free of charge (kt skylife) employees volunteer services converted into donations (KT Group Social Contribution Vision company that pursues the convenience of customers based on ICT' to the social contribution. Therefore, ·Implementing GiGA Story that 04 Quality Education improve living standard by providing Hope Sharing Foundation) and Execution System diverse activities to narrow the gap are being actively executed in areas of people, society, and culture GiGA Infrastructure and customized with our key capabilities such as GiGA Infrastructure and ICT technology. We will advance the life of people solutions at remote areas (KT Group) through the cooperation with Group companies as well as will try our best to accomplish the UN SDGs. In April 2016, moreover, we newly established the 'Sustainability Management Committee' under the Board of 10 Reduced Inequalities Directors enabling a further efficient and stable social contribution activities. Comprehensive social contri·Supporting education for bution activities at the level of the KT Group are implemented by the 'Group Social Contribution Committee' underprivileged children through Dream Center at underused space under the Sustainability Management Committee; the Group Social Contribution Committee is responsible for in office building (KT) Group Social public services of the Group and operates the Group employee volunteer group & social contribution fund ·Supporting online and offline Contribution Webpage learning for underprivileged children as well as plans & monitors the identification of mutual projects of Group companies. with Dream School platform based ·Realizing a classic culture sharing on video conferencing system (KT) 14 Life below Water through operation of KT Social Contribution Organization ·Addressing information gap Chamber Hall (KT) through IT knowledge sharing ·Conducting volunteer service by IT Supporters (KT Group) for hearing-impaired elderly ·Inviting children and teenagers through sign language volunteer BoD Organization Sustainability Management Committee to a satellite control center providing group with infrastructure of sign experiencing program (kt sat) language customer center (kt is) Review & Reporting feedback ·Providing special IT education ·Providing LTE walkie-talkie ·Volunteer activity for healthy marine for employment cooperating (RADGER) to support NGOs Counseling Sustainability activity (kt submarine) with vocational high schools (kt ds) (kt powertel) Steering Organization Sustainability Management Center Management Advisory Committee, Identifying KT and Group Reporting and executing agenda Companies (Including 05 Gender Equality 15 Life on Land 11 Sustainable Cities Group Social Foundations) and Communities Contribution Comittee 1 2 3 4 ·Supporting vocational education, Taking Exclusive childcare, and cultural experience ·Promoting campaign to manage city ·Opening Fixing House with Love Operating KT Group's Operating KT Group's Identifying KT Group's of single moms for their independence Responsibility of KT Group's parks (kt engcore) that improves living environment Employee Volunteer Group Social Contribution Funds Joint Businesses (kt cs) Public Business for vulnerable class (kt estate) http://csv.kt.com/index.php?cate1=4 64. 65. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA People Shared Growth Management Talent Management | Shared Growth Management The Three Social Driving Forces Despite recent advances in information and communication technologies, ICT accessibility and information gaps among regions, strata, and generations are intensifying. In addition, loss Status of Dream School Dream School Dream School Mentoring is a two-way mentoring platform established in 2013 using the video conferencDream Teacher (Retiree Global Contribution of education opportunities for low-income people, lack of quality jobs for the elderly, and the incidence of women with career disruptions are factors that weaken the national and corporate growth and career-interrupted women) Mentoring (Foreign student) ing system of KT. It is a representative program that reduces the education gap by Dream mentors consisting of retirees, and career-interrupted women; Dream Teachers are mainly retirees and career-interActivities engines as well as the income level of the people. Number of (Unit: persons) rupted women by sharing their talents. They provide ICT, art, and physical education as well as personality education to those socially vulnerable class such as child, handicapped person, seniors who live alone. participants KT's Approach KT is continuously expanding its social contribution activities in three areas: people, (in 2016) 89 www.kt.com/eng/social/it_01.jsp society, and culture in order to create a better future through connections and dissemination. In particular, we are enhancing the benefits of our citizens by utilizing the strengths of KT's GiGA Infra60 Global Mentoring SDG Alignment structure and ICT technology. We are creating shared value by strengthening our business base as 'Global Mentoring' is a program for elementary school students to teach foreign language and provide edNumber of (Unit: persons) Goal 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 ucation about the global culture by connecting foreign students and elementary school students, who live well as solving social problems from a midto long-term perspective. beneficiaries (accumulated) 58,448 in remote areas. KT has continuously expanded supporting regions within the GiGA Story region; students 138 in Pyeongchang in Gangwon Province are included in 2016. The better future is brought by people. KT, as the Korea's representative company, creates the world Number of (Unit: cases) where everyone is guaranteed with equal opportunities and dreams of new dreams. Thus, we will contineducations Employee Volunteer Group Better People (accumulated) 28,677 KT has been operating an 'employee volunteer group' of which the leader is CEO for systematically and efficiently ue to expand IT Supporters, Dream School, Global Mentoring, Employee Volunteer Platform, scholarship 5,372 implementing the corporate-wide volunteering activities: supporting local children's centers, helping the underprograms and Labor & Management Sharing activities. privileged in local communities, assisting disaster recoveries, offering helps to farming and fishing households Dream School Website inspecting the facilities at welfare centers, and offering experience-based training through KT's facilities. In 2016, 10th anniversary of IT Supporters www.ktdreamschool.org we have encouraged employees by opening 'Give Square,' which is a ICT based volunteer activity platform synIn February 2017, KT celebrated its 10th anniversary with the launch of 'IT Supporters,' the first Pro chronized with Korea's largest volunteer activity database. Key Performance Bono* in Korea. The current and former KT employees of IT Supporters have strived to fill the informaof Scholarship Programs in 2016 Status of Employee Volunteer Group in 2016 tion gap by providing more than 300 thousand IT educations for approximately 3.2 million people. The IT Number of Scholarship Supporters, began with IT educations has provided a foundation for 'KT GiGA Story' and development of Category beneficiaries Amount (KRW (persons) 100 million) the local community with network. Moreover, the IT Supporters expand its scope of activity by applying Scholarship IT solutions in order to improve the quality of life for those regions with underprivileged in information. for Creative Ceremony for 10th anniversary of IT Supporters * Pro Bono refers to an activity for experts in various fields to help the social minority and the vulnerable through their expertise. and Innovative Leader (Future 325 6.6 59,258 100,219 11 Creative Talent) Activity Hours (hours) Number of Beneficiaries (persons) Disbursement of Fund (KRW 100 million) Scholarship for Creative Establishment of KT Group IT Supporters and Innovative 60 2.1 Leader (Social IT Supporters Activities Last 10 Years Since 2017, KT has provided wider and professional IT sharing through education program by actively Innovation Talent) (2007~16, accumulated) reflecting the characteristics of 11 Group companies. Scholarship Programs Labor & 307,978 Number of Activities Management YOUTH Scholarship 220 3.3 Since 1988, KT has operated a variety of scholarships such as 'Scholarship for Creative and Innovative LeadSW & IoT Education Smartphone Education Economy Education Safety Education er' and 'Labor & Management YOUTH Scholarship.' KT's scholarship programs are not a simple scholarship delivery but are to support the dreams of youth by providing mentoring through 'Dream School,' an online 15,537 Benefiting Institutes Total 605 12 education platform. 3,204,080 Benefiting Persons Labor & Management Together Labor & Management Together is a sharing campaign that systemizes the mutual cooperation activity of Milestone, 10th anniversary of IT Supporters the KT Group's labor and management in order to fulfill the social responsibility through the labor & management culture based on the coexistence and cooperation. 2015~17 2013~14 In 2016, in order to encourage the sharing activities, we have introduced the 'Sharing Mileage' of Labor & 2011~12 2009~10 Management Together that grants one mileage for one hour of volunteer activity. Thus, 18 thousand employ2007~08 ·Foundation of Group ees actively participated for the eight hours volunteer activity. In 2017, we will expand the sharing activities ·Knowledge sharing for IT Supporters Labor & Management Volunteer Activity with Labor & Management by increasing the practice committees by 159 from 149 as well as promoting ·Education about how cutting-edge IT device ·Innovation of living ·Education about to use smart devices common activities with the UCC, Labor & Management Sharing Committee. ·First step of IT sharing ·ICT based education based on ICT at GiGA diagnosis and use of ·Education for small about independence Island region ·Initiation of activity computer & internet business & ownerand self-support ·Two-way mentoring to bridge the ·Education about information gap operator about for Dongja-dong platform for child, UCC as Labor & Management Sharing Committee smart phone & tab how to use SNS ·Global IT sharing the leader of future ·Mobile phone ·IT education for multi·Diffusion of a sound For a greater sharing, KT is standing at the forefront in diffusing the labor & management culture of the mutu(Rwanda) ·Education for education for elderly cultural family smart culture the handicapped al cooperation and sharing activities through leading the UCC, an intercompany labor & management sharing ·KT Smart Academy to use IT and to committee consisting of labor unions from 20 companies. achieve IT certification Key activities of UCC include promoting the reunion of about 400 Vietnamese in multi-cultural families using KT's IT technology and providing medical service free of cost; we execute activities in both Korea and Is it difficult for elderly to use smartphone? I found a hope at the end of despair Vietnam assisting the prompt assimilation of immigrant females into the Korean society while advancing the I became a smart phone teacher at the age of 80. with KT IT Supporters. Earth Hour status of Korean companies in the world. In addition, UCC officially supports an environmental movement Happy IT sharing life for 80 years old Multicultural home housewife has turned campaign, Earth Hour of World Wild Fund (WWF), and promoted participation for the all office buildings in grandfather who became teacher into an IT visiting teacher country and the family of employees in 2016. 66. 67. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix The Three Social Contribution Activities Talent Management | Shared Growth Management As IT devices such as smartphone and the Internet have been widely generalized, the world is becoming Dongja Hope Sharing Center Better Society more closely connected; however, regional gaps (information, culture, education and income) are continuSince 2013, KT has implemented IT educations and volunteering works for local residents in Dongja-dong, ously increasing. Hence, KT is devoting to addressing the imbalance caused by regional gaps and helping Yongsan Province that is one of poor regions in Seoul. Providing social contribution activities, we recogeveryone enjoy benefits of ICT by conducting activities to create the better society through GiGA Story, nized that the local residents need a space where they can resolve the inconvenience in basic life and take Dongja Hope Sharing Center, and KT Dream Center. a rest. In June 2014, therefore, the Dongja Hope Sharing Center was established as an ICT-based complex cultural space. We have employed local residents for the 15 operating staffs and 4 Dongja Hope Sharing Cafe baristas, and have strived for self-support, while narrowing cultural gaps by frequently providing IT GiGA Story Project education, handcraft course, and culture & art education. In 2016, KT promoted volunteer activities by GiGA Story is KT's representative social contribution project being actively promoted by creativity and inCafeteria within Dongja Hope Sharing Center providing electric fans and mosquito nets for residents at the five dosshouse regions. In addition, we have novative ideas; the world has been paying an attention to this next-generation value creating project of KT. supported self-reliance and self-support by holding flea market selling self-supporting products made by Furthermore, GiGA Story is a social contribution model that is in line with GiGAtopia, KT's goal for new growth local self-support agencies and local residents at Saekkum Children's Park at Dongja-dong. in the future where humankind and things are connected through GiGA Infrastructure and ICT solution. By Kyodong GiGA Island providing GiGA Infrastructure and appropriate solutions to remote and isolated regions with a relatively large Performance of Dongja Hope Sharing Center information gap, we have been advancing the living environment of local residents in diverse aspects such as the education, culture, economy, and environment. According to regional characteristics, since 2014, GiGA Cultual & IT Education Convenient Facilities Dongja Hope Sharing Cafe Story is being operated in types of GiGA Island (for remote areas) and GiGA Creative Village (for isolated areas) and the project scope has expanded to the nationwide starting with Imja-Island in Sinan-gun, Jeollanam-do. In 2017, we have established Kyodong GiGA Island and further applied GiGA Story model Bangladesh GiGA Island to the global community contributing to the accomplishment of UN SDGs, Bangladesh GiGA Island. Number of Trainees Number of Use Number of Sales Sales GiGA Island (Unit: persons) (Unit: case) (Unit: cups) (Unit: KRW thousand) 2016 1,708 33,558 35,492 54,654 Performance of GiGA Story Project · Selected as 'developing farming village through ICT convergence' benchmarking model by the Ministry of 누계 Accumulated 3,741 69,974 89,843 143,574 KT GiGA Story Imja Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs Creating the Social Value Based On ICT, GiGA Island · Introduced as the best practice in diffusing broadband on UN Broadband Annual Report Bridging the Regional Social Gap · Introduced as the best practice in diffusing broadband on GSMA '2016 Mobile Industry Impact Report' 01 · Highly valued as an innovative CSV case by Professor Michael Porter of Harvard University and received CSV Porter Award for 3 consecutive years (October 2014) Beneficiary of KT Dream Center KT Dream Center · Opened Korea's only experiencing smart farm for children and GiGA IoT experience center We are operating the KT Dream Center in cooperating with community children centers by key regions 02 03 06 Performance Accumulated for supporting children in the disadvantaged class to grow into leaders of the future. For 8 years since in 2016 Performance · Established Smart Learning system and next-generation classroom for global leaders of future Korea unified 05 · Daeseongdong GiGA Elementary School children's short film played as the opening film at DMZ launch in 2010, the KT Dream Center has installed IT devices, such as IPTV, beam projector, smart pad, Daeseongdong International Documentary Film Festival GiGA School and e-book in underused spaces within 21 KT office buildings conducting various educational activi· Applied Smart Disc EDU class, Career experience class with KT experts, IoT health class (Unit: persons) · Signed a contract of 'First Village for Reunification' with the Ministry of Government Administration and ties including software, English, music, and integrated culture and arts education. In 2016, KT operated Korea 02 Home Affairs; established an ICT-based complex cultural space (November 2014) · Simplified overall administrative works (e.g. admission to village, video telephony) through ICT Provided 54,723 experience program for children of Dream Center and their parents. In addition, we held the 3rd Dream IoT programming education with Korea Creative Economy Federation 401,062 Center exhibition at KT Square, so that children could show off their skills that they have learned. In 2016, 04 · Accomplished ICT-based development of the local community through the public-private cooperation as a result, we were able to support total 54,723 children throughout the nation. Baengnyeong with Incheon City 01 GiGA Island · The first smart farm in Baengnyeong Island 'PLANT FACTORY' launched and cultivating strawberry in all seasons · Arduino SW class for children in Baengnyeong Island, IoT experience class Bridging Information Gap through Digital Inclusion 03 · The Minister of Government Administration visited and held national security experience education (March 2015) and exhibition of the Government 3.0 Fair Digital inclusion refer to basic communications services that every user can be provided at proper price regardless of time and space. For faithfully delivering the responsibility as the national company by oper· Activated farming village and shed new light on traditional culture through ICT, in cooperation with the Ministry ating the social network, KT is providing basic communications services including local and public phone, of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs Cheonghakdong GiGA · Improved life of local residents with ICT for beacon, remote lectures, safe use of drone, and mobile medical check up communications for remote regions, and vessel wireless phone. Expanded Application Creative Village · Activated exchanges and diffused traditional cultures among urban-rural through ICT such as remote lectures · Video lectures about tradition courtesy for urban children by village teacher in Cheonghakdong · The 2nd IT test at Cheonghakdong and GiGA creative camp for children at Cheonghakdong 04 (July 2015) Development Model · Held site forums (5 times) with Hadong-gun local governments, excavated measures to increase productivity As of the end of 2016, KT provided the local call service to total 12,690,000 subscribers while of agriculture and to create income operating 62,000 public telephone booths throughout the country. In order to advance the public for Developing Countries · Establishment of farming association corporation for economic stimulation at Cheonghakdong Maritime Safety Communication Facility Developing Local Communities Based On ICT, benefit, moreover, we have replaced the telephone booths with 'safe booths' by cooperating with Addressing the Global Gap Rate Reduction by Beneficiary Groups local governments such as Seoul City Hall and financial institutes. Also, we offer communications Wire Telephone · The best practice in resident engagement government 3.0 and KT's public-private cooperation with government services to connect residents in about 440 remote and isolated islands through the connection Kyodong and local government such as Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs, Ministry of Unification, Annual Total in 2016 Service between the land and island or between islands. GiGA Island City of Incheon, and Ganghwa-gun · Promoted vitalization of isolated regional economy with 'Kyodong Swallow's Nest for local residents and visitors Category Number of and village enterprise,' 'community market (establishment of Kyodong villager farming association corporation) Recipients Reduction Amount 05 (March 2017) (1,000 (KRW million) · Developed tourism solution based on beacon for vitalizing ICT tour persons) · Established a high-quality video conference system for remote 'culture sharing' In order to maintain the social order and protect safety of the people, KT provides free telephone The service for special emergency numbers, such as crime report (112) and fire and distress report 1,168 100,122 Handicapped (119), transmitted by wire & wireless subscribers. In addition, the company has also provided a Pyeongchang Low-income Telephone Service vessel wireless phone service for about 3,000 vessels contributing to the vessel safety by immeBangladesh · Established villages utilizing 5G technology in the public interest for the area of Olympic Winter Games Bracket 382 46,358 for Emergency 5G Village diately delivering distress reports to relevant institutions on a real-time basis. PyeongChang 2018 Pensioner Individuals Communications · Promote Boom-up in advance to the Olympic by developing mountain village through future 5G technology 06 (Forthcoming) Lower income 66 7,576 Class Patriots and 96 8,316 We have assisted the enhancement of the welfare of 1,720,000 persons who have a handicap or are Veterans Bangladesh · ICT based regional development model for developing countries with an open cooperation method with various 01 in the socially vulnerable class through the rate reduction by KRW 162.7 billion for services such GiGA Island institutions including KT, KOICA, Bangladesh Government (ICT Division), and International Organization for Migration (IOM) Organizations · Promoted educational, medical, and economic improvement for better living of residents (e.g. welfare institutes 11 372 as local calls, mobile calls, and high-speed internet. Besides, we engaged in a 'Providing High-speed Moheshkhali for the handicapped) in Moheshkhali Island, Bangladesh Rate Reduction Internet to Children from Low-income Families' project as well as 'IT Sharing' business by the Ministry · Introduced as the best practice as a model of international development cooperation among overseas 01 (April 2017) Total 1,723 162,744 Service of Education. Hence, we greatly supported the informatization of the education. government-enterprise-IPO at ITU broadband committee, 'The State of Broadband 2016' 68. 69. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix The Three Social Contribution Activities GiGA People Shared Growth Management Talent Management | Shared Growth Management Better Life Disseminating the culture through music is closely related to our corporate identity. We are actively promoting activities to reduce the cultural gap by operating KT Chamber Hall and KT SQUARE and donating Sustainable Driving Forces Supply chain management considering economic, environmental, and social factors is a prerequisite for minimizing risk and promoting midto long-term growth. By promoting the value the entire revenues from the admission fee of performance for the KT's 'Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign.' Supply Chain of sustainability management throughout the supply chain, companies can prevent losses and effectively spread corporate culture of social responsibility. Management KT's Approach KT has established a sustainable supply chain management policy, systematically conKT Chamber Hall ducts sustainability management evaluations for suppliers, and reflects them in the selection process As the communications company who conveys voice via signal, KT is contributing to the wide diffusion of www.kt.com/eng/social/supplier.jsp of suppliers. In addition, we are enhancing the competitiveness of our supply chain by securing partner 'sound' by operating KT Chamber Hall, a concert hall for the classical music since 2009. In 2016, we held companies with superior capabilities through fair and transparent process of selecting suppliers. total 24 performances and attracted 9,139 audiences and the revenues from the performance at the KT SDG Alignment Chamber Hall are used for KT's social contribution program to help hearing-impaired children, the 'Healing Goal 8, 16, 17 Hearing Impairment Campaign.' To popularize the classical music, it is expanding the cultural activities by holding various musical programs such as special performance by orchestra of KT Chamber Hall as well as 'Classic Experiencing Program' for students. Additionally, KT makes all performances into visual contents KT Chamber Hall to distribute them through the Olleh tv real-time live streaming and Video On Demand (VOD) services. By Policy doing so, everyone including those who have a difficulty in moving or cannot come to the Chamber Hall Sustainable Supply Chain For the first among domestic communications companies, KT enacted the 'KT Sustainability Guideline for due to a geographical condition can enjoy beautiful music. Management System Suppliers' in December 2012 to diffuse its responsible and sustainable management into the entire supply chain. Thus, we have realized a systematic management of the sustainable supply chain. In May 2017, KT conducted the second revision of the Guideline to reflect global trends such as the environment, human Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign rights. It consists of four sections: principles of business execution, environmental management, corpoReflecting the characteristics of the communications industry, we have been promoting the 'Healing rate social responsibility and role, and product stewardship. Throughout the total 18 areas, the Guideline Hearing Impairment Campaign' since 2003 to help hearing-impaired children from low income families to presents standards of the sustainability management that KT expects of suppliers. recover their hearing; the Campaign consists of supports for medical treatment, supports for rehabilitation, and supports for family. As of the end of 2016, KT supported the rehabilitation of 6,696 children by operating a hearing rehabilitation center, 'KT Dream Class,' within Severance Hospital. KT also has providEducation ed supports through the 'Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign': 288 children received the hearing aids Since 2014, we have been providing the sustainability management education for responsible personnel of and 146 children received supports for their surgery for the cochlear implant. suppliers so that they can share their knowledge about the sustainability management fulfilling it into pracCultural Festival for Day of the Handicapped tice. In 2016, we have intensively founded education programs to improve suppliers' sustainable management Performance of Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign (2003~16, accumulated) (Unit: cases, yearly basis) practices. Furthermore, in 2017, we will fortify internalization of sustainable management within the supply chain through diverse education programs planning by discussing with suppliers. Sustainability Management Assessment for Suppliers 7,247 With the enactment of the 'KT Sustainability Guideline for Suppliers,' KT introduced the assessment sys6,696 288 263 KT Sustainability Index tem for the sustainability management of suppliers in 2013. Accordingly, we have regularly measured and managed the level of negative economic, environmental, and social risks that can occur within the supply Supports for Rehabilitation Supports for Hearing Aid Supports for Cochlear Implant Total 92.4 Points chain. The assessment result is reflected to the annual evaluation of each supplier, which influences key selection processes such as re-selection and appointment of best suppliers. In 2016, the result of assessand Others Result of Sustainable Management ments for electronic equipment and construction suppliers in 2016 was 92.4 on average, which indicates that Assessment for Suppliers in 2016 the sustainability level of our supplier is increased from the previous year of 91.9. Results of Sustainable Management Assessment for Suppliers in 2016 Smart Farm for the Handicapped In 2016, KT established smart farm customized for the handicapped for the first time in Korea. The smart Number of Participants Category Assessment Indicators Result Sustainability Management in Assessment farm enables to cultivate house crops for the handicapped at the rehabilitation facility. Consequently, we Assessment Framework for Suppliers anticipate that the smart farm will promote emotional improvement of the handicapped with environElectronic ESG + Product: ment-friendly condition and create jobs as they harvest crops in smart farm. Shared Growth Equipment Suppliers 111 suppliers 84.3 on average 40 items Establishment of Smart Farm for the Handicapped Economy Environment Construction ESG + Construction Safety: 15 indicators 13 indicators Contractors 269 suppliers 95.7 on average 32 items including ethics including ISO14001 KT, Cheers the Young Generation with Talk Concert '#Do Youth,' management and managerial risks and CO2 reduction management '#Do Youth' is a talk concert for cheering the young generation. Since March 2016, the concert Product & Construction Society Selection and Management of Suppliers Based On Capability was coming to youth throughout the nation with new topics, casts and diverse events. '#Do Youth' In order to select suppliers in a fair manner, we have publicly disclosed the registration and selection means 'Cheering for Youth,' and the title of the talk concert 'I do youth you' can be interpreted as 'I 2 indicators 10 indicators am cheering for your youth' In order to raise up the energy of the young generation, KT will expand processes while operating the procurement process with the quality as the top priority. After the quality including safety including income, the talk concert as a festival while listening to the young generations about their worries and of product & discrimination, rank is defined through the quantitative evaluation, suppliers with the outstanding quality are selected construction and compliance and sign a contract with KT. Therefore, our suppliers can endeavor for the technology development while communicating with them. with the labor act Talk Concert for Youth, '#Do Youth' we can optimize the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) by trading with excellent suppliers. 70. 71. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GiGA People Shared Growth Management Talent Management | Shared Growth Management Shared Driving Forces KT is engaged in business with many partners in various fields ranging from technology development to providing products and services. In the rapidly changing telecommunications market, Financial Support KT supports small and medium-sized suppliers with relatively low financial base to secure liquidity and stabilize their business. In particular, KT signed a contract to donate total KRW 4.46 billion for 3 years Growth System it is essential to grow together with suppliers in order to lead the future innovation technology and to provide differentiated service value. since 2013 to the Large & Small Business Cooperation Foundation; we donated KRW 2.17 billion for enhancing the R&D capability of suppliers supporting their overseas advancement. In addition, we are supporting production facilities by participating in the Industrial Innovation Program of the Ministry of Trade, KT's Approach KT is constantly strengthening its shared-growth system and supplier communication Industry and Energy with a budget of KRW 2.5 billion for five years. so that it can improve corporate competitiveness and lead to the proliferation of shared growth www.kt.com/eng/social/supplier.jsp culture. To this end, we are expanding the range of suppliers' business stabilization and environInclusive Procurement System ment-friendly system support to secondary suppliers and strengthening the innovative ecosystem SDG Alignment Support for Procurement KT has complied with the 'Four Practices Guideline for Establishment of Fair Subcontract Trade Order' by developing various shared value creation programs. Goal 8, 10, 16, 17 and Market Development enacted by the Fair Trade Commission. Also, KT has enhanced ecosystem for shared growth by operating an inclusive procurement process. We have applied the whole bidding system to prevent insolvency within the supply chain due to the participation in the bidding with the lowest price. The target price is being adjusted by reflecting factors that make costs fluctuate, such as exchange rate and material prices. We As a responsible corporate citizen, KT endeavors to lead the shared growth culture in order to enhance strictly observe the volume contracted and thus minimize the discrepancy between the supplied volume Organization and Policy the ecosystem of the creative and competitive communications industry in Korea. KT has founded and contracted volume while supporting suppliers' through the intermediate payment system so that for Shared Growth an organization responsible for the shared growth in 2010, and carried out various programs generating sound capital circulation of suppliers can be ensured. shared value of suppliers, thus achieved innovative cooperation and fair trade with suppliers. Shared Growth Program Support for Overseas Advancement of Outstanding Start-ups 2016, 'The 10 Best Practices KT has helped promising start-ups to enhance the global competency and attract investments through of Implementing the Fair Trade Agreement between Major the alliance with major overseas start-up centers as well as venture capitals. Hence, those promising Vision of Shared Growth Company and SMEs' from the companies accomplished signing export contracts and MOU through our efforts on the expanded suppliShared Growth Index 2017, Fair Trade Commission Select as the best practice Shared Growth Council Establishing Ecosystem for Creative and Competitive Shared Growth of support for global ers' overseas advancement program and best products exhibitions, and our support on global investment The 10 Best Practices advancement expo. In addition, KT has been selected by the Fair Trade Commission as the best practice of support for The Best Grade 3 consecutive years Innovative Cooperation Fair Trade global advancement of 'The 10 Best Practices of Implementing the Fair Trade Agreement between Major Company and SMEs. In 2017, to increase overseas advancement for suppliers, KT will fortify its follow-up · Support for suppliers and cooperation · Establishment of environment for fair trade supports: registration for global crowd funding, participation in global exhibition and global promotion. · Sharing of shared growth vision and establishing environment · Strict restriction against unfair behavior · Connecting tier-1 and tier-2 suppliers Support for Global Exhibition of Suppliers in 2016 Financial Support Global Exhibition Country & Period Participants Detail 01 Spain 7 suppliers Support for Support for MWC 2016 (Mobile World Congress) Recruitment and Procurement and (22 ~ 25 February) including ulalaLAB Education Market Development 06 02 Singapore 7 suppliers CommunicAsia 2016 (31 May ~ 3 June) including koreaoptron ITU Telecom World 2016 Provided space for booth Six Areas of within KT's exhbition hall; MWCS 2016 China 3 suppliers Shared Growth (Mobile World Congress Shanghai) (29 June ~ 1 July) including esmlab supported suppliers to advance overseas by placing KT Partnership sign Global Sources Hong Kong 10 suppliers 05 03 Mobile Electronics Show 2016 (18 ~ 21 October) including zoit Support for Support for Commercialization of Management & External Proposal Quality Consultation Thailand 22 suppliers ITU Telecom World 2016 04 (14 ~ 17 November) including neofect Support for Technology and Development 01 02 03 04 05 06 In order to intensify the competitiveness of the entire supply chain, KT has executed the shared growth Financial Support Support for Procurement Support for Management Support for Technology Support for CommercializaSupport for Recruitment Support for Management programs expanding the scope of subject suppliers to include not only primary suppliers but also secondand Market Development & Quality Consultation and Development tion of External Proposal and Education ary suppliers. In particular, in order to enhance the environmental management capability and improve the · Cash payments in full · Demand Forecasting System · Vendor Coaching for suppliers · Support for technology transfer · Support for commercializing · Support for Job Fair & Quality Consultation · Network loan (electronic equipment suppliers) (2nd-tier electronic equipment · Free patent transfer external ideas · Support for education environment-friendly extent of the whole supply chain, we are consistently assisting primary and second· Financial support for retail stores · Support for suppliers' suppliers) · Non Disclosure Agreement (NDA) · Support for trial of external ideas within SMEs · Win-win Cooperation Supporting overseas exhibition · Consultation for supplier SCM and · Escrow for technological data · Partners Fair, RTC (Round Table ary suppliers to acquire ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System); 91% of KT suppliers achieved System (WinC) · Joint advancement into supports (electronic equipment · Support for Certification of Convergence) · Financial support international market suppliers) of Original Document · Conditional development the environmental certificates as a consequence. for contents suppliers · Global Partner's Day · Consultation for advancing deof Trade Secrets of new product · Investment into projects · Global Business Fair velopment capability of suppliers · Open S/W Verification Lab · Performance Sharing System Besides, KT have participated in the Industrial Innovation Program of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and of SMEs & ventures (electronic equipment suppliers (SW development area) · Mentoring on venture & · Investment into start-ups & construction contractors) · Support for achieving certifideveloper ideas (SW & app Energy. Hence, we have consulted total 9 suppliers and accomplished a substantial improvement of supof creative economy · System to check supplied cations in quality and environment development area) equipment · Industrial innovation campaign pliers in the process by 91% on average and created financial improvement effect about KRW 500 million. · Plural price for one product · Management Doctor System recognizing cost difference 72. 73. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Shared Growth System Talent Management | Shared Growth Management KT pursues to create creative and competitive shared growth ecosystem through sharing performances Establishment of Platform for New Business Support for Technology with suppliers. Having operated the Performance-sharing System since 2006, KT is co-developing equipIn addition to our suppliers, we are looking for and nurturing capable venture companies to build an ment and services with its suppliers as well as achieving and sharing performances such as cost reduction open innovative ecosystem which creates new business opportunity and job. Particularly, KT has been and Development and quality improvement. In 2016, we conducted a total of 32 performance-sharing tasks: concentrated accelerating to cultivate the hidden champions of Korea, 'K-Champs,' who own the creativity of ventures on the theme-based tasks. Therefore, KT and suppliers shared performances worth about KRW 640 and small enterprise as well as infrastructure and know-hows of KT. Hidden champion is small or medimillion. um-sized companies that have global competitiveness and foundation for sustainable growth although they are not well known by the public. Besides, KT continues to support its suppliers' midto long-term competitiveness by supporting improvements in development capabilities. In 2016, we have supported 402 cases of infrastructure development The Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center of KT is a start-up incubating platform aimed to excavate and S/W quality improvement by opening the laboratory for S/W verification for suppliers. a new business and for shared growth. Since the establishment of one-stop start-up supporting facilities for IoT, 5G, Fintech, and game sectors in 2015, we have achieved sales of KRW 25 billion and investment Support for Suppliers 2014 2015 2016 of KRW 100 billion through business cooperation and investment support for 93 companies. Also, since April KT Sustainability Index 2016, we have actively created opportunities for business cooperation by operating the 'Speed Dating,' which is the meeting that KT executives immediately make decision to turn them into real business when the start32 Cases Technology Protection 5,619 Transfer of Patent and 17 Speed Dating ups suggest an idea and technology. In 2017, we will solidify our competitiveness as a global No. 1 company for Suppliers 5,269 Technology 92 through cooperation for new business such as voice recognition, public disaster safety and logistics, while Cases of Performance-sharing System (cases) (cases) 49 54 expanding the start-up assistance services for joined companies: mentoring, prototype manufacturing and educations. Start-up Assistance for Creative Economy In order to settle the shared growth culture and to create shared performances, KT endeavors to esSupport for tablish the new shared growth system and to fortify the cooperation with suppliers; through the active Commercialization of communication, suppliers can propose and commercialize creative ideas. Since introduced new programs such as the Partner's Fair and Round Table for Convergence (RTC) in 2014, we have launched new serExternal Proposal vices and products in the ICT field; KT develops suppliers' outstanding technology into business as well as shares ideas with suppliers from the start of a project. Hence, the shared growth of KT and its suppliers has leaped into the level of cooperation far beyond the simple co-working. IoT 5G Fintech* Game At the Partner's Fair, KT suppliers not only exhibit new technology and equipment but turn them into real business. Moreover, Biz Talks of each item are implemented enabling R&D and other business depart•Selecting promising SMEs •Promoting the foundation of •Founding the only 'Fintech •Cultivating venture startand ventures in IoT field and '5G Open Innovation Lab' that Support Center' in Korea where ups in game industry through ments of KT can exchange opinions with suppliers for the commercialization, which leads to an increase providing working space, has relevant facilities such as financial experts are stationed connection to large game global mentoring, and test bed terminals and relay stations; providing technological advisory companies and relevant of opportunities for actual business. Round Table for Convergence (RTC) is a program to identify new •Supporting every process from cooperating with large global support and one-to-one institutes communications facility mentoring service future ICT convergence agendas led by KT and suppliers of various sectors including technology, equipidentification start-up idea to •Establishing and operating companies to foster 5G commercialization and overseas •Playing a leading role for 'Game SW Lab' for everyone to ventures and SMEs ment, software, and solutions. Suppliers and relevant departments of KT carry out open discussions thus advancement through fostering innovative Fintech use game production tools establishing and operating 'GiGA •Holding a contest to excavate start-ups in all aspects, from and 'Mobile Lab' to play a trial commercialize ideas excavated through the RTC sharing the performance. IoT Alliance' which is Korea's ideas about next-generation securing marketability and version of the developed game first and largest business mobile communications possibility to enter the finance within the actual distribution alliance market to financing and attaining network Partner's Fair Round Table for Convergence(RTC) sales channels * Fintech: New financial technology whose name is a combination of the words 'financial' and 'technology' Partner's Fair Sharing ideas Technical and discussions Identifying Identifying Showcasing seminar whether among new future KT supports qualitative growth of suppliers by helping recruitment and education. In addition, we promoted new technology between Making suppliers and equipment KT business equipment can business without any ICT Support for Recruitment trainings to cultivate responsible personnel for the efficient internalization and enhancing operational capabe adopted convergence by suppliers departments boundaries in bility of the environmental management. Accordingly, total 273 personnel completed the training in 2016. and suppliers mutually sector, item agendas and Education and technology Furthermore, we support secondary suppliers by providing quality & environment education program free of cost. A total of 953 employees of suppliers who provided free education in 2016 increased by 31.3% over the previous year. RTC KT Introduces a Leading Model of Open Innovation KT Realizes Open Communication with Suppliers Communication Channels for Key Suppliers Category Description Performance In 2017, we have executed 'Biz Collaboration Program' which is aimed to excavate ventures and SMEs and conKT has constantly enhanced the communication with suppliers and built a foundation for Promoting Skinship Program to reinforce strategic duct joint businesses with KT. The qualified 7 start-ups are carrying out joint development with KT in a various cooperation through various communication channel: Information Sharing Council, OnPartner's Camp partnership and mutual cooperation between KT and 52 suppliers participated fields such as facial recognition and smart farm. The 'Biz Collaboration Program' is differentiated from the other site Shared Growth Discussion, Partner's Camp and Early Technology Sensing (ETS). In suppliers start-up contests since it has substantially increased the possibility of commercialization into a real business addition, we accept and handle grievances of suppliers in real time through the Partner Information Implementing improvement activities by gathering opinions of suppliers in each sector about shared Monthly Portal where all of our suppliers can submit their opinions. For the prompt resolution, Sharing Council growth and mutual cooperation by matching a KT's department for the joint business from the idea proposal stage. Furthermore, for those KT starts an investigation as soon as a grievance case is submitted. Therefore, KT can On-site Shared Accepting grievances and executing one-stop qualified companies, KT provides budget up to KRW 70 million for R&D, patent application, prototype production, resolution activity through visiting suppliers by 14 suppliers proactively avoid risks related to labor and human rights that can possibly occur within Growth Discussion responsible personnel of procurement department participated marketing and promotion. Biz Collaboration Program the supply chain. In 2017, we will increase the number of visits to suppliers, and generate Supporting KT Partner's Conference, an association KT Partner's 51 supplier a stronger sympathy with suppliers as well as to fortify the mutual trust. Conference of electronic equipment suppliers, for interactive participated communication between KT and suppliers 74. 75. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Major Financial Indicators Economic Performance APPENDIX Consolidated Financial Statement Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Current Assets KRW million 10,517,419 9,968,449 8,750,934 8,583,176 9,643,306 Major Financial Indicators 77 Non-current Assets KRW million 24,040,489 24,878,084 25,024,568 20,758,009 20,944,427 KT Environmental Profit & Loss 78 Total Assets KRW million 34,557,908 34,846,533 33,775,502 29,341,185 30,587,733 Current Liabilities KRW million 11,266,766 11,187,738 9,992,244 8,639,906 9,466,147 KT Social Profit & Loss 80 Non-current Liabilities KRW million 10,073,167 10,793,885 11,992,970 8,535,814 8,326,807 Sustainability Performance of Group 82 Total Liabilities KRW million 21,339,933 21,981,623 21,985,214 17,175,720 17,792,954 GHG Verification Statement 87 Capital KRW million 1,564,499 1,564,499 1,564,499 1,564,499 1,564,499 Third Party Assurance 88 Premium on Common Stock KRW million 1,440,258 1,440,258 1,440,258 1,440,258 1,440,258 Retained Earnings KRW million 10,646,383 10,046,883 8,571,130 9,059,305 9,656,544 Global Sustainability Partnerships 90 Accumulated Other Comprehensive KRW million 1,325 24,538 25,790 13,870 -1,432 GRI Standards Index 91 Income Other Capital Component KRW million -1,343,286 -1,320,943 -1,260,709 -1,232,863 -1,217,934 Major Awards & Memberships 96 Non-controlling Interests KRW million 908,796 1,109,675 1,449,320 1,320,396 1,352,844 For More Information 97 Total Equities KRW million 13,217,975 12,864,910 11,790,288 12,165,465 12,794,779 Total Liabilities and Equities KRW million 34,557,908 34,846,533 33,775,502 29,341,185 30,587,733 Consolidated Income Statement Operating Revenue KRW million 23,856,375 23,810,599 22,311,666 22,281,221 22,743,665 Operating Expenses KRW million 22,647,142 22,971,256 22,718,256 20,988,277 21,303,686 Operating Profit KRW million 1,209,233 839,343 -406,590 1,292,944 1,439,979 Shares for New Profits and Loss by Related Companies and Joint KRW million 18,079 6,601 18,697 6,143 6,143 Ventures Income Before Taxes KRW million 1,414,842 -5,258 -1,328,558 719,452 2,599 Income Taxes KRW million 277,869 54,993 -275,982 229,239 329,184 Net Profit from Continuing KRW million 1,136,973 -60,251 -1,052,576 490,213 797,844 Operations Operating Profit (Loss) from KRW million 31,534 86,400 141,075 Discontinued Operations Net Profit KRW million 1,105,439 -60,251 -966,176 631,288 797,844 Shareholder Composition Unit No. of Shares Equity Ownership Shareholder Composition (As of 31 December 2016) Treasury Stock share 16,140,165 6.2% Foreign Investors share 126,576,326 48.5% National Pension Fund share 26,994,170 10.3% Employee Stockholders share 1,387,655 0.5% Other Entities & Individual Investors share 90,013,492 34.5% Total Number of Shares Issued share 261,111,808 100.0% 76. 77. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix KT Environmental Profit & Loss Environmental Loss Evaluation FY 2016 Environmental Profit Evaluation FY 2016 Building impacts Smart energy As of May 2017, KT operates total of 517 sites including the headquarters and branches in nation where KT delivers positive environmental impacts through a series of smart energy services. We improve energy consumption, heating and cooling, waste disposal and water use occur. efficient use of a building energy based on smart energy service and reduce electricity usage through Building server efficiency. 1.41% Smart energy 4.17% Network impacts impacts KT operates data center, office building for communication and unmanned communication equipment. Smart industry Wire & wireless network communication equipment and operation of IDC server consume a large amount Network KT reduces GHG emissions from moving combustion through video conference and telephone 73.20% Smart industry 70.66% of energy. impacts conference services. In addition, we provide music, movie and various contents on online which reduce GHG emissions compared to the production and transportation of CD & DVD. Employee impacts Employee 3.58% Smart office 2.41% GHGs are emitted by the use of water, waste disposal within the company as well as business trip and impacts Smart office commuting by KT employees. KT conducts external verification on these scope Ⅲ emissions every year. KT provides diverse E-Services to digitize the information that was delivered in the form of existing Supply chain prints. Thus, KT minimizes GHG emissions from printing and transportation. 1.39% Smart transport 21.49% Supply chain impacts impacts The emissions are caused when suppliers manufacture products that are to be supplied to KT. In order to Smart transport Renewable measure GHG emissions, the methodology has been developed according to the 'Corporate Value Chain Service KT improves driving efficiency by delivering optimized driving route to drivers through intelligent 20.42% energy & 1.27% (Scope Ⅲ) Accounting and Reporting Standard' of World Resources Institute (WRI). impacts navigation services. resource reuse Service impacts Renewable energy & resource reuse 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% GHGs are emitted when customers use KT products and services; we calculate the emissions of the B2C Since the establishment of PV plant for the first time in Korea's communication industry in 2011, KT has services for ordinary customers. expanded investment for renewable energy and reused all communication material wastes. KT Environmental Loss Impact Valuation FY 2016 KT Environmental Profit Impact Valuation FY 2016 No Externalties Environmental Impacts Unit GHG (tCO2eq) Result P&L % No Externalties Environmental Impacts Unit GHG (tCO2eq) Result P&L % Heating (boiler, emergency generator, etc.) KRW 3,442 66,427,898 0.24% BEMS KRW 3,304 63,766,000 0.30% Building L1 Electricity (office, lights, air conditioning, etc.) KRW 16,717 322,643,605 1.17% Energy efficiency business KRW 15,792 304,792,232 1.43% impacts Sub-total KRW 20,159 389,071,503 1.41% Co-location KRW 2,813 54,286,744 0.25% IDC KRW 123,939 2,392,021,483 8.68% On demand IDC KRW 127 2,459,696 0.01% Network Office building for communication KRW 439,192 8,476,405,600 30.74% P1 Smart energy ICS KRW 317 6,117,705 0.03% L2 impacts Unmanned communication equipment KRW 482,613 9,314,430,900 33.78% Server hosting KRW 1,889 36,453,951 0.17% Sub-total KRW 1,045,744 20,182,857,983 73.20% Groupware KRW 21,728 419,346,572 1.97% Business trips KRW 4,070 78,550,512 0.28% IP hosting service KRW 114 2,207,419 0.01% Commuting KRW 23,798 459,302,416 1.67% Sub-total KRW 46,084 889,430,319 4.17% Employee Vehicles KRW 18,555 358,117,444 1.30% Video conference KRW 563 10,861,936 0.05% L3 impacts GHG emissions from waste treatment KRW 3,900 75,265,099 0.27% Telephone conference KRW 1,277 24,646,527 0.12% GHG emissions from use of water KRW 785 15,148,331 0.05% Genie Music KRW 149,063 2,876,922,325 13.50% P2 Smart industry Sub-total KRW 51,108 986,383,803 3.58% olleh TV KRW 629,043 12,140,534,725 56.96% Wire devices KRW 98 1,885,502 0.01% olleh TV Now KRW 371 7,165,661 0.03% Supply chain Wireless devices KRW 1,294 24,983,618 0.09% Sub-total KRW 780,318 15,060,131,174 70.66% L4 impacts Communications service-based facilities KRW 18,411 355,325,218 1.29% Computerization request of healing cost KRW 58 1,114,433 0.01% Sub-total KRW 19,803 382,194,338 1.39% Electronic prescriptions KRW 196 3,784,765 0.02% Internet service terminals KRW 111,414 2,150,291,526 7.80% Cash receipt KRW 25,480 491,757,105 2.31% Service Media service terminals KRW 161,009 3,107,477,091 11.27% P3 Smart office Social Insurance EDI KRW 759 14,658,294 0.07% L5 impacts Wireless service terminals KRW 19,361 373,666,657 1.36% Electronic tax invoice KRW 88 1,706,759 0.01% Sub-total KRW 291,784 5,631,435,274 20.42% Cyber statement KRW 71 1,372,230 0.01% Total KRW 1,428,598 27,571,942,900 100.00% Sub-total KRW 26,653 514,393,584 2.41% Navigation KRW 237,288 4,579,659,526 21.49% * Valuation factor: Price criteria for KAU16 GHG emissions trading of Korea Exchange at the end of December 2016 (KRW 19,300/tCO2eq) P4 Smart transport ** The GHG Scope I, II and III emissions and environmental offset amount are verified by a third party Sub-total KRW 237,288 4,579,659,526 21.49% Renewable energy (PV power)* KRW 223,173,370 0.81% Renewable energy & P5 Waste recycling** KRW 48,132,000 0.17% resource reuse Sub-total KRW 271,305,370 1.27% Total KRW 1,090,343 21,314,919,973 100.00% * Renewable Energy (PV power): 597,139 Kwh 78. ** Waste Recycling: 6,876 tons 79. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix KT Social Profit & Loss Social Loss Evaluation FY 2016 Social Profit Evaluation FY 2016 Social donations Social ICT services In order to deliver its social responsibility and promote social progress, KT donates comprehensively for sports, KT diffuses positive social impacts across the country through social ICT services such as safety & R&D, social organizations, etc. security services and care service for seniors who live alone. Social donations 16.47% Social ICT 11.47% Social contribution costs services Public system improvements KT operates a series of social contribution programs based on its industrial characteristics including IT sharing KT increases sales by receiving derivative businesses based on the relationship with local Social and GiGA Story, creating shared value type of social contribution project. Public system governments established by 'GiGA Story,' the community-based social contribution project. contribution 4.62% 3.80% improvements costs Digital inclusion costs Digital inclusion impacts KT assists the enhancement of the welfare of handicapped person and lower-income group through the rate Digital Digital KT assists the enhancement of the welfare of the handicapped and lower-income group through 42.32% 42.71% reduction for services such as local calls, mobile calls and high-speed internet. inclusion costs inclusion impacts the rate reduction for services such as local calls, mobile calls and high-speed internet. Supply chain support costs Supply chain Supply chain capability improvements Supply chain 34.64% capability 32.35% KT contributes to the financial stability within the supply chain by operating direct financial support, mixed support costs KT diffuses positive social impacts across the supply chain through technical support, quality improvements support and special support for suppliers. improvement and technology protection for suppliers. Start-up Supply chain 1.94% 9.67% Start-up support costs support costs value creation Supply chain value creation KT operates 2 Creative Economy Innovation Centers for excavating capable start-ups, assigns working spaces KT operates diverse supporting programs for suppliers and start-ups to advance into the overseas and offering testbed-based infrastructures. markets. In addition, successful overseas advancement cases and sales have increased. 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% KT Social Loss Impact Valuation FY 2016 KT Social Profit Impact Valuation FY 2016 No Externalties Environmental Impacts Unit Result P&L % No Externalties Environmental Impacts Unit Valuation Factor Result P&L % Employee welfare fund KRW 31,600,000,000 8.22% Safety & security services KRW Sales increase 33,700,000,000 8.84% Designated donation KRW 20,009,201,470 5.20% P1 Social ICT services Caring service for seniors who live alone KRW Sales increase 10,000,000,000 2.62% Legal donation KRW 11,396,284,430 2.96% Sub-total KRW 43,700,000,000 11.47% L1 Social donations Undesignated donation KRW 104,751,360 0.03% Expansion of regional ICT infrastructure KRW 950,000,000 0.25% Others KRW 230,066,000 0.06% Local publicity, tour and population inflow KRW 1,190,000,000 0.31% Sub-total KRW 63,340,303,260 16.47% Public system Improvement of regional education, culture, economy, medical treatment, and environment KRW 1,147,000,000 0.30% P2 IT Sharing for local community KRW 4,002,000,000 1.04% improvements Creation of similar business from government KRW Sales increase 3,700,000,000 0.97% GiGA Story KRW 2,996,000,000 0.78% IoT test bed complex project order KRW Sales increase 7,500,000,000 1.97% Support children and vulnerable class KRW 2,273,000,000 0.59% Sub-total KRW 14,487,000,000 3.80% Social contribution L2 Culture, art, and sports KRW 6,195,000,000 1.61% Rate reduction for the handicapped KRW Cost reduction 100,122,000,000 26.27% costs Love sharing fund KRW 1,100,000,000 0.29% Rate reduction for low-income bracket KRW Cost reduction 53,934,000,000 14.15% Digital inclusion Scholarship business KRW 1,204,000,000 0.31% P3 Rate reduction for patriots and veterans KRW Cost reduction 8,316,000,000 2.18% impacts Sub-total KRW 17,770,000,000 4.62% Rate reduction for welfare institutes KRW Cost reduction 372,000,000 0.10% Rate reduction for the handicapped KRW 100,122,000,000 26.04% Sub-total KRW 162,744,000,000 42.71% Rate reduction for low-income bracket KRW 53,934,000,000 14.03% Condition development of new product KRW 6,000,000 0.00% Digital inclusion L3 Rate reduction for patriots and veterans KRW 8,316,000,000 2.16% Performance sharing system KRW 1,945,000,000 0.51% costs Rate reduction for welfare facilities KRW 372,000,000 0.10% Provision of patent and technology KRW 104,000,000 0.03% Sub-total KRW 162,744,000,000 42.32% Supply chain Joint R&D with SMEs and develop a new product KRW 19,496,000,000 5.12% P4 capability Direct financial support for suppliers KRW 56,392,000,000 14.67% improvements Provision of technology development infrastructure free of cost KRW 1,129,000,000 0.30% Supply chain support Mixed financial support for suppliers KRW 59,500,000,000 15.47% Partner's Fair commercialization of new technology KRW 6,057,000,000 1.59% L4 costs Special financial support for suppliers KRW 17,322,000,000 4.50% Indirect financial support for suppliers KRW 94,527,000,000 24.81% Sub-total KRW 133,214,000,000 34.64% Sub-total KRW 123,264,000,000 32.35% Donation for Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center KRW 6,111,000,000 1.59% Assistance for suppliers to penetrate global market through supporting overseas exhibitions KRW Sales increase 17,441,000,000 4.58% Start-up support L5 Donation for Incheon Creative Economy Innovation Center KRW 1,350,000,000 0.35% Increase revenue through joint participation of 'CommunicAsia 2016' in Singapore KRW Sales increase 6,000,000,000 1.57% costs Sub-total KRW 7,461,000,000 1.94% Supply chain Increase revenue through joint participation of 'ITU Telecom World 2016' KRW Sales increase 5,477,000,000 1.44% P5 Total KRW 384,529,303,260 100.00% value creation Advancement into overseas markets through consortium KRW Sales increase 6,442,000,000 1.69% Support suppliers for market penetration through Group open market KRW Sales increase 1,500,000,000 0.39% Sub-total KRW 36,860,000,000 9.67% Total KRW 381,055,000,000 100.00% 80. 81. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Performance of Group Since joined the UN Global Compact in 2015, BC card has faithfully complied with the ten principles in the four areas of human kt skylife increases its value as a sustainable company based on the core values: customer first, shared growth management rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We will endeavor to develop into a corporate citizen who fulfills and right-path management. Since joined the UN Global Compact in 2016, kt skylife has faithfully complied with the ten princithe international ethical standards by delivering the principles of UN Global Compact throughout its entire business activities. ples in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Furthermore, we are endeavoring to apply the ten principles throughout the entire business activities. Thank you. BC card CEO Jong-Jin Chae kt skylife CEO Nam-ki Lee · C ertification of excellent company with work-life balance of Seoul · Protect human rights under the principle of ethical management, 'Fulfill Human Rights Principles Regional Ministry of Employment and Labor (December 2015) Human Rights Principles Our Social Responsibility and Duty as a Korea's Representative Company' · Family day · Support digital inclusion and isolated neighborhood through 'Together S  upport employees to reduce conflict between work and family by skylife' campaign by newly established social contribution dedicated team encouraging to leave the office on time every Wednesday  [Antenna of Love] Provide UHD TV and skylife UHD set-top box for free to and · Psychological consultation for employees support monthly bill to the residents in the remote place and cultural underpriviSupport problem solving and mental health promotion for employees leged groups · Knock Consultation (Grievance handling) [ Children of Love] Conduct child supporting business through donating fund for Love Antenna (Kyodong Island) Listen actively and resolve employee's grievance hospital construction, volunteer activity for caring child patient, cultural experi· Education to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace ence for neglected children (once a year) [ Volunteer Group of Love] Conduct regular volunteer activity more than once a month by launching an employee volunteer group  Guarantee labor union activity and collective bargaining Labor Principles · Admit the establishment of labor union and guarantee the autonomy and  Operate full-time labor union employee system Labor Principles independence of union activity and operation in accordance with Article 8  Operate diverse communication channels such as labor & management of the collective bargaining council (quarterly), labor & management sharing workshop, labor & · Stipulate articles regarding gender equality and maternity protection in Children of Love management harmony training the collective bargaining to create equal organizational culture without (MOU with the Purme Foundation)  Enforce forty-working hours a week discrimination on employment and work  Enforce shortened working hour for a pregnant woman ·R  einforce shared growth relationship between labor and management by operating labor & management council for continuous cooperation and · Paperless business communication regard company's sensible operation and benefits of labor Environment Principles U  se the reduced cost of not issuing paper receipt for credit card by turning into ·P  rovide diverse welfare systems for employees' beautiful life environmental fund for environment protection and expansion of foundation P rovide recreational facilities, support medical cost, grant scholarship for for environment-friendly consumption and for tree planting activity to prevent education and medical check-ups desertification · Create  work environment that balances work and life through various · O perate and release the Green Card vacation system Raise environmental fund through the Green Card and promote environOffer various vacation system such as long-term vacation, family caring vacation, ment-friendly activities such as reducing GHG while accumulating ecomoney reward vacation for 10 or 20 years of service period 2016 Paperless Donation Ceremony points when purchasing environment-friendly products · Sponsorship of the Greenplugged Festival · Apply environment protection, prevention of pollution and efficient Diffusion of our willingness to protect environment through sponsorship of Environment Principles resource usage to ethical management principle music concert aimed for environment protection every year · Reduce electricity cost through turning off lights at lunch time campaign · Revision of the guideline for behavioral practices and a swearing-in · Purify environment near by the headquarter through the Green Earth ceremony to comply with 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' campaign with labor and management Anti-corruption · Education for anti-corruption ·D  eliver donation and Love Environment Campaign through alliance with Principles Green Korea United, an environmental organization  istribute Q&A of 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' and an explanation D booklet Tree Planting Activity to Prevent Desertification Encourage e-receipt rather than paper receipt to minimize environmental damage · Revision of practical guideline for code of ethics · Promote to create a sound and clean organizational culture based on · Ethics letter for suppliers Anti-corruption company regulation such as duty of integrity (Article 36 of the personnel For the season of New Year and Thanksgiving day of Korea, explicitly announces policy), ethical management principles and guideline Principles the willingness of ethical management and encourage to report unethical · Education for 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' annually and all behavior (twice a year) employees take an oath of compliance for the Act · Conduct survey to inspect unethical behavior for suppliers ·C  onduct 'clean campaign' during the national holiday period for transpar· Take an oath of practice for autonomous compliance of fair trade ent relationship with stakeholders such as suppliers · Internalize anti-corruption awareness of employees through online education for ethical management once a week · Receive complaints and corruption behaviors of employees and external stakeholders in a real-time base, and process transparently through 'clean365,' the reporting channel for ethical management 82. 83. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability Performance of Group kt estate joined UNGC to fortify its foundation through sustainability management. kt estate is striving to kt sat supports the ten principles: human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption of UNGC. kt sat, considering diffuse corporate-wide sympathy about the ten principles of UNGC: human rights, labor, the environment and the customer satisfaction as their core value, will fulfill its social responsibility and reinforce the trust with customer. anti-corruption. Thank you. kt estate CEO Il-sung Choi kt sat CEO Won-sic Hahn · 'Invitation of Employee Family' event for excellent employee at the local headquarter · Conduct corporate-wide education to prevent sexual harassment for Human Rights Principles Reinforce belonging and realize family love by inviting employees' family Human Rights Principles gender equality in the work place · Family Day on every Wednesday · Operate satellite center tour and experience program Support employees to reduce conflict between work and family by encouraging to Approximately 600 visitors in 2016 leave the office on time · Yongin center experience activity for Gandnam Dreamvil children · Implement the flexible working system · kt sat labor & management volunteer group, signed MOU to support intended for efficient work and family harmony by letting employees to choose their working hours Beautiful Child Welfare Center and carried out Cheerful Sport Day between (08:00~17:00 or 09:00~18:00) kt sat Labor & Management Volunteer Group, · Retirement age extension system · Labor & management cooperation program Cheerful Sport Day with Beautiful Child inspire employee's working motivation and to meet the social needs by extending the retirement Labor Principles Labor & management Harmony sports day (bi-annually) Welfare Center age from 58 to 60 with labor & management agreement Labor & management watch 'kt baseball team game' (bi-annually) · Encourage parental leave system Labor & management join 'marathon tournament' (annually) 100% of applicants in 2016 are using parental leave Labor & management a New Year's Eve party (annually) · Open Management · Reinforce communication and cooperation with labor union Labor & management council (quarterly) Labor Principles Newly founded management conference (once a month) Management conference (bi-annually) ·S  igned wage negotiations and collective bargainings without any conflict Management result analysis conference (monthly) for 4 consecutive years Family day (monthly) Labor & Management Harmony Sports Day Wage, welfare and system improvement and 8 other agendas · Improvement of Working Environment · Implement social contribution activities associated with labor, Introduce and operate the flexible working hours management and government Support residential expenditure and round-trip transportation expense for employees in remote location Gangnam-gu Office received appreciation plaques for 2 consecutive years Conclusion of Collective Bargaining in 2016 Support medical expense and grant scholarship to employees' child a nd selected as the excellent social contributing affiliate of KT group for 2 · Fair Human Resource Management consecutive years Pay-Band unification for high school graduates and university graduates · Renewal of 'ISO 14001,' which is an international standard for Conduct evaluations of satisfaction for Human resource system in a regular base (bi-annually) Environment Principles environmental management and applied to the system Reinforce gathering environmental data and management such as reduction of · Participate in Earth Hour campaign, and save energy by turning off lights of offices building energy usage, the ledger of asbestos waste, status of measured rate system, data of household waste and major recycle management Environment Principles · Save energy to reduce GHG emissions kt estate Environmental Policy Save energy by turning off lights of offices (lunch time, after PM) www.ktestate.com/Company/ Conduct improvement for unprepared subjects through ISO internal auditing and Reduce energy cost by replacing with LED lights at satellites center Environmental_Management due diligence monitoring Accomplished certificate renewal (re-certification every 3 years) with comment ISO14001 Certification · Enact practical guideline for ethical management principles that the environmental management system is implemented properly and Anti-corruption Establish ethical decision making, behavior practices and reporting procedure effectively Principles · Provide education about 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' for all employees · Declaration of environmental policy as the name of CEO · Operate compliance system and TFT for response to 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' Establish an environmental management system appropriate for international Pre-assessment for risks and modify the internal policy environmental standard in order to realize the environmental goal of 'Green Space Establish a monitoring system and a regular audit system V  alue Creator' as an environment-friendly partner of customers. Also, CEO · Write a pledge of practice for ethical management for all employees (annually) declared environment policy for environment-friendly next generation through constant environment conservation and improvement activities · Provide education and guidance about 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' Write a pledge of compliance for 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' · Integration of 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' into 'The Ethical Management Conduct education for 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' and announce the violation cases Anti-corruption Pledge,' which all employees have participated since 2013 Distribute Q&A and explanation booklets about 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' · Revision of 'Special Clause for Ethical Practices' Establish an intensive management period and manage check list Principles Revised the 'Special Clause for Ethical Practices,' which has established and operated since 2013 to Introduce an internal monitoring system (SAP) supplement regarding anti-bribery and graft in accordance with the enforcement of 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' to create sound and fair environment with suppliers In order to prevent overusing power and to build cooperation relationship, the duty of respect suppliers and other stakeholders are added · Carried out survey of 'integrity level of company' To improve and maintain the integrity level of company at domestic benchmark level, surveys are conducted twice a year for suppliers and our employees, thus insufficient sectors will be improved 84. 85. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Sustainability GHG Verification Performance of Group Statement KQA-T1702 Verification No. kth complies with the ten principles of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption of UNGC. kth KT Corporation will establish a sound corporate culture where we respect stakeholders as our partners based on shared growth Company and right-path management. kth CEO Se-yeong Oh Hwang Chang-Gyu Representative 102-81-42945 Business Registration No. · Reflect human rights protection articles in code of ethics Human Rights Principles Respect personal dignity and diversity, and prohibit of discrimination 90, Buljeong-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea (the 6 clause of article 2) Adress Duty to report unethical behavior, protect and exempt responsibility reporter (the 3 clause of article 3)  espect members in the organization and treat respectfully (the 5 clause of article 6) R Duty to respect suppliers and stakeholders (the 6 clause of article 7) · Education to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace (annually) KQA confims that the verification result of GHG emissions and energy consumption of 'Thank You' Campaign for Suppliers · Participate the world vision of NGO, the 'sharing project' above company is proper. Donate for education activity to low income class · Donate KRW 2 million for Dongjak Isu community welfare center · Deliver appreciation plaques twice for 'Thank you campaign' for suppliers The GHG and Energy Target Scheme Guidelines Verification Guidelines for GHG Emissions Trading Scheme Regulation Applied · Reflect articles of protective labor legislation in the employment contract Labor Principles Comply with working and resting hour (the 8 clause of article 2) GHG emissions and energy consumptoin reports (in the year of 2016) Protect women and pregnant women (the 20 and 21 clauses of article 7) Verification Scope Prohibit gender discrimination (the 27 clauses of article 8) ·R  eflect disciplinary action related to unfair work order and execution, stipulated in the code of ethics (the 2 clauses of article 6) Scope 1 Scope 2 Total GHG emissions & · Operate labor union and sign collective bargaining Energy Consumption GHG emissions (tCO2eq) 41,368 1,043,152 1,084,520 · Certified labor consultant and lawyer in company · Implement forty-working hours a week Energy consumption (TJ) 22,179 · Implement 'Love Family Day' on every Wednesday Day of leaving the office on time, 6 o'clock · Group vacation through labor & management agreement  xecute when holidays interspersed with workdays, before and after national holiday, E 3 March 2017 ~ 31 March 2017 a month without any holiday Verification Term · Reflect laws related to environment protection in code of ethics (the 7 clause of article 7) 31 March 2017 Environment Principles Date of issue · Trade and sell collections among employees or donate to save resource Held K-market total 3 times, saved resource worth of KRW 1.93 million · Turn off lights for office buildings at lunch time · Sales of 16 environment-friendly products based on the 'environment-friendly agriculture promotion act' · Turn off computers and electronic devices through system Participation in Earth Hour Campaign announcement · Participate in Earth Hour campaign, and save energy by turning off lights of office · Apply anti-corruption in code of ethics Anti-corruption Prohibition of solicit gift and bribery (the 3 clause of article 2) Principles Prohibition of accepting providing bribery with stakeholders (the 1 clause of article 7) Prohibition of improper solicitation and excessive demand with stakeholders (the 2 clause of article 7) · Apply obligation to comply with fair trade act in the fair trading autonomous compliance program (the 1 clause of article 5) · Educate about 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' for all employees annually Korea Quality Assurance · Write a pledge of compliance for 'The Improper Solicitation and Graft Act' annually (GHGㆍEnergy verification body 2011-3rd · Write an ethical meeting minute when holding a meeting with job-related person accredited by Ministry of Environment) · E  ducate about 'Act on Fair Transactions in Large Franchise and Retail Business' annually for employees working ※ The details regarding the rage of this Verification Statement and requirement of the GHG and at department vulnerable for corruption Energy target scheme guidelines can be obtained by requesting to the relevant organization. KQA Adress : 2Fl., Hojeong Bldg., 49, Manan-ro, Manan-gu, Antang-si, Gyeonggi-do, 140304, Republic of Korea 86. 87. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Third Party Assurance To the Management of the 'KT Integrated Report 2017' [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter the 'Auditor') was engaged by KT to provide an independent third-party The Auditor believes KT has provided an adequate response to issues of interest and concern to its stakeholders. Various channels of communication assurance statement on the contents of the KT Integrated Report 2017 (hereafter the Report ), and hereby presents for collecting stakeholder views have been made available, accompanied by efforts to better reflect the collected views throughout its reporting. The the following third party statement of assurance. Company has also carried out surveys on various sustainability issues to explore the future direction for its sustainability initiatives while identifying issues requiring greater a greater response by the Company aligned to the principle of responsiveness. [GRI 'In Accordance' Criteria] KT is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report regarding the establishment of its sustainability manThe Auditor confirmed that the Report is 'in accordance' with the GRI Standards and GRI G4 guidelines under the 'Comprehensive option,' as it Responsibility and agement goals, performance management etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its assurance reported on General Standard Disclosures and Additional Disclosures. undertaking to the management of KT. The key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any material bias or Objective [Reliability of Performance Indicators] errors present in the Report; assess whether the underlying data collection system is in proper working order; while undertaking Upon reviewing the performance data stated in the Report, which are derived based on KT's 'Sustainability Management Model,' the Auditor found in an overall review of the Company's process for identifying issues of material importance to sustainability management as well the underlying data collection system adequate and failed to find any material errors that may either bias the Company's judgment or compromise as the produced results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that can help improve the quality of future reporting. the reliability of any reported data. For the purpose of this assurance, the following performance indicators were reviewed. The Report was reviewed against the following criteria and guidelines: (1) AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)1 Assurance Type (2) Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) Standards and G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2. Dimensions of KT Sustainability Sustainability and Level -Assurance Scope: Contents of the 'KT Integrated Report 2017' by KT Management Model Sustainability Management Issues Performance Indicators -Assurance Type & Level: Type Ⅱ, Moderate level Management -Assurance Criteria:  'IPS Assurance Manual' to verify compliance against AA1000AS (2008) standard's three core principles Sustainability Strengthening Competencies  'IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria™' to assess the reliability of performance indicators Number of Wireless Users 18,892,000 Management in Telecommunications  GRI Guideline's 'in accordance' options GIGA Prosperity. Transparent Transparent Corporate 4.24 pts BoD Evaluation Score The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the reported content; 2) the reliability of the reManagement Governance (out of 5) Work Undertaken and ported performance data; 3) the Report's level of compliance against GRI Standards and G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Customer-first Managing Business Monthly Average Customer through the process outlined below. with Customers 97.4 % Scope Management as the Number One Priority Response Rate -Review of the KT's processes for identifying material issues and outcomes GIGA Planet. -Review of the Company's stakeholder engagement processes Environment-friendly GHG Emissions Energy Management 1,084,520 tCO₂eq Management (direct and indirect) -Interviews with persons responsible for each performance dimension and the collection of performance data to determine the adequacy of the reported content Fostering Human Talent Human Talent Management Training Hours per Person 63.5 hours -On-site review of KT's Head Office to assess 'raw' sustainability performance data as well as systems and processes for data collecand Developing Competencies GIGA People. tion and reporting Win-win Sustainable Supply Sustainability Management 92.4 pts -Review of underlying reference data on key economic, environmental and social performance Management Chain Management Evaluation Score of Vendors -Sample testing of materiality issues to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of information contained in the Report *Only a partial sub-set of indicators pertaining to KT's 'Sustainability Management Model' as well as core issues that have been reviewed are presented above. -Review of the Report's compliance against GRI reporting guidelines -Interviews with individuals responsible for different performance dimensions and the collection of performance data; review of the The Auditor found the '2017 Integrated Report' by KT commendable in the following respects. The Report (1) highlights the top five Limitations adequacy of the reported data Recommendations core goals of the Company, which aim to tie the strategic direction of its sustainability management practices to the UN Sustainable -On-site review of KT's Head Office Development Goals while taking into account environmental conditions, and the underlying characteristics of its business, while also -Assurance based on relevant data and information available for the relevant reporting period reporting on its implementation efforts to date for each the respective dimensions of sustainability management; and (2) reflects -Review of the reliability of reported performance data the Company's work to establish a strategic management framework centered on its top three innovative technologies, which are -This undertaking does not include data on green-house gas emissions, which is subject to a separate review the culmination of the Company's innovative capabilities aiming to establish its goal of 'Realizing a Global GIGAtopia'. -Assurance on the performance of group-companies not included. For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. The Auditor finds the Report to be free from any material misstatements or bias. -Build a representative channel for collecting stakeholder views and strengthen ongoing management and response to channel findings Assurance Findings [Inclusivity] -Set key quantitative performance indicators for each of the six respective dimensions of sustainability management in line with the 'KT Are strategy-setting and related processes for stakeholder engagement adequate at KT? Sustainability Management Model,' while reinforcing management and reporting The Auditor believes that KT appreciates the importance of engaging stakeholders in its sustainability management initiatives, -Strengthen reporting on short-to-long term strategies for resolving social challenges through KT's business capabilities in the interest putting in place various processes for stakeholder engagement with the goal of reflecting engagement findings in its business of leading mega-trends in telecommunications technologies and creating shared value. activities. KT has segmented its stakeholders into eight sub-groups, in line with the dimensions of sustainability as defined in its 'KT Sustainability Management Model,' making diverse channels of communication available to the respective groups, to better reflect relevant input in its management practices consistent with the principle of inclusivity. Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, [Materiality] Independence and has no commercial affiliation with KT that might compromise our independence. Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to KT stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? It is the Auditor's view that KT has not omitted or excluded any issues of key importance to the sustainability management activCommissioned by KT as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was estabities of the Company. Notably, KT has established a three-step process for its reporting purposes scoping of sustainability-reQualifications of the lished in 1993 and has since developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, CSR, lated issues; identification of issues of material concern; followed by validation of feasibility. The Auditor noted efforts by the and sustainability management since 2002. Company to provide more substantive reporting by providing links to the Categories and Aspects of the GRI Guidelines among Auditor others in line with the principle of materiality. 1 AA1000AS is a sustainability assurance standard developed by the UK-based Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility) in November 1999 to assure organization-wide sustainability performance and accountability by improving the quality of accounting, auditing and reporting practices in the social and business ethics domain. The revised 2008 version has been in effect since 2010. 26 May 2017 2 The GRI G4 Guideline was established by the GRI, convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. After the first universal GRI sustainability reporting guidelines for Lee, Yoon-Cheol multinationals was released in 2000, the latest G4 version was introduced in May 2013, with enhancements in supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures. GRI Chairman, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Standards were announced in Oct. 2016, with recommendations to apply to reports published after July 2018. 88. 89. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix Global GRI Sustainability Partnerships Standards Index To fulfll its role and responsibility as a sound corporate citizen, KT signed the UN Global Compact in 2010. GRI GRI G4 GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs Alignment UN Global Compact KT proactively upholds the ten major principles in four major sectors including human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption throughout overall management practices and strives to create socially shared value such as 1. General Standard Disclosures the mutual cooperation, job creation, and protection of the socially vulnerable. Strategy & G4-1 GRI 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4-5 Analysis G4-2 GRI 102-15 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4-5,32-33 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES Organizational G4-3 GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 6 Profile G4-4 GRI 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6-7, 15 Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. G4-5 GRI 102-3 Location of organization's headquarters 6 Human Rights Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are G4-6 GRI 102-4 6 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 GRI 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. G4-8 GRI 102-6 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries) 6-7 Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. G4-9 GRI 102-7 Scale of the reporting organization 6,24,56 Labor Standards Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. c. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender d. Total workforce by region and gender G4-10 GRI 102-8 e. Whether a substantial portion of the organization's work is performed by workers who are legally recognized 56 UNGC 6, SDG 8 Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors Environment Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. f. Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environment-friendly technologies. agricultural industries) G4-11 GRI 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 62 UNGC 3, SDG 8 G4-12 GRI 102-9 Describe the organization's supply chain 71-75 Anti-corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-13 GRI 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership or its supply chain 6-7 G4-14 GRI 102-11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 32-33 UN Sustainable Development Goals are the global midto long-term development plan of the United Nations UN Sustainable consisting of total 17 goals. It is being executed in order to solve economic, environmental, and social problems G4-15 GRI 102-12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 30, 59 Development Goals around the globe for the upcoming 15 years, from 2016 to 2030. Faithfully endorsing the UN SDGs for a better G4-16 GRI 102-13 Memberships in associations 91 future of the Earth, KT has been concentrating every effort participating in the realization of the Goals through Identified Material a. List all entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents Aspects & G4-17 GRI 102-45 b. Whether any entity included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not 77 the innovative technology and convergence service. KT supports the new UN Sustainable Development Goals Boundaries covered by the report by striving to accomplish the five key goals closely related to the ICT industry. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-18 GRI 102-46 24-25 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 GRI 102-47 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 24 THE FIVE KEY UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS G4-20 GRI 103-1 The Aspect Boundary within the organization 25 G4-21 GRI 103-1 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization 25 UN SDGs 04 UN SDGs 07 UN SDGs 08 UN SDGs 09 UN SDGs 11 Quality Education Affordable and Decent Work and Industry, Innovation Sustainable Cities and G4-22 GRI 102-48 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements About this report Clean Energy Economic Growth and Infrastructure Communities G4-23 GRI 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries N/A Ensuring inclusive Ensuring access Pursuing peaceful Upgrading industries to Making sustainable cities Stakeholder G4-24 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 25 and quality education to sustainable energy and inclusive society make them sustainable, and human settlements Engagement G4-25 GRI 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 25 for all and promote lifelong by increasing the share and system for sustainable with increased resourceby ensuring access to learning by 2030 of renewable energy development by 2030 use efficiency and greater housing, providing access G4-26 GRI 102-43 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 25 and doubling the global adoption of clean and to transport systems, rate of improvement in sound technologies and and enhancing urbanization Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 GRI 102-44 25 energy efficiency by 2030 industrial processes by by 2030 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 2030 Report Profile G4-28 GRI 102-50 Reporting period About this report G4-29 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent previous report June 2016 KT has proclaimed its endorsement of UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights that was adopted G4-30 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual UN Guiding Principles at the 17th UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in June 2011; based on the Principles, KT developed a 'KT Human G4-31 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 97 on Business and Rights Exposure Assessment Framework' in 2013 and thus has analyzed the exposure to human rights risks at a. 'In accordance' option the organization has chosen GRI 102-54 Human Rights all domestic and overseas sites every year preventing human rights violations. The Framework includes the due G4-32 GRI 102-55 b. GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below) 30,90-91 c. Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use diligence process for three pillars of Policy Commitment, Operational Requirements, and Remediation; the due GRI 102-56 of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be 'in accordance' with the Guidelines diligence process covers the identification of potential human rights issues, identifcation of vulnerable groups, a. Organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any and mitigation actions. The 2016 results of human rights exposure assessment for total 14 countries where KT external assurance provided G4-33 GRI 102-56 90-91 generated revenues, conducted sales activity, and procured products and services are as following: c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers d. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report 1) Proportion of revenues from high-risk countries: 0.90% of total revenues Uzbekistan 0.51%, Bangladesh 0.23%, Angola.12%, Governance 22, 26-27, G4-34 GRI 102-18 Governance structure of the organization Turkey 0.02%, Singapore 0.01%, China 0.01%, etc 45, 64 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance 2) Proportion of product procurements from high-risk countries: 5.37% of total revenues China 5.37% G4-35 GRI 102-19 22 body to senior executives and other employees. 3) Proportion of service procurements from high-risk countries: 1.94% of total service procurement China 1.11%, Bangladesh 0.83% Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for G4-36 GRI 102-20 26-27 economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. 4) Proportion of revenues from countries with violent conflicts: 0% of total revenues 90. 91. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GRI Standards Index GRI GRI G4 GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs Alignment GRI GRI G4 GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs Alignment 1. General Standard Disclosures Environmental Governance Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, Materials G4-EN1 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume N/A G4-37 GRI 102-21 environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the 22, 45, 64 SDG 16 highest governance body G4-EN2 GRI 301-2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 46-47 G4-38 GRI 102-22 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 26-27 SDG 5, 16 Energy G4-EN3 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 47 UNGC 7, 8, SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function G4-39 GRI 102-23 27 SDG 16 within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement) G4-EN4 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 47 UNGC 7, 8, SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria G4-40 GRI 102-24 27 SDG 5, 16 used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-EN5 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 47 UNGC 8, SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report G4-41 GRI 102-25 27 SDG 16 G4-EN6 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 48-51 UNGC 8, 9, SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders Report the highest governance body's and senior executives' roles in the development, approval, and updating G4-EN7 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 48-51 UNGC 8, 9, SDG 7, 8, 11, 12, 13 G4-42 GRI 102-26 of the organization's purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, 26-28 environmental and social impacts. Water G4-EN8 GRI 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 47 UNGC 7, 8, SDG 6 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest overnance body's collective knowledge of economic, G4-43 GRI 102-27 26-27 G4-EN9 GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 47 UNGC 7, 8, SDG 6 environmental and social topics. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of G4-EN10 GRI 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 47 UNGC 8, SDG 6, 8, 12 G4-44 GRI 102-28 28 economic, environmental and social topics Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Report the highest governance body's role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and G4-EN11 GRI 304-1 N/A G4-45 GRI 102-29 social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body's role in the implementation of due 28 SDG 16 value outside protected areas diligence processes Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of Report the highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management G4-EN12 GRI 304-2 N/A G4-46 GRI 102-30 33 high biodiversity value outside protected areas processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Report the frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, G4-EN13 GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored N/A UNGC 8, SDG 6, 14, 15 G4-47 GRI 102-31 33 and opportunities. Total number of IUCN RED list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report and G4-EN14 GRI 304-4 N/A G4-48 GRI 102-32 26-27 operations, by level of extinction risk ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Emissions G4-EN15 GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 46 UNGC 7, 8, SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 G4-49 GRI 102-33 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 33 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and G4-EN16 GRI 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 46 UNGC 7, 8, SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 G4-50 GRI 102-34 62 the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-51 GRI 102-35 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 28 G4-EN17 GRI 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (Scope3) 46 UNGC 7, 8, SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining G4-EN18 GRI 305-4 Greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions intensity 46 UNGC 8, SDG 13, 14, 15 G4-52 GRI 102-36 remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the 28 remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-EN19 GRI 305-5 Reduction of Greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions 48-49 UNGC 8, 9, SDG 13, 14, 15 G4-53 GRI 102-37 Report how stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration 25 SDG 16 G4-EN20 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances(ODS) N/A UNGC 7, 8, SDG 3, 12 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-54 GRI 102-38 28 operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. G4-EN21 GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions N/A UNGC 7, 8, SDG 3, 12, 14, 15 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual G4-55 GRI 102-39 in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all 28 Effluents & Waste G4-EN22 GRI 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination 47, 51 employees in the same country. G4-EN23 GRI 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 47, 51 UNGC 8, SDG 3, 6, 12 Ethics & Integrity Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, G4-56 GRI 102-16 29 UNGC 10, SDG 16 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation G4-EN24 GRI 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A UNGC 8, SDG 3, 6, 12, 14 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to G4-57 GRI 102-17 29-30 UNGC 10, SDG 16 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Weight of trnasported, imiported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the BASEL G4-EN25 GRI 306-4 47, 51 UNGC 8 Convention Annex I, II, III, AND VIII, and percentage of transported wasted shipped internationally Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters G4-58 GRI 102-17 29-30 UNGC 10, SDG 16 related to organizational integrity Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the G4-EN26 GRI 306-5 N/A 2. Specific Standard Disclosures organization's discharges of water and runoff Disclosures on GRI 103-1 a. Why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material Products & G4-EN27 NA Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 48-51 UNGC 7, 8, 9, SDG 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15 management G4-DMA GRI 103-2 b. How the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts 24-25 Services approach (DMA) GRI 103-3 c. Evaluation of the management approach G4-EN28 GRI 301-3 Percnetage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A UNGC 8, SDG 8, 12 Economic Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental G4-EN29 GRI 307-1 53 UNGC 8, SDG 8, 16 Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee wages and benefits, laws and regulations G4-EC1 GRI 201-1 32 SDG 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 Performance payments to providers of capital, payments to government Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization's G4-EC2 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 24 UNGC 7, SDG 13 G4-EN30 NA 46, 49 UNGC 8, SDG 11, 13 operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EC3 GRI 201-3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 62 Environmental G4-EC4 GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government N/A Investments G4-EN31 NA Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 51 Market Presence G4-EC5 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 58 Supplier G4-EN32 GRI 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enivronmental criteria 71 UNGC 8 G4-EC6 GRI 202-2 Propertion fo senior management hired from the local community at significat locations of operation N/A UNGC 6 Environmental Indirect Economic G4-EC7 GRI 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 25, 68, 75 SDG 2, 5, 7, 9 G4-EN33 GRI 308-2 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 71 UNGC 8, SDG 15 Impacts G4-EC8 GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 24 SDG 8, 10, 17 Environmental Grievance Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Procurement G4-EN34 GRI 103-2 53 UNGC 8 G4-EC9 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 72-75 SDG 12 Mechanisms mechanisms Procedures 92. 93. KT Integrated Report 2017 Intro Special Feature GiGA Prosperity GiGA Planet GiGA People Appendix GRI Standards Index GRI GRI G4 GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs Alignment GRI GRI G4 GRI Standards Contents Page & Remarks UN SDGs Alignment Labor Practices & Decent Work Society Employment G4-LA1 GRI 401-1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 56 UNGC 6, SDG 5, 8 Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development G4-SO1 GRI 413-1 64-65, 68-69 UNGC 1 programs Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant G4-SO2 GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 53 UNGC 1 G4-LA2 GRI 401-2 60-62 SDG 8 locations of operation Anti-corruption G4-SO3 GRI 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 32-33 UNGC 10, SDG 16 G4-LA3 GRI 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 60 UNGC 6, SDG 5, 8 G4-SO4 GRI 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 30 UNGC 10, SDG 16 Labor/ G4-SO5 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 30-31 UNGC 10, SDG 16 Management G4-LA4 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 62 UNGC 3, SDG 8 Relations Public Policy G4-SO6 GRI 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary N/A UNGC 10, SDG 16 Occupational Anti-competitive Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help G4-SO7 GRI 206-1 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 31 Health & Safety G4-LA5 GRI 403-1 62 SDG 8 Behavior monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workG4-SO8 GRI 419-1 31 SDG 16 G4-LA6 GRI 403-2 63 SDG 3, 8 regulations related fatalities, by region and by gender Supplier G4-SO9 GRI 414-1 Percentage fo new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 71 G4-LA7 GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 63 SDG 3, 8 Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO10 GRI 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 71 G4-LA8 GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 63 UNGC 1 Grievance Training & G4-LA9 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 57 UNGC 6, SDG 8 Mechanisms for G4-SO11 GRI 103-2 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 72 Education Impacts on Society Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist G4-LA10 GRI 404-2 43, 57 SDG 8 them in managing career endings Product Responsibility Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by Customer Health & Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and G4-LA11 GRI 404-3 58 UNGC 6, SDG 5, 8 G4-PR1 GRI 416-1 38, 39, 53 employee category Safety percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety Diversity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, G4-PR2 GRI 416-2 53 G4-LA12 GRI 405-1 56 UNGC 6, SDG 5, 8 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Product & Service Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service information G4-PR3 GRI 417-1 31 SDG 12 Equal Pay for Labeling and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Women & Men G4-LA13 GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 56 UNGC 6, SDG 8, 10 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service G4-PR4 GRI 417-2 30-31 SDG 16 information and labeling, by type of outcomes Supplier G4-LA14 GRI 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 71 SDG 5, 8, 16 Assessment for GRI 102-43 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 39 Labor Practices GRI 102-44 G4-LA15 GRI 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 71 SDG 8, 16 Marketing & G4-PR6 GRI 102-2 Sale of banned or disputed products 31 Labor Practices Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Grievance G4-PR7 GRI 417-3 31 G4-LA16 GRI 103-2 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 62, 74 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Mechanisms Customer Privacy G4-PR8 GRI 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 40-41 Human Rights Product Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of G4-PR9 GRI 419-1 31 SDG 16 Human Rights Total number and percentage of significant invesetment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses Compliance products and services Investments G4-HR1 GRI 412-3 59, 71 UNGC 2 of that underwent human rights screening UN SDGs sustainabledevelopment.un.org/index.php?menu=1300 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are G4-HR2 GRI 412-2 57 UNGC 1 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Nondiscrimination G4-HR3 GRI 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 59 UNGC 6 Freedom of Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may Association G4-HR4 GRI 407-1 59, 71 UNGC 3, SDG 8 be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to G4-HR5 GRI 408-1 59, 71 UNGC 5, SDG 8, 16 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 GRI 409-1 59, 71 UNGC 4, SDG 8 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to G4-HR7 GRI 410-1 59 UNGC 1, SDG 16 operations Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 GRI 411-1 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 53 UNGC 1 Human Rights Assessments G4-HR9 GRI 412-1 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 59 UNGC 1 Supplier G4-HR10 GRI 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 59, 71 UNGC 2 Human Rights Assessments G4-HR11 GRI 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 71 UNGC 2 Human Rights Grievance Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G4-HR12 GRI 103-2 62 UNGC 1 Mechanisms mechanisms 94. 95. KT Integrated Report 2017 Major Awards & Memberships Major Awards Award Host / Provider Date st The Most Admired Companies, All Star and 1 in the IPTV sector Korea Management Association Consulting February 2016 Winner of 2016 iF Design Award in Professional concept category as Wiz Stick iF Design Exhibition Hamburg February 2016 INNO STAR 2016-Best Innovation award in the 'IPTV,' 'Giga Wifi,' and 'Ultra high speed internet' sectors Korea Management Association March 2016 st NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index)-ranked 1 in the local & long-distance call and internet call sectors Korea Productivity Center March 2016 Winner of 2016 Red Dot Design Awards in computer & IT, industry machinery & roboticsas categories as Wiz Stick Design Zentrum Nordrhein-Westfalen March 2016 and Phone-mouse Winner of Korea Business Administration Prize The Dong-a Ilbo June 2016 Ranked 1st in the telecommunication sector at 2016 Evaluation of Korean Large Company Contributions to Country and Society Korea Institute for Firm Contribution June 2016 Global System for Mobile Communications Winner of Asia Mobile Awards 2016 in the vest mobile music app categories June 2016 Association Winner of LTE & 5G World Awards 2016 in the best service of LTE & Broadcasting categories Informa Telecom&Media July 2016 Winner of Korea Service Grand Prix in telecommunication and internet categories Korea Standards Association July 2016 DowJones (U.S.A), RobecoSAM (Swiss-based Selected to be included at DJSI World index for the 7 straight year September 2016 investment company) Winner of Korea Sustainability Report Awards in the service sector Korea Standards Association September 2016 Selected to be included as A grade at ESG ratings Corporate Governance Service September 2016 World Information Technology and Services Winner of Global ICT Excellence Award 2016 in Mobile Excellence categories October 2016 Alliance Korean German Chamber of Commerce Winner of KGCCI Innovation Awards 2016 in Chairman awards categories October 2016 and Industry Ranked 1st in the Korean telecommunication corporation at Asia CSR Ranking Asia CSR Ranking Conference November 2016 st 2016 CPLI (Climate Performance Leadership index) ranked 1 in the telecommunication sector CDP in the U.K., CDP Korea November 2016 Winner of Global Telecom Awards 2016 in most disruptive pricing strategy categories Informa Telecom & Media November 2016 Winner of WBA Industry Awards 2016 in the best wireless service innovation categories Wireless Broadband Alliance November 2016 Inducted into Hole of Fame at the Porter Prize in Excellence in CSV The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies December 2016 Memberships Domestic Open System Interconnection Association, Online Privacy Association, Safe-Net Forum, Global Competitiveness Empowerment Forum, Network Security Forum, Korean Society for Atmospheric EnviFor More Information ronment, Korean Society of Transportation, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Korea Housing Builders Association, D-AD Forum, Big Data Technology Forum, Success Economy Forum, Korean Academic Society of Business Administration, Korea Association of Cloud Industry, Demand-Response Management Association, Smart TV Forum, Smart Media ProKT Integrated Report is also available on the website motion Association, Spectrum Engineering Forum, Korea New & Renewable Energy, The Association of Energy Future Forum, Korea Engineering & Consulting Association, Korea Electical Contractors (www.kt.com/eng/main.jsp). Please contact us for additional Association, Korea Electric Engineers Association, IT Information Sharing & Analysis Center, Korea Information & Communication Contractors Association, Artificial Intelligence Industry Association, Codegate Security Forum, Korea Association of Chief Information Security Officer, Korea FIDO Forum, Korean Institute of Blockchain, Korea 3D Printing Association, Korea Building Energy Management information or send inquiries about this report. System, Korea IDC Association, Korea IPTV Broadcasting Association, Korea Investor Relations Service, Korea IT Business Promotion Association, Korea Information Technology Service Industry Association, Korea Virtual Reality Industry Association, Korea Employers Federation, Fair Competition Federation, Korea Advertisers Association, Korea Money and Finance Association, Korea Association KT Sustainability Management Center, 178, Sejong-daero, Jongno-gu, of Network Industries, Korea Association of ICT Convergence in the Agriculture and Food Business, Korea Mecenat Association, Korea Mobile Internet Business Association, Korea International Trade Association, Korea Biotechnology Industry Organization, Korea IOT Forum, Korea IOT Association, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea Listed Company Association, Korean Society of ManuSeoul, Korea, 03154 facturing Technology Engineers, Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Software Industry Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korea Food Industry Association, Korea Foreign Company Association, Tel : 82-31-727-0114 Email : sustainability@kt.com Korea Internet Service Promotion Association, Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science, Korea Radio Promotion Association, Korea Phone Bill Industry Association, Korea Information Security Industry Association, Korea Institute of Information Security & Cryptology, Korea Information Electron Communication Technology, Telecommunications Technology Association, Korea Institute of Information & Telecommunication Facilities Engineering, Korea Association for ICT Promoiton, Korea Intellecutal Property Association, Korean Society for Railway, Consortium of CERT, Korea Telecommunications Operators Association, Korea Chief Privacy Officers' Forum, Korea Association of ESCO, Intelligent Transport System, Local Based Service Business Industry Council, Defese Network Published : June 2017 Centric Warfare Forum, OCF(Open Connectivity Forum), SDN NFV Forum, Korea National Assembly UN SDGs Forum Publisher : Chang-Gyu Hwang Overseas Publishing Entity : KT Sustainability Management Center The International Function Point Users Group, 3GPP, 5G Forum, FIDO Alliance, GCF (Global Certification Forum), ITU, NGMN (Next Generation Mobile Networks), oneM2M, OPEN-O, OPNFV, UN Global Compact, Wi-Fi Alliance, WiMAX Forum, Z-Wave Alliance Planning & Design : Nstein Co., Ltd. 82-2-336-7865 96.
