2016-2017 Communication on Progress A report on BDP International’s commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Statement from the CEO I am proud to present BDP’s annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. BDP remains committed to good corporate citizenship in the global community. This report Background expresses our continuing commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. At BDP, we strive to ensure that BDP International, Inc. (“BDP”) was these principles are ingrained in BDP’s business culture, founded in 1966, and is now operations and mission as a company. BDP’s most established as one of the leading valuable assets are its integrity and ethical commitment, privately held freight logistics/ which set us apart from the competition. Protecting these transportation management firms assets and our reputation is the duty of everyone in BDP. To in the United States. We have that end, we also strive to influence those with whom we operations in more than 120 do business (including our agents, consultants, suppliers countries, including more than 115 and customers) to adhere to and embody our guiding offices around the world, and principles. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we employ over four thousand will continue to promote and conform to these values with employees worldwide. BDP People our sphere of influence. believe in delivering on the promise of service excellence, integrity, fair dealing and social commitment. Sincerely, BDP provides a range of services, including ocean, air and ground transportation; freight forwarding; logistics consulting services; and Richard J. Bolte, Jr. state of the art web-based Chairman & CEO shipping management systems. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human Principle 1 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 4 rights abuses. Principle 2 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 8 LABOR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 10 Principle 4 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 14 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the Principle 5 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 14 effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of Principle 6 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 16 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to ENVIRONMENT environmental challenges; Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 7 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 17 environmental responsibility; Principle 8 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 21 Businesses should encourage the diffusion and development of Principle 9 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 26 environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 10 -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ -­‐ Page 28 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 3 HUMAN RIGHTS 1. BDP’s Equal Employment Policy is a global policy that applies to business in all regions, in order to promote the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunities Principle 1 regardless of race, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran or any other Business should support and respect protected status. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. BDP employees are informed of the policy via training and the BDP Intranet and have access to BDP’s Equal Employment processes and mandates through the Employee Handbook and Global Code of Conduct. BDP also provides employees with an anonymous COMMITMENT hotline and web complaint form via the company intranet, to report any violations or complaints to Human BDP Supports the internationally recognized human Resources and the Legal Department. rights contained within the Universal Declaration of Applicants are recruited, hired and trained for all jobs Human Rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human 3. without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, rights abuses. gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status or any other status protected by federal, state or local PROCCESES & SYSTEMS laws. Compensation, benefits, discipline, and company Equal Employment: BDP International is proud to be an 4. sponsored programs and activities are administered Equal Opportunity Employer. We believe that diversity of our employees worldwide is a great strength of BDP. without regard to race, color, religion, age, national BDP does not discriminate in employment opportunities origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status or any other status protected by federal, state or or practices on the basis of race, color, religion, age, local laws. national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, union affiliation, veteran status or any other status Transfers, promotions and lay-off decisions are made protected by law. We expect that all employees will be 5. without regard to race, color, religion, age, national treated equally without regard to these characteristics. origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability veteran Consistent with this policy, BDP International strives to status or any other status protected by federal, state or ensure the following: local laws. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 4 HUMAN RIGHTS BDP Human Rights Policy BDP seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights impact within the sphere of BDP is committed to developing an organizational culture influence. Amongst other things, BDP will: which implements a policy of support for internationally recognized human rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. BDP maintains and enforces a Respect the human rights of all Human Rights Policy to ensure that all BDP employees employees established in the ILO’s regardless of their religion, are treated fairly and equally, Declaration of Fundamental Principles without prejudice, abuse or exploitation. This includes and Rights at Work. discrimination and other forms of abuse, in regions where US laws do not apply and civil rights procedures are not Select major suppliers, contractors and entirely clear or known to BDP. third parties based on the compliance compatibility with BDP human rights and We strive to maintain a universally acceptable standard social policies. for human rights, in accordance with UN principles and Respect the cultures, customs and values our global Human Rights Policy. Employees are expressly of people in communities where we informed about the policy, which is available to and operate. enforceable for all levels of employees, including senior management. The policy is maintained on the company Contribute, within the scope of our intranet, and trainings designed by BDP’s Legal, Human capabilities, to the advancement and Resources and Compliance teams are created to fulfillment of internationally recognized human promulgate the policy company wide. rights in the communities operating and society at large by improving economic, environmental and social conditions as well as by responsible public engagement. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Global Code of Conduct BDP Anti Harassment Policy An important aspect of BDP’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy is to ensure that all individuals have the right and opportunity to work in an environment that is free from harassment in any nature. BDP maintains an Anti-Harassment Policy which applies to sexual harassment as well as harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, gender or sex, national origin, veteran status, age, disability, sexual orientation, familial status or any other characteristic protected from discrimination under federal, state or local law. Harassing behavior consists of discriminatory intimidation, ridicule, or insult that has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment, as viewed from the perspective of a reasonable person. BDP maintains a Global Code of Conduct (the “Code”). The policy also forbids all forms of physical, sexual or The Code applies to every officer, director and employee other kinds of harassing behavior. The policy is at BDP International. We also expect that those with whom global, and provides for reporting procedures in we do business (including our agents. consultants, suppliers order to ensure accountability. BDP also maintains and customers) adhere to the Code. Our Code is an anonymous complaint form on the company designed to help our employees comply with the law and intranet, and a reporting hotline for reporting maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct. All BDP purposes. International officers, directors and employees must carry out their duties in accordance with the policies set forth in the Code and with applicable laws and regulations. The Code is available to view on the company website and Intranet. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Safe Work Environment Due to the company’s dedication to safety, the corporate headquarters in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania was awarded the Governor’s Award for Safety Through its safety committee, BDP aims to maintain a Excellence on September 18, 2015. safe and healthy workplace by eliminating workplace injuries, identifying hazards and suggesting ways to prevent them. Work/Life Balance: The objectives of the committee are: BDP values the commitment every employee makes to the organization and as such provides many benefits to Promptly review all safety-related incidents, injuries, help employees achieve greater work/life balance, accidents, illnesses and deaths; such as: vacation time, sick time, personal time, select holidays off of work, short-term and long-term disability Conduct quarterly workplace inspections, identify as well as honoring any regional government laws such hazards and recommend methods for eliminating or as the Family Medical Leave Act. controlling the hazards; Annually evaluate BDP’s workplace safety and health program and recommend improvements to management. Access to Healthcare: BDP offers access to health, dental and vision insurance. BDP also offers retirement packages and tuition reimbursement for employees who wish to further their education. Our US based Human Resource Management System provides employees access to wealth of health and wellness knowledge which allows employees to proactively manage their own medical history. Onsite flu vaccines are provided in several of our US locations. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 7 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they PROCCESES & SYSTEMS are not complicit in human rights abuses. Violation of Business Ethics, Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy, Child Labor Policy, Equal Employment Policy or AntiHarassment Policy: COMMITMENT Any violation of applicable law or any deviation At BDP, we pride ourselves on our people, processes from the standards embodied in the Code will result and technology that reach beyond simply delivering in disciplinary action, up to and including our business services. To provide the finest service termination. Disciplinary action may also apply to experience in the world, BDP emphasizes the values of an employee’s supervisor who directs or approves accountability, customer care and enduring the employee’s improper actions, or is aware of those actions but does not act appropriately to relationships in all regions where we have operations. These values are consistent with our culture of correct them. In addition to imposing its own supporting human rights. We uphold the discipline, BDP International may also bring internationally recognized human rights contained suspected violations of law to the attention of the within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and appropriate law enforcement personnel. BDP encourages employees to notify Human Resources seek to avoid complicity in human rights abuses, and combat them however we can. BDP also maintains if a situation arises that may with this policy. separate policies to reinforce our stance against child Additionally, BDP maintains a hotline and intranet labor, harassment and human rights violations based complaint form which allows employees to respectively. report violations to the Legal Department anonymously. All polices operated by BDP encourage employees to report any violations to the appropriate supervising authority. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 8 Local Leadership Globally: BDP has experienced local HUMAN RIGHTS leadership in every BDP location and staff who thoroughly understand local laws, cultures, business Global Talent Management practices and regulations. Industry Thought Leader: As a sought after industry Team thought leader, BDP encourages clients and employees through our various trade communications, Trendwatch, BDP’s Training, Education and Development (TED) Team TradeAdvisory, and Gateway, to maintain ethical best demonstrates that BDP is committed to investing in its practices in all regions of the world. BDP also participates most important asset, our people, by having global in and hosts events geared towards industry issues, responsibility for the education and development of all externalities and ethics. For example, in 2015 and 2016 employees. BDP was recently honored by the Corporate we co-organized the Ethisphere Oil and Gas Ethics University Best-in-Class Awards, established to recognize Summit in Houston, Texas and we also hosted the Export/ internal training organizations and corporate universities Import Regulatory seminar in Houston, Texas; among that set standards of excellence. BDP University is used to other conferences we were involved in. administer global awareness programs such as: Hotline: In the event that employees become aware of Hazardous Materials any facts surrounding a transaction that might be suspicious and give rise to a violation of the Code of Industry Regulations Conduct, they may anonymously advise BDP by calling +1 (866) 631-2807. Anti-Dumping procedures, Environmental obligations, Regulatory and Legal Compliance Anonymous Complaint Form: Employees may also inform the company with regards to potential violations via an anonymous complaint form, easily available on the Government Security Programs company’s intranet site. Anti-Corruption Compliance Managing Office Politics Business and Ethics Risk Management Effective Emergency Management Ethical Leadership 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 9 LABOR STANDARDS PROCCESES & SYSTEMS Principle 3 Pay: BDP follows minimum pay requirements in each Businesses should uphold the freedom of location we operate and offers competitive industry association and the effective recognition compensation. of the right to collective bargaining. Performance Management: Each year, BDP publishes Key Performance Indicators for the entire global organization. These indicators are communicated COMMITMENT clearly and swiftly throughout the organization, and each employee is assigned personal Key Performance BDP strongly encourages all employees to own their Indicators and goals for the next year by their manager. personal career development through a variety of policies Through a semi-annual review process, each employee and programs within our organization. Through our has the opportunity to discuss their progress towards performance based processes, every employee has the meeting these goals within the annual timeframe and ability to re-negotiate their positions and wages during the communicate their expectation for increased review period. Performance reviews and internal job responsibility and/or salary requirements. postings are used to incentivize career development and personal growth for all BDP personnel. Employee Classification: BDP classifies employees under applicable employee categories for the region in Further, BDP maintains assistance programs, such as which they operate (ex. exempt/non-exempt). All relocation assistance, and polices for accommodating employees have a service date associated with their emergencies or other employee needs, for example in the date of hire that governs their eligibility for various case of disability. “Flextime” or flexible working hours are benefits such as vacation accrual rates, service also available upon necessity and management approval, recognition and participation in retirement plans. and performance reviews are conducted with employees Further, employees have the opportunity to apply for every six months, to allow for the discussion of any internal job postings, transfers and promotions within employment related issues. BDP. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 10 LABOR STANDARDS Mentoring Program: Being a privately held, family DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES owned company that values personal relationships, BDP has historically used informal mentoring and networking throughout the organization. BDP’s structured Mentoring Behavior Competencies Program varies vastly from informal mentoring as it is focused solely on the leadership development of a small group of high potential employees identified by management. The purpose of the Mentoring Program at Individual Development BDP is to foster career development and share career Tools experiences between management and high potential employees. The long-term goals of the Mentoring Program are to: Succession Planning Identify and reward high potential 1. employees within the organization by providing them with personal attention and guidance from BDP management; Performance Development Lay the foundation for a succession 2. plan throughout the organization; Training Improve morale and job satisfaction of 3. high potential employees; Establish a culture that values career 4. development and networking while fostering trust throughout the organization; & 5. Aid in retention and recruitment of high potential employees. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 11 LABOR STANDARDS Leadership Development Program: The goal of PROGRAM FEATURES BDP’s Leadership Development Program (LDP) is to cultivate the next generation of leadership at BDP through a series of leadership Challenging Experiences development courses, networking opportunities and educational classes. 70% Developmental Relationships PARTICIPANT EXPECTATIONS 20% Assume greater responsibility and authority, making decisions having a Training significant impact on business. 10% Demonstrate value and impact across the organization. Actively and visibly be a talent developer, creating a learning environment. Take ownership of personal involvement in program and success. Seek and apply feedback, gain selfawareness, leverage mistakes. Model high levels of consistency and professionalism. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 12 LABOR STANDARDS The LDP includes FOUR Major OpportuniFes: Leadership Boot Camp Week: BDP University: BDP’s Corporate University helps One week consisting of intensive leadership keep employees up-to-date on the latest development training delivered at the Global transportation and logistics issues, regulations and Corporate Headquarters, with training designed by best practices. A personalized curriculum with live Dale Carnegie. classroom sessions, online webinars and self-paced “on demand” courses assists staff in professional and Leadership Development Specific BDP University personal development. Training is available for legal, Courses: technical, industry specific and other education A series of courses and presentations conducted by topics, which will be of use in assisting employees on Senior Management designed to help enhance the skill the job. sets of BDP’s future leaders as they prepare for the next level of responsibility at BDP. These courses are available on BDP’s online learning platform, BDP University. Capstone Project: Employees identify an opportunity to better BDP, and then develop a business case study to implement that project. Networking: A strong network is essential for all leaders. All participants in this program meet with executive leadership of the company in both formal and informal settings in order to discuss their path within the company. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 13 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 4 BDP maintains an anonymous complaint form on its intranet website to ensure accountability with our The elimination of all forms of forced and ethical mandate, as well as a complaint hotline. compulsory labor. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor. BDP adheres to all social and labor obligations to support its employees globally. These obligations include, but are not limited to, employee medical benefits, family and medical leave, term disability benefits and paid vacation; consistent with requirements of each jurisdiction. Also see Principles 2 and 3. BDP also offers employees flexible working COMMITMENT hours upon management approval, safety policies at BDP fully complies with the Child Labor provisions of the the work place, sick leave, personal leave and other Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable state statutes, social/life insurance benefits for eligible employees. which govern the employment of minors. Further, to combat exploitation and abuse at home and abroad, BDP maintains a Global Code of Conduct. BDP also maintains an Equal Employment PROCCESES & SYSTEMS Policy, Human Rights Policy, a policy against Child Policy: BDP requires that all employees and Labor and an Anti-Harassment Policy. All staff is representatives shall recognize the U.N. Convention on notified and trained with regards to these policies, the Rights of the Child, and that its business partners and are accountable for adherence to them and the comply with all relevant national and international laws, Code of Conduct. regulations and provisions applicable in the country of Violations can lead to disciplinary action such as operation. Employees and partners obliged to take the probation, suspension and other penalties, up to appropriate measures to ensure that no child labor termination. BDP encourages all agents, customers and occurs at their place of operation. subcontractors to follow these policies as well. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 14 LABOR STANDARDS Each office manager shall effectively communicate to all of its employees, as well as to its own local agents, the content of BDP’s Policy, and ensure that all measures required are implemented accordingly. Background checks: BDP conducts background checks prior to hire to ensure Office Managers and all of BDP’s business minimum age requirements are met for all employees. partners are instructed to take appropriate measures to ensure that no child labor occurs at BDP maintains an active policy against child labor. All their place of operation. staffed are notified and trained with regards to the policy, and are accountable for adherence to it, as well as the Code of Conduct. The Child Labor Policy is easily Instructions include: accessible on BDP’s Intranet. Violations can lead to disciplinary actions such as probation, suspension and Never employ underage workers (i.e. workers other penalties, up to termination. BDP encourages all below 15 years of age or any higher age agents, customers and subcontractors to follow these prescribed by local laws and regulations). policies as well. Verify the age of all employees and anyone carrying out work for BDP against official documents. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 15 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Anti-Harassment Policy: An important aspect of BDP International’s Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Harassment, Diversity and Cultural Human Rights Policy is to ensure that all individuals have the right and opportunity to work in an environment Sensitivity Training: BDP conducts on-going training for all employees to that is free from harassment of any nature. Harassment in any form including that of employees, applicants for ensure that BDP maintains a workplace free from all employment, temporary employees, temporary forms of harassment. agency workers, vendors, maintenance workers or customers is unacceptable conduct that is not Harassment Complaint Procedure: tolerated by BDP. BDP encourages the prompt reporting of complaints or concerns so that rapid and constructive action can be This policy applies to harassment on the basis of race, taken. All allegations of harassment are investigated color, religion, gender, national origin, veteran status, promptly and in as confidential a manner as is age, disability, sexual orientation, familial status or any consistent with effective investigation. BDP will take other characteristic protected from discrimination appropriate corrective action when warranted. BDP under law. Employees are notified about the policy encourages all employees to assist in maintaining a and trained about its requirements through BDP harassment-free workplace. Anonymous reporting is University courses and the employee handbook. The possible through BDP’s intranet site and/or hotline. policy is also approved by the Board of Directors and is reviewed and updated annually. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 16 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 To support BDP’s environmental commitment, a structure has been established to ensure all Businesses should support a precautionary initiatives are completed effectively and approach to environmental challenges. successfully. BDP’s Sustainability Manager is responsible for maintaining, improving and communicating all of BDP’s sustainability initiatives. BDP’s Sustainability Program is comprised of internal, external and global community initiatives. BDP is committed to being an industry leader in corporate The Sustainability Manager stays current on all sustainability. BDP seeks to operate in an environmentally industry developments to keep BDP and its responsible manner through education and compliance, stakeholders informed and prepared for any with sustainability at the forefront of daily business regulatory or industry changes that may occur. practices. The global shipping industry is responsible for approximately three percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions. BDP’s current Environmental, Health and Safety These emissions will continue to rise unless action is taken. Policy highlights its commitment to the BDP realizes the impact that the industry has on the environmental, health and safety of BDP’s environment and continuously looks for new ways to employees, customers and the global community. reduce emissions. As a non-asset based company, BDP The Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy is works with suppliers, customers and all stakeholders to approved by all board members and ensure its environmental, health and safety standards are management. In addition, BDP’s Chief Executive high priority. Officer is fully supportive and influential in shaping our environmental endeavors. This policy is communicated to all employees and conveys our commitment to operate with the environment, health and safety in the forefront of our practices. Echoing this policy are several of BDP’s programs: BDP Sustainability Program, the BDP Green Team, the BDP EHS Program and Responsible Care. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 17 ENVIRONMENT BDP SUSTAINABILITY BDP GREEN & EHS PROGRAM Sustainable action is action that meets the needs of the Present without compromising the ability of Future The BDP Green Program began seven years ago Generations to meet their own needs. and became a vital compartment within the Sustainability Program. BDP Green supported BDP’s Sustainability Program encompasses all of our corporate sustainability goals and motivated policies, programs and practices for conducting employees to create initiatives focused on BDP’s operations in an environmentally, as well as fiscally environmental goals. These goals include increased responsible manner. The BDP Sustainability Program environmental consciousness across the company focuses on internal and external initiatives; including an and the global community, in the areas of energy interactive training program for all employees, along conservation, recycling, reduction of waste, reusable with programs focused on energy conservation, paper items and ecofriendly transit. The BDP Green Team reduction, recycling, reuse and transit. To strengthen has made several advances in establishing our external presence, BDP has become a member of environmental standards in the workplace. the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG). The CCWG is a global business to business initiative comprised of carriers, shippers and logistic providers. This membership allows BDP to collaborate with peers and business partners, calculate our customer’s carbon footprint, along with the ability to review ocean carrier environmental data. Each of this areas further shape and define BDP’s commitment to society, the economy and our responsibility to protect the environment. BDP is also a member of the American Chemical Council (ACC) and the Chemical Institute (CD). BDP is a Partner in the ACC’s Responsible Care Program now in its 25th year. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 18 ENVIRONMENT Currently, BDP is proud to report the following In 2015, the BDP Green Team decided to collaborate with the Safety Committee and the Wellness Team to achievements in 2016 and essential goals for form the Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Team. 2017: The BDP Green Team, Safety Committee and Wellness Committee have collaborated to create a more Increased communication and awareness in sustainable effort in the global expansion of each 1. all offices regarding recycling, paper group. In this expansion, they will join together as the reduction and energy conservation; EHS (Environmental, Health and Safety) Team. The EHS Team collaboration allows BDP’s EHS initiatives to reach Employee engagement via monthly every office across the globe internal newsletters, social networking sites, and in person discussion to enhance BDP’s goal of corporate-wide awareness of sustainability. The main focus of the Environmental, Health and Safety Team will be to bring together the ideals and standards embedded in each area and communicate these to 2. Environmental events in 2016 included: our global BDP community. To achieve its goals and truly have a global presence, the EHS Team recruited Earth Day celebration with awareness EHS and Responsible Care (RC) Ambassadors to be events for all employees focusing on representatives for the EHS and RC initiatives. less waste and reusable items; EHS Week celebration including a BDP University Course, sponsored snack and an EHS game; Triathlon contest engaging employees to show photos reflecting completion of three activities; one in each category: environment, health, safety. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 19 ENVIRONMENT BDP has fully integrated the BDP Green Team, 3. Wellness Committee and Safety Committee into the EHS Team. In 2017, BDP will have the ability to communicate all EHS initiatives globally. 4. At the end of 2016, there were 70 EHS/RC Ambassadors across the globe and this number will continue to grow in 2017. The EHS/RC Ambassador responsibilities include: Representing your office as a member on the EHS and RC Teams. 6. In 2015, fifteen percent of office and paper supply purchases in BDP’s US offices were Having responsibility for organizing and environmentally friendly products. In 2016, coordinating all EHS and RC events and our green office supply purchases in the US initiatives. totaled sixty-three percent of all office supply purchases. These products are either made Being committed to all EHS guidelines from recyclable materials or can be and Responsible Care guidelines recycled. The BDP Sustainability training has continued to 5. expand globally after its first year. By the end of 7. In 2016, BDP responsibly disposed of electronic waste through a third party 2016, thirty-five percent of employees had taken contractor who ensured the proper recycling the Sustainability training; forty-two percent of of the e-waste. employees completed a global EHS course. Both the sustainability and EHS trainings highlight areas in BDP continues to distribute reusable mugs to the workplace and at home where employees can 8. all employees in the US. focus on their environmental, health and safety actions. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 20 ENVIRONMENT SQAS Certification in our Belgium and France 9. In 2016, BDP continued the annual “Green Leaf” 12. offices. BDP Sustainability Award with its second award winner for the innovative utilization of the document management system. This award is an opportunity for BDP employees, Principle 8 teams and regions around the globe to implement Businesses should undertake initiatives to sustainability initiatives and be recognized for their promote greater environmental achievements. responsibility BDP awarded Inbound Logistics Green Supply 10. Chain Partner 2016. Profiles companies that are demonstrating their commitment to Memberships & sustainable supply chain, logistics and Supporting Partners: transportation practices. CLEAN CARGO WORKING GROUP: Supporting 11. ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) BDP’s sustainability initiatives,]. BDP became a Certification for the below countries/regions: member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) in 2013. In 2015, BDP was elected as a Asia steering committee member for CCWG. Spain In 2016, BDP hosted the fall meeting for the CCWG in Philadelphia. Germany The CCWG is a global business initiative comprised of carriers, shippers and logistics providers. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 21 ENVIRONMENT This membership provides BDP with several BDP Responsible Care ® benefits: The ability to calculate our customer’s A COMMITMENT TO HEALTH, carbon footprint using data and tools SAFETY AND SECURITY provided by the CCWG; As a Global Leader in Chemical Logistics, getting it right Every Time is a commitment that BDP makes The ability to review and compare to its customers. ocean carriers’ environmental performances across a broad range of data; BDP Responsible Care ® BDP is a proud Partner of the American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Responsible Care initiative since 2003. Responsible Collaboration with peers and business Care is the chemical industry’s unique global -and partners to improve BDP’s voluntaryinitiative that drives continuous health, safety, environmental performance; and and environmental quality and community awareness of chemicals throughout their life cycle. BDP’s commitment to Responsible Care is an important Help influence the development of action every day in both practice and mindset. As such, tools, standards and methodologies for successful implementation of Responsible Care is a key improving environmental performance driver in our vision of Delivering the Best Global Logistics across the intermodal value chain. Solutions. BDP’s Commitment to Responsible Care ® Responsible Care aligns with our company’s Safety Culture. Since 2003, BDP continues to strengthen our chemical expertise in the Logistics Management Sector as a Partner Practitioner in the American Chemistry Council (ACC). 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 22 ENVIRONMENT 1. Global Charter Campaign: Declaring Support as We pledge to operate business in accordance a Multinational Company with the ethics, values and principles set forth in BDP launched a voluntarily Global Charter the Responsible Care program elements: campaign where employees were engaged as stakeholders. Using a Global Charter template Endorse the Guiding Principles of developed by the International Council of Responsible Care; Chemical Associations (ICCA) and select ACC Member Companies that spotlight the 6 key Measure and publicly report components of Responsible Care, BDP customized performance on an annual basis; the Global Charter and Executive Leadership signed the charter. Implement the ACC Security Code; Global Charter posters were distributed to each Implement the Responsible Care and every office around the globe. Town Hall Process Safety Code of Management meetings were organized to explain the purpose Practices; and the value generated as a supply chain partner. Team members signified their roles as an integral Obtain independent certification that a component in this worldwide initiative with a management system is in place and celebration signing of the charter, no matter the functions efficiently and in line with department or position within BDP. professional specifications. 1. A Corporate Leadership Culture Our Responsible Care Story 2. Safeguarding People and the Initiatives taken for continuous improvement Environment 3. Strengthening Chemicals Management Our organization experienced another year of growth System and enhanced education in Responsible Care. The 4. Influencing Business Partners core focus areas are employee engagement and 5. Engaging Stakeholders education. Employees at all levels and business 6. Contributing to Sustainability functions around the globe made a commitment in how to be successful in Responsible Care: 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 23 ENVIRONMENT 2. Achieved Responsible Care Management System® BDP’s 2016 entry to the award program chronicled the (RCMS®) Attestation Company’s Global Responsible Care Charter BDP North America-US is in compliance with the Campaign, which focused on expanding a safety requirements of the American Chemistry Council, culture that engages all BDP employees across 32 Responsible Care Management System, Technical countries to enhance and celebrate learning and Specification document RC101.04.2013. activities under the program. Responsible Care Ambassadors were established in every country and RCMS includes 7 management practices that focus office to collaborate with BDP’s Regulatory on Process Safety Code. Re-certification is required Compliance Center of Excellence (CoE) with every three years. Each audit is an opportunity to information-sharing and educational opportunities to continuously improve our processes and system enhance learning. controls to mitigate risk in the chemical supply chain. Standard Bearer for Responsible Care ® Globally 1. Leadership and Culture Responsible Care is the chemical industry’s unique 2. Accountability global initiative that drives continuous health, safety, 3. Understanding and Prioritization of and environmental performance with open and Process Safety Risks transparent communication with the industry’s 4. Comprehensive Process Safety stakeholders. BDP takes great pride in our leadership Management Systems role within the chemical supply chain. BDP’s 5. Information Sharing commitment to the Responsible Care Program is an 6. Monitoring and Improving Performance important priority within BDP with the focus of action and mindset as a daily practice. Further, successful implementation of Responsible Care is a key driver of 3. Named 2016 Responsible Care® Partner of the Year our vision of Delivering the Best Global Logistics by the American Chemistry Council Solutions. The Responsible Care Partner Award recognizes the superb performance and safety record of companies involved in the distribution, transportation, storage, use, treatment-disposal, and/or sales and marketing of chemicals. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 24 ENVIRONMENT Responsible Care Reaches One BDP What We Want to Achieve Employee focus on Product Safety and Process BDP will continue to expand the principles set forth Safety as a daily practice and daily habit in Responsible Care to all of its operations Generate new ideas to do things better throughout the Globe. Focus areas include Drive traffic to the BDP Responsible Care site to Responsible Care education and initiatives in these enhance education, improve content and format aspects: to meet regional needs. o Responsible Care Global Charter Process Safety… Ensures Awareness companies have policies, documented o Formal bi annual process with employee processes, and recommended signatures practices for the ethical and safe o Responsible Care Guiding Principles manufacturing, handling, storage, o EHS & Responsible Care Ambassador distribution, risk management and Network government reporting for hazardous o Educational Trainings on BDPU and non-hazardous chemicals. o Awareness and outreach to regional Responsible Care organizations to connect with BDP customers and prospects o Connect Responsible Care as a core component of a Culture of BDP Safety o Drive continuous improvement over our day-to-day operational and facility processes o Make Responsible Care and the business value generated an ongoing dialogue with BDP customers 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 25 ENVIRONMENT 4. Developed Responsible Care Ambassador Network 7. Supply Chain Value to our Customers & Product Stewardship 5. Hazardous Cargo Visibility via BDP Global Visibility o BDP People and BDP Processes are an extension to Tool (BDP Smart Suite) our customers’ chemical shipments for highest Chemical logistics involves added risk; tracking quality of product safety, compliant government hazardous cargo is crucial to managing chemical reporting, documentation and carrier selection in supply chains. In response to this challenge, BDP the global supply chain. Product Stewardship is developed Smart Chemical, a global visibility tool taking the very best care of our customers’ chemical that provides additional focus on sensitive shipments shipments throughout the supply chain. with the placement of regulated hazardous placards o Responsible Care is the right thing to do to allow for instant visibility. All relevant information is o We engage our customers and supply chain vendors user friendly, supporting a prompt response to to continuously improve processes, quality control hazardous incidents. and risk management o We continuously strive to strengthen Responsible Care activities as an integral part of a culture of BDP 6. Educational Opportunities Safety Developed and released a global course on BDP University: Process Safety 101: An Introduction to Process Safety at BDP Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the diffusion 1. Audience: Global and development of environmentally 2. Encourage all colleagues to become aware friendly technologies. of the basic principles of Process Safety and its importance in the global supply chain. All employees are responsible for safety awareness and management when it comes to chemicals. BDP’s IT Center of Excellence has a commitment, 3. Required for all employees who are involved supported by a corporate policy, to ensure BDP’s in chemical logistics – operations, facilities, risk technology purchases and endeavors to minimize management, regulatory compliance environmental impact. BDP’s main environmentally friendly technology initiatives include: 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 26 ENVIRONMENT Electronic Document Management: BDP continues its efforts to become entirely paperless via its BDP has hosted 8 conferences in 2016, with Document Management System (DMS). DMS has approximately one hundred attendees at each been fully executed in all US offices and in offices conference. All attendees could access all globally. DMS will continue to be implemented in presentation and conference information on the all other offices around the world. application. BDP has procured environmentally conscious giveaways for all conference attendees, distributing recycled pens and notebooks. BDP also In the past two years, BDP Rotterdam, BDP Colombia and BDP Philadelphia does not have bottled water at events and seminars, have utilized DMS in innovative ways to but rather pitchers of water with glasses for attendees. make their offices and processes more paperless. In 2017, we will be releasing Video Conferencing/Webinars/Conference Calls: BDP an education course to guide other has continued to increase the utilization of webinars and offices to implement DMS more conference calls to cut down on travel costs. BDP has effectively. installed video conferencing capabilities into the Paperless Marketing Communications: corporate office to enable employees to have global All marketing communications are now distributed meetings to avoid the environmental and economic electronically. Customers can register to receive effects of travel. BDP has also transitioned to Google weekly newsletters and business updates via email, email, allowing easier access to web conferencing via rather than in paper form. BDP International reduced Google Hangout. cost and paper usage by converting the BDP calendar to an electronic version for 2016 and 2017. Marketing has made several advances to decrease BDP’s carbon footprint in 2016 and will continue to expand upon these initiatives in 2017. Green Conferences: BDP has implemented a web based application for external meetings and events, eliminating the need for printed signage and meeting information, questionnaires, and end of conference surveys. This significantly reduces BDP’s paper waste. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 27 ANTI-CORRUPTION The Code also ensures that BDP maintains complete Principle 10 and accurate financial records and makes annual anti-bribery training available for all principals and Businesses should work against corruption key employees involved in sales, marketing and in all its forms, including extortion and procurement. bribery. BDP also maintains a stringent Anti-Corruption Policy, which prohibits any form of corrupt practices, whether they are bribes or other forms of COMMITMENT illicit payments. Anti-corruption training is mandatory and must be taken annually by each BDP is committed to full compliance with both the employee. An anonymous complaint hotline and letter and spirit if the laws and regulations in all web form has been created to prevent any such countries in which it operates. It is of the utmost activity, and hold perpetrators accountable. Those importance to BDP to conduct its business with the caught committing corrupt acts are subject to integrity in accordance with BDP’s Global Code of termination. Conduct and all applicable laws and regulations. Employees that witness any suspicious behavior are encouraged to report such behavior to the Legal PROCCESES & SYSTEMS Department or anonymously through the intranet or Policy: BDP operates under a Global Code of hotline. Conduct (“the Code”). The Code applies to every officer, director and employee of BDP. BDP also Appointment of Anti-Corruption Officer: BDP appointed an Anti-Corruption Compliance expects that those with whom we do business Officer who is responsible for the management and (including our agents, consultants, suppliers and implementation of the Anti-Corruption Compliance customers) will also adhere to the Code. Program. This includes the establishment, The Code prohibits bribery in any form, including: development and maintenance of the compliance program and the communication of these extortion, facilitating payments, kickbacks, political standards to all current and prospective business contributions, and the offer or receipt of gifts, hospitality or entertainment. partners and employees. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 28 ANTI-CORRUPTION We aim to ensure that all principals and key The Anti-Corruption Compliance Officer is also employees involved in sales, marketing and responsible for periodic reporting on the procurement are certified in Anti-Corruption and effectiveness of the program through the FCPA compliance globally. In addition, all implementation of a monitoring and auditing employees must participate in training annually and system to detect criminal conduct. all new employees must complete training as part of their onboarding orientation. TRAINING BDP implemented new training in line with the World Bank guidelines on the prevention of fraud and corruption. This extensive training covers the guidelines issued by the World Bank in 2015 and has BDP’s Legal Team conducts ongoing global Antibeen made available to all BDP employees through Corruption and FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices BDP University, while mandatory for management Act) Training through live presentations, BDP executives. University webinars and in person via live webinars. The training consists of a detailed PowerPoint We are currently working on an Anti-Corruption presentation on anti-bribery provisions of local presentation that will target management legislation, the FCPA and BDP’s Compliance employees within the organization. This training will Program. Employees are then tested on the be mandatory for all management annually and content in the training and must score at least an will go live in 2017. 80% to pass the training. BDP also conducts leadership and board trainings Certifications are then sent to each employee after with reference to corruption and ethical risks along training completion to be signed and with the need for Anti-Corruption and FCPA acknowledged. The certification states that the compliance. This allows executives and board level employee has completed the training and will staff to understand the intricacies of the law and adhere to BDP’s Compliance Program. All practice involved in anti-corruption efforts. certifications are stored electronically in BDP’s legal files. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 29 ANTI-CORRUPTION TRACE members include thousands of enterprises DUE DILIGENCE throughout the world that work together to increase transparency in international business transactions. Included in BDP’s Global Code of Conduct is a section on due diligence in selecting international consultants, intermediaries and joint venture partners. This section provides executives and employees with information on identifying proper business partners, required disclosures and the final approval process. BDP also maintains a vetting process for selecting subcontractors and agents. All partners must certify that they are compliant in FCPA and anticorruption. CONTRACT PROVISIONS: BDP is in the process of adopting regional and global vendor vetting policies to ensure that all The Code also has a section detailing contract business partners are compliant and ethically provisions and certification requirements for BDP’s sound. Such policies involve verifying the reliability consultants, intermediaries and joint venture of the vendor, collecting bank details, employee partners. The provisions require that all parties details, evaluating conflicts of interests, evaluating involved are fully compliant with anti-bribery whether employees of the vendor are government legislation, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act employees simultaneously and collecting their (“FCPA”) and the Organization for Economic financial information with respect to vendors. Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) Convention, along with all other applicable laws and compliance procedures. All contracts also set out BDP has been certified in anti-corruption by accounting and financial provisions, reporting TRACE International since 2015. TRACE is a requirements, disclosure information and termination non-profit organization that provides all provisions for non-compliance. members with anti-bribery compliance support. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 30 ANTI-CORRUPTION The certification terms require each consultant, intermediary and joint venture partner to BDP has been named Ethisphere Institute’s World’s periodically certify that he or she: Most Ethical Company for the years 2016 and 2017. “This award recognizes those companies who align Understands anti-bribery legislation and principle with action, work to make trust part of their the FCPA (and OECD Convention); corporate DNA and by doing so, shape future industry standards by introducing tomorrow’s best practices today. Has not violated or caused the company The Ethisphere Institute is the global leader in to violate legislation (and/or OECD advancing the standards of ethical business Convention) since the date of the prior practices that fuel corporate character, periodic certification; marketplace trust and business success.” Ethisphere Institute Does not know or have reason to believe that any other person retained by the company has violated anti-bribery legislation (and/or OECD Convention), or caused the company to violate them since the date of the prior certification; and Will immediately advise a named official of the company if the certifying person BDP is honored to be recognized for such a should learn of or have a reason to prestigious award and will continue to drive our believe there has been any violation of ethics program as a critical initiative in order to the FCPA (and/or OECD Convention) in maintain such a recognition. connection with the company’s business. 2016-­‐2017 Communica0on on Progress | 31
