COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Christensen & Co. Architects 2017 Communication on Progress Christensen & Co. Architects Executive Statement of Continuing Commitment We are pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment and support to Global Compact and the 10 principles covering the issue areas; human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our support for the principles, which are a part of the core values of Christensen & Co. Architects. We have constructed a screening tool for all stages of a project. From the early stages of settting the team to the evaluation of the suppliers. We screen potential collaborators in order to ensure Human rights, Labour rights, Environment and AntiCorruption standards are upheld. In order to show our continued focus on the isseues we are an active part of the new CSR charter for the Danish Building Industy. We believe that good architecture applies to all aspects of a building. Neither design nor function, economy nor process should be considered separately, but holistically together. Good architecture makes a difference. Architects with intention, empathy and thoroughness make buildings that actively can change people’s lives. Copenhagen 2017 Michael Christensen Creative Director and founder Christensen & Co. Architects. 1 Communication on Progress Christensen & Co. Architects The energy-plus kindergarten Kistefossdammen 2 Communication on Progress Christensen & Co. Architects Practical Actions 2016 Response to the four issue areas of the Global Compact 1. We systematically assess whether we are observing the principles of the Charter in the projects in which we are involved We continue our corporate social responsibility as a part of our risk analyses screening tools, on our projects. Monitoring compliance with the principles of the Responsible Construction charter. 2. We assess how collaboration partners and suppliers manage social responsibility We conduct screening of collaborators and throughout our supply chain. Thus enabling us to offer client advice on how suppliers perform according to international CSR guidelines. 3. We establish dialogue with collaboration partners and stakeholders We have a close collaboration with all relevant parties and labour organisations. We have a constant dialogue with Danish building industry organisations, networks, The Danish Association for Responsible Construction, as well as playing an active part in CSR events and conferences. We continue implementation of CSR optimizing models and the systematic involvement of users on our projects. 4. We work for sustainable solutions Sustainability is an integrated part of our architectural design. We consider sustainability and energy optimization equal to a building´s architectonic and functional discourse. We strive to use sustainable principles in all parts of our building projects. I.e. by the incorporation of international standards and certifications, such as DGNB, LEAD. 5. We have sound employment and working conditions At Christensen & Co. we hire architects and construction designers according to the Danish law of engagement. We acknowledge and respect the law on workers right regarding salary and work hours and the general right to have a good work/life balance. We choose collaborators who practice the same principles. 6. We demonstrate independence and anti-corruption practices At Christensen & Co. we do not engage in any form of practice which in any way compromise our basic principles of social responsible and professional practice. We take steps to inform and seek dialogue with clients, collaborators and supplier should we find conflicts of interest. 3 Communication on Progress Christensen & Co. Architects Measurement of outcome We are continously creating sustainable buildings that are healthy for people and for the environment. In May 2017 we have a new zero-energy building opening in Asker Municipality in Norway. Kistefossdammen Kindergarten – A village for children Exciting spaces organised like a small village make up the interior of Kistefossdammen Kindergarten in Norway. Child-scale spaces stimulate curiosity and the desire to explore. The kindergarten is part of the ambitious FutureBuilt programme, under which the three largest municipalities in the Oslo area work together to create climate-neutral buildings of high architectural quality. The architecture of the energy-plus kindergarten has passive and technical solutions that make the building produce more energy than it uses. The spatial design of the nursery is created to enhance movement, stimulate curiosity and motivate unbounded activity, to provide the children with an abundance of physical options. The design of the roof is key to the institution’s energy design. Along with large windows in the façade, south-facing roof surfaces are geometrically optimised to create unusually good daylight conditions, and the solar cells in the roof ensure that the building produces a surplus of energy. Throughout, the building’s spatial qualities and architecture provide an insight into how energy, environment and biodiversity can all be balanced in a modern kindergarten. Client: Asker Municipality Area: 1.360 m² Year: 2015-2017 The project is a collaboration between Lassen Landscape, MOE Norway, Henrik-Innovation and Christensen & Co. 4 Communication on Progress Christensen & Co. Architects The energy-plus kindergarten Kistefossdammen, sits on a slated piece of land, providing the children with plenty of outdoor roaming space 5 Communication on Progress Christensen & Co. Architects Spatial organisation of Kistefossdammen 6
