AFM–SUSTAINABILITY REPORT COP 2017 Conforms to ISO 9001:2015, 14001:2015, 18001:2007, 10001/2 & UN GLOBAL COMPACT COPYRIGHT ©No part of this manual may be reproduced in any form by print, photocopy, microfilm or any other means wholly or in part or disclosed to any person outside the organization without the written permission of the management. ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT COP 2017 Conforms to ISO 9001:2015, 14001:2015, 18001:2007, 10001/2 & UN GLOBAL COMPACT ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ About the Company Advanced FM delivers hard and soft facilities management services across the oil and gas, defense, residential and commercial sectors. With unique mobile expertise to serve urban and remote sites, Advanced FM delivers costeffective solutions that enhances the life of assets and maintains property value. Our highly trained employees provide facilities services from MEP to cleaning and catering to security across the United Arab Emirates & Saudi Arabia. Our Manpower strength comprises about 8,000 employees. We service over 400 facilities and 150,000 end users daily from off-shore sites to high rise buildings and commercial properties in the heart of the city. We are entrusted by the biggest names to handle multiple facilities across the real estate, energy, defense, education and healthcare industries. Vision To maximize the longevity of real estate, maintain book value and minimize risk to assets through cost-effective facilities management. Mission To partner with the public and private sector to assist them with focusing on their core business while taking care of their support service needs. To contribute to Abu Dhabi’s vision of a truly global city for trade and commerce by growing together with our partners businesses. Our Values Driving the Advanced Team from top management to the staff on the front line, are our 6 core values: Driven – We are collectively and individually driven to succeed and deliver to KPIs set to the highest standards, propelling our organization to exceed industry expectations. Engaged –We build relationships, by understanding our market needs, staying connected in the industry and securing a strong presence in the region. Excellence – We place standards for ourselves, then exceed them. That is the promise of excellence at Advanced. Innovative – To keep us at the forefront of progress, we cultivate a culture of innovation by empowering our teams to think out-of-the-box and support initiatives within the organization. Flexible – Our customized solutions are our pledge to customers. We adapt to each situation, each customer and each project to ensure delivery, client satisfaction and operational excellence. Focused – Operational excellence is achieved with a keen attention to detail and focused energy on the task at hand. Page 2 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ AFM – UN GLOBAL COMPACT – ‘Sustainability Statement’ 1.0 AFM – Corporate Social Responsibility ‘We believe in a sense of responsibility and contribution to society that defines our existence. Our business is conducted in an ethical way meeting the economic, socio-cultural and environmental expectations of various stakeholders composed of investors, suppliers, employees, customers, government and other associates. ‘We want to establish a brand of excellence, incorporate environmental practice and social responsibility’. 2.0 AFM – Sustainability ‘Mission Vision Statement’ “Our contribution is towards economic development while improving the quality of life of the workforce and their families as well as that of the local community and society at large.” Contributing to the Development of UAE 3.0 AFM Commitment to UN – Global Compact Sustainability Program: October 2016, UAE’s campaign for ‘Making Global Goals local business’ conference in Dubai brought leaders across sectors to explore transformative platforms and partnership to advance the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) shifting from the eight (8) Millennium Development Goals to the seventeen (17) Sustainable Development Goals which are expected to be realized within the next fifteen years. Government all over the world are expected to integrate these seventeen (17) goals in their national plans. One thing is clear though, the Business sector has a crucial role to play that we can no longer ignore if we are to “LEAVE NO ONE BEHIND” and “ACHIEVE THE WORLD WE WANT” by 2030. Advanced Facilities Management have been actively participating in supporting the Global Compact Local Networks focus on moving from awareness to action and doing our business responsibly to deliver on the goals aligned with our Social Vision. Driven by our determination to be a major player in the Abu Dhabi Plan 2030, we consider it our ardent commitment to provide service that is guided by our moral values and ethical standards to improve the FM service delivery system with pronounced corporate social impact. Advanced Facilities Management is committed making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our commitments are manifested through our governance, business practice and corporate social responsibility endeavors. The integration of the Ten (10) UNGC Principles in our governance, supply chain process, human resources, trainings and CSR programs establishes our focus on responsible business practices. In this Communication on Progress Report we share our endeavor in utilizing the UNGC principles as a tool for a sustainable and responsible business organization. Sincerely yours, Mr. Salah Rajhi AFM – General Manager Page 1 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ 4.0 AFM – Environmental Policy Statement Advanced Facilities Management LLC P.O. Box: 44038, Corniche Road, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Policy ‘We believe in a sense of responsibility and contribution to society that defines our existence. Our business is conducted in an ethical way meeting the economic, socio-cultural and environmental expectations of various stakeholders composed of investors, suppliers, employees, customers, government and other associates. ‘We want to establish a brand of excellence, incorporate environmental practice and social responsibility’. Advanced Facilities Management LLC is committed to protecting the local and global environment of the earth. To minimize its environmental impacts concerning our activities, products and services, we shall: • Comply with applicable legal requirements and other requirements to which the Company subscribes which relate to its environmental aspects. • To include the consideration of environmental issues in all business strategies and initiatives. • AFM senior management are committed to ensure that protection of the environment is firmly embedded in both our company’s and employees culture and will endeavor to influence its suppliers and customers in a similar strategic environmental manner. • Prevent pollution, reduce waste and minimize the consumption of resources. • Consider the wider global impact of all our activities including those of our suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. • Educate, train and motivate employees to carry out tasks in an environmentally responsible manner and ensure that a continuous professional development strategy remains core to our business goals. • Encourage environmental stewardship among suppliers and subcontractors. • To investigate the feasibility of influencing its suppliers, customers and third parties with particular consideration to life cycle impacts of their significant aspects and activities. • Encourage and enhance biodiversity and ecology. The Company is committed to continual improvement of environmental performance. This Policy will be communicated to all staff, contractors and suppliers, and will be available for the public in a manner chosen by Advanced Facilities Management LLC. Endorsed by Salah Rajhi AFM – General Manager BAS ISO 9001 CB 013 MS Date: 27 June 2016 REGISTERED Page 2 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ 5.0 AFM – Quality Policy Statement Advanced Facilities Management LLC P.O. Box: 44038, Corniche Road, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. ISO 9001:2015 Quality Policy ‘Advanced Facilities Management LLC adds value to the customer’s organization, allowing increased focus on core competencies by unleashing the potential of outsourcing. ‘ Our Managing Director has ultimate responsibility for all quality matters. He is responsible for ensuring that our Quality Management System is established, maintained, sets business objectives, meets all stakeholders’ requirements and ultimately leads to continual improvement of the business. Advanced Facilities Management LLC Quality management system is based upon the following principles: ‘Service is our Passion’ We always conduct our Business with vigour and enthusiasm. We listen to our customers develop an individual service base on their needs and seek to give exceptional service along with our other stakeholders. ‘Your Project success is our Priority’ – We provide efficient, cost effective services that adds value to the project and prolong the life of our customer’s assets by customizing a complete solution that adds value while reducing overall cost. ‘We lead by example’ We have established our vision for the company and clearly communicated it to our stakeholders. Our leadership style, through all levels of management, will be in accordance with our values. ‘People comes first’ Our people are encouraged to act in accordance with our values. We involve them in our development, value their knowledge and experience, recognize their contribution and provide an environment in which they can attain their full potential. ‘Innovation is our Drive’ – We continually improve our business by establishing an environment that encourages increased efficiency and effectiveness in our products, services and business. ‘Our Corporate Social Responsibility’ – We conduct our business in an ethical way meeting the economic, socio-cultural and environmental expectations of various stakeholders composed of investors, suppliers, employees, customers, government and other stakeholders seeking to balance investor returns with community wellbeing and environmental conservation consistent with sustainable development principles. Endorsed by Salah Rajhi AFM – General Manager BAS ISO 9001 CB 013 MS Date: 27 June 2016 REGISTERED Page 1 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ PART 1: HUMAN RIGHTS: PRINCIPLES 1-2 Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SCOPE/POLICY STATEMENT: AFM – Human rights legislation is committed to the respect of human rights as the basis for its overall approach to business. Advanced Facilities Management have specific policies that address discrimination, harassment, ethical conduct, confidential complaints and nonretaliation, and fair employment practices, including prohibitions against the use of child labor and forced labor. Advanced Facilities Management protects the fundamental human rights of employees and stakeholders in communities where we operate as expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Global Compact’s Principles I and II. In addition, when hiring staff, AFM guarantee employees’ equal treatment regardless of certain identified characteristics (called “prohibited grounds of discrimination”) that have attracted historical stereotyping or bias in relation to employment. COMMITMENTS AND ACTIONS: NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 1. ISO 18001:2007 Occupational Health & AFM maintains safe and healthy working conditions by actively working to prevent Safety Management System and reduce the risk of accidents and ensures that it has dedicated appropriate (AE-BAS-S0004052) resources to identify, avoid and respond to potential health and safety risks and to June 2016-June effectively deal with emergencies and accidents. 2019 AFM cooperates fully with the HSE team and appropriate authorities to monitor existing conditions and to contribute positively to ongoing health and safety improvements of all our employees and stakeholders. AFM has an internal audit and a third-party specialist assisting in the implementation and strict compliance of our AFM Health & Safety Policies and Guidelines. Page 1 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Heat Stress Awareness Advanced Facilities Management QHSE Dept. kick started this year’s heat stress Campaign 2017 campaign initiative on 15th, May, 2017 launching the drive by conducting refresher training to all supervisors and team leaders in Advanced Mojumaat Camp. This has been done to provide enough time to prepare for the implementation of the governments directive on the same that starts. (15th, June to 15th, September, 2017). Between 12:30pm to 3:00pm. Complaint handling policy AFM has a policy and guidelines in place for complaint resolution and complaint 2. ISO 10002 (Internal & External handling process for commercial and non-commercial activities (internal and external customers) customers) depicted on our recently launched ISO 10002 last April 2017. AFM has an internal audit and a third-party specialist assisting in the implementation and strict compliance of our AFM -Complaint Handling Policies and guidelines. Grievances & Workplace AFM Grievance procedure supports reporting work-related human rights abuses and Harassment maintains formal channels to encourage communications among all levels of supervisors and employees—without fear of reprisal—on issues that impact working conditions. AFM “open door policy” entitles all employees to freely discuss with management all matters relating to their welfare, terms and conditions of employment, questions, complaints, grievances and recommendations. Any potential Human rights abuses detected by our employee welfare are directly reported to the Human Resources Department. AFM has an internal audit and a third-party specialist assisting in the implementation and strict compliance of our AFM -Grievance Procedures and guidelines. In the past year, Advanced Facilities Management has not been subject to any legal cases or incidents involving Human rights violations. Page 2 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Progressive Discipline Policy AFM will not tolerate the discrimination or harassment of employees or visitors to company premises. The company defines harassment as negative conduct focused on a person or group of persons including, but not limited to: physical or verbal abuse, unwelcome activity of a sexual nature, retaliation, and any behavior or action which interferes with an individual’s ability to perform assignments or which creates a hostile or intimidating work environment. Our Disciplinary action may call for any of three steps – oral warning, written warning, or termination of employment – depending on the severity of the problem and the number of occurrences. There may be circumstances where one or more steps are bypassed. By using progressive discipline, we hope that most employee problems can be corrected at an early stage, benefiting both employees and the Company. AFM had no labor-related abuses in the past year. There have never been reported instances of interference with an employee’s right to collective bargaining, and this has been certified by AFM internal and third-party auditor. 3. AFM – Employee Staff Gathering and Special A balanced & healthy workplace means a more holistic environment which takes into Welfare Activities Events: consideration the physical, spiritual, environmental, intellectual, emotional, occupational and mental health of all employees. Staff Annual Party Sports Activities Our AFM Welfare Programs doesn’t just benefit our employee but also provides our AFM – Project Anniversary organization with healthy and fulfilled employees and a productive workplace that Celebration retains its employees. Staff Ifthar – Dinner Party Golden Circle, etc. Regular & on-going staff welfare activities conducted from 2014 – 2017: Annual Staff Gathering, Sports fest, Birthday Celebrations, Socio-Cultural Celebrations etc. Page 3 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Employee Health & Safety – In Advanced Facilities Management, the health and well-being of our staff is our first ‘Our employees Safety priority, and we expect all staff to take every step possible to maintain food safety and comes first’ work in a hygienic manner. AFM – Employee Health & Safety Program regulates the standards of workplace health and safety with the aim to prevent workplace accidents, injuries and diseases, and outlines consequences for breaches of those standards. It details responsibilities of employers, supervisors, and employees. This Program aims to deliver everything it can do to protect the health and safety of all AFM employees in their residence & workplace. This includes: • Providing a clean & healthy living environment in their accommodation. • Provide them with healthy and nutritious food in the staff cafeteria / mess hall. • Give appropriate training for handling potentially dangerous equipment and/or material, informing employees of potential dangers in the workplace • Setting up safe work practices. UMRA (a pilgrimage to AFM had delegated 169 employees to join the Holy Pilgrimage – Hajj / Umra from 2016 Mecca, Saudi Arabia, till date. performed by Muslims that can be undertaken at any time of the year, in contrast to the Hajj.) Training Hours required (As Increased in training hours – average 25 hours per employee from 2016-2017 compared AFM Learning & per International Standards) to 15 hours per employee from 2015. 4. Development Programs Employee Development Unit had trained about 4,424 employees from Jan 2016 till date May 2017. Page 4 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Staff Induction & Advanced Facilities Management ensure that all new employees receive timely and orientation Program – appropriate information, instruction and guidance enabling them to understand, ‘Creating the right employment, administrative procedures, service terms & conditions, organizational and environment’ context of their job. Employee Development & welfare team ensures that all new employees receive information to enable them to understand their rights and responsibilities as AFM employees. AFM has an HR Policies and employee development guidelines that supports the AFM employees learning and development needs. On Job / Off Job Training Advanced Facilities Management has an Employee Development policy which supports On Job and Off Job trainings to ensure that the basic training needs are addressed, allowing AFM employee to smoothly integrate in the operation and contribute effectively from the beginning and during their employment period. AFM has an internal audit (QMS team) and a third-party specialist assisting in the implementation and strict compliance of our AFM Employee Development Policies and Guidelines. MDP – Management AFM Leadership and Management Training Program provides an intensive executive Development Program leadership training event that explores their role as a leader, visionary and strategic Training decision maker. It provides tool for Effective Leadership, skills for coaching employees to improve the effectiveness of individuals and teams! SDP – Supervisory Development Program AFM had conducted continuous sessions of MDP & SDP training from 2014 to 2017 to Training prepare our leaders in their future career endeavors with Advanced Facilities Management. Page 5 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Our Technical Training Program relates to the skill set an individual has when working in Technical Trainings a company to complete various tasks and activities. We ensure that our staff completes technical training before entering the workforce or engage in training at their project site. Soft Skills & Personal Development Trainings Our Soft Skills & Personal Development Training gives emphasis to our employees’ abilities, training and knowledge of specific skill sets i.e. personal attributes that will help them enhance their interactions, job performance and professional growth within the company. In Advanced Facilities Management,” We don’t just train people but we develop them!” From 2016 – 2017 about 53 Technical & Soft Skills related trainings has been conducted across 1,244 AFM employees. HSE Related Training Our Health & Safety Training Program introduces the employees to many aspects of the Programs: Health & Safety at Work and is intended to help raise safety standards and awareness in Food Safety / EFST / HACCP the workplace. / First Aid / Fire Safety and etc. Advanced Facilities Management had conducted series and continuous sessions of HSE related Trainings to raise health and safety awareness for all AFM employees and stakeholders. From 2016 – 2017 about 53 HSE related trainings has been conducted across 1,244 AFM employees. AFM – Community AFM – (ADFSC) Abu Dhabi Advanced Facilities Management joined ADFSC project in giving Charity Program by 5. and Social Action Farmers Project – Charity sponsoring Ifthar meals for 500 labors during the holy observance of Ramadan. Programs Program BLOOD DONATION: Donate Advanced Facilities Management Team Blood donation campaign last October 2016 as Blood, Save Life – UAE our continuous Voluntary participation with Ministry of Health (MOH) – Since September Program 2014 till. Human Rights Celebration Advanced Facilities Management Participated in the UN Global Human Right Celebration last December 2016 involving all AFM workers & labors in Advanced Mojumaat Camp. Page 6 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES UAE National Day 2nd, December, 2016 Advanced Facilities Management fully observed and participated Celebration / Heroes in celebrating the UAE National Day with the aim of contributing to the development of Commemoration Day the UAE. As the government confidently progresses to deliver the National agenda leading to the UAE vision 2021. Seeking to develop and improve conditions in areas of justice, security, economy, environment, living standards, housing standards, education, health and infrastructure. Independence Day Advanced Facilities Management in conjunction with Mojumaat Workers City observes Celebration supports and participates in the National Independence Celebrations of all resident multi nationals. 15th, Aug, 2016 was Pakistan and India Independence Day, 1st, Oct, 2016, was Nigeria’s Independence Day. 09th, Oct, 2016 was Uganda’s Independence Day, 26th, March, was Bangladesh Independence Day and etc. ‘Rashid Centre for Disabled’ AFM sponsored half page ‘Placing Charity Ad for Disabled but Able’ book 3 with Charity Contribution monetary contribution for May 2017 Page 7 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ PART 2: LABOUR: PRINCIPLES 3-6 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SCOPE/POLICY STATEMENT: AFM – Employment Legislation is put in place to Practice equal opportunities for all employees regardless of race, gender, age and religion. AFM – Policy on Forced labor will not use or support the use of any type of forced or bonded labor, including slave labor, labor without pay, or labor demanded of workers because of their debt to the company. All workers are free to leave the workplace at the end of the working day. AFM – Policy on the use of Child Labor will not use or support the use of child labor as defined in the United Nations International Labor Organization Minimum Age Convention (138). Under no circumstances will AFM employ children below the age of sixteen (16). AFM – Policy on Equal Opportunity Employment. AFM is an equal opportunity employer. We utilize available human resources to the fullest, regardless of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, status or sexual orientation. Our policy governs all areas of employment, including recruiting, job assignment, rewards & recognitions, promotions, demotions, discipline, termination, transfers, and rates of pay or other forms of compensation and benefits, and selection for training, including on-the-job training. COMMITMENTS AND ACTIONS: NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Employment Fair & Just Recruitment Process of candidates’ accdng. to professional qualifications and culture fit Legislation / Equal 1 Opportunity 100% following the Minimum Salary Requirements – standard Offer Letters as approved by the Ministry of Labor (MOL) Page 8 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Diversification Workforce Diversification increased from 35 to 49 nationalities with 29% increase from 2015 to 2017. Staff Retention 94% staff retention increase as of 2017 compared to 85% staff retention from the last 2 years. AFM Performance Performance Reviews Regular and on-going Performance Evaluation to merit recognition of good performance Management and drive ‘performance culture’. 2. Program PR – Probationary & APR – Annual Performance Review conducted to all employees from the last 3 years. Incremental & 5% AFM’s top performers have been promoted to a new challenging and more senior Promotions role from 2016 – 2017. AFM – Rewards & Staff Recognition & AFM Rewards & Recognition (monetary & certification award): 3. • Long Service Awards Recognition Rewards Program • Employee of the Month • Employee of the Year • Star Performer Award • QHSE of the Month • Driver of the Month • Special Awards: Best Customer Service / Leadership Awards etc. • Project of the Year Award • Support Group of the Year Award AFM Rewards and Recognition program is part of our rewards offering system that engages our employees, drives business results, reduce Attrition Rate and improve our Employee Loyalty & Motivation. AFM has launched reward programs and gatherings continuously and spontaneously from the last 4 years till date. Employee loyalty increased to 94% as of 2017 compared to 90% from 2016. Page 9 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES AFM – Talent Succession Plan We establish a commitment to developing career paths for AFM employees and retain Management top-performing employees through AFM succession Planning: Program •Ensure AFM preparedness with a plan to support ‘service continuity’ when the Executive 4. Management, Senior Managers or key people leave. •Maintain a continuing supply of qualified, motivated employees (or a process to identify them), who are prepared to take over when current senior staff and other key employee leave the organization. PART 3: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP: PRINCIPLES 7-9 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Business undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SCOPE/POLICY STATEMENT: ‘We believe in a sense of responsibility and contribution to society that defines our existence. Our business is conducted in an ethical way meeting the economic, socio-cultural and environmental expectations of various stakeholders composed of investors, suppliers, employees, customers, government and other associates. AFM conducts its businesses in an environmentally responsible manner. We assess and address any adverse environmental impacts resulting from our business activities, as appropriate. We will seek to contribute to the preservation of the natural environment in which we operate. ‘We want to establish a brand of excellence, incorporate environmental practice and social responsibility’. Page 10 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ COMMITMENTS AND ACTIONS: NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 1. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Advanced Facilities Management is committed to protecting the local and Management System global environment of the earth and minimize its environmental impacts (AE-BAS-E0004051) concerning our activities, products and services June 2016 – June 2019 We are committed to continual improvement of our environmental performance. We have an Environmental Management System which is communicated to all staff, contractors and suppliers, and the public. There have been no environmental incidents in the past year and no incidents of non-compliance with environmentally friendly policies at AFM. AFM has an internal audit and a third-party specialist assisting in the implementation and strict compliance of our AFM -Environmental Management System. 2. AFM – Volunteer Clean-up UAE Drive Last 12th, December, 2016 Advanced Facilities Management joined more Programs ‘Together for a better than 100,000 Volunteers and fully participated in the CLEAN UP UAE environment’ Exercise Spear headed by EMIRATES ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP that realized the collection of more than 110 tons of waste during a nationwide Al Shahama Historical clean up drive to help in maintaining a clean environment free of soil Museum and Beach front degradation and carbon emission through reckless human activities. World Water Day 2017 Water is essential building block of life. There is close to 663 million people in the world without a safe water supply close to home. On 22nd, March, 2017 Advanced Facilities Management joined the rest of the world in putting across this message to the entire workforce and the population to reduce the quantity and pollution load of waste water to help protect the environment and our water resources. Page 11 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Earth Hour – ‘Shine a Light As part of Advanced Facilities Management Corporate social responsibilities, on Climate Action’ Advanced Mojumaat Camp on Saturday 25th, March, 2017 WWF`s Earth hour rolled across the world once again and along with millions AFM employees and workers also went dark to shine a light on climate action between 08:30pm to 09:30pm and reduced~ 3 tons of CO2 emissions. Reduction of Carbon foot Purchasing locally sourced products which are therefore reducing kilometers prints against Kilometer travelled from source to suppliers e.g. fruit & vegetables and locally sourced travelled meat such as lamb. AFM supports ADFSC – Abu Dhabi Farmers Service Center by patronizing farmers’ local crops and produce from the last 3 years. ‘Plan a Tree’ Advanced Mojumaat Camp thrives to be among the best accommodations by going green aims at reducing the overall environmental impact and takes steps to conserve energy, reduce pollution, and support the ecosystem by growing more trees to create an environmentally friendly human habitat. 3. AFM – Green Initiatives Waste Management Paper & Printing Guidelines – AFM has a program in place for Paper and Program printing guidelines i.e., Purchase and use recycled content copier/printer paper to the extent possible/practical, statement “printed on recycled paper” (or similar) as is appropriate Print only when necessary, setting printer and copier defaults to two-sided printing, encourage Printing in black and white vs. color where practical, and Use of bio-degradable (e.g. soy-based) or low or no VOC inks and toners in all AFM offices. Green Sourcing – AFM consider evaluation of our suppliers’ environmental performance and include this as one of our selection and assessment criteria. AFM focusses to screen on those suppliers that may have hazardous environmental or safety impacts. Page 12 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ AFM List and selects the principal environmental Impact for services or products purchased and ensure that our suppliers implement solutions to reduce their impact. E.g. use of biodegradable cleaning products, Use of Green Seal Products, energy/carbon efficient office furnishings and fixtures, etc. Waste and Water Recycling Program – AFM makes every effort to reduce waste generation at the source (e.g. Implement effective and easy to follow recycling programs as much as practical in every AFM Projects, AFM preferred waste contractor assist to leveraged in this effort. and arrange recycling programs for paper, plastic, glass and electronic equipment. Provisions of convenient bins/receptacles and drop-off points in all AFM projects. ‘Grey water recycling program’ (re-use of water onsite for toilet flushing), ADV-Laundry used waste-water is being recycled and utilized for landscaping. New Technology equipment introduced for AFM Laundry use which reduced water consumption from the last 3 years. ‘Shred it’ Recycling Program. For every 2 consoles shredded and recycled, One tree is saved. ‘Energy Conservation’ Electronic Equipment Purchasing: AFM conserves energy by: Effectively configuring all the power management features of all energy efficient equipment and ensure energy saving features are properly activated. Turning equipment off at night saves energy without affecting the long-term performance of the equipment. Estimates indicate 30 – 70% of individual workstations are left on 24 hours a day. (Lighting Retrofits) Application of lighting controls: AFM conserves energy by: Manual dimming of individual offices, conference rooms, and classrooms where occupants can adjust the lighting level depending on the tasks and appearance of the area. Automated daylight dimming as a lighting control strategy in spaces where there is a significant amount of natural light. Page 13 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Equipment Air conditioners, heat pumps, chillers and cooling towers all work by moving heat from one place to another. Heat transfer surfaces, such as cooling coils, condenser coils, heat exchangers and evaporator surfaces, are maintained on a regular basis to be clear of dirt, grease and other obstructions. Regular replacing air filters, cleaning intake screens, and periodically performing combustion efficiency testing and combustion rate adjustment for gas-fired heating equipment, to help the equipment operate more efficiently in all AFM projects. Maintenance of AFM Company Fleet AFM Ensure that fleet vehicles are properly maintained as properly maintained cars run more efficiently and have a lower carbon footprint. Installation of Energy Saving Computers 60% of energy saved in 2017 compared from the last 3 years energy consumption. Green Cleaning The AFM Green Cleaning initiative scope and operation process are as follows: AFM has a Cleaning standard operating procedures (SOPs) Manual addressing the implementation and management of the green cleaning initiatives. (AFM – SOPs’ Commercial and Industrial Building Cleaning) AFM considers purchase of cleaning products, equipment, and paper products in consideration of its environmental benefits and impact. Maintaining of documentation and logs for cleaning products and tools, paper products, powered cleaning equipment, hard floor maintenance and carpet maintenance in every AFM Projects Page 14 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ Handling and storage of cleaning products, equipment, paper products and disposal of chemicals Training and communications with AFM employees, suppliers /service providers and clients. INSTALLATION OF CENTRAL Installation of central hot water in the Advanced Catering – HOT WATER SYSTEM IN THE commercial/Residential Kitchen had reduced the LPG consumption to 30%. COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL KITCHEN 4. AFM Green Dining REDUCTION OF Use of styro and disposables in all AFM has been reduced and continuously Program DISPOSABLES FROM AFM campaigning for “Reduce, Re-use & Recycle Program to all AFM Clients mostly PROJECTS in the government sectors; i.e. ENEC, ADFCA, ADFSC etc. from the last 4 years till date – 2017. Page 15 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ PART 4: ANTI-CORRUPTION: PRINCIPLES 10 Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SCOPE/POLICY STATEMENT: ETHICS IN CONDUCT OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AFM – Ethics in Conduct of the Company’s Business. AFM’s good business reputation has been earned through many years of observance of applicable adherence to AFM ethical business standards. Each AFM employee is committed to these standards in the conduct of all aspects of our business. In view of widespread public concern about best business practices, AFM has adopted a formal company ethics policy to reaffirm all concerned AFM’s standards of conduct for all its business which include the following statements: “Our Business is involved in fair and open tendering process which plays an important role in impacting development in general and specifically combating transparency and corruption.” “We believe that transparency improves efficiency and reduces opportunities for fraud and corruption in the public administration by reducing red tape and maximizing use of new technologies.” AFM strictly adhere and comply with the U.A.E. Law and practices on tenders which regulate all contracts of public works, services and supplies. COMMITMENTS AND ACTIONS: NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 1 0% Tolerance of Tendering Procedures in acquiring 100% AFM participation on tendering process in acquiring projects. Corruption in all business From the last 2 years, AFM business grew from 65% to 85% generated from AFM Business continuous transparent bids. Transaction. Page 16 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ NOS. PROGRAM ACTIVITIES MEASURABLE OUTCOMES Tendering process for suppliers and It is the policy of Procurement and Cost Control department to ensure stakeholders that all AFM suppliers and stakeholders submits to the tendering process in securing fair and transparent business transactions. All AFM procurement transactions are 60% rendered by all 3rd party contracts through tendering process since 2015 till date. ISO 10001 Confidentiality Policy / Code of Employee AFM has a policy in place for professional and business ethics in the Conduct / Code of Business Conduct & workplace to ensure that all AFM business commitments are executed in Ethics an ethical way depicted on our recently launched ISO 10001 last April 2017. AFM has an internal audit and a third-party specialist assisting in the implementation and strict compliance of our AFM -Business Conduct & Ethics Policies and guidelines. ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System AFM has a quality policy in place which sets the Quality Management System standard in demonstrating AFM’s ability to consistently provide (AE-BAS-Q0004050) products and services that meet customer and regulatory requirements. June 2016AFM has an internal audit and a third-party specialist assisting in the June2019 implementation and strict compliance of our AFM -Quality Management System Policies and guidelines. Page 17 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ EXHIBITS PART – 1 / HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES HSE Related Awareness Training AFM – Staff Gathering & Special Events Employee Health & Safety AFM Learning & Development Programs AFM – ADFSC Project Charity Program Donate Blood Save Life – UAE Program PART – 2 / LABOUR PRINCIPLES AFM Performance Management AFM Rewards & Recognition Program PART – 3 / ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Clean-up UAE Drive World Water Day 2017 Earth Hour – 2017 Shred It PART – 4 / ANTI CORRUPTION Five Minutes with Salah Rajhis, Advanced FM – Construction week online magazine Advanced Facilities Management – Providing Tailored made solution under one roof – FM Today Magazine May 2016. Page 1 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ PART 1 Page 2 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ Page 3 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ AFM – ADFSC -Charity Act for 500 Labors in observance of the Holy Month of Ramadan June 2017 Page 4 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ Page 5 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ PART – 2 Page 6 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ Page 7 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ PART – 3 Page 8 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae ADVANCED FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LLC AFM – UN Global Compact – ‘COP 2017 Sustainability Report’ Page 9 of 30 www.advancedfm.ae RECYCLING PROCESS THE SHRED-IT ® RECYCLING PROCESS For every two consoles shredded and recycled, one tree is saved. Each year, Shred-it® customers with a regularly-scheduled CERTIFICATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL serviceACCOMPLISHMENT receive a certificate detailing This is to certify that the number = of trees participated in the Shred-it™ shredding and recycling program and saved trees they saved. from destruction in Shred-it congratulates staff members on the positive impact this initiative has made towards saving our environment. Thank you for Your Business. 800-697-4733 shredit.com 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Confidential On a scheduled A certificate of Shredded Pulp is The pulp is The newly documents are basis, consoles destruction is paper is made as the put through recycled pulp dropped into a are emptied issued to each transported fibers of the a screening is mixed with secure, locked and all customer. to a paper shredded process that fresh pulp to console. confidential mill for paper are filters out manufacture documents recycling. separated. impurities and new paper are destroyed. prepares it for products. the removal of printing ink. CERTIFICATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOMPLISHMENT This is to certify that participated in the Shred-it™ shredding and recycling program and saved trees from destruction in Shred-it congratulates staff members on the positive impact this initiative has made towards saving our environment. Thank you for Your Business. 800-697-4733 shredit.com To learn how Shred-it® is environmentally responsible and secure, call us at 800-697-4733 or visit shredit.com/recycling Memo To: All Staff From: BBIH – HQ Management CC: All Department & Unit Heads Date: 30 April 2017 Re: On-site Confidential Document Shredding and Recycling Service. Dear All, To improve security, we now have Shred-it, an onsite mobile paper destruction and recycling service handling our document shredding. You may have noticed new grey consoles in the office area. Please use consoles to ensure that all confidential and non-confidential material does not leek through the normal waste system from your department. All paper placed in to the console is recycled. The materials placed in the Shred-it console can include: • Office paper • computer paper • stationery • Invoice paper • letterhead • envelopes • Post-it notes • brochure • NCR paper • Colored paper • fax paper • windowed envelopes • Ledger paper • laser print-outs • glossy paper • File folders • product sheets • other office paper There is no need to remove paper clips, staples, bindings, etc. We hope that you will find this service convenient to use as well as offer you security for your confidential materials. Note: Shred-it can destroy materials other than paper, i.e. computer disks, tapes, microfiche etc. Please let us know if you have need of this service. Kind Regards, 1 In this Issue • Environmental impact – mountains of paper • Getting small and medium sized businesses on board • Spreading the word • Contact Shred-it • Adventist Health System chooses Shred-it Environmental responsibility and document security: two sides of the same coin? In this issue, we will discuss how American small and medium sized businesses can eliminate a major threat to the security of their operations while at the same time reducing their environmental footprint. The American economy is by no means dominated by large corporations. In fact – small and medium businesses make up 99 percent of U.S. organizations1. It follows that the extent to which small and medium business owners’ embrace recycling, cutting down energy use and other green initiatives has an enormous impact on the environment. At the same time, crime in the workplace is on the upswing (as we noted in our last newsletter issue), and in 61 percent of reported crimes, the perpetrator works for the company2. A main source of this crime is the theft of paper documents that have not been securely discarded. So how do small and medium sized businesses remain environmentally-friendly without compromising confidentiality and security? The answer is simple – by setting up a regular shredding program. Not only can small and medium businesses eliminate a key source of data theft within their organization, but they can also dramatically lessen their waste output by shredding, and at a very reasonable cost. 1 U.S. Census Bureau, SUSB, CPS; International Trade Administration; Bureau of Labor Statistics, BED; Advocacy-funded research, Small Business GDP: Update 2002-2010, www.sba.gov/advocacy/7540/42371 2 Shred-it State of the Industry Report NA 2013, www.shredit.com/en-ca/resource-centre 800.697.4733 | shredit.com Environmental impact – mountains of paper Every working day, the average North American office worker generates about 2 pounds of paper and paperboard products, or 90 percent of their total waste3. Clearly, paper recycling programs go a very long way towards making a business more environmentally sustainable. But as described in our last issue, recycling paper carries certain risks. Those documents sitting in a recycling bin or waiting in large clear plastic bags by the elevator are a magnet for data thieves. Shredding the paper not only ensures document security, but it decreases an Shred-it bale ready for recycling organization’s environmental footprint as all shredded paper is recycled. Shredding also improves the paper recycling process because there are virtually no contaminants (e.g. plastic or metal) mixed in with shredded paper. For businesses that use a professional document destruction company, they have the additional peace of mind knowing that their business’ or customers’ information is being destroyed on site and shipped directly to a paper mill for recycling. Getting small and medium businesses on board Success in small and medium sized businesses means having a laser focus on the bottom line. Thus a great way to launch an environmental program overall, is to conduct an audit. What are your current energy costs and potential savings from energy conservation? How much paper do you use every day, how are you disposing of it – and is your current disposal system exposing your business to document theft? The audit will not only get everyone involved from the outset, but will also help you decide on priorities and provide a benchmark to measure progress. There are a number of simple steps based on the “Three Rs” – reduce, reuse, recycle – that can kickstart your company’s conservation program. For example, paper use can be cut in half by having your printers default to two-sided printing. Lights and computers can be turned off when not in use. 3 www.epa.gov/osw/conserve/materials/paper/setting/schoolwork.htm 800.697.4733 | shredit.com These steps can generate the ‘early wins’ that keep employees motivated and on track, and set the stage for more ambitious initiatives. They include introducing policies to purchase eco-friendly office and cleaning supplies, sourcing materials used in daily operations from green suppliers, installing energy-efficient appliances, buying second-hand furniture and other fixtures, and taking advantage of government programs that offer financial and resource support to small businesses to step up their green efforts. Spreading the word “Being environmentally responsible is good for business, but not in the narrow sense of outdoing your competition,” says Bruce Andrew, EVP of Shred-it. “Given what is at stake for the environment, the community and the US economy at large, it is a collaborative effort among all businesses of all sizes”. One great way for a small or medium sized business to spread the word about its environmental commitment while amplifying the impact of its efforts, is to involve external partners and stakeholders, especially suppliers. As the program expands, the company may decide to Recycled paper is used to make other paper products. include environmental criteria and requirements in its selection of suppliers. Contact Shred-it for a FREE Security Consultation For more information or tips on combining document security with envionmental responsibility, visit the Shred-it Resource Centre at shredit.com/resource-center You can also stay informed with Shred-it on Facebook and LinkedIn or follow us on Twitter @Shredit. 800.697.4733 | shredit.com Adventist Health System chooses Shred-it for on site document and non-paper destruction services Shred-it has just signed a three year agreement to provide on site document destruction and non-paper destruction services to Adventist Health Systems (AHS), the largest notfor-profit Protestant healthcare organization in the nation. After a thorough search and selection process, Adventist Health System, a Florida-based health care organization, selected Shred-it as a supplier to service its hospital locations and clinics throughout North America. Adventist Health System was impressed with Shred-it’s focus on service, cost efficiency, and commitment to information security. With 45 hospital campuses, 70,000 employees, and nearly 8,300 licensed beds in ten states, Adventist Health System is Secure containers for safe document disposal taking strong measures to protect patient medical records. “We wanted a comprehensive, on site solution that would provide peace of mind while allowing us to service our more than 4 million patients every year,” said Jim Farrell, Director Strategic Sourcing, at Adventist Health System. “As a global leader in secure information destruction, Shred-it provides Adventist Health System with an effective on site solution for document and non-paper destruction services.” Shred-it is excited to engage in a strategic partnership with Adventist Health System that will allow them to benefit from an easy, secure information destruction solution so they can continue to deliver increasingly efficient and effective care to their patients. About Shred-it Shred-it is a world-leading information security company providing document destruction services that ensure the security and integrity of our customers’ private information. The company operates 140 branches in 16 countries worldwide, servicing over 150,000 global, national and local businesses, including the world’s top intelligence and security agencies, more than 500 police forces, 1,500 hospitals, 8,500 bank branches and 1,200 universities and colleges. 800.697.4733 | shredit.com LIFECYCLE OF A DOCUMENT LIFECYCLE OF A DOCUMENT Recycling bins may be helping the environment, but these bins create a hotbed of opportunity for white-collar criminals by leaving information exposed and at risk. By using a secure information destruction provider, information is destroyed sooner, minimizing potential for security breaches – and is still 100% recycled. TRADITIONAL DOCUMENT DISPOSAL PROCESS WITH A RECYCLING BIN 1 2 3 4 5 6 Confidential Once collected Materials Intact documents Documents are Eventually, documents are by janitorial are placed are loaded sorted through documents are dropped into a staff, documents in outdoor onto a truck for and prepped destroyed and recycling bin and are left in large recycling bins transportation to for the recycling recycled. sit unsecured. plastic bags. for pick up. the sorting facility. process. The average 61% of the Your With no guaranteed SURE, DOCUMENTS ARE office worker perpetrators in information is destruction time, ULTIMATELY DESTROYED BUT handles 10,000 white-collared now exposed information is exposed CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION sheets of paper crimes is to everyone indefinitely and no IS EXPOSED REPEATEDLY each year.1 someone inside outside your proof of destruction THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS. the organization.2 building. is provided. THE SHRED-IT® SECURE DOCUMENT DESTRUCTION PROCESS A CERTIFICATE OF 1 2 3 DESTRUCTION IS PROVIDED CERTIFICATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL TO EVERY ACCOMPLISHMENT Confidential Consoles are emptied and Shredded paper This is to certify that documents are documents are destroyed is then sent to CUSTOMER. participated in the Shred-it™ shredding and recycling program and saved trees dropped into a on-site or within 48 hours a paper mill for from destruction in Shred-it congratulates staff members on the positive impact this initiative has made towards saving our environment. secure console. at a secure facility. recycling. Thank you for Your Business. 800-697-4733 shredit.com RECYCLED AND Shred-it® consoles All Shred-it® employees SECURED! have a beveled undergo training to Once confidential information is slot that ensures achieve a Certified dropped into a Shred-it® console, it documents cannot Information Security remains secure until it is destroyed. be retrieved. Professional designation. For more information on how Shred-it® can help keep your documents secure and recycled, please visit shredit.com or call us at 800-697-4733 1. http://www.thepaperlessproject.com/facts-about-paper-the-impact-of-consumption/ 2. http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/white-collar-crime-rises-in-canada/article17058885/ RECYCLING PROCESS THE SHRED-IT ® RECYCLING PROCESS For every two consoles shredded and recycled, one tree is saved. Each year, Shred-it® customers with a regularly-scheduled CERTIFICATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL serviceACCOMPLISHMENT receive a certificate detailing This is to certify that the number = of trees participated in the Shred-it™ shredding and recycling program and saved trees they saved. from destruction in Shred-it congratulates staff members on the positive impact this initiative has made towards saving our environment. Thank you for Your Business. 800-697-4733 shredit.com 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Confidential On a scheduled A certificate of Shredded Pulp is The pulp is The newly documents are basis, consoles destruction is paper is made as the put through recycled pulp dropped into a are emptied issued to each transported fibers of the a screening is mixed with secure, locked and all customer. to a paper shredded process that fresh pulp to console. confidential mill for paper are filters out manufacture documents recycling. separated. impurities and new paper are destroyed. prepares it for products. the removal of printing ink. CERTIFICATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOMPLISHMENT This is to certify that participated in the Shred-it™ shredding and recycling program and saved trees from destruction in Shred-it congratulates staff members on the positive impact this initiative has made towards saving our environment. Thank you for Your Business. 800-697-4733 shredit.com To learn how Shred-it® is environmentally responsible and secure, call us at 800-697-4733 or visit shredit.com/recycling COVER STORY Providing tailor-made solutions under one roof I n the expanding market of Integrated Management; Advanced Catering; Facilities Management, Advanced Advanced Laundry; Advanced Laundry Facilities Management, a part of Bin MED; Advanced Employment; Advanced Butti International Holdings, based in Environmental Services; Advanced Retail; Abu Dhabi since 2008 is ready for the Advanced Events; Advanced Trading; challenges ahead. They have a solid Advanced Industries and Cruise Car foundation and vision to provide bespoke Rental and Advanced Travel and Tourism. and tailor-made solutions and services for any client within most sectors or The services they provide can be markets. Having grown with a workforce offered as individual, bundle services, of over 4,500, Advanced Facilities or Integrated Facilities Management Management has certainly come a long (IFM), Advanced has a solution for most way since their inception. requirements. They have an impressive portfolio of clients and contracts, with Facilities Management has moved over 100 key projects operating from Al on since the days of operations and Ruwais in the Western Region to the East maintenance and cleaning services, to the Emirate of Dubai. Their capability clients are outsourcing more and more to deliver in-house services is quickly services to enable them to focus on being recognized by large multi-national their core business. Advanced Group is and international clients around the GCC. more than capable with these requests, Abdulla Al Qamzi, Samih Basaddiq, CEO, Advanced Group the group consists of the following AdvancedManaging has seenDirector, considerable operating companies: Advanced Facilities growth in the Khidmah last few years that 20 fm-today.com companies the need to stay ahead of the of our strategy for human capital we competitors is a key focus Advanced is recognize the daily impact we have on poised for these challenging conditions our colleagues affects their extended with a business model, which includes family life,” adds Kader. flexibility, Integrated Service delivery, tailor-made solutions, and sustainable When it comes to training and partnerships.” development, they ensure each member of staff has a personal development Delivering quality services plan and a successive plan to give them At Advanced Facilities Management growth opportunity as the company it’s always been about delivering expands. As part of the work-life high-quality customer service. Having balance, their own staff facilities include partnerships in both Government and a workers city, which accommodates Commercial sectors, the organization 30,000 people and includes facilities has adapted well to clients’ needs such as leisure, retail, medical, mosque, and challenges, Advanced can provide and education facilities customised solutions for any project. “Our main goal is to gain the trust Huge impact on the environment Saleh AlRajhi, GM of the client and the end-user. We One of the major goals of Abu Dhabi’s ensure that we provide them peace Vision 2030 is to develop Abu Dhabi as of mind by allowing them to focus a corporate socially responsible city. included the winning of several notable on the core business. We would like Keeping this vision in mind, Advanced contracts. The organisation prides itself them to see us as a silent partner Facilities Management since 2010 on delivering tailored services and while ensuring service excellence has become a member of the United solutions to many business segments and cost optimisation and end-user Nations Global Compact Programme a including Military sites, Municipalities, satisfaction,” says Saleh Al Rajhi, GM Oil and Gas installations, Power Plants, Advanced Facilities Management. Corporate and Commercial Clients, Healthcare Institutions, Education sites, ‘Our Employees…Our Greatest Asset!’ Recreation and Hospitality and various FM is a ‘people industry’, and their regulatory authorities. people play a critical role in maintaining the brand and service quality, Ilyas Advanced Group CEO, Samih Kader, HR Manager says that they are Basaddiq, explains more about the very particular in making sure that their company vision, “When we take on a employees are happy, treated well and project, we ensure that we provide motivated to do their jobs in the best clients with tailor-made solutions that way possible. Hence, they pay great suit their requirements and result in attention to give them the right skills successful and long-term partnerships. and tools to complete their tasks. Looking ahead, we recognize the market conditions are changing with clients “We place a lot of emphasis on placing a greater emphasis on cost ensuring our staff has the correct reduction yet still receiving the same work-life balance. We have an great service, also with more Facilities Employee Welfare officer that ensures Management providers entering the staff issues are dealt with and acted Ilyas Kader, HR Manager market, both regional and international upon quickly and efficiently. As part fm-today.com 21 COVER STORY Josefina Payad, CSR Specialist strategic policy initiative for businesses economic, cultural and environmental committed to aligning all of their expectations of our stakeholders and operations and strategies with ten wider workforce,” adds Payad. universally accepted principles, including human rights, labour, environment, and Building Solutions anti-corruption. The initiative seeks to At Advanced Facilities Management combine the best properties of the UN, they build tailor-made solutions for such as moral authority and convening clients that recognize the importance power, with the private sector’s solutionof the following – Strategy, Vision, finding strengths, and the expertise and Commercial Excellence and delivering capacities of a range of key stakeholders. High-Quality services Josefina Payad, CSR Specialist, “We don’t rest on just our extensive Advanced Facilities Management, client portfolio, we are constantly comments, “We are one of 12,000 building and looking at new solutions participants in the global scheme, active to ensure success, we are always across 145 countries – the largest talking to our clients and listening voluntary CSR initiative in the world. to their needs and requirements. Endorsed by chief executives, the Global We adapt to the ever-changing Lee Mort, Director of Business Development Compact is a practical framework for environments and market conditions the development, implementation, and by introducing new technologies, disclosure of sustainability policies and investing in new equipment and Catering…Excellence is a continuous practices, offering participants a wide developing our people, and constantly Journey spectrum of workstreams, management reviewing our cost base and supply Advanced Catering is one of the tools, and resources — all designed chain,” says Lee Mort, Director of major operating companies within to help advance sustainable business Business Development, Advanced Advanced Group. Their extensive client models and markets.” Facilities Management. portfolio ranges from mega projects with The company is also actively involved in blood donations, beach cleaning drives, and other CSR activities. Even when it comes to their projects, they ensure that they adopt necessary measures to conserve water and energy at the facilities. Advanced has even started initiating applications like grey water treatment systems and water saving installations in their projects in order to help companies conserve energy and water. “A strong sense of ethics runs through our entire business approach. We understand and focus on trading responsibly and we are committed to meet the 22 fm-today.com companies in Abu Dhabi,” says Elie Nacouzi, General Manager, Advanced Laundry. Catering to healthcare facilities can be equally challenging as it depends on providing their patients with hygienic, clean linen and their staff with spotless, sanitary uniforms. And at Advanced MED laundry, they are constantly creating ways to maximize the efficiency, minimize the cost and increase the quality and value of their service. The Laundry evaluates each hospital and clinics need to devise a specialized laundry solution that goes beyond merely the washing and pressing of linens to include extensive linen management. Inventories, the experiences to every client. “We provide processing of daily reports and usage completely customised innovative monitoring are just a few of the valuemenus and operate an effective and added services that they provide. highly advanced stock control system keeping the amount of waste to a Entering a new market minimum. The catering services also After establishing themselves in include food preparations and cleaning UAE, Mongolia and Poland Facilities services ensuring that every event is a Management Markets. Advanced have seamless success,” says Al Rahji. open a national office in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, they are confident of Laundry...Reliability you can Trust making a strong foundation in the Having launched their laundry Kingdom, this has been driven by an services in the year 2009, Advanced increasing number of large-scale Laundry has garnered a reputation projects and large clients requesting for pairing finely-honed expertise in their services. providing professional laundry and dry cleaning services with excellent customer Basaddiq, adds, “Entering the service. The in-house facility has the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been a capacity to launder 48 tonnes per day. major challenge for all of us. We are all Elie Nacouzi, General Manager And the current client portfolio includes really proud of this move and we are the following sectors: hospitality, military, confident that we will provide excellent a capacity of feeding over 7,000 people and healthcare to name a few. “We pride solutions as we have in other regions to small private events comprising of ourselves on performing to international as well. Apart from providing soft 10 people. Advanced Catering services standards and employ experienced and and hard services, the organisation offer full turnkey solutions from menu knowledgeable staff, who are dedicated will also be delivering other services designs to setup services delivery to providing a dependable daily service, including catering, retail, laundry and and event closure ensuring seamless making us one of the leading laundry environmental services and manpower recruitment and supply. While it is a new market for them, their approach to clients in KSA will be flexible providing tailor-made solutions that will result in successful partnerships. And when it comes to competition in the market, it is ultimately a cost-driven industry, where the price, quality, and management make a strong impression. While the market is growing, what sets us apart is the synergy of in-house services and the strong supply chain that we provide our clients. We are proud that in Advanced we have a clear vision with a well-developed corporate strategy for the next five years. We also plan to expand to other parts of the GCC including Qatar and Oman.” fm-today.com 23 Certificate of Registration This is to certify that Advanced Facilities Management LLC P.O. Box: 44038, Corniche Road, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. has been assessed by Bureau of Assessment Services and hereby attests that the organization complies with the requirements of Quality Management System in accordance with ISO 9001:2015 The Quality Management System is applicable to: Land & Real Estate Purchase & Sale; Services Management Oversight to the Real Estate; Real Estate Lease & Management Services; Facilities Management Services; Real Estate Enterprises, Entertainment Enterprises, Infrastructure Enterprises & Industrial Enterprises Investment, Development, Institution & Management; Real Estate Development Construction; Camps & Labour Accommodation Management; Restaurants Management; Ready-Made Food Catering Contracts (Meal Preparation); Repair & Maintenance of Air-Conditioners, Cooling Equipments & Central Air Refining; Elevators & Escalators Installation & Repair; Retail Sale of Sanitary Ware & Fittings; Buildings Maintenance; Installation & Maintenance of Measurement & Control Equipment; Onshore & Offshore Oil & Gas Fields & Facilities Services; Mechanical Contracting; Interior Cleaning Services for Buildings & Dwellings; Cleaning the Outside (Interface) Buildings; Industrial Facilities Cleaning Services; Clothes, Curtain, Sheets, Blankets & Carpets Dry Cleaning (Steam); Clothes Washing; Clothes Ironing; Hospitality Services; Landscape & Gardening Services; Organization & Event Management; Abattoirs Management; Wireless Transmission Towers Repairing & Contracting. [EA/NACE: 18/33.20; 23/33.19; 28/41.10 & 35/81.10] Certificate issue date : 27-June-2016 Certificate valid till : 26-June-2019 Certificate No : AE-BAS-Q0004050 st nd Certification Manager 1 Surveillance 2 Surveillance Bureau of Assessment Services June-2017 June-2018 This certificate is validated through annual surveillance BAS ISO 9001 REGISTERED CB 013 MS Further clarification regarding the scope of the certificate and the applicability of ISO 9001:2015 requirements may be obtained by FSC consulting the organization. www.fsc.org MIX This certificate remains valid while the holder maintains the management system in accordance with the standard above, which will be From responsible audited by Bureau of Assessment Services through surveillance audits. This certificate remains the property of Bureau of Assessment sources Services. Lack of fulfillment of conditions as set out in the certification agreement may render this certificate invalid. FSC ® C118414 Issuing Country: Bureau of Assessment Services LLC, P.O. Box: 116898, Al Karama, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Certificate of Registration This is to certify that Advanced Facilities Management LLC P.O. Box: 44038, Corniche Road, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. has been assessed by Bureau of Assessment Services and hereby attests that the organization complies with the requirements of Occupational Health and Safety Management System in accordance with OHSAS 18001:2007 The Occupational Health and Safety Management System is applicable to: Land & Real Estate Purchase & Sale; Services Management Oversight to the Real Estate; Real Estate Lease & Management Services; Facilities Management Services; Real Estate Enterprises, Entertainment Enterprises, Infrastructure Enterprises & Industrial Enterprises Investment, Development, Institution & Management; Real Estate Development Construction; Camps & Labour Accommodation Management; Restaurants Management; Ready-Made Food Catering Contracts (Meal Preparation); Repair & Maintenance of Air-Conditioners, Cooling Equipments & Central Air Refining; Elevators & Escalators Installation & Repair; Retail Sale of Sanitary Ware & Fittings; Buildings Maintenance; Installation & Maintenance of Measurement & Control Equipment; Onshore & Offshore Oil & Gas Fields & Facilities Services; Mechanical Contracting; Interior Cleaning Services for Buildings & Dwellings; Cleaning the Outside (Interface) Buildings; Industrial Facilities Cleaning Services; Clothes, Curtain, Sheets, Blankets & Carpets Dry Cleaning (Steam); Clothes Washing; Clothes Ironing; Hospitality Services; Landscape & Gardening Services; Organization & Event Management; Abattoirs Management; Wireless Transmission Towers Repairing & Contracting. [EA/NACE: 18/33.20; 23/33.19; 28/41.10 & 35/81.10] Certificate issue date : 27-June-2016 Certificate valid till : 26-June-2019 Certificate No : AE-BAS-S0004052 st nd Certification Manager 1 Surveillance 2 Surveillance Bureau of Assessment Services June-2017 June-2018 This certificate is validated through AIAC 2010 MSCB-058 annual surveillance BAS OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 c SAFETY MANAGEMENT REGISTERED Further clarification regarding the scope of the certificate and the applicability of OHSAS 18001:2007 requirements may be obtained by consulting the organization. FSC This certificate remains valid while the holder maintains the management system in accordance with the standard above, which will be www.fsc.org audited by Bureau of Assessment Services through surveillance audits. This certificate remains the property of Bureau of Assessment MIX Services. Lack of fulfillment of conditions as set out in the certification agreement may render this certificate invalid. From responsible sources Issuing Country: Bureau of Assessment Services LLC, P.O. Box: 116898, Al Karama, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. FSC ® C118414 Bureau of Assessment Services (UK) Limited, 2 Woodberry Grove, North Finchleye, London N12 0DR, United Kingdom Company Number: 07578287. Certificate of Registration This is to certify that Advanced Facilities Management LLC P.O. Box: 44038, Corniche Road, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. has been assessed by Bureau of Assessment Services and hereby attests that the organization complies with the requirements of Environmental Management System in accordance with ISO 14001:2015 The Environmental Management System is applicable to: Land & Real Estate Purchase & Sale; Services Management Oversight to the Real Estate; Real Estate Lease & Management Services; Facilities Management Services; Real Estate Enterprises, Entertainment Enterprises, Infrastructure Enterprises & Industrial Enterprises Investment, Development, Institution & Management; Real Estate Development Construction; Camps & Labour Accommodation Management; Restaurants Management; Ready-Made Food Catering Contracts (Meal Preparation); Repair & Maintenance of Air-Conditioners, Cooling Equipments & Central Air Refining; Elevators & Escalators Installation & Repair; Retail Sale of Sanitary Ware & Fittings; Buildings Maintenance; Installation & Maintenance of Measurement & Control Equipment; Onshore & Offshore Oil & Gas Fields & Facilities Services; Mechanical Contracting; Interior Cleaning Services for Buildings & Dwellings; Cleaning the Outside (Interface) Buildings; Industrial Facilities Cleaning Services; Clothes, Curtain, Sheets, Blankets & Carpets Dry Cleaning (Steam); Clothes Washing; Clothes Ironing; Hospitality Services; Landscape & Gardening Services; Organization & Event Management; Abattoirs Management; Wireless Transmission Towers Repairing & Contracting. [EA/NACE: 18/33.20; 23/33.19; 28/41.10 & 35/81.10] Certificate issue date : 27-June-2016 Certificate valid till : 26-June-2019 Certificate No : AE-BAS-E0004051 st nd Certification Manager 1 Surveillance 2 Surveillance Bureau of Assessment Services June-2017 June-2018 This certificate is validated through annual surveillance BAS ISO 14001 REGISTERED CB 013 MS FSC Further clarification regarding the scope of the certificate and the applicability of ISO 14001:2015 requirements may be obtained by www.fsc.org consulting the organization. MIX This certificate remains valid while the holder maintains the management system in accordance with the standard above, which will be From responsible audited by Bureau of Assessment Services through surveillance audits. This certificate remains the property of Bureau of Assessment sources Services. Lack of fulfillment of conditions as set out in the certification agreement may render this certificate invalid. FSC ® C118414 Issuing Country: Bureau of Assessment Services LLC, P.O. Box: 116898, Al Karama, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
