What if business were society’s greatest problem solver? As a proud participant in the United Nations Global Compact, EY is committed to helping solve society’s toughest challenges. EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 1 Read on to learn how we uphold the UNGC by: Supporting our people and communities 06 Supporting our clients and profession 12 Supporting environmental sustainability 16 For more information on EY’s involvement with the UNGC, please contact: Nicky Major Director, EY Global Corporate Responsibility +44 20 7951 1198 ey.com/ungc 2 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact A statement from our Global Chairman and CEO Today there is a growing appreciation that business is not a zero-sum game and that shareholder returns cannot be an organization’s only goal. Many organizations — including our own — understand our collective responsibility to create more inclusive economic growth that serves the long-term interests of all stakeholders. That not only means doing business responsibly, but also using business innovation and collaboration to help address society’s toughest challenges. At EY, we see this as more than just the right thing to do. We see it as an opportunity to rebuild trust in business. That’s why, just as these responsibilities are embodied by the United Nations Global Compact’s (UNGC) Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals, they are also at the heart of our purpose of building a better working world. We’re proud to renew our global organization’s ongoing commitment to the UNGC and to share our efforts to uphold inclusiveness, responsibility and sustainability in all we do. Mark A. Weinberger EY Global Chairman and CEO @Mark_Weinberger EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 3 Supporting the Ten Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • The effective abolition of child labor • The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Anti-corruption • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Environment • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 4 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals Human and labor rights Supporting our people and communities Inside EY In our supply chain • Driving responsibility in our supply chain • Creating an exceptional experience for our people • Increasing supplier diversity • Strengthening our diverse and inclusive culture • Promoting diversity • Developing purpose-driven leaders In our communities • Listening to and recognizing our people • Driving inclusive growth • Being recognized as a “great place to work” • Supporting the next generation • Involving our people • Working with others for positive change • Aligning action through global coordination Anti-corruption Supporting our clients and profession How we do business Serving the public interest through our services • Living by our values • Upholding the highest professional standards • Building trust and confidence in the capital markets • Reinforcing our commitment to quality • Tackling corruption in all its forms • Engaging with our stakeholders • Helping businesses to innovate with purpose Environment Supporting environmental sustainability • Helping our clients become more sustainable • Positively influencing change • Managing our own impact EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 5 Whose tomorrow will you change today? At EY, we’re using our knowledge and experience to change lives for the better in the communities where we live and work. Supporting At the heart of inclusive capitalism is the concept of our people equity. This captures the essence of our commitment to and communities human and labor rights and to building a culture of respect and inclusion — not only inside our own organization, but also throughout our supply chain and across the communities where we live and work. 6 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Inside EY 29 % The FY16 class of newly promoted EY member firm partners is among the most diverse ever, with 35% from emerging markets and 29% women. At EY, we believe only high-performing teams, which utilize the power of different opinions, perspectives and cultural backgrounds, will succeed in the global marketplace. That’s why we strive to create an environment where all our people feel, and are, valued; where they can bring their differences to work each day; and where they contribute their personal best to businesses, government and communities around the world. Creating an exceptional Strengthening our diverse Promoting diversity experience for our people and inclusive culture That EY is an organization where everyone has the opportunity to develop as leaders Our promise to our people is this: Diversity and inclusiveness (D&I) is is reflected in 43,000 member firm whenever you join, however long you integral to how we serve our clients, promotions in FY16, including 714 people stay, the exceptional EY experience lasts a develop our people and play a leadership promoted to partner. This year’s newly lifetime. It’s about everyone at EY having role in our communities. That’s why we promoted partner classes are among the the opportunity to do something that continue to work hard at embedding most diverse ever, with 35% from emerging matters; to own their career, shape their D&I into all our processes, and at markets and 29% women — in line with the future and become the leader they want enhancing each individual’s capability record numbers achieved last year. to be; and to gain the experience that lets for inclusiveness — developing the skills them create their own legacy and be part and mindset necessary for us all to team • FY16 partner promotions of building a better working world. and lead inclusively, and leverage our differences to the fullest. • FY16 results • Global review 2016 — Talent • Global review 2016 — • Our people and culture Diversity & Inclusiveness • EY Alumni Network • D&I at EY • Our D&I road map EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 7 Developing purposeListening to and Being recognized as driven leaders recognizing our people a “great place to work” We recognize that building a better working Making sure that all our people’s voices We’re proud to have been recognized world starts with our people, empowering are heard — and their achievements by university students as the world’s them to grow their careers and become valued — not only helps attract and retain most attractive professional services purpose-driven leaders who make a the best people, but it also helps us deliver employers — and the third most attractive difference in businesses, governments better approaches for our clients and for employers overall — in Universum’s annual and communities around the world. That’s our own organization. That’s why we invest World’s Most Attractive Employer ranking. why we invested more than US$500m in considerable time and effort in listening EY member firms were also named training and provided nearly 12m hours of to our people, and recognizing the many the number one professional services training for our people in FY16, an increase ways that their everyday actions help to employer in five countries: Australia, of 3m hours over the previous year. building a better working world. Canada, China, France and the US. • Global review 2016 — Talent • Our people and culture • Accomplishments and accolades • FY16 results • Better begins with you 8 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact In our supply chain +50% Across our global organization, we increased our spend with diverse suppliers by more than 50% in FY16 — a major step toward our goal of committing at least 5% of overall procurement spend to diverse suppliers by 2020. EY’s commitment to promoting diversity and inclusiveness extends beyond the walls of our own organization. It’s at the heart of our continued efforts to promote high business standards within our supply chain, and to maintain and grow a diverse supplier base that reflects the markets, clients and communities we serve. Driving responsibility in Increasing supplier our supply chain diversity Just as EY’s Global Code of Conduct sets Identifying, developing and doing business out the standards expected of every EY with diverse suppliers is a key component person, our Supplier Code of Conduct does of our strategic sourcing and procurement the same for our suppliers. We view their activities. Through our D&I Procurement performance as an integral part of the initiative, we actively encourage small and EY value chain and expect all suppliers to minority-owned businesses to become meet high legal, ethical, environmental and registered suppliers and support them to employment-related standards. achieve their full potential. • Procurement • Procurement • Supplier Code of Conduct • Supplier diversity EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 9 In our communities A new global Corporate Responsibility Governance Council includes nine members 9 of the Global Executive, the most senior leadership team in EY. This group will help drive even greater alignment and impact as we increase our focus on using EY’s distinctive knowledge and experience to help solve society’s toughest challenges. When we look around today, we see broad societal challenges everywhere; issues such as deepening inequality, jobless growth, lack of opportunity for young people and low trust in institutions. At EY, we feel a responsibility to help address these issues and demonstrate that business is an important part of the solution. That’s why we’re committed to using our knowledge and experience to change lives for the better by driving inclusive growth and supporting the next generation. Driving inclusive growth Supporting the Involving our people We focus on using our knowledge and next generation Our community engagement efforts experience to scale approaches that include hours of mentoring, intensive, We also focus on using our insight to put business at the heart of tackling one-day interventions and long-term help equip young people for success in society’s toughest issues. By accelerating projects, giving EY people a wide range the modern working world. We aim to development of social enterprises of opportunities to make a difference. In transform their prospects for long-term and high-impact entrepreneurs, and addition to EY member firms investing success, not only by improving equity by empowering underrepresented more than US$90m directly in community of access to quality education and work groups to build their own businesses, projects, our people contributed more experience, but also by nurturing the we create a ripple effect that could than 700,000 hours of time to more skills and behaviors they need to adapt change millions of lives. than 100 initiatives and value-in-kind and thrive in an age of disruption. projects during FY16. • Corporate Responsibility — Driving • Corporate Responsibility — Supporting inclusive growth • Global review 2016 — Corporate the next generation Responsibility • Global review 2016 — Corporate • Global review 2016 — Corporate Responsibility Responsibility • Enterprise Growth Services (EGS) 2016 Yearbook 10 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Working with others Aligning action through for positive change global coordination Driving inclusive growth and supporting As making a positive contribution to the next generation require long-term, society moves from the periphery to collective effort. That’s why EY is the mainstream of business thinking, committed to creating and participating Corporate Responsibility increasingly in collaborations that accelerate positive demands board-level attention. EY’s change. Examples include EY’s Women. new global Corporate Responsibility Fast forward platform and extensive Governance Council brings together support for International Women’s Day, leaders from across our global as well as involvement in forums such as organization, driving actions across the World Economic Forum and Coalition our member firms and alignment of for Inclusive Capitalism. priorities with overall business strategy. • Women. Fast forward • Corporate Responsibility — Sustainable business • International Women’s Day • EY at the World Economic Forum EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 11 Can profit be purposeful? EY is helping clients to rediscover their higher purpose and use it as a powerful tool for sustainable business transformation. Supporting As a global professional services organization, EY recognizes our clients its pivotal role in serving the public interest and positively and profession influencing business behavior, including working against corruption in all its forms. Through our services, we help to build trust and confidence in the capital markets, guided by the belief that every audit, every tax return, every advisory opportunity, every interaction with a client or colleague can help make the working world better than it was before. 12 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact How we do business Living by our values Our values define who we are. They are our fundamental beliefs; they guide our actions and behavior; and they give us confidence that we are using the same principles to help us make decisions throughout our global organization. Through our awards program, Better begins with you, we recognize individuals and teams who consistently live our values and bring our purpose of building a better working world to life. • Global review 2016 — Public policy • Our values • Better begins with you Upholding the highest Reinforcing our Engaging with professional standards commitment to quality our stakeholders EY’s Global Code of Conduct unites EY’s unwavering commitment to quality We see the power that comes from every one of our people, regardless of isn’t only enshrined in our Global Code strong networks and believe that the their individual role, position or practice. of Conduct, it’s also embodied in global best answers are found when the most Providing the ethical framework on which policies, processes and tools, and people are contributing to the discussion. we base our decisions, it is anchored in investment in strong Quality functions That’s why we engage with many different our values and beliefs and underpins all and Professional Practice functions stakeholders to deepen our understanding that we do, providing the principles that to implement quality initiatives to a of the policy and corporate governance should be used by everyone at EY to consistently high standard around the environments and fuel discussions guide our behavior. world. For example, our professional around leading practices with our clients, practice groups consult with audit teams regulators, standard setters, legislators, • Global review 2016 — Public policy on accounting, auditing and SEC reporting investors, business leaders and academia. matters and have conducted an average • EY Global Code of Conduct • Global review 2016 — Public policy of more than 2,800 consultations a year over the last three years. • Our public policy viewpoints • Global review 2016 — Public policy • EY Center for Board Matters • Our commitment to audit quality EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 13 Serving the public interest By signing a statement of support for the London Anti-Corruption Summit in May 2016, EY Global Chairman and CEO, Mark A. Weinberger, has pledged EY’s continued support of collective action to tackle corruption. Building trust and Tackling corruption confidence in capital in all its forms markets EY’s signature of a statement of support for the London Anti-Corruption Summit As auditors, we provide a vital function in May 2016 adds to our established — to serve the public interest and commitment to shining a light on corruption strengthen trust and confidence in the and galvanizing responses to tackling capital markets. That’s why our Sustainable it. Above and beyond provision of Fraud Audit Quality (SAQ) program is the highest Investigation & Dispute Services (FIDS), priority in our Assurance practices. It this includes publication of EY’s Global embodies our globally consistent approach Fraud Survey series and long-standing and ongoing commitment to providing the support for Transparency International’s highest quality audits in the profession. corruption measurement tools. • Global review 2016 — Public policy • Fraud Investigation & Dispute • Audit quality: a globally sustainable Services (FIDS) approach • EY’s Global Fraud Survey 2016 • Audit quality: the ripple effect • Professional services leaders’ statement of support for the London AntiCorruption Summit 14 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Helping businesses innovate with purpose When companies focus on a purpose grounded in humanity — improving the world we live in and inspiring the organization at all levels — they increase their ability to create sustainable value both for themselves and society. Through the EY Beacon Institute and our Purpose-Led TransformationTM service offering, we continue to build collaborations united by the shared purpose of redefining how business operates. • EY Beacon Institute • Purpose-Led Transformation • The Why Effect EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 15 Does growth have to cost the earth? EY continues to play a leading role in developing standards and approaches that encourage companies to preserve and enhance natural resources, rather than depleting them. Supporting At EY, we are committed to building a better working world environmental that embraces sustainable growth. We make our biggest sustainability positive contribution to the environment as a leading provider of climate change and sustainability services. Additionally, we continue to challenge ourselves to work in a more environmentally sustainable manner, recognizing our obligation to our people and our communities to manage environmental impact. 16 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact Among many new collaborations in FY16, EY teamed up with the UNGC to study and share insights into what companies are doing to embed sustainability in their supply chains. Helping our clients Positively influencing Managing become more sustainable change our own impacts Our Climate Change and Sustainability As leading providers of sustainability We continue to invest in ways to address Services (CCaSS) professionals help services, we continue to contribute to the our biggest environmental impacts of governments and organizations adapt sustainability dialogue, share knowledge office energy use and business travel, to the threat of climate change and with clients and the broader business and to improve the way we measure address some of the world’s most community, and influence leading practice. our progress. A number of EY member significant resource and environmental Collaborations this past year include firms have implemented policies to challenges. In particular, CCaSS teams teaming up with the UNGC to assess the reduce environmental impact, up to and have innovated in areas such as climate state of sustainable supply chains and including becoming carbon and water resilience, the circular economy, continuing to provide strategic support neutral by 2020. Our priority is to put in renewable energy, water accounting leading up to launch of the Natural place a global framework to accelerate and alternative waste treatment. Capital Protocol. adoption of leading practices across our whole organization. • Climate Change and Sustainability • Climate Change and Sustainability Services Services • Our global carbon footprint • The state of sustainable supply chains • EY sustainability reports • EY and the Natural Capital Protocol EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 17 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2017 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. 00737-173GBL BMC Agency BACS 1004576 ED None In line with EY’s commitment to minimize its impact on the environment, this document has been printed on paper with a high recycled content. This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. ey.com
