Annual Report 2016 Quality works. 2016 LANXESS Group Key Data € million Q4 2015 Q4 2016 Change % 2015 2016 Change % Sales 1,806 1,915 6.0 7,902 7,699 (2.6) Gross profit 365 370 1.4 1,748 1,754 0.3 Gross profit margin 20.2 % 19.3 % 22.1 % 22.8 % EBITDA pre exceptionals1) 151 183 21.2 885 995 12.4 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals1) 8.4 % 9.6 % 11.2 % 12.9 % EBITDA1) 141 162 14.9 833 945 13.4 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals1) 25 56 > 100 422 514 21.8 EBIT1) 71 35 (50.7) 415 464 11.8 EBIT margin1) 3.9 % 1.8 % 5.3 % 6.0 % Net income (loss) 15 2 (86.7) 165 192 16.4 Earnings per share (€) 0.16 0.02 (86.7) 1.80 2.10 16.4 Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets (€)2) (0.11) 0.24 > 100 2.03 2.69 32.5 Dividend per share (€) 0.60 0.707) 16.7 ROCE3) 8.4 % 6.9 % Cash flow from operating activities 350 157 (55.1) 692 689 (0.4) Depreciation and amortization 70 127 81.4 418 481 15.1 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 205 211 2.9 434 439 1.2 Total assets 7,219 9,877 36.8 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 2,323 3,728 60.5 Equity ratio4) 32.2 % 37.7 % Net financial liabilities5) 1,211 2,394 97.7 Net financial liabilities after deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale6) 1,211 269 (77.8) Employees 16,225 16,721 3.1 Personnel expenses (€ million) 1,432 1,467 2.4 Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence (per million hours worked) 2.2 2.0 Energy consumption (petajoules) 48.3 48.4 0.2 Total water consumption (in million cubic meters) 278.3 264.6 (4.9) Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents in thousand tons) 1,643 1,741 6.0 Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand tons) 5.4 4.7 (13.0) Total waste (in thousand tons) 292.4 298.9 2.2 Production wastewater (in million cubic meters) 31.8 32.4 1.9 1) E  BIT: earnings before interest and taxes 3) R  OCE: EBIT pre exceptionals in relation to capital employed (total assets less EBIT pre exceptionals: EBIT disregarding exceptional charges and income deferred tax assets and interest-free liabilities); see “Value Management and Control EBIT margin: EBIT in relation to sales System” for details. EBITDA: EBIT before depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortiza4) E  quity ratio: equity in relation to total assets tion of intangible assets 5) N  et financial liabilities: total of current and non-current financial liabilities (adjusted EBITDA pre exceptionals: EBITDA disregarding exceptional charges and income for liabilities for accrued interest), less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets; EBITDA margin pre exceptionals: EBITDA pre exceptionals in relation to sales see “Value Management and Control System” for details. See “Value Management and Control System” for details. 6) S  ee “Value Management and Control System” for details of the financial assets 2) E  arnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible deducted. assets: earnings per share disregarding exceptional charges and income, amortiza7) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017 tion of intangible assets and attributable tax effects See “Business Performance of the LANXESS Group” for details. Sales by Region Employees by Region % 10.2 % 8.5 29.3 8.6 EMEA excluding Germany 17.2 Germany Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) 45.5 Germany Asia-Pacific 18.0 North America Latin America Latin America 16.8 North America 26.5 19.4 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 QUALITY FIGURES, DATA AND FACTS SUSTAINABILITY We consider corporate responsibility a prerequisite to being able to operate successfully in the future and create value for all stakeholders. 49 ISO-certified In the Dow Jones Sustainability companies with 79 sites Index World for the sixth time in 23 countries in succession First systematic analysis of our Reduction in energy consumption product portfolio on the basis per ton of product of sustainability aspects 43 HSE (health, safety, environment) Around 200,000 people checks of production facilities reached by way of not-for-profit projects Occupational safety improved further: Assessed suppliers account for 60 % LTIFR and RIR decrease again of relevant procurement spend LANXESS Annual Report 2016 FIGURES INNOVATION DATA We are increasing our competitiveness through the FACTS development of innovative products and processes as well as the ongoing optimization of existing production processes. Patent portfolio with around 6,820 270 ongoing research and property rights development projects 2,442 suggestions for improvement 144 major research and development from employees in Germany alliances IMPLEMENTATION OF CORPORATE STRATEGY We are pursuing a strategy that actively shapes change, creates stability in an increasingly uncertain Acquisition improves environment and optimally balances the interests of all diversification stakeholders. Realignment progressing faster Capital expenditures of up to €400 than planned million in the years ahead to increase capacities and flexibility FINANCIAL STABILITY We take strategic decisions subject to the strict application of a conservative financing policy guided Investment-grade ratings by clear criteria. confirmed Equity ratio increased EBITDA margin pre exceptionals to 37.7 % substantially improved to 12.9 % LANXESS Annual Report 2016 In Focus 03 AT LANXESS WE LIVE QUALITY It is at the core of our work. It is our commitment to our customers, employees, stockholders and partners. Quality shapes our philosophy and our performance. It’s what we call “Energizing Chemistry.” Portfolio More starting on Page 24 More starting on Page 38 Processes More starting on Products Page 29 The front section of our Annual Report describes key examples of our processes and products from our portfolio. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 “We have consistently implemented our strategy to create a more stable and profitable chemical company.” Matthias Zachert, Chairman of the Board of Management Letter from the ceo PREFACE Report of the Supervisory Board 06 Management Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board of Management LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Letter from the CEO 07 Letter from the CEO In the past year, we have decisively and successfully realigned LANXESS. Through the extensive optimization of our organizational, business and administrative structures, we have sustainably improved not only our market and customer proximity but also our cost situation. We have benefited from savings earlier than we anticipated. At the same time, we have been faster than we had planned at implementing optimizations at our production sites. However, our most important step was the establishment of the ARLANXEO joint venture with Saudi Aramco. As a result, LANXESS already began growing again in 2016. We are being as systematic in our approach to expansion as we were in realigning the company in 2014 and 2015. At the end of August, we closed our acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect business of U.S. chemicals group Chemours. We have since s­ uccessfully integrated these activities. In September, we announced our intention to purchase U.S. company Chemtura in what is the largest planned acquisition in our company’s history. Prior to that, we had signed a corresponding agreement with that company’s management. Chemtura’s shareholders have since approved the acquisition by LANXESS. If the relevant government agencies also give their approval, we will be able to establish a leading global supplier of flame retardants and lubricant additives. Chemtura’s products ideally complement and extend our own portfolio. And we can significantly strengthen our presence in the growing U.S. market. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 08 Management With the acquisition of Chemtura, we will also be gaining some 2,500 highly qualified new colleagues. They will provide further important impulses for the development of our value-based performance culture – a culture centered on quality and sustainability that is increasingly evident in the way we think and work. In order to outwardly communicate quality and all its many facets at LANXESS, we initiated the “Quality Works” campaign, which has been positively received. The same applies to our commitment to sustainability, for which we again received a number of significant awards in 2016. For the sixth time in succession, we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World. The Carbon Disclosure Project honored us as the “Best Improver Germany,” proving that our claim “Good for business, good for society” is not just a nice-sounding slogan but represents the daily aspiration and motivation of each and every one of us at LANXESS. This approach is reflected in our reaffirmation in 2016 of our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact. On behalf of my colleagues on the Board of Management, I would like to thank all our employees for their tremendous efforts that made LANXESS so successful in 2016. I would also like to thank our customers, business partners and you, our esteemed shareholders, for the trust and constructive criticism you have shown us. Together, we can focus on tackling the challenges that lie ahead with confidence, at a fast pace and with a clear objective in sight. Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board of Management LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Letter from the CEO 09 Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board of Management Dr. Rainier van Roessel ARLANXEO · Member of the Board Corporate Communications · and Labor Relations Director Corporate Development · Legal & Performance Chemicals · Compliance Human Resources Dr. Hubert Fink Michael Pontzen Member of the Board Chief Financial Officer Advanced Intermediates · Accounting · Corporate Controlling · High Performance Materials · Global Mergers & Acquisitions · Tax & Procurement & Logistics · Production, Trade Compliance · Information Technology · Technology, Safety & Environment Treasury & Investor Relations LANXESS Annual Report 2016 10 Management Dr. Rolf Stomberg Chairman of the Supervisory Board LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report of the Supervisory Board 11 Report of the Supervisory Board Dear Stockholders, We can once again look back on an extremely successful fiscal year. LANXESS not only substantially improved its operating business, but impressively continued its strategic transformation and optimization. EBITDA pre exceptionals amounted to €995 million, marking the third consecutive year of growth. The businesses of the “New LANXESS,” comprising the Advanced Intermediates, Performance Chemicals and High Performance Materials segments, more than compensated the ongoing weakness in the rubber business. The establishment of the joint venture ARLANXEO on April 1, 2016, marked a strategically important step. LANXESS operates the joint venture, to which it transferred its entire rubber business, together with its strategic partner Saudi Aramco. The liquidity acquired in establishing the joint venture was used to pay down debt and support strategic development. LANXESS was thus able to already close the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect business in fall 2016. Furthermore, the acquisition of publicly traded U.S. company Chemtura Corporation was announced in September 2016. Despite the ongoing challenges in the rubber business, 2017 again proved to be a year of growth. We plan to close the acquisition of Chemtura in mid-2017 and subsequently focus our efforts on integrating the new business into our operations. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 12 Management The Supervisory Board has supported the company in these developments. During 2016, as in earlier years, the Supervisory Board duly and fully performed the tasks and duties incumbent upon it under the law, the articles of association and the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board. It advised the Board of Management regularly on the management of the company and monitored its work. In particular, it dealt with matters relating to the company’s realignment, its strategic development and mea­ sures to increase competitiveness. The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions of fundamental importance for the company. The Board of Management informed us regularly in written and oral reports about business performance, the situation of the Group, including the risk situation, strategic development and current issues. On the basis of these reports, we discussed significant business transactions in detail. We thoroughly examined the reports and the resolutions proposed by the Board of Management and discussed them at length in meetings of the full Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles of association or other provisions required the Supervisory Board to approve the actions of the Board of Management, we discussed these actions and adopted resolutions on them. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory Board’s meetings. We regularly discussed the present state of the company, matters of strategy, planning, business performance, risks, risk management, management development, compliance and material events. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report of the Supervisory Board 13 Principal topics discussed by the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board met a total of seven times in 2016. It passed one resolution outside of a meeting, voting by way of a written procedure. We regularly discussed the sales and earnings performance of the company and its segments, as well as the financial position. Additionally, the Board of Management kept us updated about the overall state of the economy, the situation in the chemical industry, the performance of LANXESS stock, and investment and acquisition plans. Other important issues addressed by the Supervisory Board are presented below. The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held on March 15, 2016, was the review of the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2015 and the proposal for use of the distributable profit. The Supervisory Board also discussed and passed motions for resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and reviewed corporate governance matters. In addition, the Board of Management outlined the key aspects relating to an acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect business. After careful deliberation, the Supervisory Board approved LANXESS’s acquisition of this business. Moreover, we resolved to expand the framework for the company’s bond program. Lastly, the Supervisory Board defined the variable compensation for the members of the Board of Management on the basis of target attainment in fiscal 2015. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 14 Management At the meeting held on May 10, 2016, we discussed with the Board of Management the company’s pension obligations, the development of raw material costs and the economic environment in the rubber sector. The Board of Management additionally made a full report on environmental protection and occupational and plant safety, which was subsequently discussed by the full Supervisory Board. Subject to the election of the auditor by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, we also resolved on awarding the audit contracts for the audit of the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2016 and for the review of the condensed consolidated financial statements included in the half-year financial report. Lastly, we received an update on the business units and on the economic performance of Currenta, a joint venture between LANXESS and Bayer AG. The meeting that took place immediately prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 20, 2016, served to prepare that meeting. At the meeting held on August 9, 2016, the Board of Management reported on occupational safety measures and results. Due to personnel changes on the Supervisory Board, we also elected new committee members. We discussed the findings of the efficiency review conducted with support from an external HR consultancy, which confirmed the very good and constructive cooperation within the Supervisory Board and with the Board of Management. Suggestions were addressed. Lastly, the Supervisory Board reviewed the compensation of the members of the Board of Management on the basis of updated benchmarks. At an extraordinary meeting on September 25, 2016, the Board of Management reported on the advanced status of negotiations in connection with the acquisition of Chemtura. The opportunities and risks relating to the acquisition were discussed in detail. As a result, we resolved to approve the acquisition of Chemtura, as proposed by the Board of Management, while making use of a bridge loan and the issuance of bonds. At the meeting held on November 9, 2016, the Board of Management gave us an initial report on the acquisition of Chemtura. We also reviewed the corporate audit and compliance management at the company. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report of the Supervisory Board 15 At its meeting on December 9, 2016, the Supervisory Board reviewed in full and approved the budget for 2017 proposed by the Board of Management. It also discussed the company’s strategic alignment – including sustainability aspects – and capital expenditure policy. As in previous years, current developments in corporate governance were a topic on the agenda of the December meeting. After reviewing compliance with the recommendations and suggestions of the Corporate Governance Code, we resolved to issue a declaration of compliance. We also addressed the tender procedure for appointing the auditor for fiscal 2017, a process carried out under the leadership of the Audit Committee. Lastly, the Supervisory Board defined the conditions for the Board of Management’s variable compensation components for fiscal 2017. In a document circulation procedure at the end of December 2016, the Supervisory Board approved a two-year extension of the exercise periods for the 2012 and 2013 tranches of the LongTerm Stock Performance Plan for the members of the Board of Management, alongside granting additional rights, in a move designed to increase the incentive effect. The declaration of compliance was amended in accordance with Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act. All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees performed their duties diligently and conscientiously. The average attendance at meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees was 93 %. No member of the Supervisory Board attended half or less than half of the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the committees of which he or she is a member. The stockholder representatives and employee representatives to the Supervisory Board worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate meetings at which they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. The members of the Board of Management attended the Supervisory Board meetings unless the Chairman of the Supervisory Board determined otherwise. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 16 Management Work of the committees The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit Com­ mittee, the Presidial Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act. The committees are tasked with preparing the topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the full Supervisory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-making powers conferred on them by the Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt in particular with the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG for fiscal 2015, the consolidated financial statements and combined management report for fiscal 2015, the quarterly statements issued during fiscal 2016, and the condensed consolidated financial statements and interim management report included in the 2016 half-year financial report. It also reviewed the company’s risk management and internal control systems. Another focus of the committee’s work was conducting a tender and selection procedure for the audit of the 2017 consolidated financial statements pursuant to Article 16, Paragraph 3 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 (Audit Regulation). The Audit Committee also dealt with the concept for approving non-audit services. Other topics discussed were the significant findings by the internal audit department, corporate planning, compliance and the determination of the principal areas of focus for the audit of the 2016 financial statements. In addition, the committee reviewed the development of international accounting standards, the situation concerning the company’s rating and the audit of OTC derivative contracts pursuant to Section 20 of the German Securities Trading Act. The external auditor reported on the auditing activities at two of the four Audit Committee meetings. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report of the Supervisory Board 17 The Presidial Committee convened five times during 2016 to prepare the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the decisions to be reached by the full Supervisory Board at its meetings concerning human resources measures in the company’s Board of Management. The Nominations Committee convened twice in 2016. The Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act did not need to convene. The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meetings and the work of the committees at the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. Corporate governance and declaration of compliance In the year under review, the Supervisory Board discussed the German Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The joint declarations of compliance made by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act can be viewed by stockholders at any time on the company’s website. As expressed in the declarations, LANXESS AG complies with the Code’s recommendations and suggestions except in a few justified cases. No conflicts of interest on the part of Supervisory Board members became known last year. Further information about corporate governance can be found in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Board of Management’s declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 18 Management Financial statements of LANXESS AG and consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group The Board of Management of LANXESS AG prepared the financial statements for the 2016 fiscal year in accordance with the rules of the German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2016 in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the combined management report for 2016. These were all audited by Pricewaterhouse­ Coopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the auditor appointed by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The auditor issued an unquali­fied opinion in each case. The Supervisory Board convinced itself of the independence of the auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf. The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial statements were discussed at length with the Board of Management and the auditor at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 13, 2017. They were also discussed in detail on the basis of the required documents and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting held on March 14, 2017. The responsible auditor was present for the discussions concerning the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. He reported on the material results of the audits. He was also available to the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional information. Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well as on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, the combined management report and the proposal for appropriation of the profit, the Supervisory Board endorsed the auditor’s conclusions and had no objections to raise. The Supervisory Board has approved the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, which were prepared by the LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report of the Supervisory Board 19 Board of Management. The Supervisory Board endorsed the Board of Management’s proposal for use of the distributable profit after close examination and extensive deliberations that carefully weighed the best interests of the company and the stockholders. Composition of the Supervisory Board The composition of the Supervisory Board changed in fiscal 2016. At midnight on May 31, 2016, Gisela Seidel resigned as a representative of the LANXESS workforce prior to her retirement. She was succeeded as a member of the Supervisory Board by Ifraim Tairi, who was her elected substitute member. In addition, Claudia Nemat resigned as a stockholder representative on the Supervisory Board at midnight on June 30, 2016. The Local Court of Cologne appointed Dr. Heike Hanagarth to replace her as a stockholder representative and member of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG effective July 1, 2016. Dr Hanagarth will be standing for election by the stockholders at the 2017 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board thanks the members of the Board of Management, all of the Group’s employees around the world and the employee representatives for their commitment and work in fiscal 2016. Cologne, March 14, 2017 The Supervisory Board Dr. Rolf Stomberg Chairman LANXESS Annual Report 2016 THANKS THE SUPERVISORY BOARD thanks the Board of Management, all of the Group’s employees and the employee representatives. Contents Lanxess Annual Report 2016 05 To our Stockholders 06 Letter from the CEO 10 Report of the Supervisory Board 24 In Focus: At LANXESS We Live Quality 46 Review 2016 50 Strategy 58 Corporate Responsibility 60 CR Management 68 Employees 74 Health, Safety, Environment and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain 86 Society 88 LANXESS on the Capital Market 94 Corporate Governance 96 Corporate Governance Report 104 Financial Information 106 Combined Management Report 166 Consolidated Financial Statements 229 Responsibility Statement 230 Auditor’s Report 231 Further Information 231 About this Report 234 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report 236 GRI Content Index 243 Glossary 246 Index 247 Graphics and Tables 248 Financial Calendar/Contacts 24 In focus READY FOR The Next LEVEL With the biggest acquisition in company history, LANXESS will more than double its additives business in one go. T hey are the unsung stars of the held, which represents a 18.9 % premium industry. Though often used in to the stock’s closing share price on Sepnegligible amounts, additives play tember 23, 2016. The transaction thus has a major part in determining the properties – an enterprise value of around €2.4 billion, and ultimately the quality – of chemical making it the largest acquisition in the products. They increase the efficiency of history of LANXESS. fuels, extend the shelf life of foods and reBut what is this company, for which liably suppress unwanted product properLANXESS is prepared to pay billions? ties, such as combustibility. From a develWith headquarters in Philadelphia and adopment perspective, additives are the most ministrative offices in Middlebury, U.S.A., €100 demanding discipline; from a sales perspective, they deliver guaranteed growth. Chemtura is one of the largest global suppliers of flame retardant and lubricant million Expected annual market growth in the additives. Thanks to their high-level effecmid-term is between 3 % and 4 %. Under tiveness, brominated flame retardants like these circumstances, it is easy to underthose marketed by Chemtura are primarily stand why LANXESS began in 2014 to lay used in insulation materials for buildings the organizational groundwork for the and in the electronics industry. Lubricant The anticipated value-adding advancement of this segment, additives and synthetic lubricants are used synergy effects by pooling all additives activities in the in industrial applications, for instance in should be realized Rhein Chemie Additives business unit. Two power generation and aviation. Although by 2020. years would then go by in relative calm, Chemtura generates half of its sales in North until the night of September 26, 2016. America, the company can legitimately be called a global player: 2,500 employees A complete surprise at 20 locations in 11 countries generated To everyone’s surprise, the message, sales of around €1.5 billion in 2016. “LANXESS planning to acquire Chemtura,” scrolled across news agency screens A perfect match shortly after 12.30 a.m. Unnoticed by usuThe question as to what makes the ally well-informed market participants, the move a “strategic fit” is consistently anLANXESS and Chemtura management swered with the term: “integrated value teams had spent months negotiating chain.” “Chemtura has a competitive global an acceptable takeover agreement that position in industrial lubricant additives was beneficial to both parties. Under the and additionally manufactures the assoagreement, shareholders of the publicly ciated precursors and intermediates. By traded Chemtura Corporation will recombining its products with our own adceive US$ 33.50 per share in cash for ditives, we would advance to become one each outstanding share of common stock of the largest suppliers in the industrial LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Portfolio 25 A Further Milestone on our Growth Path LANXESS's new additives business – a true champion One of the major players Sales: €2 billion A strong pillar Competitive of the enterprise positioning New segment: Performance Additives LANXESS additives business High Chemtura Stable market profitability additives business growth Significantly 3–4 % p. a. above-average EBITDA margin Global sales distribution North America 45 % Europe 30 % Asia 22 % Latin America 3 % Highly integrated lubricants value chain LANXESS Chemtura Strong backward Synthetic base oils integration Chemical intermediates Complementary Additives Greases product groups Optimal platfom Packages1) Lubricants for growth 1) Packages: technical term for formulations/mixtures of different additive components LANXESS Annual Report 2016 26 In focus LANXESS Chemtura “With this acquisition, we lubricants segment, and furAttractive dowry are creating a champion ther strengthen our competThe additives business makes up in the additives segment itiveness with an integrated around 75 % of sales, meaning it conand strengthening our value chain,” explains Anno tributes greatly to shaping the face of profitable portfolio.” Borkowsky, head of Rhein Chemtura. But a closer examination of the Anno Borkowsky, Chemie Additives. The remaining 25 % is important, because behead of Rhein Chemie Additives same applies to the flame hind this seemingly marginal business are retardant additives segment: other activities that would be a meaningful “With the acquisition, we would also beaddition to the LANXESS portfolio. come one of the world’s largest suppliers The Urethanes business unit is a major of high-performance flame retardant adsupplier of hot-cast prepolymers, specialty ditives. In the future, we could offer our aqueous urethane dispersions and polycustomers both bromineand phosphorusester polyols. These are components of based products from a single supplier.” specialty polyurethanes, used primarily in Rhein Chemie Additives already has a the construction, mining, oil, gas, athletic competitive position in the phosphorusequipment and electronics industries. For based flame retardants business and a example, rollers for conveyor belts or inline backward-integrated value chain. skates are manufactured from these polyAfter completion of the transaction, urethanes. The Urethanes business is to Chemtura’s two additives divisions will be be integrated into the High Performance combined with Rhein Chemie Additives Materials segment, which is home to to form the new Performance Additives LANXESS’s performance plastics business. segment – LANXESS’s additives business Furthermore, Chemtura is among the will have more than doubled in size. world’s major suppliers of organomeLANXESS Annual Report 2016 Portfolio 27 An interview with Matthias Zachert “The acquisition of Chemtura represents a major strategic step.” Matthias Zachert, CEO Mr. Zachert, hundreds of which is very good in an internationAren’t you taking the second step potential acquisition targets exist al comparison. before the first, so to speak? After in the chemical industry for a all, various approvals from governcompany like LANXESS. LANXESS has never undertaken an ment agencies, such as the antiWhy did you choose Chemtura? integration process of this magnitrust authorities, are still pending. Very simply: Chemtura meets all tude before. Where do you begin? From our own experience, we know the criteria we had defined for We are moving forward very rapthat successful integration has to be an acquisition candidate in the idly with planning the integration done rapidly to avoid uncertainty. context of our new strategy. process. Shortly after the intended This was the guiding principle for The company is very well posiacquisition was announced, my our actions. And with regard to the tioned in a high-growth, mid-sized colleagues on the Board of Manantitrust authorities: It isn’t as if we market. Moreover, it has a strong agement and I traveled around the ignore antitrust issues in our considpresence in North America, world to the major Chemtura sites to erations prior to such transactions. a region in which we want to personally inform employees there The U.S. antitrust authorities have grow, as you know. Our product of the purpose and added value of already signaled that they have portfolios and value chains ideally the merger. In mid-October, about no objections to the acquisition. complement one another and 25 members of Chemtura’s top manAntitrust approval is still pending in offer significant synergy effects. agement came to visit us in Cologne a few other markets, including the And not least, with Chemtura we to plan the next steps leading up to European Union and China. But we could acquire a very profitable closing. During these discussions, we are optimistic of receiving all the company at reasonable terms – defined 16 work streams, in which necessary approvals by mid-year. remember we are talking here LANXESS and Chemtura employees about a current EBITDA margin are working together on the integraWhere will LANXESS’s additives of over 17 %. tion project. A Steering Committee, business be in five years? comprising my esteemed colleague The Performance Additives segment What exactly are Craig A. Rogerson of Chemtura, our should be one of the world’s leading “reasonable terms”? Board member Rainier van Roessel suppliers in its markets, generating In view of the anticipated synerand myself, is keeping an eye on the strong margins and thrilling cusgies, we would expect an EV/ overall process and has the final say tomers every day with intelligent EBITDA multiple of about seven, in any strategic decisions. solutions tailored to individual needs. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 28 In focus “Our corporate bonds and our hybrid bond were very well received by the capital market.” Michael Pontzen, CFO Chemtura employs some 2,500 people worldwide and has business operations at 20 locations in 11 countries. The company is headquartered in Philadelphia, U.S.A. tallics, which are chemical compounds approximately €100 million can be expectused as catalysts in polymer production ed by 2020. The financing of the acquisior in the synthesis of fine chemicals and tion has also been secured for some time pharmaceuticals. This segment will be innow thanks to the successful issuing of two EUROBONDS tegrated into the Advanced Industrial Ineurobonds with a total volume of €1 billion termediates business unit after the closing. and the first LANXESS hybrid bond with a volume of €500 million. What counts is the bottom line Alongside September 26, 2016, the Leading market positions, integrated date February 1, 2017, is a milestone in HYBRID BOND value chains, years of combined know-how: the history of this acquisition. On that day, Viewed strategically, the logic of this acquiChemtura shareholders voted by a large sition is not at issue. But wherever sharemajority to allow LANXESS to acquire their holders are involved – in this case on both company. With that, undoubtedly the most sides – the question of the financial conimportant hurdle had been cleared, but Successful sequences must not be left unanswered. not the last. The transaction is now subject bond issues secure It is time now to talk about the numbers. to approval by individual antitrust authorifinancing for the The acquisition of Chemtura, which ties. The official closing of the transaction transaction. generated an EBITDA margin of 17 % in is expected in mid-2017. If everything goes fiscal year 2016, is already expected to be according to plan, LANXESS’s additives accretive to LANXESS’s earnings per share business will advance to a new level from in 2018, the first full fiscal year after closing. then on – on par with the heavyweights in Annual synergies from the transaction of the industry. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Products 29 A sure W hether they’re for wood coatings, thing emulsion paints, other coatings or plasters, preservatives from Material Protection Products are used worldwide to shield a variety of materials from microbial atThe LANXESS Material Protection tack. Since the end of August, the business ­Products business unit is dedicated unit’s portfolio has been expanded to include to providing protection against a number of new and highly efficient active ingredients and specialty chemicals primarily for microorganisms. disinfection and hygiene solutions. They make up the former Clean and Disinfect business With the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect business of U.S. chemical company Chemours, Material Protection Products has expanded its portfolio of active ingredients. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 30 In focus of U.S. chemical company Chemours. One of if poultry flocks are housed and believed to be the core products is the disinfectant Virkon® S, safe, the virulent virus can still be introduced to used in the growing veterinary disinfectants farms by adhering to motor vehicles. Workers segment. Studies show that Virkon® S is effeccan then spread the virus further through contive against 65 strains from over 19 virus famtact with their clothing or shoes. ilies, 400 bacteria strains and over 100 yeast Unlike many other disinfectants, Virkon® S strains, including leading diseases on the A-list remains effective even at low winter temperaof the World Organisation for Animal Health tures and in the presence of organic loads (OIE), such as avian influenza (H5N1), swine across the entire pH spectrum, without having to influenza (H1N1), Newcastle disease, classical increase the concentration or contact time. swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease. Effective protection International testing laboratories have found that Virkon® S is effective against strains of the highly contagious influenza virus in birds. This is true even under difficult conditions, such What helps against avian flu? as high organic load, dilution by rainwater, low temperatures or exposure to other pathogens Bettina Blottko, head of the Actives & Disinfection business that can exist on farms. Virkon® S is effective line in the Material Protection Products business unit even when diluted 1:100, and is recommended as a preventive and continuous biosafety measure. Prompted by the occurrence of avian influenza H5N8, which is spreading across many European and Asian countries, European veterinary experts are advising poultry farmers to increase their biosafety programs so as to minimize the risk of infection of millions of European poultry by diseased, wild migratory birds. Even The effectiveness of Virkon® S against members of the orthomyxoviruses, including the H5N1 subtype of the avian influenza, has already been verified in numerous tests. We therefore expect that the disinfectant will also deactivate the H5N8 subtype. The most important factor in emergency control of the virus is heightened awareness among all stakeholders, and by that I mean continuous biosafety measures, such as disinfecting shoes, tires, water supply systems and entire stalls with a disinfectant that has a reliable effect on the highly contagious avian influenza virus. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Hier steht eine Navigation 31 The material is the key – hybrid technology is trending in lightweight vehicle construction. A lightweight solution With high-performance plastics like Durethan®, Pocan® and Tepex® and innovative solutions, LANXESS is paving the way for the mobility of tomorrow.  ightweight construction is the L key to sustainable mobility Meeting all of these needs presents major challenges for motor vehicle manufacturers and their suppliers. Lightweight construction is one key technology for successfully mastering these challenges. No matter how efficient a W orldwide, growing demands are modern combustion engine is, auto makers being made of motor vehicles. can most effectively reduce fuel consumption They are expected to be as light in both gasoline and diesel cars by cutting the as possible and environmentally friendly. The vehicle’s overall weight. High-performance reasons for this are diverse. Resources are plastics from LANXESS, such as Durethan®, dwindling, while mobilization is rapidly increasPocan® and Tepex®, can replace many of the ing, particularly in emerging economies. At the metal parts in cars to help reduce weight and same time, there is a greater need to reduce fuel consumption, without compromising on climate-damaging carbon dioxide emissions vehicle safety. These modern materials are per vehicle. Furthermore, consumers increasalready used to make both body and interior ingly want more fuel-efficient cars that are also components, including parts for engines and safe, comfortable and easy on the environment. seating, spoilers and door handles. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 32 In focus Three questions for Dr. Tim Arping, head of Marketing in the High Performance Materials business unit Plastics in the body Yet Durethan®, Pocan® and Tepex® are not only lighter than steel and aluminum; they can also be combined with many other materials, such as metal. Thanks to LANXESS’s innovative hybrid technology, it is possible to manufacture high-strength, load-bearing components. Furthermore, when using LANXESS plastics in industrial injection molding processes, numerous functions can be integrated into hybrid components to reduce assembly costs. As of 2020, all newly registered passenger vehicles in Another advantage that opens up new applicathe E.U. will be subject to a CO² limit of 95 grams per tion options: High-performance plastics from kilometer. How can this goal be achieved? LANXESS are resistant to aggressive biofuels. Automotive manufacturers are putting their cars on a But today’s hybrid or plastic components diet. Reducing their weight by 100 kilograms can save are not just functional; they also offer optical up to 0.5 liters of fuel over 100 kilometers. Depending features, as illustrated by an all-plastic brake on the engine and fuel type, that means between 8.8 and pedal with an insert made of LANXESS’s 12.5 grams less carbon dioxide per kilometer. Tepex® dynalite. It was recently awarded first place in the “Body Interior” category of the Vehicle weight can be reduced using hybrid compoSociety of Plastics Engineers (SPE) Automotive nents. What are their main characteristics? Awards, which are among the most prestigious A frontend system is a hybrid component made of plastic innovation awards for the automotive indusand metal that is up to 40 percent lighter than an alltry and its suppliers. The safety component metal design. Yet when it comes to safety and stability, it is used in the Porsche Panamera NF and the is a good match for its steel counterpart. And even more Bentley Continental GT. It was developed by weight can be saved using our Tepex® technology, which BOGE Elastmetall GmbH, a global specialist incorporates continuous glass or carbon fibers in vibration control technology and lightweight in the plastic. components for the automotive industry, in collaboration with LANXESS’s High Performance How important will the use of plastic components Materials business unit. be in connection with electromobility? “Special recognition was given to the fact Plastics will make a very decisive contribution to that the brake pedal weighs about half as much achieving a breakthrough in electromobility as a as a comparable steel design. It can also be mass-market technology. A mid-range vehicle today manufactured in large-series production using comprises only about 15 percent plastic. This share a cost-effective one-shot process, and meets can and will increase significantly. As a result, cars the high load requirements thanks to the ­Tepex® will become lighter and the range of electric cars – insert,” explains Ulrich Jecmeniza, a lightcurrently perceived as inadequate by many consumweight construction expert at Bond-Laminates ers – will increase significantly. GmbH, the LANXESS subsidiary that develops and manufactures Tepex® continuous fiberreinforced thermoplastic composites. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Products 33 Quality you Can drink With its Lewabrane® membrane elements, the Liquid Purification Technologies business unit offers a high-performance solution for ensuring a reliable supply of drinking and purified water. Water is becoming increasingly valuable. Less than 1 % of global water resources are available for human consumption. F resh, clean water is scarce in many regions of the world, even though 72 % of the earth’s surface is covered by water. Population growth, pollution and climate change frequently exacerbate the water shortage, especially in already disadvantaged countries. For example, people in some developing countries have to make do with just five liters of water a day, while the average European consumes 200 liters a day. The steady rise in per capita consumption is becoming problematic, particularly in regions where potable water is scarce to begin with, such as the Arabian peninsula, northern Africa, Spain and parts of LANXESS Annual Report 2016 34 In focus the United States and Australia. It must be kept in mind that not only the population, but also farming and other industries are dependent on a reliable water supply. Making seawater useful An energy-efficient solution for securing this water supply is seawater desalination by means of reverse osmosis. Lewabrane® membrane elements from LANXESS have proven effective in this application. They can be used to desalinate seawater centrally for an entire region, or locally for smaller units, such as hotel complexes. One example can be found in Lazorde Bay, west of Alexandria, Egypt. A water treatment plant there produces 900 cubic meters of drinking water each day for a hotel complex. “48 Lewabrane® reverse osmosis membrane elements turn water from the Mediterranean into drinking water,” explains Alexander Scheffler, head of the membrane business in the Liquid Purification Technologies business unit. The process is as follows: The water is forced under high pressure through a semipermeable membrane which acts as a filter, holding back specific ions. In this way, salt and other unwanted substances are removed from the water. “Our system guarantees a steady supply of high-quality, purified water even under conditions of fluctuating water temperatures or pH values,” adds Scheffler. “And, depending on the intensity of use, it keeps up this performance for years on end.” LANXESS manufactures membrane filters for water treatment applications at its site in Bitterfeld, Germany. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Products 35 Water recycling Alexander Scheffler, head of the membrane business in the Liquid Purification Technologies business unit Lewabrane® elements consist of spirally wound thin-film composite membranes that were developed specifically for water treatment applications. The chemical industry utilizes a great deal of water. What solutions does it provide to facilitate resource-saving water consumption? Thanks to many changes in industrial production processes and the continuous optimization of water treatment, consumption has been steadily reduced F  or people, the environment over the years. Innovative products from the chemical and industry industry itself have made a major contribution to this Yet reverse osmosis membrane elements progress. In a state-of-the-art production plant, water from LANXESS have many more uses than just is now recycled an average of 28 times before being seawater desalination. They are also used, for discharged into a downstream treatment process, instance, to treat municipal wastewater. In inpurified and returned to the general water cycle. dustry, they help to produce boiler feed water in power plants, or the ultra-pure water required The trend increasingly is moving toward zero liquid in microchip manufacturing. discharge, which means that absolutely no waste Today, thousands of Lewabrane® reverse water from production should be discharged into osmosis membrane elements from LANXESS the environment. To achieve this goal, we must are used around the world to generate clean carefully determine which levels of water quality can water. “Our technology has already proven be reused in which process step, and how highly effective in a wide variety of projects in 25 contaminated water can be treated and returned to countries,” says Scheffler. “In this way, we at the process. We currently are working on a similar LANXESS are helping to preserve one of the concept for our own production facilities. most important foundations of life on earth: clean water.” LANXESS Annual Report 2016 36 In focus Gentle protection against bites Mosquitoes, ticks and similar insects can be a real nuisance. When the O weather turns warm, they often spoil n vacation at the beach, at a party in the park, on a hike in the woods people’s enjoyment of the outdoors; or even in your own backyard, the they can also transmit the pathogens great outdoors is a recreational paradise for that cause dangerous diseases. many people – unless, of course, there are too many insects around. Given the right weather, hungry mosquitoes, stable flies, ticks and horse flies can seem to be everywhere. Worse than the non-stop itching, however, is the risk of contracting malaria, dengue fever, Zika virus, borreliosis or encephalitis. Reliable protection is provided by Saltidin, an active ingredient that is manufactured by LANXESS subsidiary Saltigo in Dormagen, Germany, and used in many popular insect repellents. “Saltidin forms a film-like layer on the skin that stops mosquitoes from smelling anything,” explains Beate Tombeux, who helps LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Products 37 LANXESS subsidiary Saltigo supplies a Saltigo’s Saltidin customers worldwide to product that provides formulate their products. However, the insect effective protection against these tiny repellent must be applied all over because only bloodsuckers: Saltidin. those areas of skin covered with Saltidin are actually protected against blood-thirsty insects and ticks. Tombeux knows this from her own experience: “I always test new products on myself,” she says with a grin. “I mix my own formulations in my lab.” Saltidin offers great versatility Over 170 different products containDemand is growing ing various Saltidin concentrations are sold worldwide in supermarkets, drug stores and Beate Tombeux, product manager for Saltidin pharmacies. They are available in the form of at Saltigo sprays, gels, lotions, moist towelettes, sticks and creams. Products for horses and dogs are also on the market. The retail products are sold as “repellents” because, in contrast to insecticides, they don’t actually kill the attackers, but simply prevent them from biting or stinging. In addition, repellents result in the much slower development of resistance than insecticides. Saltidin-based formulations have a pleasant odor and do not damage plastics or textiles as badly as other products. Moreover, Saltidin is considered to be very skin-friendly and environmentally compatible. Products containing this active ingredient can be used without reservation for small children and expectant mothers, an aspect which is of particular importance given the rapid spread of the Zika virus since 2015, especially in Brazil. In view of these many advantages, the We have conducted extensive toxicological studies use of Saltidin is recommended by health and dermatological tests to meet the most exacting protection agencies around the world includdemands of regulatory agencies. Development cost ing the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and some €10 million, but the investment has paid off. Prevention (CDC), the European Center for Saltidin has convinced government institutions and Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and consumer organizations worldwide. Queensland Health in Australia. Germany’s respected Stiftung Warentest, a consumer In 2016, demand for Saltidin increased by a massive testing company, also gave good ratings to 50 % year on year. To ensure our global supply insect repellents containing LANXESS’s accapability in the long term, we are planning to make tive ingredient. The World Health Organization additional investments in expanding our capacities (WHO) even recommends Saltidin to prevent in Dormagen. the diseases transmitted by mosquitoes, such as malaria, yellow fever, dengue fever and West Nile fever. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 38 In focus From a trade to a recycling industry 500 products supplied by LANXESS for use in leather production LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Processes 39 With the Sustainable Leather Management initiative, LANXESS has created a platform for developing new processes with a stronger focus on environmental protection and preserving resources. Waste product to raw material Levotan X-Biomer technology is just one example of the intensive research work LANXESS is investing in the development of As a driver of innovation, LANXESS is sustainable solutions for leather production. helping to move leather production Retanning agents traditionally are used to modinto the future by combining technology ify the softness, color, structure or elasticity of leather. The special feature of the X-Biomer with sustainability. product line: The products not only reduce waste water contamination, they are also biodegradable and made from renewable raw materials. Dr. Thomas Brackemeyer, head of the Organic Leather Chemicals business line in the LANXESS Leather business unit: “We use the leather shavings produced when hides are adjusted to a uniform thickness. We recycle this L eather is a popular material: Lovers of waste product of the tanning industry, returning expensive cars swear by it, as do fashion it to the production cycle as a raw material for and furniture designers. For over 1,000 retanning chemicals.” Some 600,000 tons years, the tanning industry has been producing of leather shavings are generated each year versatile leather products from what is essentialaround the world, which have to be sent to ly a byproduct of the meat industry. But even a landfill if they cannot be put to further use. traditional trade has to keep up with the times, for example by using sustainable process chem ur innovation hub: O icals that are easy on the environment, preserve the Technical Center resources and protect people. Each step in leather production has been recreated in LANXESS’s Leather Technical Eco-friendly leather production Center in Leverkusen. Fifty employees test new LANXESS launched the Sustainable processes and products in this “miniature tanLeather Management initiative with the aim of nery” and research and development laboratory. transforming global leather production to meet LANXESS markets different system solutions these requirements. With this platform of susfor all leather processing steps – from innovatainable and ecological processes and products, tive process chemicals, mineral and synthetic LANXESS helps tanners worldwide to produce tanning agents and preservatives, to premium leather that meets both legal regulations and the finishing products for all types of leather. Forindividual quality demands of brand manufacmulations are developed and tested at the Techturers of everything from footwear and motor nical Center in Leverkusen. The business unit vehicles to furniture. operates a second Technical Center at its LANXESS Annual Report 2016 40 In focus Changzhou site in China, which is the world’s leading leather producer and offers unique growth opportunities. Thanks to this intensive research work, LANXESS today is one of the leading manufacturers of leather chemicals in the world and the global market leader for tanning agents. “Our combination of novel product solutions and applications expertise means we can offer our customers innovative and sustainable technologies,” says Brackemeyer. “In technical terms, the existing chemistry is outstanding. Modern chemical products But it’s sometimes hard to optimize and ensure today make up around 25 % of the sustainability. We therefore keep rethinking the weight of finished leather. possibilities and are determined to go in new directions.” Measurable benefits for customers Dr. Kai-Silke Koeppen, head of Strategy & Business Development for the Leather business unit Leather production involves about 20 steps, such as unhairing of the hides, tanning and leather finishing to achieve optical or functional features. Some 50 to 60 leather chemicals are used in the process. We aim to achieve measurable advantages in leather processing – reduced emissions, manageable health risks, a reduced CO² footprint – without losing sight of our customers’ cost-efficiency. Providing our customers with applications advice is increasingly important in this connection. This year, for example, we collaborated with CADS – a cooperative venture of the German Footwear Institute that is committed to reducing hazardous substances in footwear – to host a two-day seminar at which we updated 50 leading companies in the leather industry about the responsible use and scientific risk assessment of LANXESS’s phenolic preservatives in leather production. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Processes 41 Taking process control to a new level From tires to technical rubber goods: demands on the quality of industrially manufactured rubber products are on the rise. Representative analysis of rubber compounds can bring a real competitive advantage. W ith its new Rhenowave® inline process control system, the Rhein Chemie Additives business unit (ADD) heralded a new era of process control at the K 2016 trade fair. For the first time, a technology is now available that ensures the consistently high quality of rubber compounds Rhenowave® is installed on the head of in industrial processing, minimizes scrap rates the existing extruder. Measurement is volu­ and can therefore tangibly reduce production metric, non-destructive and representative. costs. “With Rhenowave®, we help rubber processors to achieve an entirely new level of quality in the extrusion process, because our technology enables them to test rubber compounds for possible defects while they are Ultrasound analysis being produced,” says Philipp Junge, head of Rhenowave® is installed on the head of the the Rubber Additives business line in ADD. existing extruder. The measuring unit consists The Rhenowave® system can evaluate the of two ultrasound transducers, a transmitter quality of a compound in less than a second and a receiver, which the rubber compound after it exits the extruder. Moreover, it is possiflows between. At least ten times per second, ble to analyze the homogeneity and composithe transmitter emits a consistent ultrasound tion of the entire compound. Any areas where signal which travels through the rubber comcompound quality is insufficient are recognized pound to the receiver. The components in a immediately rather than later in the product, as rubber compound muffle the ultrasound signal was previously the case. to differing degrees. Different formulations LANXESS Annual Report 2016 42 In focus At a glance Dr. Benjamin Bechem, Global Marketing Manager New Technologies for the Rubber Additives business line in the Rhein Chemie Additives business unit What are the main advantages of Rhenowave® compared with other analytical methods? The data collected are representative of the whole compound. Up to now, it has been usual to test only a small sample of the compound – about 100 grams per 100 kilograms – in the laboratory. The results are then applied to the entire compound. This means, however, that defective areas may go undetected. At the same time, there is also a risk of drawing false conclusions about the entire compound based on one randomly defective sample. By utilizing the non-destructive Rhenowave® technology, customers receive information about several kilograms or even the entire compound. And this information is available on the spot, not in ten minutes or even days after manufacturing, which means that customers can immediately correct the compound and reduce scrap rates if defects are detected. Dr. Dirk Kaempfer, head of Application Technology for the Rubber Additives business line in the Rhein Chemie Additives business unit Looking ahead to the future: how important is Rhenowave® for the rubber industry? The rubber industry has been trying to manufacture its compounds continuously and more cost-efficiently for the last 30 years or so. The problem is that these continuous processes are often a lot more more prone to failure than conventional, discontinuous compounding. This is where Rhenowave® comes in, because these defective factors can now be identified right away and eliminated immediately with inline control. This means we can guarantee that the product has the right composition at the end of the process. To put it another way, we are providing a tool that producers can use to actually benefit from the theoretical advantages of continuous compounding. therefore display different ultrasound intensimost black compounds get their color from ties. For this reason, a reference compound is the addition of carbon black. This makes it needed for every new application to calibrate impossible to use optical inline methods, such Rhenowave® and define a standard. as infrared and UV/VIS spectroscopy. In principle, the system can analyze any Customers can review the data measured rubber compound over 100 °C. Moreover, by Rhenowave® on the system’s screen and it can also analyze black compounds. That intervene in the process if necessary and withmight seem trivial, but it is important because out any significant delay. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Processes 43 Unsurpassed color spaces LANXESS’s Inorganic Pigments W business unit is setting the industry orldwide, a growing number of benchmark with a new sustainable people are migrating to cities where, faced with a sea of gray, process for manufacturing yellowish they seek to make their environment more atred Bayferrox® pigments. tractive. Color is a versatile design element that plays an important role here. Inorganic pigments from LANXESS’s Bayferrox ® and Colortherm® product lines have been used worldwide for decades to produce paints and coatings. Applications range from emulsion LANXESS is manufacturing a new generation of iron oxide red pigments for high-quality paints and coatings. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 44 In focus paints for interior and exterior walls, to trade paints and universal industrial coatings. These color pigments are based on iron and chrome oxides, substances which also occur in nature. However, the synthetic products manufactured by LANXESS’s Inorganic Pigments business unit are far superior to their natural counterparts. “They offer maximum lightfastness and weather stability, high tinting strength and chemical resistance, and excelWith the Bayferrox® New Red pigments, lent opacity,” explains Stephan S ­ piegelhauer, LANXESS is the only company worldwide to cover the full spectrum of yellowish head of the Global Competence Center Paints red iron oxide pigments. & Coatings in the Inorganic Pigments business unit. As a result, colors remain virtually unchanged for years. The extensive portfolio of Bayferrox ® and Colortherm® iron oxide and chrome oxide pigments ranges from yellow to red, black, brown and green. Within these color ranges, customers can choose between more than 100 color gradations. Since 1926, LANXESS has manufactured over 13 million tons of iron oxide pigments in the world’s largest iron oxide production facility at its Krefeld-Uerdingen site in Germany. E  nergy-efficient facility sets new A new dimension environmental standards The LANXESS product portfolio was Stephan Spiegelhauer, head of the Global recently extended by the addition of bright, Competence Center Paints & Coatings, Inorganic yellowish red pigments known as the “New Pigments business unit Reds.” They are produced using a new manufacturing method: the Ningbo Process. This unique technology has been deployed for the What is unique about the Bayferrox® New Reds? first time at the new LANXESS site in Ningbo, They represent an entirely new generation of iron China, where the world’s most modern iron oxide pigments. The Ningbo Process developed to oxide pigment production facility was built spemanufacture them represents a quantum leap in cifically to implement the Ningbo Process and innovation, as it delivers special advantages in came on stream in the first quarter of 2016. terms of sustainability and pigment quality. With the New Red pigments extending our portfolio, we are the only company worldwide that covers the full spectrum of yellowish reds for high-quality paints and coatings. At the same time, the new process produces red pigments in color spaces that were previously not available on the market – and that makes us unique. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Processes 45 “LANXESS is using the new Ningbo Process at its site of the same name in China.” Traditionally, the Penniman process has been used in China to produce iron oxide red pigments. However, this process has been demonstrated to harm the environment. LANXESS therefore developed the new Ningbo Process for the safe and environmentally friendly production of high-quality iron oxide pigments. The process combines an innovative management system with virtually total treatment of nitrogen oxides, including nitrous oxide, which is very harmful to the environment. Thanks to the state-of-the-art process management system, plant technology and heat integration concept, the energy requirement of the facility has also been reduced significantly. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 46 IN FOCUS Review 2016 01 CAPACITY EXPANSION FOR HIGH-PERFORMANCE PLASTICS 04 Launch of ARLANXEO 07 COMPLETED 01 LANXESS brings on stream a second production LANXESS and Saudi Aramco complete the establishment line for compounding high-tech plastics at its of ARLANXEO, their 50:50 joint venture for synthetic ­Gastonia facility in North Carolina, United States. rubber. On completion of the transaction, 50 % of ARLANXEO The expansion represents a capital expenditure of is transferred to Saudi Aramco’s Dutch subsidiary Aramco Overaround US$15 million and has doubled the facility’s anseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A. In return, LANXESS receives a nual production capacity from 20,000 to 40,000 tons. payment of around €1.2 billion. 04 ACQUISITION OF CHEMOURS SPECIALTIES BUSINESS ANNOUNCED 05 Pension assets 25 10 increased The portfolio of the Material Protection Products business unit is expanded through the acquisiLANXESS increases its pension plan assets in Germany tion of the Clean and Disinfect business of U.S. by €200 million, thereby reducing its pension provisions. chemical company Chemours. This comprises The funds come from the proceeds of the transaction with S ­ audi active ingredients and specialty chemicals used espeAramco. Among the reasons for the high pension provisions cially in disinfectant and hygiene solutions. LANXESS is the low-interest environment. Pension provisions amount to pays the purchase price of around €200 million from €1,375 million at the close of the first quarter of 2016. The ­funding existing liquidity. The transaction is closed at the end status of Group pension obligations rises from 45 % to 51 %. of August 2016. 05 FOLLOWING A STRONG START TO 08 LANXESS AGAIN RAISES EARNINGS 10 THE YEAR, LANXESS RAISES FORECAST FOR 2016 11 EARNINGS FORECAST FOR 2016 Following a good first quarter, LANXESS ­raises LANXESS sees good business performance in the first half its earnings forecast for fiscal 2016. The company of the year and raises its earnings forecast for fiscal 2016. is now expecting EBITDA pre exceptionals ­between The company is now expecting EBITDA pre exceptionals between €900 million and €950 million. LANXESS was €930 million and €970 million. In a strong second quarter, EBITDA previ­ously assuming an operating result of between pre exceptionals rose by 8.5 % to €293 million from €270 million €880 million and €930 million. in the prior-year quarter. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Review 47 09 Return to a course of growth 26 LANXESS plans to acquire U.S. company Chemtura, one of the major global providers of high-quality flame retardant and lubricant additives. With the largest acquisition in its history, LANXESS is building on its own additives portfolio and will become one of the world’s major actors in this growing market. 09 RENEWED LISTING IN DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX WORLD Both companies sign an acquisition agreement. At an extra­ ordinary meeting in Philadelphia, USA, in early February 2017, 19 Chemtura’s shareholders approve the company’s acquisition by LANXESS. 99.88 % of the votes cast – representing 81.77 % of LANXESS is included in the Dow Jones Susthe shares outstanding in Chemtura – are in favor of the acquisitainability Index (DJSI) World for the sixth time tion. Under the agreement between the two companies, Chemtura in a row. The composition of this sustainability index, shareholders will receive US$33.50 in cash for each outstanding which is recognized throughout the world, is detershare on the day the transaction is closed – probably in mid-2017. mined once a year on the basis of financially relevant The transaction has an enterprise value of approximately environmental, social and governance factors. The €2.4 billion that will be financed by LANXESS mainly through index applies the best-in-class principle and includes corporate and hybrid bonds, as well as from existing liquidity. only the top 10 % of the companies assessed in each The transaction is still subject to the approval of individual sector. This year, among other things, its performance antitrust authorities and to the customary conditions applying in the management of innovation processes and its to such transactions. climate strategy are highlighted. The group had set itself new climate protection targets at the beginning of the year, having achieved the climate goals for 2015. LANXESS’s target for 2025 is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25 %. CHEMTURA Probably Acquisition Mid-2017 10 Recognition from Carbon Disclosure Project 26 LANXESS receives several accolades from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an international investors’ initiative. It is among 193 companies worldwide to be included in the CDP Climate A List 11 FOLLOWING A STRONG THIRD QUARTER, LANXESS RAISES ITS FULL-YEAR FORECAST and thus ranks in the top 9 % of the 2,100 companies 10 FOR THE THIRD TIME which participate in the initiative. LANXESS is also named “Sector Leader” in the Energy & Materials inLANXESS posts strong third-quarter performance and dustry and is among the top 11 % of companies in the again raises its earnings forecast for fiscal 2016. The Germany, Austria and Switzerland region. In an index company is now expecting EBITDA pre exceptionals between comparison, the specialty chemicals company places €960 million and €1 billion. In the third quarter of 2016, EBITDA among the top 4 % of MDAX companies and is rated pre exceptionals rose by 9.4 % to €257 million from €235 million an “Index Leader.” in the prior-year quarter. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Strategy Improved structures Our three-phase realignment program has progressed significantly. We aim to achieve additional annual savings of €150 million from 2019. Sharper profile As a specialty chemicals company, we aim to achieve a strong cash flow and balanced portfolio – building on our strengths in mid-sized markets. Further growth The planned acquisition of U.S. company Chemtura would substantially broaden our additives portfolio. 50 STRATEGY A Clear Course in Times of Change Against a backdrop of challenging conditions, we have taken LANXESS forward significantly in 2016. More quickly than was to be expected, the contours of a stable, profitable and in many respects sustainable specialty chemicals group are taking shape. The course is set for reliably creating value in an ever more complex market environment. Chemical industry faces major based on known compounds for existing and new areas of applichallenges cation and to ensure that our global processes and supply chains are sustainable, efficient, safe and fair. With its consistent ability and readiness to change, the Sustainability has become the driving force for the entire chemical industry has been helping to achieve technological industry in general. The focus of innovation is on products that will and social progress for over a century. The chemical industry help overcome major societal challenges such as climate change remains a growing sector despite its comparative maturity. Worldand the ability to feed a growing world population. Now, more wide it is achieving growth rates which are in part well above than ever, the chemical industry is expected to take responsibility overall global economic expansion. To share in this growth, the for its products and production processes – from the acquisition ability and readiness to change are more necessary than ever, of raw materials to disposal. Until now, sustainability has been a particularly for companies with European roots, because the competitive advantage in certain markets and value chains. In the chemical industry is undergoing a far-reaching and multi-layered future, however, it will be a fundamental requirement for global process of change. chemical companies. LANXESS has always viewed sustainability as an aspect of its license to operate. Renewed inclusion in the 1. The challenges in the chemical industry Dow Jones Sustainability Index World and first-time inclusion in are changing. the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Climate A List provided emphatic In the past, the main task of the chemical industry was to confirmation in 2016 that we are living up to our claim of “Good discover or invent new compounds which, time and again, have for business, good for society.” opened the door to completely new, marketable products. However, in view of the enormous scientific advances that have been 2. The competitive environment in the chemical made and the high cost of registering new substances, there are industry is changing. now significantly fewer opportunities for bringing commercially On the supplier side, particularly in the commodity segment, viable new chemical compounds to market. The challenge today the balance of power is shifting. Manufacturers in the emerging for large parts of our industry is to provide sustainable products markets, the Middle East and the United States, with good access LANXESS Annual Report 2016 A Clear Course in Times of Change 51 to low-cost raw materials and energy, are extending their value Given these challenging conditions, a company’s quality is chains and entering the global markets with products that are demonstrated by its readiness to formulate and consistently imcompetitive in terms of both price and quality. plement a forward-looking strategy which On the sales side, formerly traditional importers such as ›› actively shapes change; China – likely to account for around 40 % of global demand for ›› creates stability in an increasingly uncertain environment; chemicals in 2030, according to estimates from market research ›› optimally balances the interests and needs of all stakeholders. company IHS – are becoming self-sufficient. In recent years, China has built its own modern production infrastructure that is also capable of manufacturing higher-quality products. GREAT PROGRESS WITH In addition to these shifts, increasing political instability in REALIGNMENT important growth markets is generating considerable uncertainty and risks in terms of both procurement and sales. Moreover, digiWe created the foundation for such a strategy with our threetalization will bring major change to processes, working environphase global realignment program “Let’s LANXESS again,” which ments and value chains in the chemical industry and other sectors we initiated in 2014. A new and more efficient organizational in the years ahead. In this connection, companies that establish structure and comprehensive optimization of business and ada futureproof basis at an early stage will have good prospects for ministrative structures in our business units and Group functions improving their competitive position. have not only brought us closer to our markets and customers Three-Phase Realignment Program 01 02 03 Competitiveness of Operational Competitiveness the business and competitiveness of the business portfolio administrative structure and alliances Restructuring of Group and Site-by-site analysis of production Strategic alliances to address lack administrative structures and supply chain to identify and of backward integration leverage efficiency potential Elimination of 1,000 positions Saudi Aramco and LANXESS Capacity adjustments announced establish a strategic joint venture Savings realized earlier than for various types of rubber for synthetic rubber originally anticipated Start on April 1 Annual savings of Additional efficiency Joint venture for synthetic approx. €150 million from gains of approx. €150 million rubber business resulting in cash the end of 2015 from the end of 2019 inflow of approx. €1.2 billion LANXESS Annual Report 2016 52 STRATEGY but have also sustainably improved our cost position by around an attractive combination – the professionalism of a global chem€150 million. In Saudi Aramco we have found a strong partner icals company coupled with the customer proximity and agility of for our synthetic rubbers business and together we successfully a specialized niche provider. These advantages, along with mostly launched the new joint venture ARLANXEO in April 2016. Withabove-average growth rates in these markets, create very good in the context of our program to optimize our production, sales prospects for LANXESS. and supply chains, we initiated and in some cases have already In 2016, we made significant progress in our key areas of completed a number of measures aimed at achieving further cost activity. savings of €150 million by the end of 2019. As in the optimization of our business and administrative structures, we are making Achieving a more balanced portfolio faster progress than planned and have already realized many cost An important element of our strategy is to reduce financial savings earlier than anticipated. dependence on individual industries or closely correlated marSuccessful change always has both a cultural and an orkets. In regional terms, too, we aim to achieve an even better ganizational component. Therefore, as part of “Let’s LANXESS balance in our portfolio by increasing the share of our business again,” we have also reviewed and optimized our corporate valaccounted for by the growth markets of China, North America ues and our mission. Each and every employee at LANXESS is and Southeast Asia. expected to display an entrepreneurial mindset, to quickly take Since the launch of ARLANXEO we have significantly restrictsolution-oriented decisions and to be open to new approaches. ed the influence of the tire industry on our business. In addition, We seek to promote diversity and equality of opportunity in the partnership with Saudi Aramco will provide us with much all their forms. And at all times we aim to live quality and susbetter access in the long term to vital strategic raw materials for tainability in all their dimensions. These aspirations have been rubber. In common with all our main rivals in this market we will translated into organizational reality through a number of meathen have a largely backward-integrated value chain. sures and form the strong foundation for moving forward with The acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business our realigned company. of U.S. company Chemours, completed at the end of August, strengthens the regional position of our Material Protection Products business unit, particularly in North America. At the same time, GREATER STABILITY AND STRONGER the acquisition expands the business unit’s active ingredient portCASH FLOW folio and extends the veterinary disinfection value chain through to the end market. We have already successfully completed the By 2020 we aim to make LANXESS a more stable specialty integration process. chemicals group with a stronger cash flow and a more balanced We aim to significantly sharpen our profile as a specialportfolio. To achieve this, we will be building especially on our ty chemicals provider through our planned acquisition of U.S. strengths in mid-sized markets. Here we can offer our customers company Chemtura, one of the major global suppliers of flame LANXESS Annual Report 2016 A Clear Course in Times of Change 53 retardant and lubricant additives. With the largest acquisition – and organometallics, used as catalysts in polymer production in our history, we are building significantly on our own additives and in the synthesis of fine chemicals, for example. The products portfolio and will become one of the world’s major actors in this will be integrated into LANXESS’s High Performance Materials growing market. In addition to additives, Chemtura’s portfolio and Advanced Industrial Intermediates business units. includes polyurethanes – a component of many high-tech plastics Strategic Guidelines 01 Raw material supplies Our value chains originate 06 from liquid global raw 02 material markets. Growth Sustainable products Higher resilience and sites in a challenging market We are leveraging environment long-term growth We manufacture our potential in Asia and the products at competitive United States. and sustainable chemical sites. Higher profitability as a result of quality, service and 05 03 competitiveness Sales markets Competitiveness We focus on mid-sized Our costs are competitive Stable growth markets worldwide. across the value chain. in attractive markets 04 Value chains We strengthen efficient and integrated value chains. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 54 STRATEGY We are confident of completing the acquisition of Chemtura raw material markets, thus considerably improving our strategic by mid-2017. During the subsequent integration phase, lasting room for maneuver in procurement. Other measures will also about a year, we will not be seeking any further acquisitions of this enable us to meet rising demand from our customers from a magnitude. Nonetheless, we do not rule out taking advantage of competitive position. These include: optimizing and expanding other smaller opportunities to strengthen our business, provided plants at the networked aromatics production site in Leverkusen; they meet our strict criteria for acquisitions – such as a positive expanding the capacity of the phthalic anhydride plant operateffect on our earnings per share after no more than three years ed by our Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit in and clear purchase price limits in terms of multiples. Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; increasing membrane element capacities for our Liquid Purification Technologies business unit; and adding production capacities for our Saltidin repellent in the Utilizing organic growth potential Saltigo business unit, which we initiated after the emergence In order to further improve the alignment of our existing busiof the Zika virus in South America. nesses and leverage future growth potential, we aim to invest up to €400 million in our organic growth. As planned, we began with the largest single project, involving a capital investment of Safeguarding financial solidity around €60 million. Our Saltigo business unit is constructing These capital investments, as well as future strategic meatwo new agrochemicals production lines at our networked site in sures, are subject to the strict application of a conservative Leverkusen, Germany. Production is due to start at the end of 2017. financing policy that is guided by clear criteria and focused on The lion’s share of our investment budget, however, will maintaining our investment-grade rating. be allocated to a number of smaller measures, which taken We issued two eurobonds with a combined volume of €1 billion together will unlock considerable potential and strengthen our and our first hybrid bond of €500 million to finance the planned core sites in Germany and Belgium on a lasting basis. An exacquisition of Chemtura. In our view, their swift placement – which cellent example of such “smart” investments is the new tank was several times oversubscribed – is confirmation of our high level storage facility for the phosphoric acid ester plant operated by of creditworthiness and our good access to the capital markets. the Rhein Chemie Additives business unit in Leverkusen. The Never before have we raised such a high level of funding on attracmuch larger capacity enables us to respond flexibly to volatile tive terms on the bond markets in a short space of time. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 A Clear Course in Times of Change 55 Creating reliable value Portfolio Optimization Continuously adapting and upgrading the portfolio is the key to future success Criteria for external growth LANXESS ›› Strategic fit realigned ›› Synergy potential ›› Clear financial criteria Further business and (EPS increase, EV/EBITDA multiple portfolio improvements and ROCE) ›› Retention of investment-grade rating Acquisition of Chemtura* Acquisition of Chemours specialties business Launch of ARLANXEO Restructuring *Closing expected mid-2017 Through our courage to implement profound change, our mid-sized markets. Carried by a strong team and a value-based down-to-earth mindset and a lot of hard work, we have established corporate culture built on quality and sustainability, we have set a new position of strength in less than three years. LANXESS the course for reliably creating value – for our stockholders, our is set to be a leading specialty chemicals company, operating customers, our employees and society. independently with efficient and agile business units in promising LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility Assuming responsibility Our commitment to sustainability is aimed at achieving the best possible balance between the demands of the economy, ecology and society. Product portfolio analyzed For the first time, we have assessed the impact and benefits of our products on the basis of sustainability criteria that are relevant to our company and our stakeholders. Increased transparency Also for the first time, we have published our Scope 3 emissions, thus taking a further important step toward achieving maximum transparency in respect of our greenhouse gas emissions. 58 Corporate Responsibility GRI G4–18 Good for Business, Good for Society G4–24 G4–25 Through its performance capability and innovative strength, the chemical industry is improving G4–26 G4–27 the quality of life of people across the world. It is also making an important contribution to solving societal challenges. We see it as our corporate responsibility to create lasting value for all stakeholders and therefore to very consciously address the impact of our actions. The only way to futureproof our company is if our strategy balances the demands of the economy, ecology and society. This is summed up in one short sentence: “Good for business, good for society.” The chemical industry expressly committed itself to sustainable to operate successfully in the future and create value for all able development decades ago, one of the first industry sectors to stakeholders. Given this awareness, sustainability is a key success do so. Since then, awareness of both the necessity to act sustainfactor that is at the heart of LANXESS’s corporate culture. For us, ably in the broader sense and of the opportunities this presents has actively demonstrating corporate responsibility involves knowing steadily grown and matured across industry and national borders. and evaluating the impact of our actions – whether positive or Through the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) agreed negative – and maintaining a dialogue with stakeholders that in September 2015, the international community is seeking to enables us to satisfy their expectations to the best of our ability. foster global economic progress and social justice while recognizing the ecological limits of our planet. The 17 SDGs represent the first time that equal consideration has been given to all three Active stakeholder dialogue dimensions of sustainability – society, ecology and the economy. LANXESS, too, is committed to the SDGs. In 2016, against this The stakeholders of relevance to LANXESS are the groups, backdrop, we initiated a review of our current sustainability poinstitutions and people with whom we are linked directly or indisition and analyzed where our business activities already make rectly through our business activities and who therefore have a a positive contribution to achieving the SDGs. We see opportujustified interest in what we do. Our most important stakeholder nities for LANXESS to make a positive difference in areas such groups are customers, employees, capital market participants, as addressing climate change, developing sustainable cities, sesuppliers, the media, neighbors of our sites and representatives curing the supply of food and clean water for a steadily growing of politics, public authorities and non-governmental organizations world population, and giving people around the world access to (NGOs). We conduct an intensive dialogue with all these groups high-quality education. with the aim of constantly identifying the issues that they consider However, the SDGs make equally clear what strategic chalto be significant in terms of our corporate responsibility. At the lenges the chemical industry faces: achieving consistent growth same time, we seek to encourage mutual understanding and while making responsible use of resources, avoiding harmful emisbuild trust through an open and constructive exchange of views. sions into the air, soil and water, and ensuring the safe handling of We participate in powerful global networks, such as the U.N. chemical products along the value chain. This is also reflected in Global Compact, where we combine our competence in sustainmore stringent regulation – in the form of national climate protecable development with the expertise of other partners. As well as tion goals, for instance – and growing public awareness. state institutions, NGOs in particular have a crucial role here. Trade Our portfolio includes substances that are classified as danshows and congresses are important forums for discussion with gerous and are therefore subject to very particular requirements potential and existing business partners, competitors, scientists in terms of product stewardship. The production processes for and opinion leaders. In addition, we often contribute to studies some of our products are energy-intensive; they generate greenconcerning socially relevant issues such as an environmentally house gas emissions and create wastewater and solid waste. Many friendly approach to mobility. of our key strategic raw materials are petroleum-based so their We also conduct an open dialogue with government repreavailability is finite. In addition, we are required to ensure maximum sentatives and authorities. The focus is on an active exchange possible safety and environmental compatibility in the distribution of ideas on issues such as environmentally friendly product and of our products worldwide, which sometimes involves large volprocess innovations, developments on raw material and energy umes. Lastly, we are responsible for almost 17,000 employees markets, and issues relating to the labor market and education around the world who are committed to our company’s success. policy. Another important element of our stakeholder commuIn this context, corporate responsibility is a prerequisite to being nication is structured dialogue with residents in the immediate LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 59 vicinity of our sites. For example, our affiliate Currenta operates Most external stakeholders regard LANXESS as a company GRI G4–18 Chempunkt neighborship offices in Leverkusen, Dormagen and that acts sustainably and they rate us highly – in our latest stakeG4–24 Krefeld-Uerdingen to serve as a point of contact for local residents holder survey, for instance – for fulfilling our corporate responsiG4–25 G4–26 interested in discussing issues concerning the Chempark sites. bility. They see room for improving sustainability communications G4–27 through face-to-face discussions – customers in particular would welcome a more active information policy from LANXESS regardKey issues Dialogue forums ing the sustainability characteristics of our products. One way in Stakeholder which we aim to do more to meet this expectation is through our Customers • Product quality • Trade shows extensive quality campaign launched in the fall of 2016, in which • Compliance • Customer visits • Human rights • Customer events sustainability is centrally positioned as an important aspect of • Environmental standards • Customer surveys product quality. In our future communication with stakeholders, we • Product safety information • Customer audits also intend to make targeted use of the findings from the portfolio Politicians • Education and training • Collaboration in • Energy and industry associations analysis based on sustainability aspects that we performed for the resource efficiency • Site visits first time in 2016 (see page 77). • Occupational safety • Discussions • Sustainable procurement • Workshops Furthermore, we are consistently working to give the best (supply chain) possible consideration to our stakeholders’ interests in our com• Responsible handling bined financial and sustainability reporting. In this Annual Report, of chemicals NGOs • Climate protection and • Round table events for example, we have expanded the information about preventing resource efficiency • Consultation processes corruption (see page 67). We have also enlarged our reporting on • Environmental standards • Projects at our sites the issues of health and safety, starting on page 74. In the future, • Occupational safety • Anti-corruption we will be integrating details about compliance management into Media • Investment in sustainability • News conferences and the Corporate Governance Report starting on page 96. We have • Development of sustainbriefings also again expanded the information we provide about our work able production processes • Editorial visits • Plant, process and occupa• Media days to achieve sustainability in the supply chain. tional safety • Annual Stockholders’ • Emissions reduction Meeting • Research and development Suppliers • Responsible handling of • Supplier meetings and Systematically prioritizing chemicals audits sustainability • Anti-corruption • Together for Sustainability • Environmental manageinitiative ment • Collaboration in industry Alongside our own evaluation, our stakeholders’ main inter• Product quality associations ests and concerns form the second dimension of our materiality • Training • Conferences and symposiums analysis based on the requirements of the Global Reporting InitiaCapital • Sustainability of the • Roadshows tive (GRI). This is an important tool that enables us to systematically market reprebusiness model • Conferences prioritize the various areas of activity and thus deploy resources sentatives • Board of Management • Capital market days compensation model • Conference calls as effectively as possible. The materiality analysis is based on four • Targets and target • Annual Stockholders’ principles: sustainability context, materiality, completeness and attainment Meeting stakeholder inclusiveness. • Anti-corruption • Risk management • Toxicity • Occupational safety LANXESS Annual Report 2016 60 Corporate Responsibility GRI G4–18 LANXESS Materiality Matrix G4–19 G4–26 G4–27 Corporate governance Responsibility toward employees Environmental responsibility Product and process stewardship Responsibility in the supply chain Social responsibility Anti-corruption Occupational safety Risk management Human rights Compliance Quality Emissions reduction Environmental standards Plant & process safety very high Responsible Responsible handling Research & development resource use of chemicals Toxicity Resource efficiency Environmental management Level of interest to stakeholders Energy efficiency Product safety information Business ethics Occupational health Globalization Sustainable procurement Education & training Water management Stakeholder relations Climate protection Transparency Talent management high Fair remuneration Transportation Demographic change Work-life balance high Importance for LANXESS very high LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 61 We and our stakeholders consider four issues – risk manthose of our competitors. Over a two-year cycle, GRI G4–18 agement, quality, plant and process safety, and research and each business unit carries out an anonymous G4–26 development – to be very important. online survey. In the 2015/2016 cycle that has G4–27 We view efficient and effective opportunity and risk managejust been completed, a total of 787 customers ment as indispensable to successfully operating in the long term used the opportunity to give us feedback. The in markets that are complex and increasingly difficult to predict. customer satisfaction index measured for the The impact of risk management is reflected, for example, in our Lanxess Group is 76 %. Positive ratings were decisions to enter into a strategic partnership for our rubber busireceived for our technical expertise, process ness and to improve our diversification by means of acquisitions efficiency and delivery reliability in particular. On (see “Strategy” section on page 50 and the “Opportunity and risk the other hand, the customers surveyed still saw report” on page 155). room for improvement in terms of pricing and Quality is an important element of our corporate culture, delivery flexibility. which requires all our employees to display an entrepreneurial mindset, to quickly take solution-oriented decisions and to be Our daily commitment to high quality and cusopen to new approaches. Our goal is for quality to be reflected tomer satisfaction is regularly recognized and not only in our products but also in our processes – for example, honored with awards and prizes. For example, in high levels of plant and process safety. We see clear evidence our subsidiary Bond-Laminates GmbH, in for our comprehensive understanding of quality in the positive conjunction with the Fraunhofer Institute for feedback we receive from our customers, our industry-leading Production Technology and HBW-Gubesch matrix certification for quality and environmental management Thermoforming GmbH, received the JEC (see page 64) and the constant reduction of our MAQ figures Innovation Award in the process category for since 2012 (see page 76). the combination of our Tepex continuous-fiberIn the area of research and development, our efforts are reinforced thermoplastic composite with local systematically aligned to making our products and processes as tape reinforcements, which optimizes mechanical sustainable as possible and thereby securing the foundation for performance, material thickness and weight. In our long-term entrepreneurial success. Examples of our successful addition, an all-plastic brake pedal with an insert research and development work are presented starting on page made from our Tepex dynalite high-tech plastic 116 of this Annual Report. was awarded first place in the “Body Interior” The dialogue with our stakeholders has revealed a shift in category of the Society of Plastics Engineers the importance of certain issues, primarily due to the significant (SPE) Automotive Awards, which are among changes at our company in the past two years. Societal developthe most prestigious innovation awards for the ments and challenges have without doubt also had a role here. automotive industry and its suppliers. Starting in 2017, therefore, we will be performing a new materiality analysis to review and if necessary adjust our priorities in a systematic process of dialogue with our stakeholder groups. Sustainability targets Customer satisfaction as a measure of success As part of our strategy and aligned to the areas of activity In connection with quality, customer satisfaction and in our materiality matrix, we have formulated specific targets for loyalty are among the main measures of success. sustainable development at LANXESS. Their common aim is to Our central inquiry management system provides generate added value for our stakeholders and, at the same time, customers with information about our products, their to improve the quality of life for present and future generations. applications and potential risks, and with product cerOne element of the variable compensation for senior management tificates. Critical feedback from customers gives us is the extent to which certain sustainability targets are attained. valuable pointers for further improving our products and processes. Based on a central CRM system and a uniform complaints management platform, each of our business units has its own complaints management process aligned to its markets and customers. Regular customer surveys conducted by an external service provider using recognized opinion research methods deliver vital information about the loyalty of our customers, their expectations and how they perceive our products and services compared with LANXESS Annual Report 2016 62 Corporate Responsibility LANXESS Sustainability Targets Clusters and Target Target Status 2016 and Page Subject Areas in the Date Target Attainment Materiality Matrix Responsibility for the Environment Resource management Improved eco-efficiency within the LANXESS 2016 The Operational Eco Efficiency project is dedicated to the 81 Group by consolidating existing efficiency issues of resources and eco-efficiency and focused in the measures in a global resource efficiency first phase solely on energy efficiency. It will be continued program with the following goals: in 2017. • Development of an integrated business In 2016, a comprehensive risk analysis was performed for strategy/operational eco-efficiency each of our sites on the basis of the WWF Water Risk Filter • Further development of the LANXESS and the WBCSD Global Water Tool. Climate Strategy (see climate protection targets) • Establishment of a water management system at all sites in water-scarce areas Climate protection Reduction in specific Scope 1 CO²e End of Despite higher absolute values, specific Scope 1 emissions 79 emissions by 25 % for the LANXESS Group 2025 were kept at roughly the prior-year level. (base date: December 31, 2015) Reduction in specific Scope 2 CO²e End of Despite higher absolute values, specific Scope 2 emissions 79 emissions by 25 % for the LANXESS Group 2025 were slightly below the prior-year level. (base date: December 31, 2015) Reduction in specific energy consumption End of Despite an increase in absolute values, specific energy 80 by 25 % for the LANXESS Group (base date: 2025 consumption was reduced in 2016. December 31, 2015) Reduction in emissions of volatile organic End of Emissions were further substantially reduced in 2016. 80 compounds (NMVOC) by 25 % (base date: 2025 December 31, 2015) Responsibility in the supply chain Development and establishWork on advancing the development of the 2020 A standardized on-site third-party audit process for partners 114 ment of a new sustainability sustainability standard for our suppliers in and suppliers was developed and rolled out under the standard for our suppliers tandem with relevant industry initiatives, with auspices of TfS. the aim of further expanding a sustainable supply chain Significant progress was made: Suppliers assessed by TfS account for 60 % (2015: 57 %) of Support for the Together for Sustainability LANXESS’s relevant procurement spend. initiative, which aims to standardize and share sustainability assessments of suppliers in the same industry Sustainability of LANXESS Neutral assessment of LANXESS’s sustainContinuous In the online assessment by the EcoVadis rating agency, 115 as a supplier ability performance by the EcoVadis rating LANXESS achieved an improved CSR Performance Score agency and possibly audits of 72 % worldwide and thus again attained Advanced Level in 2016/2017. As a result, the company’s Gold Status – first obtained in 2013 – was confirmed. In November 2016, LANXESS itself underwent a TfS audit at its Leverkusen site to assess its CSR practices as a supplier. The site received the best possible assessment. Responsibility toward employees Development and introducStrengthen awareness of occupational safety 2020 Up to and including 2016, a total of 13 global HSE standards 74 tion of a global HSEQ risk were rolled out. They describe technical activities with identification and evaluation Foster continuous improvements in support increased risk potential and culture elements such as process of LANXESS’s “Xact” global safety program accident investigations as binding elements of our conduct and daily workflows. Also, three “Xact” focus projects were established in 2016. The LTIFR and RIR were reduced to 2.0 and 0.7, respectively. Diversity Increase proportion of women in senior and 2020 The proportion of women as of December 31, 2016, 70 middle management to 20 % was 16.29 %. Training Fulfill social responsibility through the Continuous The number of people in vocational training increased by 69 provision of training 23 % in 2016. Hire rate of at least 80 % on completion of 81 % of those who completed their vocational training vocational training were hired. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 63 Clusters and Target Target Status 2016 and Page Subject Areas in the Date Target Attainment Materiality Matrix Responsibility toward employees Demography initiative Flexibilize worktime models Continuous The “Flexi 95” pilot project for managerial employees was 72 launched. Make life easier for employees with families and for older employees 50 demography positions were created. Product and process stewardship Product stewardship Sustainability assessment of the LANXESS 2016 In 2016, the entire product portfolio was systematically 77 product portfolio analyzed on the basis of sustainability aspects. Development and introducReduction and prevention of 2020 In the course of preparations for the upcoming standard 238 tion of a global HSEQ risk • Incidents relating to plant and process revision (ISO 9001/14001 Revision 2015), risk-related identification and evaluation safety requirements were identified and transfered to HSEQ-related process • Environmental incidents and their impact areas of activity. • Transport incidents Transportation safety: In 2016, LANXESS India focused on transportation safety and held a large number of workshops and training sessions for transport service providers and their drivers. The technical requirements for trucks were greatly tightened. Corporate responsibility Social activities Global support for science education Continuous 87 projects worldwide were implemented, benefiting around 86 200,000 mainly young people. Enhancing awareness of climate change and water scarcity – for drinking and industrial use A total of €1.5 million was made available. Cultural commitment Corporate governance Anti-corruption Avoidance of all cases of active and passive Continuous Special corruption training was carried out for exposed 67 corruption professional groups and countries. The number of cases of passive corruption is in the single-digit range. Human rights No human rights violations Continuous A risk assessment that specifically addressed human 66 rights issues was performed in five countries (Brazil, China, Germany, South Africa and the United States). Individual cases of misconduct were reported by employees in respect of colleagues or third parties. There were no reports or other indications of human rights violations by suppliers. Well structured Committees and functions We have established various committees and functions to We regard acting and thinking sustainably as the responsibility ensure compliance with and the ongoing optimization of our CR of each and every employee at LANXESS. However, appropriate strategy and our rules and standards. organizational structures, strategies, operational guidelines and goals are needed to enable our employees to act sustainably in CR Committee their day-to-day work and to translate the abstract concept of Representatives from selected group functions develop our corporate responsibility into a specific factor of entrepreneurial CR strategy and ensure that all LANXESS’s CR activities are in line success. with this strategy. As an interdisciplinary competence center, the LANXESS combines corporate governance, sustainability committee advises both the Board of Management and the business and corporate citizenship under the umbrella of corporate reunits on all matters relating to sustainability. It is also responsible for sponsibility (CR). collecting and maintaining reliable data that comply with current LANXESS Annual Report 2016 64 Corporate Responsibility market standards for use in our external CR communications. The Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 and Board of Management is represented on the CR Committee by ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. This cerDr. van Roessel. tificate brings with it a number of advantages: HSEQ Committee ›› A high degree of process standardization LANXESS’s senior executives, under the direction of Board of ›› Uniform company directives and operating procedures Management member Dr. Hubert Fink, ensure worldwide compli›› Transparent, efficient and effective procedures and controls ance with uniformly high quality management, safety, environmen›› Substantially reduced external effort for maintaining and optal, energy and climate protection standards. The committee has timizing the management system, for integrating other manresponsibility for initiating and monitoring the global implementaagement systems (e.g. ISO 50001, sustainability standards) tion of all necessary HSEQ guidelines, strategies and programs, and for integrating new locations or business entities as well as for defining our HSEQ objectives and monitoring their achievement. It also defines the global strategy for our integrated External, independent experts regularly audit the progress quality and environmental management system and our energy of integrating new sites into our management system and the management system. performance of our management system worldwide. In 2016, we successfully completed a follow-up audit and obtained global Compliance organization certification for new company ARLANXEO. The certificate now The global compliance organization – which is made up of covers Bond-Laminates GmbH as well. In 2017, we intend to the Group Compliance Officer and a network of local compliance integrate our production sites at Neville Island, United States, and officers – is the central point of contact for all employees on comJoo Koon, Singapore, into the certificate. As of August 31, 2016, pliance-related issues. It also works with the relevant organizational we gained three production sites – in Memphis and Kingstown, units to develop measures intended to counter illegal or unethical United States, and Sudbury, United Kingdom – through the conduct by LANXESS employees at an early stage and to prevent acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect business of U.S. chemical improprieties. Our compliance management system is described company Chemours. All these sites already have ISO 9001 and/or in detail in the Corporate Governance Report starting on page ISO 14001 certification. Inclusion in the LANXESS management 96 of this Annual Report. system and thus in our matrix certificate is part of the integration process. Our Rustenburg site in South Africa, which is a chrome In addition, in 2016, an interdisciplinary team headed by Board ore mine, cannot be assigned to LANXESS’s other chemical indusof Management member Dr. Hubert Fink examined certain astry businesses in the matrix certificate. We are therefore seeking pects of sustainability management and corporate responsibility separate ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification for this site. at LANXESS, focusing on product stewardship, climate protection As of December 31, 2016, our matrix certificate covered 49 and environmental efficiency. The results have been included in the certifiable companies (companies with employees and in which relevant sections of this Annual Report. For example, the methodLANXESS has a holding of more than 50 %, as well as ARLANXEO ology used in our portfolio analysis based on sustainability aspects companies) with 79 sites in 23 countries. In relation to employee is described on page 77, while we give a first-time report of our headcount, this equates to coverage of 98 %. Despite many Scope 3 emissions on page 80. changes in our company’s portfolio, we have consistently maintained coverage at above 90% since 2011, thanks to what has Integrated management system creates become a highly efficient integration process. transparency In addition, since 2012, we have successively obtained cerAt LANXESS, a central management system provides the nectification to ISO 50001 for energy management for LANXESS essary global structures in all business processes to ensure responAG and all its subsidiaries (companies in which it has a holding of sible commercial practices. Worldwide, we apply the ISO 9001 and more than 50 %, as well as ARLANXEO companies) in Germany. ISO 14001 international standards for quality and environmental As of December 31, 2016, our certification coverage for energy management and ISO 50001 for energy management. management in Germany stood at 100 % in relation to employee headcount. Outside Germany, the energy management system of ARLANXEO Belgium N.V. was certified according to ISO 50001. At the distribution site in Bratislava, Slovakia, an energy audit was successfully completed by the national authority. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 65 Additionally, LANXESS operates other specific management Responsible Care® is the name of the chemical industry’s systems and has further certifications, such as EMAS, RC14001 initiative to achieve progress in safety and environmental protection (RC = Responsible Care®), OHSAS 18001 and KTA 1401 (German independently of legal requirements. By signing the Responsible Nuclear Safety Standards Commission). The status of our certifCare® Global Charter, we have documented our commitment icates can be viewed at any time in the Corporate Responsibility to the visions and ethical principles of this initiative launched by section of our website. the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Our corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter are integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy. Alignment to international standards Among the internationally recognized principles of business and frameworks activity to which we are committed are the employment standards The U.N. Global Compact is the world’s biggest and most imof the International Labour Organization, an agency of the United portant initiative for responsible corporate governance. On the basis Nations. These are aimed at ensuring compliance with globally of ten universal principles, it pursues the vision of an inclusive and recognized social standards and thereby improving the employsustainable global economy that benefits all people, communities ment and living conditions of all people. and markets. As a signatory, we acknowledge these principles to We also believe that the Sustainable Development Goals be an inalienable right. We again renewed our commitment to the explained earlier in this section provide important impetus for U.N. Global Compact for the 2016 reporting year. corporate responsibility which will guide us in the future. The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact Area Human rights Labor Environment Anti-corruption 1 Businesses should support 3 Businesses should uphold 7 Businesses should support 10 Businesses should work and respect the protection the freedom of association a precautionary approach to against corruption in all its of internationally proclaimed and the effective recognienvironmental challenges. forms, including extortion human rights. tion of the right to collective and bribery. 8 Businesses should underbargaining. 2 Businesses should make take initiatives to promote sure they are not complicit 4 Businesses should uphold greater environmental in human rights abuses. the elimination of all forms responsibility. Principle of forced and compulsory 9 Businesses should encourlabor. age the development and 5 Businesses should uphold diffusion of environmentally the effective abolition of friendly technologies. child labor. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 66 Corporate Responsibility Company Guidelines and Regulations Clear Rules Provide Guidance Code of conduct applicable throughout the Compliance Group requiring compliance with valid laws and Code international principles Detailed Group-wide regulations concerning Group directives specific areas of compliance Standard operating procedures, Regulations defined at process instructions operational level The “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and compliance Human rights at LANXESS,” which is applicable throughout the Group, is the Respectful and fair treatment of all stakeholders is a key binding framework for our corporate culture and requires all our pillar of our corporate culture that is reflected in our core values employees – across all organizational units, regions and hierarchy of respect, ownership, trust, professionalism and integrity. As a levels – to behave lawfully and with integrity. Through correct global enterprise, we are committed in all our markets and supply and proper conduct, each employee is required to contribute chains to promoting respect for human rights at all times and to preventing harm to LANXESS and increasing the company’s systematically preventing child and forced labor. At LANXESS, value over the long term. The code covers issues such as antihuman rights and ethical principles apply without restriction, even competitive behavior, anti-corruption, data protection, occupaif they are not stipulated in the legislation of individual countries. tional, product and plant safety, and environmental protection. The respective site management, supported by local compliance officers, is directly responsible for ensuring the observance It can be found on our website at www.lanxess.com under Corporate of human rights at all times. At Group level, human rights are Responsibility/Corporate Governance/Compliance at LANXESS. subject to regular evaluation as part of our risk management system. At the beginning of 2016, we performed a risk assessment Other Group directives, such as the HSE directives and that specifically addressed human rights in five countries (Brazil, the guideline on incentives, define the specific application of China, Germany, South Africa and the United States). This conregulations in the individual areas of compliance covered by the firmed that there is a high level of awareness for the subject and code and are binding on all LANXESS employees. All globally that suitable mechanisms are in place to prevent human rights applicable LANXESS directives and guidelines are contained in a violations. Furthermore, all organizational units at LANXESS system that is accessible to all employees. On the basis of these and their business activities are subject to regular internal and directives, more detailed regulations that also take account of external audits. It goes without saying that these activities also local requirements are defined at the operational level in standard include monitoring respect for human rights and – if necessary – operating procedures and process instructions. the introduction of suitable measures to guarantee this. In fiscal We expect our suppliers to commit to our values and rules, 2016, audits were performed at 17 country units, which equates especially the Global Compact, and to establish adequate systo around 60 % of our sites worldwide. tems for ensuring legally compliant and responsible behavior. Human rights principles are so firmly anchored in LANXESS’s The LANXESS Supplier Code of Conduct is part of our comcorporate culture that we do not consider further training to be munication with suppliers. Reviewing compliance with these necessary. Our Code of Conduct includes unambiguous instrucrequirements is a key aspect of our collaboration in the Together tions regarding the respect of human rights. The code, which for Sustainability initiative we operate jointly with 18 other interevery new employee receives with their employment contract, national chemical companies (see page 115). is also an aspect of general training measures. We have no reports or knowledge of any systematic discrimination against LANXESS employees. This includes discrimination on the basis of race, skin color, age, gender, sexual orientation, origin, religion, disability, trade union membership or political opinion. In individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect of colleagues or third parties was reported. We will not tolerate LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 67 verified misconduct and it will result in appropriate disciplinary The analysis and monitoring of risks related to corruption is measures up to and including dismissal. Such incidents are prothe responsibility of our Corporate Audit function. Various analytcessed decentrally at LANXESS and there is no central reporting ical approaches and scopes are applied: system. All acquisitions of companies or interests in companies are 1. Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption and general subject to a careful due diligence process to ensure that human monitoring of the internal control system: all business units rights are also respected by the target company. Significant sup2. Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance with company pliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier regulations with an influence on the prevention of corruption assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our in the standard SAP system: at least 80 % of all transactions Supplier Code of Conduct. As well as a duty to respect human 3. Dedicated corruption scans in seven countries which Transrights, this code includes the obligation not to use child labor parency International deems to be particularly at risk: approxor forced labor. In fiscal 2016, we received no reports or other imately 20 % of all transactions indications of human rights violations by our suppliers. The same applies to child labor and forced labor. In fiscal 2016, we received no reports or other indications of cases of active corruption by LANXESS employees. In individual cases of verifiable corruption of LANXESS employees (passive Anti-corruption corruption), we take disciplinary action (usually dismissal) and, if By signing the U.N. Global Compact, we have undertaken to the legal chances of success are high enough, initiate civil damactively counter all forms of corruption. A Group-wide directive age claims (damages and criminal litigation). In fiscal 2016, we provides our employees with clear guidance regarding incentives. recorded a single-digit number of cases of passive corruption. LANXESS may not grant advantages of any kind to public servants or other officials in Germany or abroad. When commissioning Awards for commitment to sustainability service providers who have contact with officials on behalf of Our commitment to sustainable development was LANXESS, employees must likewise ensure compliance with the again recognized with various awards in 2016. prohibition on corruption. As a basic principle, LANXESS does For instance, the North Rhine-Westphalia branch not provide financial support to political associations and parties. of the German Chemical Industry Association All donations must be approved by the Board of Management. Also (VCI) selected us as the winner of its Responsible in fiscal 2016, LANXESS made no donations to political parties. Care competition for our nitrous oxide reduction Our employees are prohibited, either directly or in connection with plant at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site in Germany. their professional duties, from offering personal advantages to Our site in Mannheim, Germany, was named one the employees of other companies – in particular when initiating, of the “100 facilities for resource efficiency” by awarding or handling an order or assignment. Our employees are the Ministry of the Environment, Climate Proteclikewise prohibited from accepting such advantages or requesting tion and the Energy Sector Baden-Württemberg. them for themselves. Exceptions may be made for customary ocIn China and India we received several awards casional or promotional gifts that are symbolic in nature and of low in 2016 for our range of measures to achieve value. If an employee is offered such gifts, they must immediately resource efficiency and sustainability in the supply notify their supervisor or the compliance organization. chain and for our wider social commitment. More To enhance our employees’ awareness of these rules of condetailed information about all the awards can be duct, the issue of corruption is regularly covered by compliance found in the Corporate Responsibility section of training. Specific corruption training targets exposed professional our website. On page 80, we report in detail on groups and countries. The proportion of employees trained in the various awards we received in 2016 from the anti-corruption practices is over 15 % of the total workforce. Carbon Disclosure Project. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 68 Corporate Responsibility Employees aligned to the different strategies of our business units and their specific demands in terms of employee qualifications. LANXESS’s long-term entrepreneurial success is fundamenA total of 1,294 new employees joined the company worldtally based on our employees’ sense of responsibility, professionwide in fiscal 2016. 209 new employees were hired in Germany, alism and focus on finding solutions. Our global HR activities where our focus was on the recruitment of specialists from various are supporting the fundamental change processes within the disciplines. In Germany, the turnover resulting from voluntary Group – both organizationally and culturally – which makes them resignations was 1.03 % in the reporting period (2015: 1.1 %). more important to strategic success than ever before. Globally, it was 2.45 % (2015: 2.9 %). Following our realignment, LANXESS’s identity as an emLANXESS has a dedicated program which gives preferential ployer is based on five central values: respect, ownership, trust, support to master’s degree students who are the ideal fit for our professionalism and integrity. These values apply always and everycompany. In 2016, we also awarded more than 50 scholarships to where – and to all employees. We seek to foster a corporate culture students at the seven German universities with which we collaborate. in which responsible and morally irreprehensible actions and striving for performance do not contradict each other. LANXESS aims to be a company whose success is driven by the personal Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations commitment of each and every employee – fully in keeping with % our corporate claim of “Energizing Chemistry.” Of particular importance were the significant HR strategy and 3.4 3.29 operational support for the spin-off of ARLANXEO, the integration 3.2 of employees acquired as a result of the Chemours transaction and 3.0 the preparation of the planned acquisition of Chemtura. We have 2.92 2.86 also applied a great deal of attention to expanding our “Xcare” 2.8 demographic program (see page 70). 2.6 2.51 2.45 2.40 2.4 A focus on fostering talent 2,2 As part of our sustainable, value-based corporate policy and 2.0 against the backdrop of demographic change, LANXESS is continuing to invest in well-qualified young talents – both apprentices 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and university graduates – and in experienced specialists and managers. Our global talent management activities are consistently Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations (%, Excluding Reduction Programs) EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 20–29 9.0 4.9 1.3 3.4 7.4 4.5 1.8 4.1 8.3 14.3 30–39 3.1 2.7 3.4 1.8 4.2 1.5 1.3 6.4 6.5 40–49 2.0 1.0 0.7 0.7 1.1 5.6 0.3 3.8 3.3 50–59 1.9 0.2 0.9 0.4 2.2 3.0 0.4 4.1 ≥ 60 5.9 10.3 9.2 3.3 Total 3.1 1.7 1.4 1.0 3.0 3.5 2.2 1.3 5.8 6.8 Total Turnover (%, Including Reduction Programs) < 20 20–29 14.3 7.9 1.3 4.0 7.4 4.5 7.2 8.1 10.8 16.1 30–39 5.7 5.7 3.7 2.3 8.0 5.4 3.9 9.0 9.6 40–49 2.6 3.5 2.0 1.4 1.8 13.0 3.3 3.8 8.4 50–59 6.5 5.6 5.1 3.7 3.7 9.0 13.4 6.7 5.5 11.9 ≥ 60 22.9 38.0 19.3 29.6 12.3 17.5 13.3 44.4 97.0 Total 6.4 6.3 3.8 4.1 3.9 7.4 8.2 5.3 8.1 11.1 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 69 New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 1 2 1 5 20–29 27 50 16 43 6 40 17 18 31 79 30–39 19 71 12 66 8 40 15 17 27 90 40–49 16 51 15 34 6 29 8 14 21 148 50–59 9 33 3 19 12 28 1 3 1 113 ≥ 60 3 4 1 3 17 1 Total 75 211 46 163 35 154 41 52 81 436 A key tool for attracting young talents in Germany is our inpurpose of the Performance Dialogue is to support our managers ternational trainee program, which in 2016 was awarded a quality and their employees in gaining a better comparative view of each certificate by Germany’s “Initiative for career-promoting and fair other’s expectations regarding tasks, goals and responsibilities, trainee programs.” Particularly highly qualified master’s degree giving each other continuous feedback and thus improving the graduates spend 18 months being prepared for challenging speway we collaborate for the long term. By the end of 2016, around cialist and managerial roles within the company 1,300 managerial staff worldwide had attended training courses on using the Performance Dialogue – this equates to more than Developing our own skilled workers 50 % of this target group and 7.77 % of the employees worldwide We have always given priority to training young people as a who will be receiving regular feedback in this form. The plan is to means of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element complete the global rollout in the first quarter of 2017. of our social responsibility. Vocational training is the foundation of Our operating and leadership principles also have a key role our strategy to develop our own skilled workers for our German in our performance management. We place great emphasis on sites. In 2016, 171 (2015: 139) young people (25 women and consultation with our employees to agree both on our business 146 men) started a vocational training or combined vocational objectives and how to achieve these objectives within the frametraining and study program at LANXESS in Germany. We thus work of our corporate culture. We use an IT tool called the Talent increased the number of new training places by almost a quarDatabase to document targets and feedback and to manage global ter within a year. As of December 31, 2016, LANXESS had a talent by recording employee profiles, assessments of potential total of 535 young people (70 women and 465 men) training in and individual development needs. By March 2017 all manage18 different career paths, including six combined vocational trainment employees will have access to this tool. The information ing and study programs. We hired 81 % (2015: 80 %) of those contained in the Talent Database is also the basis for our annual who completed their vocational training and are targeting a hire HR development conferences, another element in our succession rate of at least 80 % in the years ahead. planning process. We focus especially on providing our talents with the skills they need in an extremely dynamic working environment and Redefining leadership and performance challenging market conditions. Suitable candidates are identified Successful change is primarily the result of successful leadusing our global Performance Management System and, more ership, which in turn is underpinned by clear, globally binding recently, by Functional Communities working across the company. values and standards. For that reason, we have translated our There are currently three Functional Communities for Sales & new value model into five management principles that are apMarketing/Global Procurement, Finance and Technology & Proplicable worldwide. A key tool for implementing these principles duction. These Communities actively foster suitable candidates is the Performance Dialogue, which we are rolling out from the with development potential and prospects, for example, by rotating top down, starting with senior management in early 2016. The them through different business units. Our LANXESS Academy LANXESS Annual Report 2016 70 Corporate Responsibility has an important role in providing individual support to promising ployees who are transferred on local contracts. At year end 2016, talents through tailored management and specialist programs and a total of 76 employees (2015: 87 employees) – around 2.3 % individual coaching and mentoring. (2015: 2.7 %) of our specialists and managers – were working as Employee training in general remained an important element expatriates outside their home countries. The focus continued of our HR development activities in 2016. Alongside formal training to be in the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. Assignments in the sessions and seminars, which amounted to 8,137 hours in France, Americas region increased compared with 2015. for example, employees were able once again to take advantage In addition to achieving a focused global transfer of knowlof many informal measures, such as mentoring and peer-to-peer edge by sending experts and managers abroad, our goal is still coaching, which foster continuous knowledge sharing across to develop local management with the necessary expertise and the company. In Germany, we further expanded our training prointernational competencies at our international sites and to transfer gram in the reporting year to offer 15 training courses. A total of challenging tasks to suitable employees. At sites outside Germany, 145 employees (57 women and 88 men) attended these courses, 82.2 % (2015: 81.1 %) of our management functions are currently with participation averaging 82 % of capacity. filled by local employees. In an environment of perpetual change, internal knowledge Our D&I activities are also making an important contribution management is also becoming increasingly important. At the same to reaching the goal we set ourselves in 2012, in connection with time, the opportunity to share their knowledge with colleagues is the voluntary undertaking by the DAX 30 companies, of raising a great motivation for our employees. For that reason, since 2015 the proportion of women in middle and upper management to we have been inviting our employees in China to develop and 20 % worldwide by 2020. The figure currently stands at 16.29 %. lead their own in-house training sessions – with great success. In accordance with the law on the equal representation of This not only reduces costs but, with an average of 4.89 out of a women and men in management positions in the private and maximum possible 5 points, this type of training is actually rated public sectors, in Germany we are required to define targets for more highly than training led by external providers. the proportion of women on the first two management levels below the Board of Management and to specify when these targets are to be met. Against the backdrop of LANXESS’s restructuring Success through diversity program, the Board of Management of LANXESS AG resolved to Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. LANXESS retain the existing proportion of women as the target for the first currently employs people from 70 (2015: 69) countries across and second management levels through June 30, 2017. At the the world. Our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) project is aimed at time this resolution was taken in 2015, the proportion of women enhancing diversity at LANXESS and using its positive effects on the first and second management levels below the Board of to benefit our company and our employees. This project is foManagement was 9.8 % and 20.5 %, respectively. The target for cused on the dimensions of age, gender and nationality. Our both management levels together is 18.6 %. D&I Dashboard provides detailed analysis of data pertaining to these three dimensions and enables us to see what progress is being made at country, regional and global level so we can define Meeting demographic challenges appropriate strategic measures. In the reporting year, we again The regions of key economic importance for LANXESS – extended the range of available data to include employees by Europe (especially Germany) and China – are particularly affected gender and hierarchy level. by the problem of aging demographies. As a result, the competition An important task in 2016 was to anchor our D&I concept for qualified young talents is intensifying. This is particularly true within our value culture and leadership principles and to add spein the case of technical career paths, where declining applicant cific details. numbers mean we now have to invest considerably more effort International assignments are a key component of our systemto fill positions with suitable staff. atic HR development process. In the reporting year, we therefore In order to address these challenges, we have developed further diversified our international assignments and introduced a comprehensive demographic program called “Xcare.” This specific assignment guidelines for both commuters and those emprogram, which applies to our German companies, aims to find LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 71 answers to the challenges posed by a steady rise in the average Where preventive measures in the context of health manageage of our workforce, coupled with a shortage of skilled young ment are no longer applicable, we take other measures to ensure people. The measures brought together within the “Xcare” prothat older employees in particular can stay in their posts. Since Jangram encompass five areas of activity: uary 2017, one position in our Human Resources Group Function has been responsible for planning the deployment of employees ›› People and health with impaired working ability. This includes looking at options for ›› Work and training government support, particularly for severely disabled employees. ›› Time and organization We have successfully deployed reintegration management ›› Career and family life at all German sites for a number of years. In 2016, 39 % (2015: ›› Savings and retirement provision more than 40 %) of the employees invited to participate accepted the offer of an individual consultation with the respective site At the end of 2015, aware that the steps already taken might workplace integration team. not be sufficient to adequately counter demographic risk, we We also offer employee health promotion initiatives at our launched a range of new initiatives and thus intensified our work sites outside Germany. For example, all our employees in the Unitin all areas of activity. All benefits with respect to work and famed States have access to health check-ups paid for by their health ily, health and retirement provision apply to the core workforce. insurance. In Canada, our employees receive financial support Individual benefits may vary regionally and be adjusted locally to pay for membership at a gym or other health-promoting to our employees’ needs. Our core workforce comprises all emestablishment. Our Employee Assistance Program in South Africa ployees with a permanent full-time or part-time position. As of offers support in a range of areas over and above health. EmployDecember 31, 2016, they made up 93.4 % (2015: 93.3 %) of our ees with personal, family, financial or health issues can turn in total workforce worldwide. confidence to qualified external advisory services. LANXESS Employee Structure by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 2 1 2 20–29 61 206 166 529 26 97 59 167 120 435 30–39 197 662 271 980 59 198 137 376 270 1,010 40–49 159 863 394 1,904 67 294 57 307 165 672 50–59 115 875 443 2,532 137 367 29 269 37 295 ≥ 60 12 99 38 344 51 122 1 33 2 9 Total 544 2,707 1,311 6,289 340 1,078 283 1,152 594 2,423 People and health The issue of occupational safety is addressed by our “Xact” Our occupational health management is based on raising all global program (see page 74). employees’ awareness of their own health and motivating them to act on their own initiative and adopt healthy behaviors in their Work and training professional and private lives. In the mid-term, illness and retirement – both regular and earIn the reporting year, for example, the occupational health ly (mainly for non-managerial employees) – will mean that many management team organized a healthy living event at all the Lower vacancies require filling, especially in career paths such as chemRhine sites and in Brunsbüttel to provide information and advice ical production technician, fitter and engineer. Over the coming on various health-related topics. More than 1,000 employees took three to five years, it is our aim to establish a company-wide HR advantage of this offering. We hope to replicate this success in and succession planning program for the aforementioned key 2017 with similar events at other locations. positions and to review these on an annual basis. In this connection, the Board of Management has approved 45 additional demography positions in the aforementioned career paths. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 72 Corporate Responsibility We are also exploring new approaches to recruiting and reAs of December 31, 2016, we employed a total of 146 temtaining new talents. For example, we have accelerated the process porary staff (7 women and 139 men) at our German companies – of hiring successful trainees in order to maintain a high hire rate LANXESS GmbH, Saltigo GmbH and IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH. and expand it in line with our needs. Some of our measures to increase the proportion of women Career and family life in our workforce are part of the “Xcare” program. They include Balancing work and family life is important to a steadily growemployer branding activities targeting women and the implementaing number of employees. A total of 6.8 % (2015: 7.0 %) of our tion of objective selection procedures involving systematic multiple employees in Germany aged between 20 and 40 made use of review. Other measures are aimed at promoting regular contact the option to take parental leave. Of this figure, almost 50.3 % between managers and female employees on parental leave and (2015: 43 %) were fathers. 96 % (2015: 97 %) of the employees discussing their plans for returning to work at an early stage. To who ended a parental leave period in 2016 returned to a job at ensure more thorough monitoring in the future of the proportion of LANXESS. women in our business units and group functions, this was made Our “Xkids” daycare center in Leverkusen offers around a fixed aspect of regular reporting to the Board of Management at 50 places – all of which are full – for children aged between six the beginning of fiscal 2017. Areas with a below-average propormonths and six years in two preschool groups and one crèche tion of women will be supported by the development of suitable group. We also offer our employees places in daycare centers in measures including objective hiring practices. Cologne, emergency childcare places and a nationwide agency service for childcare staff and provision. Time and organization Statutory maternity leave is a matter of course in Germany We use flexible worktime models to make life easier in particular and similar models are in place in other European Union counfor employees with families but also for older employees, retain their tries. However, it is by no means standard practice around the expertise within the company and make our company more attractive world. For that reason, we investigate whether we can introto prospective employees. In January 2017, we began piloting the duce or expand country-specific models for our employees at Flexi 95 model for managerial employees which facilitates intelsites outside Europe. In Brazil, for example, we have reached an ligent part-time working at senior management levels. Managers agreement with the trade unions to benefit our employees by reduce their working time to 95 %, initially for two years, with a extending maternity leave from the statutory four months to over corresponding adjustment in their pay. As a result, they are entitled six months. Also in Brazil, we pay preschool fees for children up to 13 additional vacation days each year. These might be used, for to the age of two whose parents return to work for us after their instance, to look after their children when schools or daycare centers parental leave. are closed. At the same time, the model aims to strengthen our Against the backdrop of demographic change, caregiving is managers’ awareness of part-time options for their employees and an important issue in Germany. Caregiver leave is at the heart of to increase general appreciation of this worktime model. the LANXESS caregiving program. This allows employees to reMore flexible worktime models are becoming increasingly duce their working time to a greater extent than their salary during important at our sites outside Germany as well. For example, we the care phase and to make up the shortfall when they return to introduced three new working time models in 2015 for our adminwork. To date, 60 employees in Germany have taken advantage istrative employees in China, encompassing flextime, part-time and of caregiver leave and other job release options. home office working. In Brazil, meanwhile, we offer our administrative employees a model with flexible starting times. LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type, Gender and Region (Also Including Employees on Fixed-Term Contracts) EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Employment type Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Permanent contract, full-time 450 2,530 899 5,474 324 1,076 282 1,152 586 2,421 Permanent contract, part-time 94 177 412 815 16 2 1 8 2 Temporary contract, full-time 46 54 113 553 1 1 37 64 20 50 Temporary contract, part-time 3 2 13 25 1 2 9 6 3 Total 593 2,763 1,437 6,867 342 1,081 329 1,222 617 2,473 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 73 Savings and retirement provision Recognizing, rewarding and In 2016, we continued the long-term account for non-manusing good ideas agerial employees as regulated by the agreement with the Our idea management system fosters the development and employee representatives and the collective agreement. implementation of suggestions for improvements to ensure that The participation rate remained very good at the high level we continually receive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, of 97 %. A total of 63.8 % (2015: 64.7 %) of our employees occupational safety and environmental protection. 2016 was a worldwide benefit from unfunded company pension plans. particularly successful year for idea management. Of the 2,048 ideas that were implemented, 20 have yielded annual savings of more than €25,000, while 12 ideas have led to annual savings Rewarding performance above €50,000. transparently and fairly In the reporting year, employees at our German compaLANXESS offers its employees worldwide transparent, nies submitted a total of 2,442 (2015: 2,027) new suggestions, market-rate compensation, which also includes a bonus sysa rate of 318 (2015: 274) per thousand employees. In the tem linked to the company’s long-term success. Overall, 91.9 % same period, 902 ideas (2015: 1,077) were implemented, (2015: 88.3 %) of our employees worldwide receive variable yielding total savings of €2.26 million (2015: €2.56 million). 528 compensation. of these led to improvements in occupational safety and 344 conThe fixed salaries of managerial staff – and of non-managerial cerned environmental protection (2015: 789 together). A total of staff in most countries – are supplemented by a performance-based €0.795 million (2015: €0.95 million) was paid out to employees variable compensation component known as the Annual Perforwhose ideas were put into practice. mance Payment (APP), which is paid to employees in countries that participate in this program. The Annual Performance Payment is linked to the attainment of the Group’s defined EBITDA target. Addressing global developments Additional individual targets are set for top management. In 2016, in partnership our employees around the world shared in the company’s success Close cooperation between employee representatives and in 2015 with a payout totaling around €101 million. management, including trade unions and employers’ associations, During the course of the year, supervisors are also able to in line with the principle of active codetermination, is practiced reward outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureauglobally at LANXESS. This means that we also comply with Intercratically with an Individual Performance Payment (IPP). In fiscal national Labour Organization (ILO) standards and the U.N. Global 2016, payments of around €12 million worldwide (€8 million in Compact in respecting our employees’ freedom of association and Germany) were made solely for outstanding individual performance. valid collective agreements. Worldwide, 66.9 % (2015: 66.9 %) of Around 77.9 % of our employees around the world are currently our employees are covered by collective agreements; in Germany eligible for IPP, which also provides them with a prompt assessment the figure is 91.7 % (2015: 90 %). of their performance and career prospects. We maintain a dialogue with employee representative bodies Following a two-year break, we again offered an employee in Germany, Europe and around the world to discuss our corporate stock plan in 2016. All LANXESS Group employees in Germany goals on a regular basis and involve these bodies in organizational were given the opportunity to buy LANXESS shares at a 30 % changes at an early stage. In the context of the realignment and discount. The shares were purchased at an average price of associated global restructuring program, management and the €55.47 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The participation rate employee representatives in various countries collaborated during was 60 %. At the reporting date, our employees and Board of the reporting period to develop and implement socially acceptable Management members held around 1 % of LANXESS shares solutions. As well as the annual European forum, which brings through stock plans. together the works councils in Europe, there was a meeting in In addition, we offer a long-term incentive program for manag2016 of the Executive Committee, which comprises employee ers in Germany and similar programs in the United States, Canada, and employer representatives from Belgium, France, the NethIndia and the Netherlands. The Long-Term Stock Performance Plan erlands and Germany. (LTSP) 2014 – 2017 consists of four tranches, one commencing Outside Europe, too, we give high priority to fair dealings with each year, and compares the performance of LANXESS stock employee representatives and trade unions. In South Africa, for against the MSCI World Chemicals Index over a four-year period. instance, we comply with International Labour Organization (ILO) Since participants make a personal investment and there is the standards with respect to our employees’ freedom of association. chance that the stock will increase in value, this program is an This includes regular dialogue between local management and attractive long-term incentive and a means of enhancing employtrade union representatives as well as binding collective agreeee loyalty. The participation rate for all eligible employees in the ments on compensation and working conditions. current program was 99.5 % in 2016 (2015: 99.8 %). LANXESS Annual Report 2016 74 Corporate Responsibility GRI Health, safety, environment In 2016, we introduced three more technical HSE standards G4–26 G4–27 and climate protection in the within the framework of “Xact.” Like existing standards, these value creation chain incorporate stricter regulations than before for technical activities with a higher risk potential, such as the use of tools or working on Today, more than ever before, sustainable conduct by the electrical plant. After receiving extensive training from the “Xact” chemical industry means taking responsibility for products and regional managers, our managerial staff communicated these production processes. Globally, we are seeing a convergence of standards throughout the entire organization during the reporting environmental and product standards at a high level. What were year. In matters of safety, we generally attach great importance once competitive advantages in the area of sustainability will soon to active and continuous communication. One key format in this be fundamental requirements worldwide for companies producing regard is the safety dialogue, which is a forum for discussing posand selling chemical products. itive and critical behaviors and possible improvement measures. As a supplier of important precursors, LANXESS will also Another important tool is the Pulse Check survey, which we be expected by its B2B customers to exercise greater responsiconduct each year among all LANXESS employees. This gives bility. However, we would be failing to live up to our commitment them the opportunity to describe their personal experience of key to quality if we sought merely to fulfill standards – even if those safety aspects at LANXESS. Among other things, the anonymous standards are more stringent than they were in the past. We firmly survey seeks to establish the importance that individual employbelieve that we can continue to stand out positively in the way we ees attach to safe working practices, whether they feel involved embrace and exercise our responsibility going forward. in safety activities – as we would like – and whether they receive This responsibility spans the entire supply and value creation positive feedback for working safely. chain – from the global procurement of raw materials and prodWe are also seeking to achieve an improved mutual underuct development, through production, storage and transport, to standing of occupational safety with our providers of technical use and disposal. At each of these stages, the highest priority is services, for example, and are therefore integrating them into our given to the health and safety of our stakeholders – employees, safety culture. Here, we apply the principle of “select, train, support contractors, customers, end users and the immediate neighbors and evaluate.” Among other things, our partners must provide of our production sites. verification of their own safety management system and that their Company-wide standards ensure the responsible application employees who work for us have received certain safety training. of chemistry at LANXESS, defining requirements and responsiIndependent of this, we give employees of our partner companies bilities for health and environmental protection, the handling of individual safety briefings as a matter of course. chemicals, plant safety and workplace safety precautions. Through Thanks to our electronic Incident Reporting System (IRS), the ongoing training of our employees and regular auditing of our we are able to record accidents and incidents worldwide using health, safety and environmental management, we ensure that the standardized procedures. We document accidents involving peorequirements are systematically and sustainably implemented in ple, transport accidents, near accidents, safety-relevant incidents, our processes. environmental incidents and downtime caused by, for example, bad weather or strike action. Each incident is carefully analyzed to identify measures that can be taken to avoid comparable inciResponsibility for health and safety dents in the future. Our “Xact” global safety program is aimed at encouraging LANXESS uses the recordable incident rate (RIR, the number all employees to work together to improve safety throughout the of injuries per 200,000 working hours that are reportable as per company. Six “Xact” safety regulations, the central principles OSHA rules) and the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR, known of safe working at LANXESS, address the main areas in which as MAQ in Germany and describing the number of injuries for every employee – whether they are employed in production or every million hours worked) as indicators for evaluating occupaadministration and irrespective of their function or position in the tional safety. The LTIFR was 2.0 in 2016, lower than the level of hierarchy – can actively contribute to their own safety and that 2.2 recorded in 2015. This positive development is due not least of their colleagues. to a safety project at our site in Antwerp, Belgium, which made it LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Health, Safety, Environment 75 and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain Input-Output Balance Sheet lanxess reporting ceiling Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 1,741 thousand tons Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 3,3154) thousand tons from biomass (climateneutral) 212 thousand tons VOC emissions 4.7 thousand tons Electricity, steam, Sales refrigeration (€7.9 billion) 39.7 petajoules lanxess Volume sold Approx. 17,000 site boundary 6,780 thousand customers in Approx. 18,000 tons more than suppliers Employees 150 countries Coal, gas, oil 16,7211) Total energy 12.6 petajoules Total procurecosts approx. ment spend: €515 million Safety €5.7 billion LTIFR2) RIR3) 2.0 0.7 Biomass 2.0 petajoules 43 HSE compliance checks 60 % of Waste procurement 298.9 thousand tons spend accounted for by suppliers Infrastructure Material assessed by 54 production sites in 17 5) costs Together for countries €2.2 billion Strategic raw materials Sustainability ~5,200 thousand tons 420 warehouses Steam 5.9 petajoules Total water consumption Production wastewater 264.6 million cubic meters 32.4 million cubic meters Cooling water 213.3 million cubic meters 1) Permanent workforce at the core companies (excluding temporary workers) as of December 31, 2016 2) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites 3) Number of recordable work-related accidents per 200,000 hours worked in accordance with OSHA regulations 4) Calculated using the market-based method in accordance with the GHG Protocol 5) The following sites are not yet included in the environmental data on account of their recent acqisition by LANXESS: Memphis and North Kingstown, U.S.A.; Sudbury, U.K. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 76 Corporate Responsibility GRI possible to significantly reduce the number of injuries at the site 12 “Xact” coordinators and 110 “Xact” ambassaG4–26 within the space of a year. The RIR, which enhances international dors. Numerous workshops were held at which comparability, was 0.7 in 2016, also down year on year from 0.9. these multipliers were able to familiarize a large This substantial medium-term reduction shows that the measures number of the site’s some 900 employees with implemented in recent years to improve occupational safety at effective methods of safety-conscious behavior LANXESS are taking effect. for use at all times. The measure was a success. Within just one year, the number of accidents fell by more than half. The ambitious goal for 2017 is Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in Absence from Work (LTIFR) zero accidents. 4.0 3.4 3.5 3.1 Global product stewardship 3.0 2.3 LANXESS is committed to the Responsible Care® Global 2.5 2.2 2.0 Charter, a comprehensive product stewardship initiative launched 2.0 by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) 1.5 1.0 that was the key factor in the development of the Global Product 0.5 Strategy (GPS). This aims to provide basic information and risk assessments for substances so that the harmful impact of chemi2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 cals on human health and the environment can be minimized and products can be manufactured and distributed in such a way as to prevent injury to people and damage to the environment. In line Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees that are with the aforementioned commitment, our product stewardship Reportable in Accordance with OSHA Regulations (RIR) covers the safe handling of chemical substances and products 1.5 throughout their life cycle – from research and development, procurement and production, through storage and transportation 1.1 1.1 to marketing, downstream processing and disposal. 0.9 1.0 0.8 The Product Safety Management at LANXESS Directive 0.7 steers the Group-wide observance of product stewardship and 0.5 secures the participation of everyone involved. This applies in particular to those substances in our product portfolio that are classified as hazardous. Our Central Product Surveillance Directive 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 systematically governs worldwide tracking of our products and their use in respect of potential health and environmental impacts. The information acquired is used by our product developers Safely does it! and product safety experts in their evaluations. In the reporting In complete contrast to the improvement in the year, we revised our Development of New or Changed Products, LANXESS Group’s occupational safety indicaProcesses and Applications Directive to take account of sustaintors, our site in Antwerp, Belgium, recorded an ability aspects. The directive now officially defines what has long LTIFR of 10.4 in 2015. This unacceptably high been standard practice at LANXESS – that development ideas value prompted us to initiate the “Xact 2.0” safety themselves be analyzed systematically in terms of their potential project specially tailored to that site. The starting economic, environmental and social impact. In this way we ensure point was a detailed analysis of the accidents and that non-sustainable products, processes or applications do not near accidents that had been recorded there and find their way into our development work. a survey of around 200 employees. In a second step, we benchmarked the results against perforManagement of chemical control regulations mance at our Leverkusen and Krefeld-Uerdingen Compliance with global chemical control regulations is the sites in Germany. It quickly became apparent condition for the marketability and safe handling of our chemicals that the main problem was not technical but an and products along the value chain. issue of behavior and communication. The soluLANXESS has an electronic safety data system to ensure comtion was to establish an extensive safety pliance with both mandatory and voluntary control requirements. network made up of all the site’s managers, Material safety data sheets in more than 30 languages inform our customers worldwide about substance data and the safety LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Health, Safety, Environment 77 and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain measures that are necessary when using the relevant chemicals. of our product portfolio from an economic, environmental and GRI G4–27 We regularly adapt our electronic safety data system to reflect social perspective. The system analyzes the impact and benefits changes to the GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classificaof our products on the basis of criteria that we regard as relevant tion and Labeling of Chemicals) in various countries. The GHS to our company and to society as a whole. is a system under the umbrella of the United Nations that aims to harmonize existing classification and labeling systems used in Criteria for our Product Portfolio Analysis various sectors such as transportation and consumer, employee and environmental protection. We observe regional variations in Impact on Support for development goals society Societal acceptance the implementation of the GHS such as the European Union’s Safety in end use CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Ecological Raw material efficiency in production Mixtures) regulation. impact Energy efficiency in production Emissions and waste balance sheet in production Before manufacturing, exporting or selling our products in Water risks a given country, we examine their marketability in accordance Impact on the environment during use with the chemicals legislation in force there. We register our subEconomic Registration, evaluation and approval impact Profitability stances and products in line with local requirements and support Demand trend the substance analysis programs of the responsible authorities by supplying all available information and collecting new data if necessary. We expressly support the protection goals of the E.U. REACH We applied these criteria in evaluating our entire product regulation. We have so far pre-registered or registered all the portfolio, with subsequent review of the results by an internal comsubstances that are relevant for LANXESS with the European mittee of experts. This process has revealed which of our products Chemicals Agency (ECHA) by the stipulated deadlines. By the satisfy the sustainability requirements we have defined and can third deadline on May 31, 2018, all substances we produce in or help us to deliver solutions for key sustainability challenges. It also import to Europe in amounts exceeding one ton will have been shows where action is still needed. This information may be used to registered in Europe. Registration involves the systematic evaludevelop specific improvement processes or to create acceptance ation of information concerning our substances and their uses. for certain issues in our dialogue with stakeholders. In doing this, we consider the entire product life cycle. Within the context of a voluntary commitment made by the German Chemical Evaluation Processes Industry Association (VCI) in 1997 to record and assess substances, we go beyond the legal requirements to determine a Cost optimization meaningful basic data set for our intermediates as well, in line with the REACH regulation. Evaluation of product portfolio In the case of consumer applications in particular – such as additives for use in food or animal feed, for food and drinking Review by expert committee water contact or for use in cosmetic, pharmaceutical or medical products – we ensure that our products comply with national and international laws, standards, certificates and quality hallmarks. Products which satisfy or exceed Products which do not fully satisfy In this way, we actively support our customers, for example, in our sustainability requirements our sustainability requirements the certification of their materials for drinking water contact applications or in the downstream processing of our products into certified goods for end users. Benchmarking and Stakeholder dialogue, specific best-practice analyses action plans or termination of production Comprehensive analysis of our product portfolio based on sustainability criteria Effective sustainability requires that we have as precise a picture as possible of the impact of our business activities – both Across the LANXESS Group, we are applying the findings positive and negative. For that reason, we have for the first time of this analysis to further improve the sustainability performance performed a systematic analysis of our product portfolio based of our product portfolio. Our now deeper understanding of our on sustainability aspects. products’ properties may also provide important impetus for inThe dedicated evaluation system we developed in the reportnovation. Going forward, the assessment of our product portfolio ing year provides us with a strategic management tool for systemwill form part of our annual strategy process. We will also work to atically evaluating and improving the sustainability performance continuously optimize the set of criteria we use. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 78 Corporate Responsibility Environmental responsibility At the start of 2016, we set new long-term targets for CO² As LANXESS sees it, conserving natural resources – for exand VOC emissions and for energy consumption. By 2025, we ample, through the most efficient possible use of raw materials and aim to cut our specific CO² and VOC emissions by 25 % (base energies – and identifying further potential for reducing emissions year: 2015). We also aim to reduce specific energy consumption and waste are an ongoing mission and an inherent part of our by 25 % through 2025. In the future, assessment will no longer be ecological responsibility to which we must apply our expertise. based on the performance of the reporting segments, but rather While taking account of local requirements, we equip all new on that of LANXESS as a whole. This approach takes account of production sites with state-of-the-art technology that is also in the company’s altered organizational structures. line with environmental standards. This often sets us apart from local competitors. Reduction of climate gas emissions With the Paris Agreement, which entered into force in November 2016, the international community committed itself Operation Clean Sweep started to the goal of limiting global warming to less than two degrees The handling of plastic pellets is a good example Celsius above pre-industrial levels. This goal is achievable only of how we use the findings from our product if global greenhouse gas emissions are radically reduced in the monitoring activities in developing our own decades ahead. All the signatory nations have correspondingly measures to protect users and the environment. set themselves ambitious reduction targets. Germany’s Climate These plastic pellets may be inadvertently Action Plan 2050, also launched in November 2016, has an inreleased into the marine environment at various terim target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 % stages of the value chain. They themselves do through 2030 compared with the base year in 1990. Industry is not react chemically but may have an undesired expected to contribute with a reduction of between 49 % and 51 %. impact on account of their small size and volume. Internationally, the United States, for example, aims to reduce its emissions by between 26 % and 28 % through 2025 compared In previous years, as part of the No Pellets with their level in 2005. Emission project, our most strongly affected In common with many other European chemical companies, business unit – High Performance Materials LANXESS had already made an express commitment before (HPM) – developed a self-assessment process the Paris Conference to protect the climate and fulfill the obligain Germany to identify the sources and circumtions that entails. Since our company was established, we have stances of possible pellet emissions at our plants been working continually to reduce climate gas emissions – and and to define corresponding countermeasures. with considerable success. In the past ten years, we have cut Due to the positive results of this self-assessment our Scope 1 emissions worldwide by more than half. Our sites process, it will now be rolled out to all HPM sites in Germany have already satisfied the national reduction requirearound the world. ment set for 2030. Nevertheless, we are continuing to work hard across the Group to cut our CO² emissions. At our Leverkusen Processes like this are among the central and Krefeld-Uerdingen sites in Germany and the Baytown site requirements of the global Operation Clean in the United States, for example, we have been able to return a Sweep program established by the Society of substantial amount of steam – equivalent to around 10 % of our the Plastics Industry, a program that LANXESS total energy requirement – to the local integrated networks by joined in 2016. By participating in this program, consistently using our process heat to generate steam (waste heat). we have made a commitment to train relevant The average CO² factor of these networks has declined as a result. employees, to perform regular checks on the Compared with steam generated by conventional means at these success achieved and to require our business sites, the steam returned to the networks is equivalent to 650 to partners to also take active steps to prevent pellet 800 kilotons of Scope 2 CO² emissions. In the reporting year, for emissions. Our goal is to systematically integrate the first time, we extensively determined our Scope 3 emissions the program’s requirements into LANXESS’s for the past two fiscal years, thus taking a further important step management system and to implement them toward achieving a very high level of transparency in respect of across the company. the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our operations. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Health, Safety, Environment 79 and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain Full steam ahead for climate protection Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) A new project at our Antwerp, Belgium, site thousand tons of CO² equivalents  CO² equivalents, tons per ton of product demonstrates that we are not only thinking about  cope 1 (absolute) S our own footprint but also about benefiting Scope 1 in relation to volumes sold society when it comes to climate protection. We 6,000 0.42 and four other chemical companies share an in5,000 0.35 tegrated network for steam at this site. Starting in 0.29 0.29 0.29 2019, a pipeline more than five kilometers long 4,000 0.25 0.26 0.28 will supply the site with over 80 % of the process 3,000 0.21 steam required. Overall, this project will cut 1,913 1,837 1,845 2,000 1,643 1,741 0.14 CO² emissions by 100,000 tons per year. It was awarded the first sustainability prize of the Port 1,000 0.07 of Antwerp in November 2016. We will be able to virtually stop producing our own steam from 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 gas, replacing it with centrally produced steam from the waste incinerator. This will reduce the Scope 1 data in our emissions calculation while Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) increasing the data for Scope 2 emissions. thousand tons of CO² equivalents  CO² equivalents, tons per ton of product Whether the project will ultimately lead to lower  cope 2 (absolute) S Scope 2 in relation to volumes sold emissions by LANXESS itself will not be known until the pipeline is in operation, but it will signifi8,000 0.56 0.501) 0.49 cantly improve the climate footprint of the Port of 7,000 0.47 0.49 0.46 0.461) Antwerp. 6,000 0.42 5,000 0.35 In Europe, 17 LANXESS facilities and/or sites are subject to 4,000 0.28 the European Emissions Trading System. Trading in CO² emission 3,1151) 3,2421) 3,315 2,9321) 2,9321) rights – or allowances – is a cost-effective way of reducing harmful 3,000 0.21 CO² emissions. Since all our facilities that are eligible for emissions 2,000 0.14 trading are at the cutting edge of technology and compete on the 1,000 0.07 international market, we expect to receive an adequate number of free allowances up to the end of the third trading period in 2020 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 to cover our anticipated CO² emissions. 1) Figure restated The year on year increase in our absolute Scope 1 emissions was largely due to the 4.4 % rise in volumes sold. At the same time, reduced availability meant that we used less biomass to generate energy. However, despite the higher absolute values, we kept our specific Scope 1 emissions at roughly the prior-year level. The higher absolute Scope 2 emissions were also attributable to higher volumes sold. Here too, the specific values were level year on year. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 80 Corporate Responsibility Other atmospheric emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) thousand tons of CO² equivalents Scope 3 (absolute) VOC Emissions thousand tons VOC, kilograms per ton of product 40,000  bsolute A 28,276 In relation to volumes sold 27,936 30,000 12.0 1.15 1.2 20,000 1.04 10.0 0.90 1.0 10,000 0.83 7.6 8.0 0.8 6.6 0.69 2015 2016 5.7 5.4 6.0 0.6 4.7 4.0 0.4 2.0 0.2 And the winner is... For more than a decade, we have been partici2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 pating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), each year sharing data and information on climate protection and the reduction of emisAs far as our VOC emissions are concerned, the positive sions. 2016 was a particularly successful year for trend seen over past years has continued since we achieved our us as far as the CDP is concerned because this Group target for this indicator in 2015. international investor initiative recognized our efforts in several categories. Firstly, LANXESS was Systematic energy management one of 193 companies worldwide to be included A high level of energy efficiency improves not only our emison the CDP Climate A List, putting us in the sions footprint but also our cost position and thus ultimately the top 9 % of the more than 2,100 companies that competitiveness of LANXESS. In Germany, we have established participate in the initiative. We were also named an energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001. “Sector Leader Energy & Materials,” ranking us Our certification was reconfirmed in 2016. Outside Germany, we among the best 11 % in the Germany, Austria continue to pursue our strategy of regional and local certification. and Switzerland region. In an index comparison, LANXESS was placed as an “Index Leader” Energy Consumption (Balance Sheet) among the top 4 % in the MDAX. Last but not petajoules gigajoules per ton of product least, we achieved the most substantial year-on bsolute A year improvement of all the German companies In relation to volumes sold participating and were thus also honored as Best 90 9.0 Improver Germany. CDP gave special recogni7.46 7.46 7.46 7.44 tion to our transparency and performance in the 75 7.14 7.5 following areas: climate strategy, risk assess60 6.0 49.2 47.5 47.3 48.3 48.4 ment, actual reductions achieved in greenhouse 45 4.5 gas emissions intensity and handling of indirect emissions, for example through CO² emissions 30 3.0 in the supply chain (Scope 3 emissions). These 15 1.5 gratifying results gave us encouragement to continue systematically pursuing our climate 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 protection strategy. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Health, Safety, Environment 81 and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain Mirroring the development of emissions, the slight increase in our absolute energy consumption reflected the higher volumes sold in 2016. The energy balance produced retroactively for the prior years for the first time in 2016 also includes the amount of steam (waste heat) emitted by LANXESS. As far as our specific energy consumption is concerned, we were able to continue the positive prior-year trend in 2016. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region petajoule/% 18% 24.3% 75.7% 82% North America 34.1% Germany 7.7 PJ 16.1 PJ 29.9% 19.7% 65.9% 45.9% 10.6% 24.2% EMEA 69.7% (excluding Germany) Lateinamerika 12.2 PJ Asia-Pacific 4.9 PJ 7.5 PJ Direct energy sources Direct energy sources (biomass) Indirect energy sources Responsible use of water resources this takes place under approved conditions. The issue of water Access to clean water is not only crucial to the health and extraction is also addressed by our environmental protection nutrition of a constantly growing world population, it is also an compliance program. important economic factor. According to the United Nations World In 2016, as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our waWater Development Report 2016, 75 % of all jobs worldwide are ter management, we conducted a comprehensive risk analysis dependent on a reliable supply of water. Careful use of this scarce based on the geographical location of our sites. In addition to resource is therefore securing our future – particularly at sites in water extraction, we considered other physical and regulatory water-stressed areas where water is a scarce resource and more indicators as well as reputational risks. To conduct the analysis, than 60 % of the available supply is extracted for human use. we used two internationally recognized risk evaluation tools – the All wastewater and surface water discharges at our sites Water Risk Filter from the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) are subject to legal and permitting requirements. We use both and the Global Water Tool from the World Business Council for technical (wastewater treatment) and organizational (monitorSustainable Development. Analysis of LANXESS’s sites on the ing) measures to comply with these requirements. Before the basis of the WWF Water Risk Map shows that our most of sites authorities issue an operating permit, an assessment is carried are located outside water-stressed areas. As a next step, we will out on the potential economic, social and environmental impact be carrying out individual risk evaluations at the few sites in waterof water extraction on the surrounding area. At all LANXESS sites, stressed areas in 2017. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 82 Corporate Responsibility forms of waste can be used as secondary raw materials and are Water Consumption thus a valuable resource. Sustainable waste management therefore million cubic meters  cubic meters per ton of product involves systematically avoiding waste and, if this is not possible, Cooling water (absolute) Process water (absolute) using waste as a raw material or energy source. In order to minIn relation to volumes sold (total water consumption) imize the amount of waste requiring disposal, we seek to contin800 60 uously improve the yields achieved in our production processes. 46.9 46.61) 45.8 All forms of waste are disposed of or reused in compliance with 42.81) 600 39 45 statutory requirements. 400 30 256.8 243.8 236.4 225.2 213.3 Total Waste 200 15 52.51) 52.91) 54.2 53.11) 51.3 tons kilograms of waste per ton of product 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Absolute In relation to volumes sold 1) Figure restated 800 60 47.1 45 42.9 43.71) 44.1 45 600 Production wastewater 30 400 million cubic meters  cubic meters per ton of product 283.3 278.1 298.7 292.4 298.9 200 15 Absolute In relation to volume sold 80 6.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 5.1 5.1 5.0 4.9 4.8 1) Figure restated 60 4.5 40 33.6 32.3 31.4 31.81) 32.4 3.0 Compared with the previous year, the total amount of waste 20 1.5 generated increased slightly. This was largely due to the amount of waste sent to landfill. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 A substantial increase in production at our site in Newcastle, 1) Figure restated South Africa, which processes chrome ore, resulted in a larger amount of waste there going to landfill. Most of this was mineral ore waste. In 2016, we continued the positive trend in respect of As in past years, we reduced our water consumption in 2016. the volume of waste per ton of product sold. This was due particularly to the declining volumes of cooling water used. Despite the increase in volumes sold, the proportion of Waste for Disposal process water in our overall consumption was lower than a year % earlier. The positive trend identified in the absolute figures is also mirrored in the specific values. 7.2 Landfilled waste Wastewater volumes increased at a substantially lower rate 37.5 Incinerated waste with 17.8 than volumes sold. As a result, the specific amount of wastewater energy recovery per ton of product sold decreased year on year. Incinerated waste without energy recovery Sustainable waste management Material recovery 10.4 The company aims to employ a consistent material flow manWaste disposal by other agement process – from the use of raw materials to the manufacmeans 27.1 ture of the final product – so as to deploy resources as efficiently as possible and minimize the amount of waste we produce. Some LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Health, Safety, Environment 83 and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain Responsibility for the supply chain Global dangerous goods and transport safety Responsible action begins in procurement. At LANXESS, raw management and other materials, plant and services must satisfy globally uniform Through our global dangerous goods and transport safety safety and environmental protection requirements. Raw materials management system, we ensure the avoidance of hazardous sitin particular are subject to stringent monitoring to ensure safe prouations in the relevant processes. Safety can often be improved cessing in our production facilities. For example, the procurement of just by choosing the right packaging materials. For instance, load any raw material is dependent on the submission by the supplier of securing devices can be used to attach barrels to palettes more a current material safety data sheet. Our procurement department reliably, which prevents them from slipping during transportaclarifies which of the REACH requirements must be satisfied in the tion and thus reduces the risk of accidents. We have a dedicated case of raw materials from non-European suppliers. In close dialogue department to centrally coordinate, monitor and review the imwith the respective producers and importers, we are actively seekplementation of relevant dangerous goods and transport safety ing to ensure that materials procured by LANXESS that were not regulations and internal company guidelines. previously registered will be registered by the applicable deadlines. The central classification of our products ensures uniform In order to minimize our procurement risks and enhance supply interpretation of international, regional and local dangerous goods chain transparency, we and five other international chemical comregulations, while at the same time respecting regional and local panies founded the Together for Sustainability initiative in 2012 specifics. Classification determines, among other things, the form (see page 115). of encapsulation (packaging and tanks), marking and labeling, permitted modes of transport and transport routes and the meaSustainable logistics sures that emergency services must take in the event of a transport We select our transport solutions worldwide on a case-byincident. The corresponding classification data are archived in case basis, applying the principles of safety, punctuality and costLANXESS’s safety data system for chemicals. In recent years, effectiveness. We also take into account the CO² emissions resulting we have successively integrated various countries and LANXESS from our transports. Group companies into this system. In 2016, we transitioned danWe are focusing especially on further expanding our use of gerous goods classification for Argentine and Australian products ships as the means of transport with the lowest emissions. In 2016, in line with local and international rules. Also in 2016, we assessed we piloted a preloading concept for marine tank containers at our the entire portfolio (raw materials, intermediates, products and Leverkusen site. This will enable us to use inland vessels to transwaste) of our subsidiary Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH in terms of port these special containers to the seaports, thereby increasing dangerous goods regulations and incorporated it into LANXESS’s transport safety and reducing CO² emissions. Following the sucglobal safety data system. cessful conclusion of the pilot phase in November 2016, we are now working to implement the concept in our regular operations. Storage management In Germany, we continue to use the TÜV SÜD-approved Eco We have over 420 warehouses worldwide, around half of Plus solution offered by logistics provider DB Schenker Rail for transwhich we operate ourselves while half are run by external service porting our products by rail. The electricity required for transport is providers. We select warehouses – both our own and those operobtained from renewable energy sources. This enables us to reduce ated by external service providers – according to logistics, safety the CO² emissions from our German rail transport operations by and security, environmental protection and cost-effectiveness almost 75 % compared with the standard solution. aspects. We apply a globally standardized warehouse concept that Packaging is often a critical aspect in sustainable logistics takes into account the substances stored and meets fire protection processes. However, it is of lower significance to a chemical comand occupational health and safety requirements. pany like LANXESS because at least 60 % of our products are transported in reusable containers. Nonetheless, in this area too, we have set ourselves the goal of reducing our CO² emissions on a lasting basis. Wherever possible we use recyclable packaging materials. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 84 Corporate Responsibility Uniform standards in production HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) compliance checks in 2016. LANXESS operates at a total of 54 production sites in 17 The result of the audits in 2016 showed further improvements countries (sites in which it holds an interest of more than 50 % against previous years. and ARLANXEO sites; as of December 31, 2016). The diversity of the company’s product portfolio necessitates the use of many different chemical and technical processes. Uniform standards for Systematic recording of key planning, engineering and operating facilities are applied to ensure performance indicators a high level of process, plant and occupational safety. Handling We use an electronic system for the systematic global recording chemical substances and working with technical equipment funof key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and damentally involve health and safety risks. Wherever in the world environmental protection. This system enables us to define a we operate, we systematically identify these risks and the hazard broad range of HSE performance data for each business unit and potential – both for existing and new facilities – and minimize them site worldwide. These provide a valid basis for strategic decisionby implementing defined preventive and protective measures. making and for internal and external reporting. The data also map To help us achieve this, we have established LANXESS-specific the progress we are making toward achieving our globally appliguidelines within the context of our global management system. cable HSEQ targets (see table on page 62). Generally speaking, These govern our procedures for all safety-critical processes and data for all indicators except LTIFR and RIR (used to measure environmental protection measures in our production facilities occupational safety) are gathered only at those production sites in and cover aspects such as the formulation and implementation of which the company has a holding of more than 50 %. As LANXESS technical and organizational protective measures and the environhas an interest of exactly 50 % in ARLANXEO, the latter continues mentally friendly handling of raw materials, products and waste. to be reflected in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements To ensure compliance with LANXESS directives and local and will be fully consolidated from 2016 to 2018; the environregulations for the safe operation of facilities, experts on site conmental data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites will continue to duct audits based on targeted spot checks that are carried out be included in our key data for this period. with a frequency appropriate to the relevant risk profile. At each PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsfacility across the globe, compliance with the safety standards gesellschaft assessed our HSE indicators for 2012 to 2016 and must be certified regularly, at least at the intervals required by the necessary data recording processes in the course of a business local legislation. A total of 43 production facilities (2015: 45), 15 audit, with a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating. The of them in Germany (2015: 19), were audited in the context of current audit certificate can be found on page 234. Environmental and Safety Performance Data * 2014 2015 2016 Safety Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees resulting in at least one day’s absence (per million hours worked) (MAQ1)) 2.3 2.2 2.0 Volume sold2) in thousand tons/year 6,343 6,496 6,780 Energy in petajoules (1015 joules)3) 47.3 48.3 48.4 Direct energy sources (EN3) Non-renewable 13.1 12.2 12.6 Renewable 0 0 0 Indirect energy sources (EN4)4) Non-renewable 32.2 33.9 33.8 Other direct energy sources From biomass 2.0 2.2 2.0 Water in million cubic meters Total water consumption (EN8) 290.6 278.3 264.6 Surface water 120.5 107.0 92.1 Groundwater 6.1 6.8 6.8 Rainwater 0.4 0.3 0.4 Wastewater 1.2 1.2 1.0 Other water sources 162.4 163.0 164.3 Cooling water in total water consumption5) 236.4 225.2 213.3 Process water in total water consumption 54.2 53.1a) 51.3 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Health, Safety, Environment 85 and Climate Protection in the Value Creation Chain Environmental and Safety Performance Data * 2014 2015 2016 Atmospheric emissions in thousand tons Total greenhouse gas emissions CO²e 4,777 a) 4,885 a) 5,056 Direct (Scope 1)6) 1,845 1,643 1,741 Indirect (Scope 2)7) 2,932 a) 3,242 a) 3,315 Ozone-depleting substances 0.00132 0.00113 0.00182 NOX, SOX and other emissions NO X8) 2.8 2.8 2.6 SO²9) 1.1 1.0 1.1 CO 2.1 2.2 2.0 NH³ 0.1 0.1 0.1 NMVOC10) 5.7 5.4 4.7 Wastewater in million cubic meters Total wastewater discharge (EN21) 267.8 257.0 a) 245.7 Cooling water (uncontaminated, without treatment)5) 236.4 225.2 213.3 Production wastewater (with treatment) 31.4 31.8 a) 32.4 Emissions in wastewater (after treatment) in thousand tons Total nitrogen 0.52 0.54 0.59 Total organic carbon (TOC) 2.2 1.9 2.2 Heavy metals11) 0.0065 0.0059 0.0049 Waste in thousand tons Total weight of waste (EN22) 298.7 292.4 a) 298.9 Incineration with energy recovery 82.4 84.0 81.2 Incineration without energy recovery 26.7 30.3 a) 31.1 Landfilling 110.9 93.4 112.1 Material recovery 56.7 59.7 53.1 Other forms of disposal 22.0 25.0 21.4 Type of waste Hazardous 191.1 188.4 a) 196.6 Non-hazardous 107.6 104 102.3 Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data * The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an interest of more than 50 %. As LANXESS has an interest of exactly 50 % in ARLANXEO, the latter continues to be reflected in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements and will be fully consolidated from 2016 to 2018; the environmental data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites will continue to be included in our key data for this period. The following sites are not yet included in the environmental data on account of their recent acqisition by LANXESS: Memphis and North Kingstown, U.S.A.; Sudbury, U.K.  2013/2014/2015: Some of the data are based on estimates and projections. From this reporting period, to allow more accurate representation, the indicators are no longer displayed in 0.5 steps but are correctly rounded. Actual corrections are identified by a). The indicators were assessed (limited assurance) by PwC GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the course of a business audit. 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites 2) Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS company or externally (excluding commercial products) 3) The energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy (e.g. the energy contained in raw materials). 4) Indirect energy sources are shown in the form of a balance sheet. The volume of energy sold is subtracted from the volume of energy purchased. 5) Equivalent to circulating cooling water 6) The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO²e are based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second Assessment Report (SAR 1995). All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO²e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO² emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period: 2012: 225 kt CO², 2013: 223 kt CO², 2014: 217 kt CO², 2015: 236 kt CO², 2016: 212 kt CO². 7) All Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO²e. The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available, factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2012 were used for fiscal year 2014, factors from 2013 were used for fiscal year 2015 and factors from 2014 were used for fiscal year 2016. The Scope 2 CO²e emissions are calculated using the market-based method in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Using the location-based method, Scope 2 CO²e emissions for 2016 amounted to 4,451 kt. 8) Nitrogen oxide (NO X) calculated as NO² (excluding N²O – nitrous oxide) 9) Sulfur dioxide (SO²) + SO³ calculated as SO² 10) Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone 11) Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc) a) Values restated due to supplementary notifications LANXESS Annual Report 2016 86 Corporate Responsibility Society Social Activities by Type of Investment* % As a company, we draw numerous benefits from the society of 2 2 which we are part – well-trained employees, satisfied customers, Societal investments 8 legal and political stability and an excellent infrastructure. We Commercial initiatives therefore believe it is only right that, in the context of corporate Not-for-profit donations citizenship, we take responsibility for the development of the soOther cial environment in which we operate. Our social commitment is aligned to our corporate expertise and targets and is focused on four areas of activity: education, climate protection, water and 88 culture. In this respect, we concentrate especially on ensuring that people benefit from our projects. We also aim in the future to more * Number of projects: 87 specifically monitor the measurable effect of our commitment. Europe remained the regional focus of our activities in the reporting period. Overall, around 200,000 (2015: more than In this Annual Report, for the first time we have additionally 335,000) mainly young people benefited from our projects, evaluated our projects as to whether they are purely not for profit which we funded with some €1.5 million in 2016 (2015: around (“Not-for-profit donations”), represent investments in the social €2 million). environment where our sites are located (“Societal investment”) or couple corporate objectives such as image, sales and earnings with social motives (“Commercial initiative”). Also, in the reporting Social Activities by Topic* % year, we began to develop performance indicators to measure the social impact of our activities. The results of the first projects 5 6 evaluated show that a large majority of participants in our activities Education 1 regard them as having a major to very major impact. We are seekCulture 8 ing to progressively expand and optimize the evaluation system. Climate protection Water Other LANXESS promotes education We endeavor to encourage young people worldwide to develop 80 a passion for chemistry at a young age and in this way make them aware of the diverse career opportunities that the LANXESS Group * Number of projects: 87 offers. Within the context of the LANXESS education initiative, we have established projects at many of our sites to pursue these objectives in varying ways. Social Activities by Region* We underscore our clear commitment to Germany as a busi% ness location and a base for the chemical industry not just through financial assistance for schools close to our sites but also through 18 collaboration in the provision of scientific teaching materials. For EMEA instance, the teaching materials we have produced on the subjects Latin America of mobility, globalization, urbanization and water are used in around NAFTA 270 German elementary schools. In the reporting year, we also proAsia-Pacific 12 vided financial support for “Your Turn 2016 – Bewege Köln!” (Your 2 Turn 2016 – Move Cologne) – a new program for school students aged between 14 and 16. They spent three days looking at how 68 they could take responsibility in their city, make a contribution or work as a team to achieve change. * Number of projects: 87 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Good for Business, Good for Society 87 A very successful commitment initiated in 2010 is our partnerPromoting art and culture ship with Teach First in Germany and Teach For India (TFI). We are We are convinced that successful scientific work and, ultione of the main sponsors of these not-for-profit organizations. Both mately, social progress can only flourish in a culture of thought, are national network partners of the global Teach For All initiative, research and critical evaluation. As part of our cultural commitwhich aims to help school students who have had a difficult start ment, we therefore sponsor both literary and musical talents. We in life, fostering their individual talents and developing their career have been the main partner to lit.COLOGNE, Europe’s biggest prospects. Particularly highly qualified university graduates who also literature festival in Cologne, since 2010. The second mainstay have the requisite soft skills act as fellows for a period of two years, of our cultural commitment is support for musical training. The helping schools in socially disadvantaged areas with education and Young Euro Classic initiative brings together talents from Germany schooling tasks. and LANXESS’s main markets around the world. In Japan, we We have also been active for many years in supporting edsupport the Ozawa International Chamber Music Academy, which ucation initiatives in South Africa. For instance, we have funded enables talented young musicians from across Asia to receive a the construction of new classrooms at a school for physically and top-quality musical education. Furthermore, we are a partner to mentally disabled children close to our site in Newcastle. The last the “Kölner Philharmonie.” In addition to the “Acht Brücken” (Eight of a total of four buildings was completed in June 2016. Bridges) contemporary music festival, we support initiatives such Since its launch, the LANXESS education initiative has reached as a discounted concert subscription for university students. hundreds of thousands of children, adolescents and young adults worldwide. Feedback from teachers, principals and school auAlleviating distress, creating opportunities thorities shows that the initiative has significantly enhanced the Since the beginning of 2015, more than one million importance of the MINT subjects in school timetables. refugees have come to Germany to escape war and poverty in their countries of origin. We, like others, wish to make a helpful contribution to alleviating the Committed to climate and water immediate distress of these people and to providing A further focus of our corporate responsibility is enhancing them with opportunities for the future. To this end, awareness worldwide of the causes and consequences of climate we are participating in the Germany-wide initiative change and water scarcity – for both drinking and industrial uses. “Unternehmen integrieren Flüchtlinge” (Companies In Brazil, we promote scientific knowledge and environmental integrate refugees). As part of this commitment, awareness at our various sites through the “Green Cycle” competiwe are offering refugees individual assistance in tion, which gives participants the opportunity to develop their own choosing a career and enabling them to participate environmental protection projects. LANXESS provides full funding in specially tailored internships, training and work for implementing the winning projects. Participants receive assisshadowing programs. In addition, we have accepttance from an agency that specializes in environmental projects. ed two young refugees from Syria and Iran to our Since the competition began in 2010, we have successfully initiated one-year “XOnce” orientation program with which 40 projects that have included raising the awareness of children, we are currently helping ten young people prepare adolescents and adults for the importance of environmentand for vocational training who were not yet ready to climate-friendly behavior, establishing recycling communities and take this route. In October 2015, we announced remediating polluted land. that we would provide €400,000 to support se­ In China, we organized a research competition entitled “Clean lected refugee aid projects in Cologne, Leverkusen, water for a better life” for the second year running. Students from Dormagen, Krefeld and Brunsbüttel. These funds nine universities along the river Yangtze were asked to develop were used mainly to finance language teaching approaches for protecting water as a vital resource. Statistically, for children at schools as part of their preparatory China has one of the lowest per capita water supplies in the world. classes and for adults at further education centers. We supported the research teams with funding, training and speIn addition, we have encouraged our employees’ cialists who assisted on a voluntary basis. The competition saw personal involvement by granting them up to eight a significant increase in popularity compared with the first year. days of paid vacation. 15 projects from nine universities were included in the final selection and twice as many people – more than 18,000 – took part in the public vote to determine the winners. A team from Tongji University won the most votes for its research into a cleaning agent for treating industrial wastewater. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 LANXESS on the Capital Market Strong development In 2016, LANXESS stock significantly outperformed all benchmark indices. The share price increased by around 46 % year on year. Successful bond issues We took advantage of the favorable conditions on the capital markets to place bonds with a total volume of €1.5 billion. Stable ratings The rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s confirmed LANXESS’s ratings of BBB– and Baa3, respectively. 90 LANXESS on the Capital Market LANXESS on the Capital Market Our positive business performance was rewarded by the capital market in 2016. In another eventful year on the stock market, the LANXESS share significantly outperformed all benchmark indices. Year on year, the share price rose by around 46 %. We successfully placed some large bond issues on the markets. After a weak start to the year, the German equity market On December 30, after a strong second half-year, the DAX developed positively overall in 2016. Among the reasons for closed at 11,481 points – 6.9 % higher than the 2015 closing the poor start were disappointing economic data from China at price. The MDAX, which includes LANXESS, tracked parallel the beginning of the year, a dip in the Chinese equity market, with the DAX over long periods during the year to finish 6.8 % relatively weak U.S. economic data, the oil price dropping below up at a new all-time high of 22,189 points. US$30 per barrel and the terrorist attacks in Brussels. These There was a very broad difference in performance between factors influenced trading in the first quarter and led to a highly LANXESS’s industry benchmark indices – the Dow Jones STOXX volatile performance on the stock markets. The German lead 600 Chemicals SM and the MSCI World Chemicals Index. While index, the DAX, lost around 2,000 points in the first six weeks the Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM gained only 3.5 % to of the year alone. However, it had already recovered more than finish the year on 857 points, the broader and more international half of these losses by the end of the first quarter. By contrast, MSCI World Chemicals Index rose 9.0 % year on year, closing the MDAX changed almost imperceptibly over the same period, at 273 points. ending the first quarter slightly up at 20,397 points. At the end Reflecting the weakness of the overall market, LANXESS of the second quarter – in which the DAX fluctuated as it moved stock started 2016 by declining, reaching its low for the year sideways and the MDAX softened slightly – the surprising Britof €32.90 on February 11. Swift recovery to around €40 was ish referendum vote to leave the E.U. caused significant price followed by several months of persistent sideways movement. declines on Europe’s equity markets. However, fears of a lasting Our stock decoupled from the market when, at the end of the negative effect on the stock markets proved unfounded, with September, we announced our plans to acquire U.S. additives positive influences winning through in the second half of the specialist Chemtura. The subsequent rally drove the price above year. These included the easing of monetary policy in the United €60. The closing price on December 30, 2016, was €62.35, Kingdom and Japan, the European Central Bank’s announcement near to the high for the year of €63.53 that was recorded two that it would continue to pursue its expansionary monetary policy, days earlier. Compared with its closing price in 2015, LANXESS a stable oil price, an improvement in the Chinese economy and stock gained 46.1 % overall in 2016, thus significantly outperpositive economic data from the United States. Donald Trump’s forming all benchmarks. surprise victory in the U.S. presidential election in November had relatively little impact on the capital markets. LANXESS Stock Performance 2016 % 150 LANXESS 140 MDAX 130 DJ STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM 120 DAX 110 MSCI World Chemicals Index 100 90 80 Dec. 30, 2015 Dec. 30, 2016 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 LANXESS on the Capital Market 91 Performance Data 2016 Q1 2016 Q2 2016 Q3 2016 Q4 2016 Year 2016 Capital stock/no. of shares1) €/no. of shares 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 Market capitalization1) € billion 3.87 3.60 5.06 5.71 5.71 High/low for the period € 43.27/32.90 46.79/37.72 56.38/37.28 63.53/53.64 63.53/32.90 Closing price1) € 42.24 39.28 55.30 62.35 62.35 Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets4) € 0.73 0.88 0.84 0.24 2.69 Price/cash flow ratio1), 2), 3) – – – – 8.28 1) End of quarter: Q1: March 31, 2016, Q2: June 30, 2016, Q3: September 30, 2015, Q4 and full year: December 31, 2016. 2) Earnings and cash flow data are influenced by exceptionals, which restricts the significance accordingly. 3) Reference value: operating cash flow. 4) Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets as well as attributable tax effects. Capital Market Information Stockholder structure Share class No-par shares The majority of LANXESS’s stockholders are institutional Listing code LXS investors whose strategy is oriented toward growth or value. As WKN (German 547040 securities of December 31, 2016, these investors held around 90 % of the ­identification stock. The remaining share of around 10% of LANXESS stock number) is owned by private investors, including our employees, who ISIN DE0005470405 Reuters/Bloomberg LXSG.DE/LXS:GR hold around 1 %. Since LANXESS was first listed on the stock codes exchange, most of our private investors have been located in Market segment Prime Standard Germany. Trading venues XETRA, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, In 2016, as in the past, many of our institutional investors Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Hannover, Berlin Selective indices MDAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM, were based in the United States, the United Kingdom and GerMSCI Germany Standard, MSCI Germany Mid many. The proportion of our stockholders in the United States Cap, Dow Jones Sustainability Index World, decreased slightly and as of December 31, 2016, was around FTSE4Good Investment-grade Standard & Poor’s: BBB– (negative) 32 % (2015: 35 %). As of the same date, some 16 % (2015: 17 %) ratings (outlook) Moody’s: Baa3 (stable) of LANXESS stock was held in the United Kingdom. Institutional investors from Germany represented about 17 % (2015: 15 %) of our stock. Taking private and institutional investors together, ownership of our shares in Germany increased slightly to around Sustainability 28 % (2015: 26 %). In other regions, LANXESS is represented in Norway, France, In 2016, for the sixth time in succession, we were included in the Netherlands and Switzerland, in particular. The proportion of the respected Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World. The institutional investors from the rest of Europe increased slightly index applies the best-in-class principle and includes only the top year on year to around 15 % (2015: 12 %). Meanwhile, the pro10 % of the companies evaluated. In 2016, we received special portion in the other regions decreased slightly to around 9 % recognition for our management of innovation processes and for (2015: 10 %). our climate strategy with its goals that were reformulated at the An overview of the institutional investors which have isstart of the year. Our listing in the FTSE4Good Index, in which we sued mandatory notices reporting ownership of at least 3 % of were first included in 2011, was also confirmed. In addition, oekom LANXESS’s outstanding shares is published in the Investor Reresearch – one of the leading sustainability rating agencies – gave lations section of our website. us a corporate responsibility rating of C. Detailed information about sustainability can be found in the “Corporate Responsibility” section starting on page 58 of this Annual Report and on our website. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 92 LANXESS on the Capital Market Stockholder Profile Recommendations %, as of December 31, 2016 %, as of January 31, 2017 10 Institutional investors Buy Private investors Hold 54 46 90 Geographical Breakdown Annual Stockholders’ Meeting %, as of December 31, 2016 At our Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 20, 2016, 9 United States 50,275,967 shares and the same number of votes – equivalent Germany 15 32 to 54.93 % of the voting capital – were represented. This was a United Kingdom further improvement against the prior year, when representation Other Europe was already at a good level of 52.21 %. LANXESS stockholders Other regions passed all the agenda items. Detailed voting results and additional 16 information about LANXESS’s Annual Stockholders’ Meeting are available in the Investor Relations section of our website. The next 28 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting is scheduled for May 26, 2017. Dividend Analysts LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. We aim to increase the dividend if possible, but at least to maintain it at a We accord high priority to regular and extensive dialogue stable level. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of with analysts. In fiscal 2016, around 30 analysts issued reports LANXESS AG will therefore propose to the Annual Stockholders’ detailing their estimates of our company’s current and future Meeting on May 26, 2017, that a dividend of €0.70 per share development. Key themes were the successful implementation be declared for fiscal 2016 (2015: €0.60 per share). The 17 % of the realignment – particularly our strategic alliance with Saudi increase in the dividend is a signal of the company’s increased Aramco in the rubber business – and LANXESS’s future strategic profitability and financial solidity. direction. In this connection, the acquisition of the Chemours Clean Relative to the price of €62.35 at which LANXESS shares ended and Disinfect business and our announcement of the planned 2016, this equates to a dividend yield of 1.1 %. Subject to approval of acquisition of Chemtura resulted in lively dialogue. Alongside the corresponding resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, our dialogue with share analysts, we once again maintained our the dividend is expected to be paid on May 31, 2017. close interaction with bond analysts during the reporting year. As of January 31, 2017, 46 % of analysts (2015: 36 %) recommended buying LANXESS stock. A further 54 % (2015: 48 %) said to hold our stock, while none (2015: 16 %) gave a sell recommendation. In the Investor Relations section of our website we publish consensus estimates compiled by an independent service provider on the basis of current analyst evaluations. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 LANXESS on the Capital Market 93 Bonds All existing LANXESS eurobonds are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Their term sheets are available in the In fiscal 2016, we took advantage of the favorable condiInvestor Relations section of our website. Further information tions on the bond markets to place three bonds. The September about our bonds may also be found in the combined management issuance of two eurobonds with a volume of €500 million each report on page 135 ff. was significantly oversubscribed. The bonds have coupons of 0.25 % and 1.0 % and terms of five and ten years, respectively. In November, we then issued our company’s first hybrid bond. This Ratings also had a total volume of €500 million but a term of 60 years and a coupon of 4.5 %. The first regular redemption option can LANXESS’s creditworthiness is regularly evaluated by the ratbe exercised in June 2023. As the hybrid bond is subordinate to ing agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. It LANXESS’s other financial liabilities, 50 % of it is treated as equity is our strategic corporate goal to retain an investment-grade rating. by the rating agencies. This issuance was likewise several times In September 2016, Standard & Poor’s confirmed LANXESS’s oversubscribed – a clear signal of the great trust that LANXESS investment-grade rating at BBB– with a negative outlook. Stanenjoys on the capital markets. The proceeds from these three dard & Poor’s takes a positive view of the planned acquisition of newly issued bonds will serve to finance our planned acquisition Chemtura and the greater diversification that will result. It also of Chemtura. The bonds have a special redemption option in case praised our strong liquidity and our clear commitment to retaining it is not possible to close the transaction. our investment-grade rating. Our eurobond issued in September 2009 matured after a In September 2016, Moody’s confirmed its investment-grade seven-year term in September 2016 and was redeemed. It had rating of LANXESS at Baa3 with a stable outlook. This agency a total volume of €200 million and an annual coupon of 5.5 %. likewise regards the planned Chemtura transaction as being advantageous for LANXESS’s risk profile. Moody’s also emphasized aspects including our significantly reduced financial debt. Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds ISIN/WKN Volume Term Coupon May 23, 2011– Investor relations activities XS0629645531 €500 million 4.125 % May 23, 2018 November 21, 2012– Maintaining an active, broad and uninterrupted dialogue with XS0855167523 €500 million 2.625 % November 21, 2022 investors and analysts is a top priority for LANXESS. Our objecOctober 7, 2016– XS1501363425 €500 million 0.250 % tive is to provide a continuous and sustained flow of information October 7, 2021 XS1501367921 €500 million October 7, 2016– 1.000 % about our company. Our activities remain focused on addressing October 7, 2026 equity-side investors. However, we also maintain a close dialogue with fixed income investors and with institutional investors focused on sustainability. LANXESS Hybrid Bonds (Subordinated)1) The high quality of our investor relations work again received external acknowledgment in 2016. For example, the sell-side anISIN/WKN Volume Term alysts surveyed each year by U.S. magazine Institutional Investor €500 XS1405763019 December 6, 2016–December 6, 2076 ranked LANXESS first among European chemical companies in million the Best Investor Relations category. The Chairman of our Board Coupon Redemption options of Management Matthias Zachert was honored as “Best CEO” by 4.500 % until the first First option on June 6, 2023, and thereafter redemption option; subsequent annually; additional redemption rights in the buy and sell sides. As part of its Pan European Survey, Extel adjustment of interest rate as defined special circumstances ranked our Chief Financial Officer Michael Pontzen as best CFO described in prospectus in the chemical industry. The LANXESS Investor Relations team 1) S  implified description; see prospectus for full conditions of the bond and the associated risks placed second in the annual Extel ranking of IR performance. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Transparent governance Through our corporate governance standards, we are seeking to strengthen the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. Binding principles The LANXESS Code of Conduct provides employees worldwide with guidance on compliance. Focus on prevention An extensive portfolio of briefings, targeted training and regular risk assessments are aimed at preventing compliance violations. 96 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS are committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate governance and control. They place high value on the standards of good corporate governance with a view to strengthening the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board herein Other key principles of the report on corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Section management practices applied 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code. Further inforby LANXESS mation about corporate governance can be found in the Board of Management’s declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the German As an international company, LANXESS bears global responsiCommercial Code, which is published together with the Corporate bility for the propriety and sustainability of its conduct. Compliance, Governance Report on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ meaning the observance of all legal provisions that are binding on under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. the LANXESS Group, ethical principles and regulations defined by the company itself, is therefore a fundamental requirement for all entrepreneurial activities. For this reason, LANXESS has Implementation of the German established a company-wide compliance management system Corporate Governance Code (CMS), which is defined in the CMS directive that is applicable throughout the company. As LANXESS is a stock corporation listed on the German stock The goal of the CMS is to appropriately and effectively ensure exchange, corporate governance at the company is aligned with compliance throughout the LANXESS Group, so as to counter Germany’s securities and capital market legislation, regulations unlawful or unethical conduct at the LANXESS Group at an early pertaining to codetermination and the German Corporate Goverstage and introduce suitable measures to prevent improprieties. nance Code. The latter makes recommendations and suggestions The CMS is supported by the compliance organization, which concerning corporate governance. There is no obligation to comply is made up of the Group Compliance Officer and a network of with this code. Pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corlocal compliance officers in the countries in which LANXESS poration Act, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of has subsidiaries. The compliance organization is in particular LANXESS make an annual declaration of compliance, in the past the central point of contact and advisory for all employees on and going forward, with the recommendations and suggestions compliance-related issues. The function that includes the global of the German Corporate Governance Code. The declaration of compliance organization reports directly and regularly to the Board compliance of March 14, 2017, and the previous declarations are of Management. published on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under One of the fundamental elements of the CMS is the compliInvestor Relations/Corporate Governance. Reasons were given ance culture based on LANXESS’s corporate values of respect, for non-compliance with two of the total 102 recommendations of ownership, integrity, professionalism and trust. It is shaped by the German Corporate Governance Code valid when the current the clear commitment and dedication of the LANXESS Board of declaration of compliance was issued. In addition, two suggestions Management and the Supervisory Board. All managerial staff at were not fully implemented. LANXESS have a duty to embody this compliance culture and communicate it to employees. The goal of the LANXESS Compliance Program, which is part of the CMS, is to prevent individual impropriety, identify misconduct at an early stage and react with appropriate sanctions. The “Code of Conduct – Code for integrity and compliance at LANXESS” is the cornerstone of the Compliance Program. It defines binding principles of conduct and provides employees with information and guidance on compliance. Additional preventive measures include in particular an extensive portfolio of compliance briefings and targeted compliance training. Compliance risk assessments LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report 97 are performed regularly to identify and evaluate company-specific Corporate governance compliance risk areas, as well as to develop additional measures structure and processes for reducing compliance risks. The main risk areas identified are assigned to individual group functions as special LANXESS AG is a company established under the laws of areas of responsibility for compliance. They are responsible for Germany. One of the fundamental principles of German stock developing and implementing individual compliance programs that corporation law is the two-tier management system with the encompass in particular specific Group policies, standard operating governing bodies of management board and supervisory board. procedures and training concepts. The compliance organization This system is characterized by a clear separation between the supports both the design and implementation phases. management board as the body that manages a company and An effective internal control system, appropriate monitoring the supervisory board as the body that advises and oversees activities and preventive compliance audits performed by Internal management. Concurrent membership on both boards is strictly Auditing and those functions with special compliance responsiprohibited. The management board and the supervisory board bilities are designed to ensure observance of the regulations. If work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for the benefit there are indications of compliance violations, the Integrity Line of the company. offers employees and external third parties many ways to notify the compliance organization – also anonymously if they wish. Board of Management LANXESS considers corporate responsibility a prerequisite The Board of Management of LANXESS AG currently comto being able to operate successfully in the future and create prises four members: Matthias Zachert (Chairman), Dr. Hubert Fink, value for all stakeholders. Given this awareness, sustainability is Michael Pontzen and Dr. Rainier van Roessel. Information about the a key success factor that is at the heart of LANXESS’s corporate members of the Board of Management is available on our website culture and a component of our business strategy. For LANXESS, at http://www.lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/Corporate actively demonstrating corporate responsibility involves knowing Governance/Board of Management. and evaluating the impact of our actions – whether positive or The Board of Management is appointed to manage and reprenegative – and maintaining a dialogue with stakeholders that sent the company. It is responsible for conducting business in the enables us to satisfy their expectations to the best of our ability. company’s interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The By signing the Responsible Care® Global Charter, we have docuprincipal tasks of the Board of Management include defining the mented our commitment to the visions and ethical principles of the company’s goals and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing Responsible Care® initiative launched by the International Council the operating units, setting human resources policy, arranging the of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Our corporate directives ensure company’s financing, and establishing an effective risk management that the principles of the charter are integrated into our managesystem. The Board of Management has a duty to ensure compliance ment principles and corporate strategy. As a signatory to the U.N. with legislation, regulatory requirements and the company’s internal Global Compact, LANXESS also recognizes in its directives the directives. It is also responsible for preparing the quarterly and halfprinciples set forth by the world’s largest and most important year financial statements, the financial statements of LANXESS AG, initiative for responsible corporate governance. An overview of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the implementation of corporate responsibility at LANXESS can the management report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. be downloaded from the Corporate Responsibility section of our The Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Managewebsite at http://www.lanxess.com/. ment. As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with a simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting vote. Resolutions of the Board of Management are generally passed at regularly held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of Management that are enacted by the Supervisory Board contain further regulations concerning the form of cooperation within the Board of Management, the allocation of duties and the matters requiring resolution by the full Board of Management. In deciding the composition of the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board gives consideration to professional suitability, leadership qualities and diversity. It has defined an age limit for members of the Board of Management. By way of implementing the law on the equal representation of women and men in management positions in the private and public sectors, which came into force on May 1, 2015, the Supervisory Board resolved to maintain the status quo with a target for the proportion of women on the Board of Management of LANXESS Annual Report 2016 98 Corporate Governance Report LANXESS AG of 0 % through June 30, 2017, in light of the fact The Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board that the appointments and service contracts of the members of on a timely and comprehensive basis about the progress of busithe Board of Management serving at the time the resolution was ness and the situation of the Group, including potential risks and taken are valid beyond June 30, 2017. In the future, however, the relevant issues relating to corporate planning. The Supervisory Supervisory Board will seek to appoint women with the appropriate Board has laid down the Board of Managements notification and professional qualifications and personal skills as members of the reporting requirements in detail in its rules of procedure. The Board of Management. Chairman of the Board of Management regularly exchanges information with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in order Supervisory Board to discuss matters of strategy, planning, business performance, The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG is composed of risks, risk management and compliance. Certain transactions and twelve members, with equal numbers of stockholder represenmeasures of major or long-term importance require the Supervisotatives and employee representatives, in accordance with the ry Boards approval. Measures requiring approval include, but are provisions of the German Codetermination Act of 1976. The stocknot limited to: adoption of the corporate planning; the acquisition, holder representatives are elected by the Annual Stockholders sale or encumbrance of real property, shareholdings or other asMeeting, whereas the employee representatives are elected in sets; borrowings and certain other types of financial transactions. accordance with the provisions of the Codetermination Act and Thresholds have been set for some of these transactions. its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board members normally The Report of the Supervisory Board details the Supervisory serve for a five-year term. Board’s work. Manuela Strauch, Werner Czaplik, Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets, Thomas Meiers, Ralf Sikorski and Ifraim Tairi serve as the employee Goals for the composition of the representatives on the Supervisory Board. Dr. Heike Hanagarth, Supervisory Board Dr. Friedrich Janssen, Lawrence A. Rosen, Dr. Rolf Stomberg, Theo Section 5.4.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code H. Walthie and Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber serve as the stockholder states that the concrete objectives of the Supervisory Board representatives. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Dr. Rolf regarding its composition and the status of the implementaStomberg. The Vice Chairman is Ralf Sikorski. Information about tion of these objectives are to be published in the Corporate the members of the Supervisory Board is available on our website Governance Report. at http://www.lanxess.com/ under Investor Relations/Corporate The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG Governance/Supervisory Board. are expected to possess the necessary expertise, skills and The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of Manprofessional experience to perform their duties. The members of agement in its management of the company and to monitor its the Supervisory Board autonomously undertake the necessary conduct of the business. The Supervisory Board discusses busitraining required for their tasks and are supported in their efforts ness performance, planning and strategy at regular intervals. Its by the company. The Supervisory Board should be composed responsibilities also include appointing the members of the Board in such a way to ensure that the Board of Management receives of Management as well as reviewing the financial statements of qualified supervision by and advice from the Supervisory Board. LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the In making nominations, the Supervisory Board applies only LANXESS Group. Moreover, it resolves on the Board of Managelegally permissible and fair selection criteria, acts in the comment’s proposal for the appropriation of the balance sheet profit pany’s best interests, and gives consideration to the nominated and on the Supervisory Board’s report to the Annual Stockholders’ candidates’ personality, integrity, commitment, professionalism Meeting. The Supervisory Board reaches its decisions with a maand independence. The Supervisory Board should collectively jority of the votes cast unless a different majority is stipulated by possess all the knowledge and experience that is material to law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board LANXESS’s business activities. has two votes in a second ballot on the resolution, even if this The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure also results in a tie. The German Codetermination Act contains the provision of impartial advice and supervision to the Board special requirements concerning resolutions. The Chairman of of Management. All current stockholder representatives on the the Supervisory Board coordinates the work in the Supervisory Supervisory Board are independent. The Supervisory Board also Board, chairs its meetings and represents the concerns of the body assumes the independence of the employee representatives on externally. Supervisory Board resolutions are usually adopted at the Supervisory Board and that their ability to act independently regularly held meetings. is not affected by their status as employees of the company or The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of procedure, members of labor unions. No member of the Supervisory Board which, in addition to defining the tasks and responsibilities of the has a personal or business relationship with the company, its Supervisory Board and the personal qualifications of its members, executive bodies, a controlling shareholder or any enterprise establishes the processes for convening, preparing and chairing affiliated with a controlling shareholder that may cause a material meetings as well as the procedures for voting. and not merely temporary conflict of interest. No former member LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report 99 of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG is a member of regularly about long-term succession planning for the Board of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also aims for all Management. Furthermore, the Committee also prepares the future members of the Supervisory Board to be independent personnel decisions to be made by the Supervisory Board and within the meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate resolutions of the full Supervisory Board regarding the compenGovernance Code and free of conflicts of interest. sation of the members of the Board of Management. In place of The Supervisory Board has now defined an age limit for the full Supervisory Board, the Presidial Committee resolves on its members which is contained in the rules of procedure for the conclusion and amendment of employment contracts with the the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board members shall not members of the Board of Management and all other contractual continue to serve after the end of the Stockholders’ Meeting matters not pertaining to compensation. The members of the following their 80th birthday. This also takes into account the Presidial Committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Ms. Strauch, maximum length of membership of the Supervisory Board of Mr. Sikorski, Mr. Tairi, Mr. Walthie and Dr. Wolfgruber. generally not more than three full terms of office (15 years) that The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in has been specified by the Supervisory Board. overseeing the conduct of the business and deals with matters In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the relating to the supervision of accounting, the effectiveness of the principles of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their internal control system, the risk management system and the various personal and professional backgrounds, the members internal auditing system, as well as auditing, including the indepenof the Supervisory Board contribute a broad spectrum of expedence of the auditor and the work additionally performed by the rience and skills. The global reach of LANXESS AG has been auditor, and compliance. It prepares the Supervisory Board’s resreflected in the composition of the Supervisory Board thus far olutions concerning the annual financial statements of LANXESS and will remain a factor in selecting candidates to be proposed AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election to the SuperGroup and recommends an auditor whom the Supervisory Board visory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills of the then proposes to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for appointmembers of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while ment. The members of the Audit Committee are Dr. Janssen working abroad for a long period or in an international field. (Chairman), Mr. Czaplik, Dr. Gerriets, Mr. Meiers, Mr. Rosen and Three members of the Supervisory Board are not German citiMr. Walthie. Dr. Janssen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, zens. The members of the Supervisory Board have professional is an independent financial expert and has specialist knowledge knowledge of the chemical industry and other sectors that are and experience in the field of accounting acquired through his important for the company’s business. professional activities. Diversity applies equally to gender. In accordance with the law The Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of the on the equal representation of women and men in management German Codetermination Act performs the tasks described in positions in the private and public sectors, codetermined stock Section 31, Paragraph 3 of the German Codetermination Act. corporations like LANXESS AG are required to appoint at least The members of this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), 30 % women and 30 % men when refilling Supervisory Board Mr. Czaplik, Mr. Sikorski and Dr. Wolfgruber. positions that become vacant from January 1, 2016. Existing The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder appointments – including those of substitute members – can run representatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory until they end regularly. Two of the twelve members currently Board to nominate for election as new members of the Superviserving on the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board are women, which sory Board by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The members represents a proportion of around 16 %. Future new appointments of this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Rosen and will be made in accordance with the legal stipulations. Dr. Wolfgruber. Other Supervisory Board committees established for a particComposition and work of the Supervisory ular purpose perform the duties assigned to them by Supervisory Board committees Board resolution. The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit The respective committee chairmen report regularly to the Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 of Supervisory Board on the work of the committees. the German Codetermination Act and a Nominations Committee formed from among its members. The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares the meetings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. It makes decisions on transactions requiring approval that are already included in the company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee may also resolve on the exercise of participation rights pursuant to Section 32 of the German Codetermination Act and on transactions requiring approval that cannot be deferred. It consults LANXESS Annual Report 2016 100 Corporate Governance Report Stockholders and Compensation report stockholders’ meetings The compensation report, which describes the compensation The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the system and the amount of compensation paid to the members of Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resothe Board of Management and Supervisory Board for their service lutions submitted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on in fiscal 2016, is part of the combined management report for all matters reserved for its decision by law, with binding effect on LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. the stockholders and the company. Each share confers one vote. The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting include appropriation of the balance sheet profit, ratification of the Reportable securities actions taken by the members of the Board of Management and transactions the Supervisory Board, appointment of the auditors and election of the stockholder representatives to the Supervisory Board. The Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board Annual Stockholders’ Meeting also resolves on amendments to the and persons closely related to them are required to disclose transarticles of association, measures affecting the company’s capital actions in shares or debt securities of LANXESS AG or associated and the approval of intercompany agreements. Each year there financial instruments if the total volume of such transactions in is an Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Board of Manany given calendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Reportable agement and Supervisory Board give an account of the last fiscal securities transactions are published on the LANXESS website. year. The German Stock Corporation Act requires the convening The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by memof an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting in certain situations. bers of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligiDecember 31, 2016, was less than 1% of all shares issued by bility to attend the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise the company. their voting rights shall be allowed to participate in the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockholders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in person, through a proxy of their own choosing or through a company-nominated proxy who acts according to their instructions. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report 101 Offices held by Board of Management Members Offices held by serving Board of Management members (as of December 31, 2016) Member of the Board External offices Offices within the LANXESS Group of Management Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board • Member of the Presidium of the German Chemical Industry • Chairman of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland of Management Association (VCI) GmbH • Member of the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business • Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO (APA) Holding B.V. • Member of the Presidium of “stiftung neue verantwortung e.V.” Dr. Hubert Fink Member of the Board • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland of Management GmbH • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Saltigo GmbH Michael Pontzen Chief Financial Officer • Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsches Aktieninstitut • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland (DAI) GmbH • Member of Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Unterneh• Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. mensführung e.V. (GEFIU) • Member of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO Holding B.V. Dr. Rainier van Roessel Member of the Board of • Member of the Supervisory Board of CURRENTA Geschäfts• Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland Management and Labor führungs-GmbH, Leverkusen GmbH Relations Director • Member of the Board of the German Chemical Industry Associa• Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V. tion (VCI) in North Rhine-Westphalia • E xecutive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS • Chairman of the Trade Policy Committee of the German ChemiN.V. cal Industry Association (VCI) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. • Member of the German Committee on Eastern European • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. Economic Relations • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical • Member of the 1 b Experience-Exchange Group of the German (China) Co. Ltd. Association for Personnel Management (DGFP) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private • Member of the Board of the German Chemical Industry FederLtd. ation (BAVC) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Pte. Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 102 Corporate Governance Report LANXESS AG Supervisory Board Serving members (as of December 31, 2016) Dr. Rolf Stomberg (Chairman) • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG • Former Chief Executive of the Shipping, Refining and Marketing Division of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K. • Former member of the Board of Directors of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K. Further offices: • L ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Chairman) • Biesterfeld AG, Hamburg* • HOYER GmbH, Hamburg • K EMNA Bau Andreae GmbH & Co. KG, Pinneberg Werner Czaplik • Chairman of the LANXESS Central Works Council and of the LANXESS Group Works Council • Member of the LANXESS Works Council at the Leverkusen site Further offices: • L ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets • Chairman of the LANXESS Group Managerial Employees’ Committee and Chairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee; manager of a production facility in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* Dr. Heike Hanagarth • Management consultant • Former member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Bahn AG, Berlin Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • aichele GROUP GmbH & Co. KG, Bretten (Advisory Board) Dr. Friedrich Janssen • Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • National-Bank AG, Essen* • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman) Thomas Meiers • District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Cologne Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne* • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne* LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report 103 Serving members (as of December 31, 2016) Lawrence A. Rosen • Member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Post AG, Bonn Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • Qiagen  N.V., Venlo, Netherlands Ralf Sikorski • Member of the Executive Committee of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Hannover Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* (Vice Chairman) • R AG AG, Herne* • RAG Deutsche Steinkohle AG, Herne* • RWE AG, Essen* • RWE Power AG, Cologne and Essen* (Vice Chairman) • RWE Generation AG, Essen* • KSBG – Kommunale Beteiligungsgesellschaft GmbH & Co. KG, Essen* (Vice Chairman) • KSBG – Kommunale Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH, Essen* (Vice Chairman) Manuela Strauch • Chairwoman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Uerdingen site • Member of the LANXESS Central Works Council Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* Ifraim Tairi • Chairman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Dormagen site • Member of the LANXESS Central Works Council Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH, Dormagen* Theo H. Walthie • Self-employed consultant • Former Global Business Group President for the Hydrocarbons & Energy Business of the Dow Chemical Company Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • NBE Therapeutics AG, Basle, Switzerland (President of the Board of Administration) Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber • S elf-employed consultant • Former Chairman of the Management Board of ALTANA AG Further offices: • L ANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • A LTANA AG, Wesel* • Grillo Werke AG, Duisburg* • A RDEX GmbH, Witten (Chairman of the Advisory Committee) •C  abot Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, United States * Statutory supervisory boards The information about offices held refers to memberships of other supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies in Germany and abroad (as of December 31, 2016). LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Financial Information Profitability raised Our key controlling parameter at Group level, the EBITDA pre exceptionals, has improved substantially. Expanding our customer relationships We increased sales volumes year on year in all segments. Sound financing We have strengthened our financial position and are well placed to finance the planned acquisition of Chemtura. Combined Management Report OF THE LANXESS GROUP AND LANXESS AG FOR FISCAL 2016 108 Fundamentals 108 Group Structure 108 Business 111 Strategy 112 Value Management and Control System 114 Procurement and Production 115 Sales Organization and Customers 116 Research and Development 118 Corporate Responsibility 119 Economic Report 119 Legal Environment 119 Business Conditions 120 Key Events Influencing the Company’s Business 121 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 122 Business Performance of the Lanxess Group 126 Business Trends by Region 127 Segment Information 130 Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre Exceptionals) 130 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 137 M  anagement’s Summary of Business Development and the Fiscal Year 138 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview 138 Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of Lanxess Ag 140 Employees 142 Compensation Report 150 R  eport Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code 152  eport Pursuant to Section 289a of the R German Commercial Code 152  eport on Risks, Opportunities and Future R Perspectives 152 Economic Outlook 153 Future Perspectives 155 Opportunity and Risk Report 108 Combined Management Report Group structure Management and control organization LANXESS AG has a two-tier management structure consisting Legal structure of the Board of Management, which manages the company, and LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS the Supervisory Board, which oversees the Board of Management Group and functions largely as a management holding compawith the support of an Audit Committee formed from among its ny. LANXESS Deutschland GmbH is a wholly owned subsidiary members to advise on financial matters. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG and in turn controls the other subsidiaries and shapes Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infraaffiliates in Germany and elsewhere. structure and organization. As the Group management company, The following are the principal companies wholly owned by LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and for communication LANXESS AG directly or indirectly: with the company’s key stakeholders. For additional information, please also see the Corporate Governance Report. Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG  Company Name and Domicile Function Segments Business Advanced Intermediates/ LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Production Performance Chemicals/ Cologne, Germany and sales High Performance Materials Business organization and Group portfolio Advanced Intermediates/ As part of the “Let’s LANXESS again” realignment program, LANXESS Corporation, Production Performance Chemicals/ Pittsburgh, U.S.A. and sales High Performance Materials LANXESS and Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., Advanced Intermediates/ The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, have LANXESS India Private Ltd., Production Performance Chemicals/ formed a strategic alliance for the synthetic rubber business named Thane, India and sales High Performance Materials ARLANXEO in which each party holds a 50 % interest. On the LANXESS N.V., Production Advanced Intermediates Antwerp, Belgium and sales High Performance Materials basis of a preliminary purchase price calculation for its interest after Advanced Intermediates/ deduction of debt and other financial liabilities, Saudi Aramco paid LANXESS Chemicals S.L., Holding Performance Chemicals/ a cash contribution of €1.2 billion. Closing of the transaction took Barcelona, Spain company High Performance Materials Saltigo GmbH, Production place on April 1, 2016. The business continues to be included in Leverkusen, Germany and sales Advanced Intermediates the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and will be fully consolidated in the first three years because LANXESS has the opportunity to determine key aspects of financial and In the context of the strategic alliance formed with Saudi business policy. In this connection, new legal entities have been Aramco for the synthetic rubber business, as explained under established and existing legal entities renamed. They have been “Business organization and Group portfolio” in this combined assigned to the ARLANXEO segment. Details about the scope management report, LANXESS AG holds a 50 % interest in of consolidation are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands. The following Financial Statements as of December 31, 2016. are the principal companies wholly owned by this subsidiary: As a result of the transaction described above, Group structures have been reorganized. The synthetic rubber business, formerly bundled in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers and High PerPrincipal Direct Subsidiaries of ARLANXEO Holding B.V. formance Elastomers business units in the Performance Polymers segment, has since been reported as the ARLANXEO segment, Company Name and Domicile Function Segment while the High Performance Materials business unit, formerly also ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd., Production Singapore and sales ARLANXEO assigned to the Performance Polymers segment, has become ARLANXEO Elastomères France Production a separate segment. LANXESS now reports as four segments, S.A.S., Lillebonne, France and sales ARLANXEO comprising an unchanged total of ten business units, each of ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V., Production Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands and sales ARLANXEO which conducts its own operations and has global profit responARLANXEO Brasil S.A., Production sibility: Advanced Intermediates, Performance Chemicals, High Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and sales ARLANXEO Performance Materials and ARLANXEO. Prior-year figures have ARLANXEO Canada Inc., Production Sarnia, Canada and sales ARLANXEO been restated accordingly. ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A., Group functions support our business units by providing finanGranges-Paccot, Switzerland Sales ARLANXEO cial, legal, technical and other centralized services. Complementing this global alignment of the business units and Group functions, the LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Group Structure 109 Business country organizations ensure the necessary proximity to markets The segments in brief and provide the organizational infrastructure required. The business activities that LANXESS combines in its AdOn August 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of the vanced Intermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. chemical company suppliers of industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in Chemours. This business has some 170 employees worldwide the custom synthesis and manufacturing of chemical precursors and three production sites in Memphis and North Kingstown in and specialty active ingredients. the United States and Sudbury in the United Kingdom. It has been integrated into the Material Protection Products business unit in Advanced Intermediates  the Performance Chemicals segment. The anticipated annual EBITDA contribution is around €20 million. In addition, growth and Business Units Advanced Industrial Intermediates Saltigo synergy effects are expected to gradually generate an additional Sites Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen €10 million by 2020. In 2015, the acquired business generated and Leverkusen, Germany sales of around €100 million, roughly half of which in North AmeAntwerp, Belgium rica. The provisional purchase price of around €200 million was Baytown and Bushy Park, U.S.A. paid from existing liquidity. This acquisition represents the first Liyang, China Nagda and Jhagadia, India such transaction associated with our strategic realignment. In this Applications Agrochemicals connection, LANXESS acquired all shares in Antec International Automotive Ltd., Sudbury, United Kingdom; International Dioxcide Inc., North Construction Kingstown, United States; and Chemours Jersey Ltd., St Helier, Aromas and flavors Jersey, Channel Islands. Pharmaceuticals LANXESS is also preparing to acquire U.S. company Chemtura, Tire chemicals one of the major global providers of flame retardant and lubricant additives. With the largest acquisition in its history, LANXESS is building on its own additives portfolio and will become one of We have combined our application-oriented process and functional the world’s major actors in this growing market. In addition to chemicals operations in the Performance Chemicals segment. additives, Chemtura’s portfolio includes urethanes and organ­ ometallics. According to the data published by Chemtura in its Performance Chemicals  December 31, 2016, financial report, the company generated sales of around €1.5 billion in fiscal 2016, some 43 % of which in Business Units Rhein Chemie Additives North America. Adjusted EBITDA reported by Chemtura came to Inorganic Pigments Material Protection Products about €255 million. The enterprise value (including net financial Leather liabilities and pension obligations) is around €2.4 billion. The Liquid Purification Technologies two companies have signed an acquisition agreement under the Sites Bitterfeld, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen, terms of which Chemtura shareholders will receive US$33.50 Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany per share in cash for each outstanding share of common stock Epierre, France Branston and Sudbury, U.K. held. This amounts to an expected purchase price of around Filago, Italy €1.9 billion, which LANXESS will finance largely with corporate Lipetsk, Russia bonds, which have already been issued, and existing liquidity. Vilassar de Mar, Spain Chemtura shareholders approved the transaction by a large majoMerebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg, rity at an extraordinary general meeting held on February 1, 2017. South Africa Burgettstown, Chardon, Greensboro, Subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions cusLittle Rock Memphis, North Kingstown and tomary for such a transaction, the acquisition is expected to close Pittsburgh, U.S.A. around mid-2017. Porto Feliz, Brazil In connection with the optimization of our plant networks for Burzaco, Merlo and Zárate, Argentina Changzhou, Qingdao, Shanghai and rubber products, we discontinued production of ethylene propyl­ Ningbo, China ene diene monomer (EPDM) rubber at the site in Marl, Germany, Jhagadia, India as of the end of the first quarter of 2016. Within LANXESS’s EPDM Toyohashi, Japan rubber production network, this facility was no longer competitive Sydney, Australia due to its relatively small capacity and comparatively high energy Singapore and raw material costs. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 110 Combined Management Report LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World Europe Asia North and Central America South America Africa Australia We have combined our synthetic rubber activities in the Performance Chemicals  ARLANXEO segment. Applications Polymer additives Disinfection ARLANXEO  Protection and preservation of wood, construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs Business Units Tire & Specialty Rubbers Color pigments High Performance Elastomers Products for leather processing and Sites Leverkusen and Dormagen, Germany water treatment Zwijndrecht, Belgium Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands Singapore We have combined our engineering plastics activities in the High La Wantzenau and Port-Jérôme, France Sarnia, Canada Performance Materials segment. Orange, U.S.A. Cabo, Duque de Caxias and Triunfo, Brazil High Performance Materials  Changzhou and Nantong, China Applications Tires Business Units High Performance Materials Automotive Sites Brilon, Hamm-Uentrop and Electrical/electronics and medical equipment Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany Antwerp, Belgium Porto Feliz, Brazil Wuxi, China Jhagadia, India Gastonia, U.S.A. Applications Automotive Construction Electrical/electronics and medical equipment LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Business 111 Strategy Strategy customers but have also sustainably improved our cost position by around €150 million. In Saudi Aramco we have found a strong Despite its comparative maturity, the chemical industry conpartner for our synthetic rubbers business and together we suctinues to expand. Worldwide it is achieving growth rates which cessfully launched the new strategic alliance ARLANXEO in April are in part well above overall global economic expansion. For 2016. As part of our program to optimize our production, sales European companies in particular, sharing in this growth requires and supply chains, we initiated and in some cases have already a strong ability and willingness to adapt, as the chemical industry completed a number of measures aimed at achieving further cost is undergoing profound change. savings of around €150 million by the end of 2019. As with the Given the enormous scientific advances being made and the optimization of our business and administrative structures, we are high cost of registering new substances, there are now only few making progress faster than planned; we brought forward some opportunities for bringing commercially viable new chemical commeasures from 2017 to 2016 and thereby realized associated pounds to market. The challenge for most chemical companies is cost savings sooner than anticipated. to deliver sustainable products based on known compounds for existing and new areas of application and to ensure that global processes and supply chains are sustainable, efficient, safe and fair. LANXESS: enhanced stability The competitive environment in the chemical industry is also and improved cash flow changing. On the supplier side, particularly in the commodity We aim to make LANXESS a specialty chemicals group with segment, the balance of power is shifting. Manufacturers in the enhanced stability, improved cash flow and a more balanced emerging markets, the Middle East and the United States, with portfolio. To achieve this, we will be building especially on our good access to low-cost raw materials and energy, are extending strengths in both mid-sized and individual niche markets. their value chains and entering the global markets with products An important element of our strategy is to reduce economic that are competitive in terms of both price and quality. On the dependency on individual sectors or closely correlated markets. sales side, previously traditional importing nations like China are In regional terms, too, we aim to achieve an even better balance becoming increasingly self-sufficient. In recent years, China has in our portfolio by increasing the share of our business accounted built its own state-of-the-art production infrastructure that is also for by the growth markets of China, North America and Southeast capable of manufacturing higher-quality products. Asia. With the launch of ARLANXEO, we have started to limit the In addition to these shifts, factors like increasing political ininfluence of the tire industry on our business. The acquisition of stability in important growth markets are generating considerable the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. company uncertainty and risks in both procurement and sales. Moreover, Chemours, completed at the end of August 2016, strengthens the digitalization will change processes, working conditions and value portfolio and regional position of our Material Protection Products chains in the chemical industry in the years ahead. business unit, particularly in North America. In the face of such challenging conditions, a company’s quality With the planned acquisition of the U.S. company Chemtura, is demonstrated by its readiness to formulate and consistently one of the major global providers of flame retardant and lubricant implement a forward-looking strategy which additives, we would be building significantly on our own additives portfolio and become one of the world’s major actors in this ›› actively shapes change; growing market. We are confident of completing the acquisition ›› creates stability in an increasingly uncertain environment; of Chemtura by the middle of fiscal 2017. ›› optimally balances the interests and needs of all In order to further improve the alignment of our existing busistakeholders. nesses and leverage future growth potential, we aim to invest up to €400 million in our organic growth through 2020, as decided in 2015. Much of our investment budget will be focused on exSubstantial progress in realignment pansion measures in the Advanced Intermediates, Performance We have created the basis for such a strategy through our Chemicals and High Performance Materials segments. All capital three-phase global realignment program “Let’s LANXESS again,” expenditures and future strategic measures are subject to the strict which we initiated in 2014. A new and more efficient organizational application of a conservative financing policy guided by clear critestructure and extensive optimization of our business units and ria and focused on EBITDA pre exceptionals – our key controlling Group functions have not only brought us closer to our markets and parameter – and on maintaining our investment-grade rating. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 112 Combined Management Report VALUE MANAGEMENT AND periods. Exceptional items may include write-downs, reversals CONTROL SYSTEM of impairment charges or the proceeds from the sale of assets, certain IT costs, restructuring expenses and income from the To achieve our strategic goals, we need indicators that we can reversal of provisions established in this connection, and reducuse to measure the outcomes of our activities. The most important tions in earnings resulting from portfolio adjustments or purchase indicator of our financial performance – and thus the company’s price allocations. Grants and subsidies from third parties for the key controlling parameter – is EBITDA (earnings before interest, acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment income taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals. are accounted for as deferred income using the gross method. In We view other financial performance ratios such as return on this respect, no adjustments other than for gross depreciation and capital employed (ROCE), days of sales in inventory (DSI) and amortization are made when calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals. the net financial debt ratio as company-specific lead indicators Every operational decision or achievement is judged in the or as a basis for monitoring. short and long term by its sustainable impact on EBITDA pre exceptionals. As part of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for this benchmark of our company’s success, which Value Management and Control System are then taken into account in determining employees’ variable 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 income components. EBITDA Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the pre ­exceptionals € million 1,223 735 808 885 995 Group’s controlling parameters because they do not permit any EBITDA margin pre exceptionals direct conclusions about our profitability. Volatile raw material pri% 13.4 8.9 10.1 11.2 12.9 Capital employed ces are a hallmark of our industry and their fluctuation throughout € million 5,442 4,969 5,093 5,043 7,479 ROCE the year impacts our selling prices. This influences sales but, other % 15.6 5.8 7.9 8.4 6.9 Days of sales in than short-term effects, generally has no impact on the absolute inventory (DSI) Days 64.7 58.0 65.4 67.2 67.2 margins that are significant to our profitability. We therefore set Days of sales no sales targets, either for the short or medium term. outstanding (DSO) Days 47.4 47.8 48.0 47.6 51.1 The earnings margins are calculated from the ratios of the Net financial ­ respective earnings indicators to sales. For example, the EBITDA liabilities € million 1,483 1,731 1,336 1,211 2,394 margin (pre exceptionals) is calculated as the ratio of EBITDA (pre Net financial liabilities after exceptionals) to sales and serves as an indicator of relative earning deduction of power at Group level and for the individual segments. time deposits and securities available for sale € million 1,483 1,731 1,336 1,211 269 Net financial Company-specific lead indicators debt ratio 1.2x 2.4x 1.7x 1.4x 0.3x Lead indicators support the timely identification of material Investment ratio % 7.7 7.5 7.7 5.5 5.7 changes in the company’s earnings, asset and financial position and the initiation of appropriate measures. Our annual budget and planning process delivers key values Our success is largely reflected by our earning power, hence for the Group’s earning power and our ability to finance operations our control system is focused on steering this parameter. from our own funds as the starting point for steering the company. This information is used, for example, to make financing and capital expenditure decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes Earning power in market conditions and the competitive environment, we preThe key indicator for steering the earning power of the pare operational forecasts twice each fiscal year as the basis for LANXESS Group and the individual segments is EBITDA pre exupdating the full-year budget and the associated key values we ceptionals. It is calculated from EBIT by adding back depreciation use to control the Group. In addition, regular forecasts of the key of property, plant and equipment, amortization of intangible asvalues for our earning power are prepared. sets and excluding exceptional items. The latter are effects which, Certain parameters used in budgets and forecasts are defined because of their nature or scope, may have a particular impact centrally and applied uniformly as they have a major influence on on earnings but which it would seem inappropriate to include in the key values. Strategic raw materials have a crucial role in forethe assessment of business performance over several reporting casting. The development of procurement prices is significant to the timely adjustment of selling prices. Even regional differences LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Value Management and Control System 113 in the availability of raw materials over a specific period of time In 2016, ROCE was 6.9 % – against 8.4 % in 2015 – and thus may become significant. Given the regional diversification of our slightly above our weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after production sites and customer markets, exchange rate developadjustment for comparability. ROCE in 2016 was negatively affecment also affects the earning power resulting from sales and cost ted by the planned acquisition of Chemtura and the associated trends, with corresponding repercussions for pricing and hedging need to reserve the corresponding financial resources. strategies. In addition, we draw on continuously updated growth forecasts for our customer industries and the regions where we do business in order to prepare and review sales and capital exCapital employment penditure decisions. To optimize our working capital at the operational level, we use two key performance indicators: DSO (days of sales outstanding) and DSI (days of sales in inventory). These show Profitability receivables and inventories in relation to sales for the previous Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented quarter. In the reporting year, DSI replaced DIO (days of inventory as a profitability ratio at Group level which indicates how efficiently outstanding) as a performance indicator. The latter was based on we utilize our capital. This makes it an important criterion in capital cost of goods sold rather than on sales. The switch to DSI was expenditure decisions, for example. made because sales provide the basis for a more comparable performance indicator as of the reporting dates than cost of goods sold, which may also be influenced by inventory-related ROCE = EBIT pre exceptionals valuation effects. In 2016, DSI was at 67.2 days (2015: 67.2 Capital employed days) and DSO at 51.1 days (2015: 47.6 days). In this connection, receivables in the reporting period were compared with a lower Capital employed = Total assets base in the prior year. Less deferred tax assets Less interest-free liabilities Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject to rigorous capital discipline and are systematically aligned with the product areas that show the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment projects on the basis of financial indiInterest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for cators such as pay-off period, net present value and ROCE. The pensions and other post-employment benefits), income tax liabiliinvestment rate is an indicator which describes cash outflows ties, trade payables and items included under “other non-financial for capital expenditures divided by sales. For more detailed liabilities.” In addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called information about our capital expenditure guidelines, please “business ROCE,” to evaluate the contribution of our business units. see “Strategy” above. Cost of capital Debt Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in Net financial liabilities are the total of current and non-current our case, from the return on a long-term German government financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest), less bond plus a risk premium for industrial companies in the same cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. risk category as LANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return After deduction of time deposits of €1,950 million and secuexpected by investors from an investment in LANXESS shares. rities available for sale, net financial liabilities as of December 31, Equity investors demand a risk premium because of the grea2016, amounted to €269 million, compared with €1,211 million ter risk involved in acquiring shares rather than buying risk-free at the end of 2015. government bonds. This is known as a market risk premium and The time deposits, which have maturities through mid-2017 is calculated using the long-term excess return generated by at the latest, and the securities available for sale result from ina stock investment over an investment in risk-free government vesting the payment of around €1.2 billion received from Saudi bonds and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk Aramco for its interest in ARLANXEO and liquidity of €1,477 ­million of an investment in LANXESS stock compared with that of the from the issuance of bonds. These financial resources are for market as a whole. the most part earmarked to finance the acquisition of Chemtura. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 114 Combined Management Report The net financial debt ratio, which we use solely at Group Procuring chemical raw materials is a high priority at level, is defined as net financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre LANXESS. Our aim is to secure our supplies on the basis of longexceptionals. On the basis of net financial liabilities after deduction term contracts. The availability of raw materials has always been of time deposits and securities available for sale, the net financial a crucial factor in facility location decisions. We procure key raw debt ratio as of December 31, 2016, decreased to 0.3 from 1.4 materials and utilities in the form of steam and biomass from the at the previous year’s reporting date. immediate vicinity at several of our production sites. In this way, At Group level, we also consider provisions for pensions we not only minimize the costs and environmental impact of our and other post-employment benefits to be components of debt. transportation activities, but reduce the risk of delivery shortfalls Compared with the end of 2015, they increased by €34 million caused by transportation issues in particular. to €1,249 million. Including these additional components of debt, Our biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2016 the total net debt ratio in relation to EBITDA pre exceptionals was included BASF, BP, Braskem, Covestro, ExxonMobil, INEOS, 1.5, compared with 2.7 at the end of 2015. LyondellBasell, Nova Chemicals, Sabic and Shell Chemicals. Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for our production operations in 2016 were ammonia, butadiene, Net Financial Liabilities  cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene and toluene. In all, strategic € million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 raw materials accounted for a purchasing volume of about Non-current financial ­liabilities 2,167 1,649 1,698 1,258 2,734 €2.2 billion in fiscal 2016 (2015: about €2.5 billion), or around Current financial liabilities 167 668 182 443 78 76 % of our procurement spend for raw materials and goods Less: in 2016, which amounted to approximately €2.9 billion (2015: Liabilities for accrued interest (54) (53) (26) (24) (23) Cash and cash equivalents (386) (427) (418) (366) (355) about €3.1 billion). Our total procurement spend in 2016 was Near-cash assets (411) (106) (100) (100) (40) about €5.7 billion (2015: around €5.9 billion). Net financial liabilities 1,483 1,731 1,336 1,211 2,394 We systematically apply best-practice processes. These Time deposits and securities include e-procurement tools, such as e-catalogs, auctions and available for sale 0 0 0 0 (2,125) electronic marketplaces, many of which are integrated into our Net financial liabilities after deduction of time internal IT systems. At the end of 2016, around 80 % of all items deposits and securities ordered (2015: about 70 %) were handled in e-procurement sysavailable for sale 1,483 1,731 1,336 1,211 269 tems. In this context, we have linked in 693 new catalogs globally. The catalog use rate was around 20 % at ARLANXEO and about 45 % in the other three segments. Our HSEQ management process begins when raw materials PROCUREMENT AND PRODUCTION and services are procured. Across the LANXESS Group, a global procurement directive defines how our employees should behave Procurement toward suppliers and their employees. In the reporting year, our LANXESS uses its centrally managed global procurement procurement transactions involved around 18,000 suppliers. organization – Global Procurement & Logistics – to ensure a Based on the principles of the U.N. Global Compact, the Internareliable supply of raw and other materials and services. Global tional Labour Organization (ILO), Responsible Care® and other Categories closely coordinate with our business units to pool their corporate responsibility codes, we expect our suppliers to comrequirements in the raw materials, technical goods, packaging ply with all applicable national and other laws and regulations in materials, energy, services and logistics segments. Our worldwide order to safeguard the environment, ensure health and safety in procurement network facilitates purchasing synergies, so that we the workplace and deploy appropriate labor and hiring practices. can move efficiently in the market and exploit price advantages. These provisions of our Supplier Code of Conduct are key criteria We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on individual suppliers in our selection and evaluation of suppliers. A successful sustain­ using strategies like multiple sourcing. As a result, we experienced ability assessment and/or audit are a fundamental requirement no delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks in the reporting period that for major new suppliers seeking to be included in our portfolio. In had a material effect on our business development. 2016, we included a total of some 95 significant new suppliers. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Value Management and Control System 115 Procurement and Production Sales Organization and Customers Also in 2016, in order to further support the global rollout of the Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Russia, assessment process, we trained employees in India in the susSouth Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. For tainability assessment of our suppliers. In countries where this a detailed breakdown of our production sites by segment, please training had already taken place in previous years, regular courses see “The segments in brief” in this combined management report. are conducted to familiarize new employees with the process The following significant changes occurred in our global and provide longer-serving employees with updates about any production network in 2016: changes made in the interim. As a founder of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, ›› At the start of the year, our High Performance Materials we aim to enhance supply chain transparency and thus further business unit began operating a second production line minimize procurement risks. This initiative, membership of which in for compounding high-tech plastics at its Gastonia facilithe reporting year rose to 19 international chemical companies with ty in the United States, doubling the plant’s annual capacity a cumulative procurement volume of more than €180 billion, aims to 40,000 tons. to develop and implement a global audit program to assess and ›› In Ningbo, China, the new site operated by our Inorganic continuously improve sustainability activities along the chemical Pigments business unit started production of iron oxide industry supply chain, focusing on human rights, the prevention of red pigments in 2016. The plant deploys state-of-thechild labor, working standards, occupational safety, environmental art process technology and has an initial annual capacity protection and business integrity. As the assessment and audit of 25,000 tons. At the same site, a mixing and milling plant results are shared within the initiative, we once again had access with an annual capacity of 70,000 tons began producing to a substantially larger number of sustainability assessments inorganic pigments in 2016. (more than 6,500) and audit reports (around 680) at the end of ›› With the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect 2016. Suppliers whose sustainability-related activities have been specialties business at the end of August, our Material Proassessed by TfS currently account for 60 % (2015: 57 %) of our tection Products business unit took over three production relevant procurement spend. Brazil, China and India remained the sites in Memphis and North Kingstown, United States, and focus of the 238 audits conducted in 2016 (2015: 179). These Sudbury, United Kingdom. identified a need for action in respect of labor and human rights and ›› In connection with the optimization of our global rubber occupational safety at around ten suppliers. However, no serious production network, we discontinued production of EPDM deficiencies were identified that would have resulted in termination rubber at the site in Marl, Germany, which was no longer of a business relationship. In the reporting year, our own production competitive, at the end of the first quarter of 2016. site in Leverkusen, Germany, successfully underwent a TfS audit and received the best-possible assessment. Including the measures described above, cash outflows for In 2016, many participants attended the TfS Supplier Days capital expenditures came to €439 million in fiscal 2016. Further in Mumbai, India, the purpose of which was to explain to suppliers information about the capital expenditures can be found in the the growing importance of a sustainable supply chain to LANXESS “Statement of financial position and financial condition” section and the other members of the initiative of this combined management report. Production SALES ORGANIZATION AND LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of specialty CUSTOMERS chemicals. Our production facilities make anywhere from very small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialSales organization ty and fine chemicals and polymers in quantities of several ten We sell our products all over the world, to several thousand thousand tons. customers in more than 150 countries across all continents. Our production facilities are organizationally assigned to LANXESS’s long-standing customer base includes leaders in individual business units. The most important production sites each of its user industries. We have well-established customer are in Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; relationships in all sales regions. To meet our customers’ needs, Antwerp, Belgium; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; Orange, Uniwe have set up flexible marketing and sales structures. We manage ted States; Sarnia, Canada; Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil; our sales throughout the world through 48 companies owned by Jhagadia, India; Singapore; and Changzhou and Wuxi, China. LANXESS itself. In countries where we do not yet have our own LANXESS also has other production sites in Argentina, Australia, company, we work with local sales partners. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 116 Combined Management Report To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they Shares of Sales by Industry Sector  receive individual support, each of our business units manages its own sales organization. Another competitive advantage is derived % 2016 from having 52 of our own production sites in 17 countries. Wher­ Tires ~ 20 ever possible, customers are supplied from production sites in Automotive ~ 20 the same region, yielding advantages in terms of time and costs. Chemicals ~ 15 Agrochemicals ~ 10 In 2016, e-business activities continued to account for a signiConstruction, electrical/electronics, leather/footwear ~ 15 ficant proportion of procurement, sales and logistics transactions. Others (cumulative share) ~ 20 Altogether, considerably more than one million orders and the respective automated follow-up notices were handled as e-business. This capability is provided by the “LANXESS one” internet portal and the system-to-system connections via ELEMICA. In 2016, In 2016, our top ten customers accounted for about 20 % the “SAP Ariba” portal was used for the first time in procurement. (2015: 22 %) of total sales. None of our customers accounted We will continue to expand this process, which provides benefits for more than 10 % of Group sales. 51 (2015: 55) customers for all involved, by adding further partners and technical services. accounted for annual sales in excess of €20 million. Sales generated through e-business reached approximately The number of customers in each segment varies widely. €1.4 billion (2015: €1.7 billion). The Advanced Intermediates segment had some 3,300 custom­ Selling costs in the reporting year came to 10.1 % of ers in 2016 (2015: 3,400), while Performance Chemicals, LANXESS Group sales, compared with 9.6 % in 2015. High Performance Materials and ARLANXEO had about 9,800 The table below shows selling costs by segment over the (2015: 10,400), around 1,900 (2015: 1,900) and some 1,900 last five years. (2015: 1,800), respectively. This information is based on the number of customer accounts in each segment. Each segment includes all customer groups and sales categories. However, Selling Costs  one customer may do business with more than one segment. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance Selling costs (€ million) 763 755 742 759 781 Chemicals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect % of sales 8.4 9.1 9.3 9.6 10.1 the way in which its business often involves custom-tailored soBreakdown by segment lutions in specialty chemicals. By contrast, the substantially lower Advanced Intermediates 147 146 143 152 155 numbers of customers in the High Performance Materials and Performance Chemicals 313 308 310 321 324 ARLANXEO segments, which nonetheless generate relatively High Performance Materials 75 81 77 83 85 high sales, are typical of the high-performance plastics and synARLANXEO 209 205 200 197 208 Reconciliation 19 15 12 6 9 thetic rubber products businesses. On account of the extensive customer base, no segment can be considered dependent on Prior-year figures adjusted to reflect changed segment structure just a few customers. Customers RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Because of our broad offering, we have business relation­ ships with a large number of customers all over the world. Research and development makes an important contribution These customers need an individualized, well-focused approach, toward increasing our competitiveness and expanding our product which we are able to provide because our sales organizations portfolio through the development of innovative products and are managed through business units. We regularly review indiprocesses as well as the ongoing optimization of existing producvidual sales and marketing strategies on the basis of customer tion processes. In 2016, as part of the organizational changes at satisfaction surveys. LANXESS, we also adjusted the framework for research and deLANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, velopment. With the establishment of ARLANXEO, rubber-related automotive, plastics, chemicals, agrochemicals, construction, projects were transferred from the Production, Technology, Safety electronics, leather and footwear, pharmaceuticals, food, water & Environment Group Function to the Tire & Specialty Rubbers treatment and furniture. and High Performance Elastomers business units, in addition to the research activities conducted directly there. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Sales Organization and Customers 117 Research and Development Organizational focus is on holistic solutions for complex and swiftly evolving customer Our research programs are aligned with the needs of cusrequirements. These solutions deliver added value through tailored tomers in the end markets. We have therefore consolidated our combinations of technologies and services. To safeguard its fuproduct innovation activities in the respective business units and ture capability in this area, Saltigo is currently investing around transferred those projects that were previously managed centrally €60 million at the Leverkusen site to expand state-of-the-art to the business units’ research departments. synthesis capacities for customer projects by about a third. The The business units focus their activities on optimizing prod­ redevel­opment and expansion work is scheduled for completion ucts and product quality, as well as on developing new products. at the end of 2017. The Global Technology & Innovation department within our The Performance Chemicals segment brought important Production, Technology, Safety & Environment Group Function innovations to market in 2016. For example, the Rhein Chemie supports and complements the business units’ research and deAdditives business unit introduced Stabaxol P 110, a new antivelopment activities, with the focus on process innovation. The hydrolysis additive for plastics which extends the life of biopolyemphasis here is on planning new processes and integrating new mers such as polylactic acid, in particular. The same business unit technologies into our existing production processes with the aim launched Rhenowave, an innovative process control system that of achieving cost and technology leadership. One focus is on enables our customers to more reliably guarantee the quality of reviewing current production processes using mathematical and rubber compounds during processing. experimental methods in order to pinpoint optimization potential. The Material Protection Products business unit introduced a In this way, we have identified potential savings on raw materials tailored product portfolio for the antimicrobial treatment of plastics, and energy, developed process concepts to exploit these savings thereby gaining access to the attractive biocide market for highand already realized them in several areas. We have also succeed­ volume applications in flexible PVC, silicon-based construction ed in further reducing our operating costs by developing new materials and polyurethanes. Sold as Biochek® 8064-8069 and model-based process control concepts that we have implemented Biochek® 8071 in the core markets of the United States, China, with the incorporation of state-of-the-art online analytics. These Taiwan and EMEA, the products are designed to satisfy the in­ concepts enable us to run our plants even closer to the optimum creasingly stringent regulatory requirements for biocide products. operating point and make them even more efficient in terms of In 2016, the High Performance Materials segment devel­ raw material and energy consumption. In this way, we can ensure oped a range of product innovations including Durethan TC the full utilization of synergies and the transfer of innovations to polyamides for the thermal management of components and various business units. devices. These new thermally conductive polyamides are ideal Our main research and development units are at the sites in for manufacturing components from which heat needs to be disLeverkusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; Lonsipated because they are up to seven times more conductive than don, Canada; and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. We also operate a the standard polyamides used in automotive engineering. They are center for engineering plastics in Hong Kong. At our international also a cost-effective alternative to die-cast metals. Another milestone research and development sites, we test materials such as highlast year was the optimization of our high-temperature-stabilized performance rubbers and engineering plastics for lightweight polyamide portfolio. In response to demands for higher long-term automotive engineering applications. service temperatures in engines, we can now offer our customers LANXESS also collaborates with universities and research high-performance polyamides with extreme temperature stability. institutes in many research projects. In 2016, we had a total of 144 In 2016, ARLANXEO continued optimizing its portfolio of (2015: 153) major research and development alliances, 38 (2015: high-quality rubber products. For instance, the Tire & Specialty 35) of which were with universities, 88 (2015: 97) with suppliers Rubbers business unit expanded its range of Buna FX function­ or customers, and 18 (2015: 21) with research institutes. alized SSBR rubbers. These products were rigorously tested by various tire customers and are to be commercialized in 2017. Our research activities to develop a self-healing technology which Main research and development projects maintains the air pressure in a tire that has been punctured by an In 2016, the Advanced Intermediates segment continued to object such as a screw or nail were transferred from our central reinvest in its efficiency and in improving its production processes. search unit to the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. The first For the Saltigo business unit, innovative products are no samples were provided to tire manufacturers in the reporting year. longer the sole guarantee of market success. Instead, the focus LANXESS Annual Report 2016 118 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT Cost trend and employees CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Research and development expenses in 2016 totaled €131 million, or 1.7 % of sales (2015: €130 million or 1.6 %). LANXESS considers responsible business conduct a prereq­ The High Performance Elastomers, Tire & Specialty Rubbers, uisite to being able to operate successfully in the future and create High Performance Materials and Saltigo business units together value for all stakeholders. Given this awareness, sustainability is a accounted for the largest share of these expenses. Material Prokey success factor that is at the heart of LANXESS’s value-based tection Products, Saltigo, Liquid Purification Technologies and performance culture and a component of our business strategy. Leather were the business units most active in research in terms Our objective is to know the impact of our actions – whether of their ratios of research and development expenses to sales. positive or negative – and to maintain a dialogue with our stakeholders that enables us to satisfy their expectations to the best of our ability. In this connection, our responsibility spans the entire Research and Development Expenses  supply and value creation chain – from the global procurement 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 of raw materials and product development, through production, Research and development storage and transport, to use and disposal. expenses (€ million) 192 186 160 130 131 Our actions are guided by established international stan% of sales 2.1 2.2 2.0 1.6 1.7 dards and frameworks, such as the U.N. Global Compact, the Responsible Care® Global Charter, the employment standards of the International Labour Organization and the Sustainable DeAt the end of 2016, we employed 589 people – against 585 in velopment Goals. Our own corporate directives and regulations, 2015 – in our research and development laboratories worldwide. chief among them the “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and Due to the transfer of projects to ARLANXEO, the number of compliance at LANXESS”, specify the rules for individual areas of employees in our central research unit declined to 117 from 213 activity and are binding requirements on all LANXESS employees. on December 31, 2015. Number of Employees in Research and Development  Integrated management system At LANXESS, a central management system provides the 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 necessary global structures in all business processes to ensure Year end 843 931 708 585 589 responsible commercial practices. Worldwide, we apply the % of Group employees 4.9 5.4 4.3 3.6 3.5 ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 international standards for quality and environmental management and ISO 50001 for energy man­ agement. Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. External, Fields of activity and patent strategy independent experts regularly audit the progress of integrating Within the context of our global realignment, we are focus­ new sites into our management system and the performance of ing our research and development activities on market-driven our management system worldwide. projects with a shortto medium-term time horizon. As a result, As of December 31, 2016, our matrix certificate covered 49 the total number of projects increased from 223 to 270 in 2016, certifiable companies (companies with employees and in which 176 (2015: 128) of which aimed to develop new products and LANXESS holds an interest of more than 50 %) with 79 sites applications or improve existing ones. The remaining 94 projects in 23 countries. In relation to total headcount, this equates to (2015: 95) concerned process technology issues with a view to coverage of 98 %. In addition, since 2012, we have successively reducing costs, improving efficiency or increasing capacity. obtained certification to ISO 50001 for energy management The results of our activities are protected by patents, where for LANXESS AG and all its subsidiaries (in which it holds an this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2016, we submitted interest of more than 50 %) in Germany. As of December 31, 56 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, 2016, the 2016, our certification coverage for energy management in full patent portfolio included approximately 1,010 patent families Germany stood at 100 % in relation to headcount. The status covering around 6,820 property rights. of our certificates can be viewed at any time in the Corporate Responsibility section of our website. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Research and Development 119 Corporate Responsibility Legal Environment Business Conditions Environment data BUSINESS CONDITIONS We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas The economic environment of safety and environmental protection. Data for all indicators The economy was subject to various influences in the reexcept LTIFR and RIR (used to measure occupational safety) are porting year. On the one hand, growth was supported by oil prices gathered only at those production sites in which the company and the monetary policy of key central banks. On the other hand, holds an interest of more than 50 %1). PricewaterhouseCoopers the discussion at the start of the year about a possible hard land­ GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (formerly Pricewatering for the Chinese economy increased uncertainty, as did the houseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft) assessed our ongoing economic problems in Russia and Brazil and the growing HSE indicators for 2012 to 2016 and the necessary data recording threat of terrorism. Adverse effects included protectionist and processes in the course of a business audit (“limited assurance”). populist trends in politics, the difficult situation facing a number of European banks and political uncertainty in Europe heightened by the United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Union. Social commitment Despite these mixed conditions, the global economy expand­ We believe it is only right that, in the context of corporate ed by 2.3 %, with regional variations in growth, as shown by the citizenship, we take responsibility for the development of the social table below. environment in which we operate. In this respect, we concentrate especially on ensuring that people benefit from our projects. Our GDP and Chemical Production in 2016 not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science Change vs. prior year Gross domes­ Chemical education in schools. The LANXESS education initiative is the in real terms (%) tic product production Group-wide platform for these activities. Since its launch, we have NAFTA 1.6 0.4 reached a great number of children, adolescents and young adults Latin America (2.3) (0.8) worldwide. A further focus of our social commitment is enhancing EMEA (incl. Germany) 1.6 1.3 awareness worldwide of the causes and consequences of climate Germany 1.8 (0.9) Asia-Pacific 4.4 5.9 change and water scarcity – for both drinking and industrial uses. World 2.3 3.7 In addition, through our cultural commitment activities, we sponsor Source for 2016 growth rates: IHS Markit both literary and musical talents. One euro was worth US$1.05 at the end of 2016. The LEGAL ENVIRONMENT U.S. currency thus appreciated by 3.7 % on the closing price of US$1.09 at the end of 2015. As in 2015, the average price for the There were no changes in the legal environment in 2016 year was US$1.11 to the euro. Due to the regional positioning of that would have had a material impact on the earnings, asset our business, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a positive effect and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. on our earnings. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact that cannot be neutralized by ensuring that production and sales take place in the same currency area. Compared with 2015, procurement prices for raw materials mostly fell, though the trend was less marked overall for aromatics and olefins than for organic and inorganic raw materials. We are particularly affected by the prices of petrochemical raw materials as they have a material impact on our production costs. The price of butadiene on the procurement markets rose on average for the year, whereas the prices of feedstocks such as benzene and toluene moved in the opposite direction. 1) Also covered are the wholly owned subsidiaries of ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands, in which LANXESS holds a 50 % interest. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 120 Combined Management Report The chemical industry KEY EVENTS INFLUENCING THE The chemical industry increased global production in 2016 COMPANY’S BUSINESS by 3.7 %, although the picture varied regionally. Asia-Pacific was the driving force of this development with growth of 5.9 % based Business performance in 2016 was characterized by high­ on momentum from China and India. er production and sales volumes and by the successful implementation of measures to improve operational competitiveness. Falling procurement prices for raw materials and energy and the Evolution of major user industries persistently difficult competitive situation in our synthetic rubber Global automobile production expanded by 3.8 % during the business resulted in adjustments to selling prices. Exchange rate reporting period. Asia-Pacific, driven by China and India, posted developments supported a positive result overall. the strongest growth, whereas Latin America saw a very signif­ As a significant aspect of its realignment, LANXESS part­ icant decline. nered with Saudi Aramco to establish a strategic alliance – named Agrochemicals achieved solid global growth of 2.9 %. The ARLANXEO – for the synthetic rubber business in which each NAFTA region expanded production by a substantial 5.2 %. On partner holds a 50 % interest. We believe this alliance will give the other hand, production in Germany decreased by 5.3 %. the business units concerned – Tire & Specialty Rubbers and The construction industry recorded growth of 2.8 % world­ High Performance Elastomers – competitive and reliable access wide. The Asia-Pacific region was a significant factor in this growth to strategic raw materials in the medium term. Closing of the with an increase of 5.1 %. By contrast, Latin America saw a decline transaction took place on April 1, 2016. LANXESS used the cash of 3.2 %. contribution of €1.2 billion paid by Saudi Aramco to significantly The global tire industry recorded strong growth in production reduce its debt. of 3.8 %. Asia-Pacific was the most dynamic region with growth With the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties in production of 4.9 %. Latin America achieved growth of 3.0 % business of U.S. chemical company Chemours at the end of on a low prior-year level. August 2016, we made the first purchase associated with our strategic realignment. We intend to take a further step on our route to becoming a more stable specialty chemicals group with a Evolution of Major User Industries in 2016  more balanced portfolio through the acquisition of U.S. company Change vs. AutoAgro­Con­ Tires Chemtura, closing of which is expected before mid-2017. prior year motive chemistruction in real terms (%) cals NAFTA 1.9 5.2 2.1 0.9 Latin America (12.9) 0.1 (3.2) 3.0 EMEA (incl. Germany) 3.4 0.7 0.9 2.6 Germany 0.2 (5.3) 1.3 0.2 Asia-Pacific 5.8 3.4 5.1 4.9 World 3.8 2.9 2.8 3.8 Source for 2016 growth rates: IHS Markit, LMC LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Business Conditions 121 Key Events Influencing the Company's Business Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL BUSINESS Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2016 Forecast for 2016 in Annual Report 2015 Actual 2016 Business development: Group EBITDA pre exceptionals • Influences expected to have a largely offsetting effect on • €995 million the individual segments • Around the prior-year level (€885 million) Business development: segments Advanced Intermediates • Business stable overall, especially in Advanced • EBITDA pre exceptionals virtually in line with expectations Industrial Intermediates at €326 million (2015: €339 million) • Slower growth in the agriculture business of our Saltigo business unit Performance Chemicals • Stable business development overall • EBITDA pre exceptionals significantly higher than expected at €374 million (2015: €326 million) High Performance Materials • Positive development of our business with lightweight • Forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals substantially exceeded polymers for automotive applications at €159 million (2015: €111 million) ARLANXEO • Declining business development •E  BITDA pre exceptionals decreasing but substantially better • Slight improvement in demand from the tire and than expected at €373 million (2015: €391 million) automotive industries • Ongoing price pressure against the background of additional capacities • Impact of idle costs • No significant positive effects from the continuing strength of the U.S. dollar Raw material prices • Little change to the low procurement cost level, • Still volatile and substantially below the prior-year level especially for the petrochemical raw materials used in synthetic rubber products • C ontinuation of the volatility in raw material prices that is in some cases substantial Financial condition: Group Cash outflows for capital • Approx. €450 million • €439 million expenditures In the combined management report for fiscal 2015, we Positive exchange rate effects had an impact at Group level. predicted that EBITDA pre exceptionals for 2016 would be on a The early implementation of measures to improve operational more or less comparable level to 2015. Influences were expected competitiveness, which also resulted in higher capacity utilizato have a largely offsetting effect on the individual segments. tion, was a further reason for substantially exceeding earnings We narrowed this guidance over the course of the year and, expectations. Continued support came from a slightly positive in our interim report for the third quarter of 2016, forecast im­ portfolio effect following the acquisition of the Chemours Clean proved EBITDA pre exceptionals of between €960 million and and Disinfect specialties business. €1 billion. The actual result of €995 million was at the upper As expected in 2015, the partnership with Saudi Aramco end of this range and exceeded 2015 earnings of €885 million strengthened our liquidity position. Saudi Aramco paid a cash conby €110 million. tribution of €1.2 billion for its interest in ARLANXEO. Most of this The Performance Chemicals, High Performance Materials amount, together with proceeds from the issuance of new bonds, and ARLANXEO segments contributed more or less equally to was invested in time deposits and securities available for sale. We enabling the LANXESS Group to exceed its earnings forecast. had expected net income of LANXESS AG in the reporting year EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Advanced Intermediates segment to be substantially higher than in 2015. Mainly due to a significant was virtually in line with expectations. At minus €237 million, the improvement in income from investments in affiliated companies, reconciliation for the LANXESS Group was more negative than net income in 2016 amounted to €578 million after net income expected. of €91 million in 2015. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 122 Combined Management Report BUSINESS PERFORMANCE crease attributable to higher volumes (3.7 %) and the acquisition OF THE LANXESS GROUP of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect business (0.3 %). After adjustment for currency and portfolio effects, operational sales ›› Significant strategic evolution of the company with the decreased by 2.8 %. establishment of ARLANXEO ›› Integration of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect business Group Sales successfully completed € million ›› Persistently challenging competitive situation for synthetic rubber 10,000 9,094 ›› Sales decline by 2.6 % against prior year, largely due to 8,300 8,006 7,902 7,699 8,000 raw material prices ›› Volumes increase by 3.7 % year on year 6,000 ›› EBITDA pre exceptionals up 12.4 % to €995 million ›› Substantial improvement of EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 4,000 to 12.9 % after 11.2 % in 2015 2,000 ›› Net income and earnings per share improved to €192 million and €2.10, respectively, after €165 million and 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 €1.80 in 2015 ›› Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets increase from €2.03 to €2.69 Effects on Sales € million/ % Key Financial Data  7,902 (6.5 %) (0.1 %) 7,699 3.7 % +0.3 % € million 2015 2016 Change % Sales 7,902 7,699 (2.6) Gross profit 1,748 1,754 0.3 EBITDA pre exceptionals 885 995 12.4 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 11.2 % 12.9 % – EBITDA 833 945 13.4 2015 Price Volume Currency Portfolio 2016 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 422 514 21.8 Operating result (EBIT) 415 464 11.8 EBIT margin 5.3 % 6.0 % – Sales in our Advanced Intermediates segment fell by 4.6 %. Financial result (127) (125) 1.6 Selling price adjustments, driven primarily by raw material prices, Income before income taxes 288 339 17.7 resulted in a decline in sales. On the other hand, solid demand Net income 165 192 16.4 led to a positive effect from higher volumes. Earnings per share (€) 1.80 2.10 16.4 Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment advanced by Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and 2.7 %. The positive development of volumes more than compenamortization of intangible sated the negative effect of the decrease in selling prices. The assets 2.03 2.69 32.5 integration of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. chemical company Chemours into the Material Protection Products business unit also had a positive effect on sales. Our High Performance Materials segment recorded a decline Sales and earnings in sales of 2.7 %, resulting especially from passing lower procureIn 2016, LANXESS Group sales declined by 2.6 % from ment prices for raw materials on to customers. On the other hand, €7,902 million in the prior year to €7,699 million. Lower selthe growth in volumes had a positive impact on sales. ling prices, which resulted particularly from passing on lower ARLANXEO posted a sales decrease of 5.2 %. Lower selling procurement prices for raw materials and from the challenging prices resulted particularly from the challenging competitive competitive situation for synthetic rubbers, diminished sales situation in the synthetic rubber business and lower raw material by 6.5 %. Changes in exchange rates had almost no impact at prices. Sales volumes were above the prior-year level. minus 0.1 %. These effects were partially offset by a sales in­ LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Business Performance of the lanxess Group 123 Shifts in exchange rates had almost no effect on sales in all Gross profit was €1,754 million, up by €6 million or 0.3 % segments. against the prior year. The gross profit margin increased from 22.1 % to 22.8 %. Selling prices were adjusted to reflect the over­ all decline in raw material costs. The expansion of volumes and Sales by Segment the positive effect of exchange rates on our production costs 2015 2016 Change Proporhad a positive impact on gross profit. In addition, the specialties % tion of Group business acquired from Chemours made a positive contribution sales to gross profit. € million % Advanced Intermediates 1,826 1,742 (4.6) 22.6 Performance Chemicals 2,085 2,142 2.7 27.8 EBITDA pre exceptionals and operating High Performance Materials 1,085 1,056 (2.7) 13.7 result (EBIT) ARLANXEO 2,859 2,710 (5.2) 35.2 Reconciliation 47 49 4.3 0.7 7,902 7,699 (2.6) 100.0 EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals € million Prior-year figures adjusted to reflect changed segment structure 13.4 % 1,223 1,250 12.9 % While sales in the Asia-Pacific region increased by a slight 11.2 % 10.1 % 995 1.2 %, LANXESS recorded a decline in sales in the other sales 1,000 8.9 % 885 808 regions. 735 750 500 Order book status 250 Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements on fixed volumes or prices. Instead, our business is characterized 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 by long-standing relationships with customers and revolving master agreements. Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with relatively short lead times which do not provide a basis for longOur operating result before depreciation and amortization term forward-looking statements about our capacity utilization or (EBITDA) pre exceptionals increased by €110 million, or 12.4 %, to volumes. The business is managed primarily on the basis of regular €995 million in 2016, after €885 million in the prior year. A positive Group-wide forecasts of the Group operating target. For additional overall earnings performance at Group level was particularly the information, please see “Company-specific lead indicators.” result of lower production costs attributable to the implementation of Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given measures to improve operational competitiveness and of increased reporting date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s volumes. Advantageous exchange rate effects provided additional shortor medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such support. An opposing influence came from the adjustment in selling disclosure is made in this report. prices as a result of the persistently challenging competitive situation in the synthetic rubber business, which significantly exceeded the effect of reduced raw material costs. A slightly positive effect Gross profit resulted from the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect The cost of sales showed a decline of 3.4 %, to €5,945 million, business. Selling expenses rose by 2.9 % to €781 million, espewhich was disproportionately large compared with sales. Cost cially due to portfolio effects and a volume-driven increase in freight relief was chiefly attributable to lower procurement prices for raw costs. Research and development costs increased by €1 million to materials and energy, a favorable shift in exchange rates (especially €131 million. General administration expenses were up €19 million for the Argentinian, Brazilian and South African currencies), lower to €303 million. The Group’s EBITDA margin pre exceptionals production costs attributable to the implementation of meas­ in­creased from 11.2 % to 12.9 %. ures to improve operational competitiveness and higher capacity utilization. Higher volumes and the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect specialties business had an opposing effect. Capacity utilization of around 80 % was 3 percentage points above the prior-year level. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 124 Combined Management Report In the Advanced Intermediates segment, EBITDA pre exception­ The operating result (EBIT) of the Group increased from €415 als decreased by €13 million to €326 million. Lower production million to €464 million in fiscal 2016. Depreciation and amorticosts, higher volumes and positive exchange rate effects resulted in zation amounted to €481 million (2015: €474 million), of which positive earnings development. The adjustment of selling prices, priwrite-downs accounted for €9 million. In 2015, depreciation and marily due to raw material price effects, had an opposing influence. amortization of €474 million were offset by reversals of impairment The Performance Chemicals segment generated EBITDA pre charges of €56 million. Write-downs amounted to €25 million, exceptionals of €374 million, up €48 million or 14.7 % on the prior€11 million of which were exceptional items. year level. Earnings were improved by higher volumes and favorable The other operating result, which is the balance between currency effects on our production costs. The net effect of lower other operating income and expenses, improved by €85 million procurement costs for raw materials and the adjustment in selling to minus €75 million. Adjusted for exceptional items, the other prices was virtually zero. operating result came to minus €25 million, which was €128 EBITDA pre exceptionals in the High Performance Materials million higher than in 2015. This decline was largely due to lower segment advanced by €48 million to €159 million, compared with expenses for currency hedging transactions. the prior-year level of €111 million. Earnings were buoyed in parNet negative exceptional items of €50 million for the reporting ticular by higher volumes in relatively profitable product groups. year resulted from negative exceptional items of €56 million and Lower procurement prices for raw materials resulted in selling price positive exceptional items of €6 million. They were mainly in conadjustments. nection with the strategic realignment of LANXESS. ARLANXEO posted EBITDA pre exceptionals of €373 million, In 2015, net negative exceptional items of €7 million resulted compared with €391 million in the prior year. The positive influence from negative exceptional items of €106 million and positive excepof lower procurement prices for raw materials was significantly more tional items of €99 million. The negative exceptional items, €96 than offset by lower selling prices due to the persistently difficult million of which impacted EBITDA, resulted mainly from expenses competitive situation in the synthetic rubber business. Earnings were in connection with the planned discontinuation of EPDM rubber improved by higher volumes, lower production costs and favorable production at the Marl site in Germany as of the end of the first exchange rate developments. quarter of 2016 and from further measures associated with the “Let’s LANXESS again” program. The negative exceptional items which did not impact EBITDA related to write-downs recognized in EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment connection with the planned discontinuation of production at the € million 2015 2016 Change % Marl site in Germany. The positive exceptional items, €44 million Advanced Intermediates 339 326 (3.8) of which impacted EBITDA, were mainly related to the sales of Performance Chemicals 326 374 14.7 intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. The positive High Performance Materials 111 159 43.2 exceptional items that did not impact EBITDA primarily related to ARLANXEO 391 373 (4.6) the reversal of impairment charges recognized in previous years, Reconciliation (282) (237) 16.0 amounting to €56 million. €37 million of these reversals related to 885 995 12.4 our High Performance Elastomers business unit and €19 million Prior-year figures adjusted to reflect changed segment structure to the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre exceptionals)” for details The reconciliation of EBITDA pre exceptionals to the operating about exceptional items. result (EBIT) was as follows: Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to Operating Result (EBIT) € million 2015 2016 Change % EBITDA pre exceptionals 885 995 12.4 Depreciation and amortization (474) (481) (1.5) Reversals of impairment charges 56 0 (100.0) Exceptional items in EBITDA (52) (50) 3.8 Operating result (EBIT) 415 464 11.8 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Business Performance of the lanxess Group 125 Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income  Net income/earnings per share/earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items € million 2015 2016 Change % and amortization of intangible assets Operating result (EBIT) 415 464 11.8 Net income was €192 million, which was €27 million higher Income from investments than in the prior year. After €2 million in 2015, the profit attribut­ ­accounted for using the equity method 0 0 – able to non-controlling interests was €3 million and resulted Net interest expense (66) (63) 4.5 almost exclusively from Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO. Other financial income and Earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by expense (61) (62) (1.6) the weighted average number of LANXESS shares in circulation Financial result (127) (125) 1.6 Income before income during the reporting period. Earnings per share were €2.10, ahead taxes 288 339 17.7 of the €1.80 recorded in 2015. Income taxes (121) (144) (19.0) We also calculate earnings per share adjusted for exceptional Income after income taxes 167 195 16.8 items and amortization of intangible assets, an indicator which is of which: attributable to non-controlling not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards. This interests 2 3 50.0 value was calculated from the earnings per share adjusted for attributable to ­L ANXESS AG exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets as well as stockholders (net income) 165 192 16.4 attributable tax effects. Against the backdrop of the acquisition of the Chemours specialties business and the planned acquisition of Chemtura, a correspondingly adjusted earnings per share figure Financial result as defined in this way is better suited to assessing and comparing The financial result came in at minus €125 million in fiscal our performance over time. 2016, compared with minus €127 million for the prior year. As in Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amorthe prior year, companies accounted for using the equity method tization of intangible assets were €2.69, against €2.01 the year did not generate an earnings contribution. Our net interest position before. improved by €3 million against the prior year to minus €63 million. Other financial income and expense items were also virtually level Reconciliation to Earnings per Share Adjusted for Exceptional with the prior year at minus €62 million. The proceeds from the Items and Amortization of Intangible Assets sale of our financial interest in Elemica Inc., Exton, United States, € million 2015 2016 and the year-on-year decline in expenses for accrued interest for Net income 165 192 provisions stood against a higher net exchange loss and fees in Exceptional items1) 7 47 connection with the bridge loan for the planned acquisition of Amortization of intangible assets/ Chemtura. reversal of impairment charges 30 31 Attributable tax effects1) (16) (24) Net income adjusted for exceptional items and amortization Income before income taxes of intangible assets 186 246 Due to the improved operating result, income before income Number of shares outstanding 91,522,936 91,522,936 taxes increased by €51 million to €339 million. Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets 2.03 2.69 Income taxes 1) Excluding exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets attributable to non-controlling interests In fiscal 2016, tax expense amounted to €144 million, compared with €121 million the year before. The Group’s tax rate was 42.5 %, after 42.0 % in the previous year. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 126 Combined Management Report BUSINESS TRENDS BY REGION North America Sales in this region came to €1,326 million, down €42 million, or 3.1 %, from the previous year. However, after adjusting for positive Sales by Market exchange rate effects and for portfolio effects resulting from the 2015 2016 Change acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. € million % € million % % chemical company Chemours, sales declined by 4.9 %. This was EMEA (excluding largely attributable to business performance in the ARLANXEO Germany) 2,325 29.4 2,254 29.3 (3.1) and Advanced Intermediates segments, which saw decreases Germany 1,365 17.3 1,292 16.8 (5.3) North America 1,368 17.3 1,326 17.2 (3.1) by a mid-single-digit percentage and a low-double-digit percent­ Latin America 830 10.5 788 10.2 (5.1) age, respectively. Sales of the Performance Chemicals segment Asia-Pacific 2,014 25.5 2,039 26.5 1.2 were also down year on year. By contrast, the High Performance 7,902 100.0 7,699 100.0 (2.6) Materials segment recorded sales gains in the mid-single-digit percentage range. Sales by Market in % Latin America In the Latin America region, sales declined by €42 million, EMEA (excluding Germany) 25.5 26.5 Germany or 5.1 %, to €788 million. After adjusting for slight exchange rate 10.5 10.2 North America and portfolio effects, sales were down by 5.4 %. This development 17.3 17.2 Latin America was mainly driven by the ARLANXEO segment, which posted the Asia-Pacific 17.3 16.8 largest absolute decrease in sales in the mid-single-digit percent­ 29.4 29.3 age range. Sales in the other segments also declined by lowto high single-digit percentages. Business performance in the region 2015 2016 was mainly attributable to the contraction of sales in Brazil, Mexico and Argentina. EMEA (excluding Germany) Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) decreased Asia-Pacific by €71 million, or 3.1 %, to €2,254 million. Exchange rate and Sales in the Asia-Pacific region increased by €25 million, portfolio effects had no notable impact. The ARLANXEO, High or 1.2 %, to €2,039 million in 2016. Adjusted for opposing curPerformance Materials and Advanced Intermediates segments rency effects and slight portfolio effects, sales were up by 1.7 %. recorded sales declines in the lowto mid-single-digit percentage This was mainly attributable to the business performance of the range. By contrast, the Performance Chemicals segment posted Performance Chemicals segment, which posted an increase in a slight sales increase in the low-single-digit percentage range. sales in the high-single-digit percentage range. Sales in the other Business performance in France, Belgium and Italy contributed segments were slightly lower or changes in the low-single-digit to the downward development in the region. However, sales were percentage range were barely discernible. The main driver of the bolstered by positive growth in demand in other countries such region’s positive operating performance were increasing sales as Turkey, Switzerland, Portugal and Slovakia. in China, India and Thailand which, however, were largely offset by declines in Singapore, South Korea, Japan and Hong Kong. Germany In Germany, we generated sales of €1,292 million in 2016, down €73 million, or 5.3 %, from the previous year. There were no material portfolio effects. While the ARLANXEO segment posted a sales decrease in the low-double-digit percentage range, business in the Advanced Intermediates and High Performance Materials segments contracted by mid-single-digit percentages. By contrast, the Performance Chemicals segment posted a slight increase in sales. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Business Trends by Region 127 Segment Information SEGMENT INFORMATION Our Advanced Intermediates segment recorded sales of €1,742 million in 2016, 4.6 % or €84 million below the prior›› Advanced Intermediates: relatively stable business perforyear level. While selling price adjustments, driven largely by raw mance as a result of higher volumes, but challenging market material prices, resulted in a negative price effect of 6.4 %, higher environment for agrochemicals volumes added 1.9 % to sales. Exchange rate developments had ›› Performance Chemicals: realignment and higher volumes virtually no impact on sales. lead to improved sales and earnings Whereas selling prices in the Advanced Industrial Interme›› High Performance Materials: clear improvement in earnings diates business unit were below the prior-year level due to lower as a result of higher volumes in more profitable product raw material prices, the Saltigo business unit was able to achieve groups slightly higher selling prices. With demand remaining good in ›› ARLANXEO: competitive situation in synthetic rubbers almost all end markets, the Advanced Industrial Intermediates remains challenging; lower selling prices impact sales and business unit increased volumes. The Saltigo business unit, on earnings the other hand, recorded a decline in volumes, particularly in the customized production of agrochemicals. Exchange rate devel­ Sales by Segment opment had almost no impact on either business unit. Sales in all % regions were below prior-year levels. Advanced Intermediates 0.6 0.6 EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates Performance Chemicals 36.2 35.2 segment declined by €13 million, or 3.8 %, from the prior-year High Performance Materials ARLANXEO 13.7 level of €339 million. Lower energy and manufacturing costs as 13.7 Reconciliation well as slightly higher volumes had a positive impact on earnings. 26.4 27.8 Exchange rate movements had no significantly positive effect. The 23.1 22.6 adjustment in selling prices, driven largely by lower procurement prices for raw materials, had an opposing influence. The EBITDA 2015 2016 margin pre exceptionals was 18.7 %, up slightly from 18.6 % in the prior year. In fiscal 2016, net positive exceptional items amounted to Advanced Intermediates €2 million and fully impacted EBITDA. They related to the reversal of restructuring provisions established in previous years. In the prior year, net positive exceptional items of €18 million were Overview of Key Data  posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre e­ xceptionals)” 2015 2016 Change for details. Margin Margin € million % € million % % Sales 1,826 1,742 (4.6) EBITDA pre exceptionals 339 18.6 326 18.7 (3.8) EBITDA 338 18.5 328 18.8 (3.0) Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 240 13.1 221 12.7 (7.9) Operating result (EBIT) 258 14,1 223 12.8 (13.6) Cash outflows for capital investments 87 123 41.4 Depreciation and amortization/ reversals of impairment charges 80 105 31.3 Employees as of Dec. 311) 3,259 3,335 2.3 1) 2015 figure restated LANXESS Annual Report 2016 128 Combined Management Report Performance Chemicals The segment recorded negative exceptional items of €3 million in the reporting year, which fully impacted EBITDA. These related mainly to effects in connection with the revaluation of inOverview of Key Data  ventories undertaken within the context of acquiring the Chemours 2015 2016 Change specialties business. Negative exceptional items in the prior year Margin Margin amounted to €13 million and fully impacted EBITDA. These relat­ € million % € million % % ed to, among other things, measures associated with the “Let’s Sales 2,085 2,142 2.7 EBITDA pre LANXESS again” program. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA ­exceptionals 326 15.6 374 17.5 14.7 (pre exceptionals)” for details. EBITDA 313 15.0 371 17.3 18.5 Operating result (EBIT) pre ­exceptionals 238 11.4 280 13.1 17.6 High Performance Materials Operating result (EBIT) 225 10.8 277 12.9 23.1 Overview of Key Data  Cash outflows for capital expenditures 139 118 (15.1) 2015 2016 Change Depreciation and amortization 88 94 6.8 Margin Margin € million % € million % % Employees as of Dec. 311) 5,138 5,581 8.6 Sales 1,085 1,056 (2.7) EBITDA pre 1) 2015 figure restated ­exceptionals 111 10.2 159 15.1 43.2 EBITDA 131 12.1 159 15.1 21.4 Sales in the Performance Chemicals segment in fiscal 2016 Operating result (EBIT) pre rose by €57 million, or 2.7 %, to €2,142 million. This improvement ­exceptionals 66 6.1 114 10.8 72.7 was the result in particular of a 3.8 % expansion in volumes, while Operating result lower selling prices had a negative effect of 2.2 % on sales. In(EBIT) 85 7.8 114 10.8 34.1 tegration of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. Cash outflows for capital expenditures 39 46 17.9 chemical company Chemours into the Material Protection Products Depreciation and business unit had a positive effect of 1.3 % on sales. Exchange amortization 46 45 (2.2) rate developments had hardly any impact on sales. Employees as of Volumes in all the segment’s business units were up on the Dec. 31 1,546 1,583 2.4 prior year, with the Material Protection Products business unit increasing volumes significantly and also holding selling prices stable. Selling prices fell in the remaining business units. Exchange Sales in our High Performance Materials segment declined rate developments had a slightly negative impact on sales in almost by 2.7 % in 2016, to €1,056 million. Selling price adjustments, all business units. In the Latin America region, the segment’s sales due to cost relief from lower procurement prices for raw materials were below the prior-year level. In all other regions, the segment being passed on to customers, resulted in a negative price effect posted positive business development. of 8.0 %. On the other hand, higher volumes added 5.6 % to sales. EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals Exchange rate developments had almost no impact on sales. segment advanced by €48 million, or 14.7 %, against the prior While business in this segment was positive in the North America year to €374 million. Earnings were improved by higher volumes region, sales in the other regions were below the prior-year level. and favorable currency effects on our production costs. The EBITDA pre exceptionals in the High Performance Materieffect of reduced selling prices stood against the cost relief from als segment advanced substantially from the prior-year level of lower raw material prices. A slightly positive effect resulted from €111 million to €159 million. Higher volumes in more profitable the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect business. product groups and high capacity utilization resulted in a positive The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals increased from 15.6 % earnings performance. Lower raw material prices led to an adto 17.5 %. justment in selling prices. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals for the segment improved from 10.2 % to 15.1 %. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Segment Information 129 No exceptional items were recorded in the segment in 2016. The segment recorded positive exceptional items of €2 milIn the prior year, net positive exceptional items of €19 million were lion in the reporting year, which fully impacted EBITDA. These posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre exception­ primarily related to the reversal of provisions in connection with als)” for details. the discontinuation of EPDM rubber production at the Marl site in Germany. In 2015, net positive exceptional items of €12 million were posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (pre ARLANXEO exceptionals)” for details. Overview of Key Data  Reconciliation 2015 2016 Change Margin Margin € million % € million % % Overview of Key Data  Sales 2,859 2,710 (5.2) € million 2015 2016 Change % EBITDA pre ­exceptionals 391 13.7 373 13.8 (4.6) Sales 47 49 4.3 EBITDA 376 13.2 375 13.8 (0.3) EBITDA pre e ­ xceptionals (282) (237) 16.0 Operating EBITDA (325) (288) 11.4 result (EBIT) pre Operating result (EBIT) ­exceptionals 183 6.4 153 5.6 (16.4) pre ­exceptionals (305) (254) 16.7 Operating result Operating result (EBIT) (348) (305) 12.4 (EBIT) 195 6.8 155 5.7 (20.5) Cash outflows for capital Cash outflows for expenditures 24 14 (41.7) capital expenditures 145 138 (4.8) Depreciation and amortization 23 17 (26.1) Depreciation and amortization/reverEmployees as of Dec. 311) 2,791 2,759 (1.1) sals of impairment 1) 2015 figure restated charges 181 220 21.5 Employees as of Dec. 31 3,491 3,463 (0.8) EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Reconciliation came to minus €237 million, compared with minus €282 million in the prior year. This change was mainly due to lower currency hedging losses. Sales in our ARLANXEO segment declined by 5.2 % year on The net negative exceptional items of €51 million reported in year in 2016, to €2,710 million. This development was primarily inthe Reconciliation, which fully impacted EBITDA, mainly related fluenced by selling price adjustments in both business units, which to expenses in connection with the strategic realignment of the resulted in a negative price effect of 9.2 %. These adjustments LANXESS Group. In the prior year, negative exceptional items of were the result in particular of the persistently difficult competitive €43 million were posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA situation in synthetic rubbers and of lower procurement prices (pre exceptionals)” for details. for raw materials being passed on to customers. Especially due to good demand in the Asia-Pacific region, volumes increased in both business units and added 4.0 % to sales. Exchange rate developments had almost no impact on sales. Sales in all regions were below prior-year levels. EBITDA pre exceptionals in the ARLANXEO segment declined from €391 million in the prior year to €373 million. The reduction of selling prices in response to ongoing competitive pressure significantly outweighed the positive impact of cost relief resulting from lower raw material prices. Earnings were improved by higher volumes, an improved portfolio of products sold, re­ duced production costs and favorable exchange rate effects. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals of 13.8 % was virtually level with the prior-year figure of 13.7 %. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 130 Combined Management Report NOTES ON EBIT AND EBITDA STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (PRE EXCEPTIONALS) AND FINANCIAL CONDITION In order to better assess our operational business and to steer Statement of financial position earning power at Group level and for the individual segments, ›› Increase in total assets, mainly due to the financing we additionally calculate the earnings indicators EBITDA, and secured for the planned acquisition of Chemtura and to EBITDA and EBIT pre exceptionals, none of which are defined by Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO International Financial Reporting Standards. These indicators are ›› Equity ratio improved to 37.7 % viewed as supplementary to the data prepared according to IFRS; ›› Net financial liabilities decrease substantially from they are not a substitute. €1,211 million to €269 million after deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale Reconciliation to EBIT/EBITDA  Structure of the Statement of Financial Position  EBIT EBIT EBITDA EBITDA € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 Change EBIT/EBITDA pre exceptionals 422 514 885 995 € million % € million % % Advanced Intermediates 18 2 (1) 2 Assets Strategic realignment/ Non-current assets 4,180 57.9 4,519 45.8 8.1 “Let’s LANXESS again” (2) – (2) – Current assets 3,039 42.1 5,358 54.2 76.3 Reversals of Total assets 7,219 100.0 9,877 100.0 36.8 impairment charges 19 – – – Equity and Other 1 2 1 2 ­liabilities Performance Chemicals (13) (3) (13) (3) Equity (including Strategic realignment/ non-controlling “Let’s LANXESS again” (3) (3)1) (3) (3)1) interests) 2,323 32.2 3,728 37.7 60.5 Non-current ­liabilities 2,936 40.7 4,516 45.7 53.8 Other (10) 0 (10) 0 Current liabilities 1,960 27.1 1,633 16.6 (16.7) High Performance Materials 19 – 20 – Total equity and Strategic realignment/ liabilities 7,219 100.0 9,877 100.0 36.8 “Let’s LANXESS again” (1) – (1) – Sale of assets 20 – 21 – ARLANXEO 12 2 (15) 2 Strategic realignment/ “Let’s LANXESS again”2) (47) 2 (37) 2 Structure of the statement of Sale of assets 22 – 22 – Reversals of financial position impairment charges 37 – 0 – Total assets of the LANXESS Group amounted to €9,877 milReconciliation (43) (51) (43) (51) lion as of December 31, 2016, an increase of €2,658 million, or Strategic realignment/ 36.8 %, on the prior-year figure. This development was attributable “Let’s LANXESS again” (34) (42) (34) (42) in particular to the placement of three eurobonds with a nominal Other (9) (9) (9) (9) volume of €500 million each that will serve to finance the planned Total exceptional items (7) (50) (52) (50) acquisition of Chemtura. The increase in total assets also resulted EBIT/EBITDA 415 464 833 945 from the cash inflow of around €1.2 million from Saudi Aramco’s 1) The exceptional items largely concerned effects associated with the revaluation of interest in ARLANXEO and the corresponding increase in equity inventories in connection with the acquisition of the Chemours specialties business. 2) The exceptional items were primarily in connection with the discontinuation of EPDM attributable to non-controlling interests. rubber production at the Marl site in Germany. EBITDA is calculated from earnings (EBIT) by adding back depreciation and impairments of property, plant and equipment as well as amortization and impairments of intangible assets and subtracting reversals of impairment charges on property, plant, equipment and intangible assets. EBIT pre exceptionals and EBITDA pre exceptionals are EBIT and EBITDA before exceptional items. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes on EBIT and EBITDA pre Exceptionals 131 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets Structure of the Statement o  f Financial € million 9,877 Position – Equity and Liabilities 9,877 € million 624 Intangible assets and property,  quity E 2,446 1,009 plant and equipment 7,219 Non-current financial liabilities 7,219 Other non-current assets 268 395 Other non-current liabilities 1,775 638 Inventories and receivables 466  urrent financial liabilities C 1,322 2,517 Other current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 2,305 2,741 1,659 Other current assets 506 433 1,277 , 4,013 3,747 3,728 2,323 2015 2016 2015 2016 Non-current assets rose by €339 million to €4,519 million, Equity amounted to €3,728 million, up by €1,405 million or with intangible assets and property, plant and equipment increas­ 60.5 % compared with December 31, 2015. The change in the ing by €266 million to €4,013 million. The increase in intangible reporting period resulted mainly from the increase in non-controlling assets was the result in particular of the intangible assets identiinterest due to Saudi Aramco’s cash contribution to ARLANXEO of fied in the context of the acquisition of the Chemours specialties €1,194 million, net of transaction costs. The ratio of equity to the business. For further information, please see the “Companies Group’s total assets was 37.7 % as of December 31, 2016, after consolidated” section of the Notes. 32.2 % as of December 31, 2015. Cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipment Non-current liabilities as of December 31, 2016, rose by and intangible assets amounted to €439 million, almost level with €1,580 million to €4,516 million. Provisions for pensions and other the prior-year figure of €434 million. Depreciation and amortization post-employment benefits increased by just a slight €34 million totaled €481 million, which was €7 million above the prior-year compared with the end of 2015, to €1,249 million. The decline in level of €474 million. In the prior year, depreciation and amortizadiscount rates for pension obligations (in Germany: from 3.0 % to tion were mitigated by reversals of impairment charges amounting 2.0 %) was largely compensated by an addition to German pen­ to €56 million. The carrying amount of investments accounted for sion fund assets. Other non-current financial liabilities amounted to using the equity method was €0 million, the same as in the prior €2,734 million, up by €1,476 million against December 31, 2016, year. Deferred taxes increased by €81 million to €442 million. mainly due to the issuance of bonds. The ratio of non-current assets to total assets decreased from The ratio of non-current liabilities to total assets was 45.7 %, 57.9 % to 45.8 % on December 31, 2016. up from 40.7 % as of December 31, 2015. Current assets increased by €2,319 million, or 76.3 %, comCurrent liabilities came to €1,633 million, down by €327 million, pared with December 31, 2015, to €5,358 million. This effect or 16.7 %, against December 31, 2015. This was largely attribut­ was mainly attributable to the increase in current financial assets able to the redemption of a maturing bond of €200 million. Trade and resulted primarily from the investment of liquid assets in time payables increased by €110 million to €889 million, mainly as a deposits and securities available for sale totaling €2,125 million. result of higher capacity utilization at year end 2016. Current deriv­ Inventories were up by €80 million, or 5.9 %, to €1,429 mil­ ative liabilities fell from €100 million to €42 million. Other current lion, mainly due to volume and currency effects. Days of sales liabilities rose by €32 million to €174 million, while other current in inventory (DSI) were unchanged from the prior year at 67.2 provisions were at the prior-year level, at €406 million. The ratio days. Trade receivables were €132 million, or 13.8 %, higher at of current liabilities to total assets was 16.6 % as of December 31, €1,088 million. Days of sales outstanding (DSO) increased from 2016, against 27.1 % at the end of 2015. 47.6 days to 51.1 days. This was primarily due to the low level of receivables in 2015. Cash and cash equivalents decreased by €11 million to €355 million. Near-cash assets fell to €40 million in the reporting year (2015: €100 million). The ratio of current assets to total assets was 54.2 %, compared with 42.1 % on December 31, 2015. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 132 Combined Management Report At €2,394 million, net financial liabilities were substantially ­above the figure of €1,211 million as of December 31, 2015. However, they declined to €269 million after the deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale. The Group’s key ratios developed as follows: Ratios  % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Equity ratio Equity1) Total assets 31.0 27.9 29.8 32.2 37.7 Non-current asset ratio Non-current assets Total assets 49.8 52.7 56.6 57.9 45.8 Asset coverage I Equity1) Non-current assets 62.0 52.9 52.7 55.6 82.5 Asset coverage II Equity 1) and non-current liabilities Non-current assets 157.2 137.2 136.7 125.8 182.4 Funding structure Current liabilities Total liabilities 31.4 38.3 32.3 40.0 26.6 1) Equity includes non-controlling interest. Capital expenditures In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on the following In 2016, our capital expenditures for property, plant and areas: equipment and intangible assets came to €462 million, compared with €457 million the year before, and led to cash outflows of ›› Expansion and maintenance of existing facilities, construction €439 million (2015: €434 million). Depreciation and amortization of new facilities in the same period totaled €481 million (2015: €474 million). In ›› Measures to increase plant availability the prior year, depreciation and amortization were partially offset ›› Projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply by reversals of impairment charges of €56 million. In addition, the with environmental protection requirements figure for depreciation and amortization in 2016 included writedowns of €9 million (2015: €25 million). Around two-thirds of the capital expenditures in 2016 went to maintain existing facilities, while the rest went toward expansion or efficiency improvement measures. Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization In regional terms, 46 % of our capital expenditures in the € million reporting period were made in Germany, 21 % in the EMEA region Cash outflows for capital expenditures Depreciation and amortization (excluding Germany), 16 % in North America, 7 % in Latin Amer­ ica and 10 % in Asia-Pacific. Capital expenditures in Germany 800 696 717 624 mostly comprised our investments to increase capacities and 614 600 modernize facilities in all segments, especially investments in the 474 481 426 434 439 378 Saltigo business unit. Some of the capital expenditures made in the 400 EMEA region (excluding Germany) were used to further optimize 200 production in the context of realignment to improve operational competitiveness. The capital expenditures made in the Asia-Pacific region mainly related to the construction of plants for iron oxide 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 red pigments, which came on stream in the reporting year, and of a mixing and milling plant for the Inorganic Pigments business unit in Ningbo, China. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 133 Financial condition Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment € million 434 439 ›› Strong cash flow from operating activities Advanced Intermediates 24 14 ›› Cash flow provided by financing and investing activities Performance Chemicals 138 influenced by financing for the planned acquisition 145 High Performance Materials of Chemtura and interim investments of liquid assets 46 ARLANXEO Reconciliation 39 ›› Liquidity position remains solid 118 139 The cash flow statement shows inflows and outflows of cash 87 123 and cash equivalents by type of business operation. 2015 2016 2015 figures restated Cash Flow Statement  Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates segment € million 2015 2016 Change amounted to €136 million (2015: €99 million). Cash outflows Income before income taxes 288 339 51 stood at €123 million (2015: €87 million), which exceeded depreDepreciation and amortization/ ciation and amortization of €105 million (2015: €80 million less reversals of impairment charges 418 481 63 Other items (107) (84) 23 reversals of impairment charges). These included cash outflows in Net cash provided by ­ connection with the construction of two multi-purpose production operating activities before lines for the Saltigo business unit at the Leverkusen site in Gerchange in net working capital 599 736 137 many, which began in 2016. Production is due to start at the end Change in net working capital 93 (47) (140) of 2017. In the Performance Chemicals segment, cap­ital expenNet cash provided ditures came to €124 million (2015: €144 million), €118 million by operating activities 692 689 (3) (2015: €139 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation Net cash used in investing activities (400) (2,879) (2,479) and amortization stood at €94 million (2015: €88 million). The Net cash provided by plant for iron oxide red pigments constructed for the Inorganic (used in) financing activities (333) 2,173 2,506 Pigments business unit in Ningbo, China, represents a substantial Change in cash and cash equivalents from business investment. Equipped with state-of-the-art process technology, it activities (41) (17) 24 began operating in the reporting year. In the High Performance Cash and cash equivalents Materials segment, capital expenditures totaled €47 million (2015: as of December 31 366 355 (11) €39 million), €46 million (2015: €39 mil­lion) of which were cash Free cash flow 258 250 (8) outflows. Depreciation and amortization came to €45 million (2015: €46 million). A share of the capital expenditures in this segment were accounted for by capacity expansion measures at Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in the second production line for compounding high-tech plastics in net working capital, increased by €137 million to €736 million in Gastonia, United States. This facility started operating at the befiscal 2016. The starting point was income before income taxes ginning of 2016. Other capital expenditures made by this segment of €339 million, which was €51 million above the prior-year level. related to production optimization measures at the Belgian sites. At €481 million, depreciation and amortization were €63 million In the ARLANXEO segment, capital expenditures tohigher than the prior-year figure of €418 million, from which revertaled €138 million (2015: €151 million), €138 million (2015: sals of impairment charges of €56 million had been deducted. The €145 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and other items in the reporting year included tax payments, effects amortization amounted to €220 million (2015: €181 million less from currency hedging of intercompany loans and cash outflows reversals of impairment charges). The major capital e­ xpenditures for variable compensation. in this segment were made in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers The change in net working capital against December 31, business unit. 2015, resulted in a cash outflow of €47 million compared with a cash inflow of €93 million in the prior year. The outflow in the reporting period resulted in particular from the increase in inventories and trade receivables, which overcompensated the rise in trade payables. Therefore, the net cash provided by operating activities totaled €689 million, which was on a level with the prioryear figure of €692 million. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 134 Combined Management Report Investing activities in fiscal 2016 resulted in a cash outflow changed compared with 2015, when it was calculated as the of €2,879 million, compared with €400 million in the prior-year difference between the cash inflows from operating activities and period, mainly due to the investment of funds received for the the cash used in investing activities. acquisition of Chemtura. Cash outflows for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment came to €439 million, which was Principles and objectives about level with the prior-year figure of €434 million. The sale of of financial management intangible assets and property, plant and equipment resulted in LANXESS pursues a conservative financial policy charac­ a cash inflow of €7 million (2015: €45 million). terized by the forward-looking management of financial risks. Net cash provided by financing activities came to €2,173 milOur aim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to our busilion, against net cash used in financing activities of €333 million ness operations at all times, regardless of cyclical fluctuations in the year before. Major effects in the reporting year were the cash the real economy or financial markets. The debt level is largely inflows for Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO and a cash aligned with the ratio systems of the leading rating agencies for inflow from the issuance of eurobonds. In the prior year, a signiinvestment-grade companies and, along with free cash flow, is the ficant effect was the net repayment of borrowings amounting to focus of financial management. In addition to liquidity risk, financial €220 million. Interest payments and other financial disbursements management also covers other financial risks, such as interest and of €73 million were slightly below the previous year’s amount of foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to mitigate the financial €76 million. An outflow of €55 million was accounted for by the risks that arise and thereby increase planning reliability, partly by dividend paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG for fiscal 2015, using derivative financial instruments. Detailed information about after €46 million in the prior year. the management of these risks is contained in the “Opportunity The net change in cash and cash equivalents from business and risk report.” activities in fiscal 2016 was minus €17 million, against minus €41 million the previous year. After taking into account currencyLANXESS Group ratings related and other changes in cash and cash equivalents of €6 milAccess to the capital markets and good relations with German lion, cash and cash equivalents at the closing date amounted to and international commercial banks are essential for achieving our €355 million, against €366 million at the previous year’s closing financial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing dialogue date. Taken together with near-cash assets (short-term investment and communication with banks, investors and rating agencies are of liquid assets in money market funds) of €40 million, which were of crucial importance. In fiscal 2016, the rating agencies Standard lower than in the prior year (€100 million), the Group retained a & Poor’s and Moody’s confirmed their ratings for LANXESS of solid liquidity position of €395 million as of December 31, 2016, BBBand Baa3, respectively. Following the announcement of the compared with €466 million at the end of 2015. acquisition of Chemtura in September 2016, Standard & Poor’s Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from lowered its outlook from “positive” to “negative,” while Moody’s operating activities and the cash used for capital expenditures for kept its outlook at “stable.” Both rating agencies regarded the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets – decreased planned acquisition as positive for LANXESS’s business profile by €8 million to €250 million. The definition of this indicator was while pointing out the associated risks. Development of ­L ANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2012  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Standard & Poor’s BBB/stable BBB/negative BBB–/stable BBB–/positive BBB–/negative Aug. 31, 2012 June 27, 2013 May 19, 2014 Sept. 24, 2015 Sept. 26, 2016 Moody’s Investors Service Baa2/stable Baa2/negative Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Sept. 26, 2012 Aug. 14, 2013 June 20, 2014 July 2, 2015 Sept. 26, 2016 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 135 Financing analysis As of December 31, 2016, LANXESS had no material fiIn fiscal 2016, LANXESS retained a balanced financing strucnancing items off statement of financial position in the form of ture and a very solid liquidity position. Full financing was already factoring, asset-backed structures or project financing, for example. secured for the planned acquisition of Chemtura. LANXESS’s total financial liabilities, net of accrued interest, In January 2016, a development bank loan of €138 million increased from €1,677 million in 2015 to €2,789 million as of was repaid from available cash funds. In addition, an undrawn December 31, 2016, as a result of the early securing of financing for development bank loan was canceled in May 2016. A €200 million the Chemtura acquisition. Net financial liabilities – the total financial eurobond that matured in September 2016 was also redeemed liabilities net of cash, cash equivalents, accrued interest and nearfrom available cash funds. cash assets – increased in the reporting year to €2,394 million To finance the planned acquisition of Chemtura, a bridge loan from €1,211 million as of December 31, 2015. After deduction of of €2.0 billion was agreed in September 2016. This was followed time deposits and securities available for sale, net financial liabilities by stepwise refinancing on the capital market: the placement of two amounted to €269 million as of December 31, 2016. eurobonds with a total volume of €1.0 billion under the LANXESS Of the total financial liabilities, almost 100 % bear a fixed debt issuance program in October 2016 and the issuance of a interest rate over the term of the financing, which is above the prior€500 million hybrid bond with its own prospectus in December year level of 90 %. This resulted especially from the repayment 2016. The volume of the bridge loan was gradually reduced with of a variable-rate development bank loan. Interest rate changes the issuance of the bonds and still amounted to €500 million on do not have a material effect on LANXESS’s financial condition December 31, 2016. considering the current financing structure. The proportion of loans The existing debt issuance program allows the very flexible and bonds denominated in euros averaged 98 % in the reporting placement of bonds on the capital market. As of December 31, year, which was above the prior-year level of 90 %. The weighted 2016, just under €2.2 billion of the €5 billion financing facility had average interest rate for our financial liabilities was 2.7 % at year been utilized to issue bonds and private placements. The volume end 2016, which was below the prior-year figure of 3.8 %. of the debt issuance program can be adjusted flexibly in line with future requirements so as to ensure financial headroom. Capital market financing is a central component in LANXESS’s financing mix, which is subject to regular review to ensure the adequate diversification of our financing sources and our strategic alignment. Current financial liabilities decreased from €443 million in 2015 to €78 million as of December 31, 2016. We made only limited use of finance leases, which are reported as financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. As of December 31, 2016, the financial liabilities from finance leases were on a level with the prior year at €70 million. The LANXESS Group uses operating leases mainly for operational reasons and not as a means of financing. Minimum non-discounted future payments relating to operating leases totaled €334 million (2015: €341 million). LANXESS Annual Report 2016 136 Combined Management Report The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing strucOur financing structure has changed significantly due to the ture as of December 31, 2016, in detail, including its principal early procurement of liquidity to finance the acquisition of Chemtura. liquidity reserves. The issuance of two eurobonds and a hybrid bond added new liabilities totaling €1.5 billion. The terms of the bonds were chosen to maintain a balanced maturity profile and ensure sufficient scope Financing Structure  for reducing indebtedness in the future. A development bank loan Instrument Amount Term Interest Financial and a €200 million bond were repaid in 2016. No refinancing risks € ­million rate % covenant existed at the time these financial statements were prepared. Eurobond 2011/2018 The other loans related mainly to the use of credit facilities by (€500 million) 499 May 2018 4.125 no subsidiaries in China and Argentina, which are extended on a Eurobond regular basis. 2016/2021 October (€500 million) 496 2021 0.250 no Eurobond Liquidity analysis 2012/2022 November In addition to cash and cash equivalents of €355 million, (€500 million) 496 2022 2.625 no near-cash assets of €40 million and other current financial assets Eurobond 2016/2026 October of €2,130 million, LANXESS has additional liquidity reserves (€500 million) 492 2026 1.000 no in the form of undrawn credit facilities. Investments in bilateral Hybrid bond in­s truments at banks, money market funds and commercial 2016/2076 December (€500 million) 489 2076 4.500 no paper are undertaken by Group companies that are not subject Private placement to restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. Around 2012/2022 97 % of our cash funds is held in Group companies in countries (€100 million) 100 April 2022 3.500 no Private placement with no restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. 2012/2027 The remaining some 3 % is held in companies in regulated capital (€100 million) 99 April 2027 3.950 no markets where cash transfers are restricted. Other loans 48 n/a no Thanks to our good liquidity position, our solvency was asFinance lease 70 n/a no sured at all times in fiscal 2016. Total financial ­liabilities 2,789 By far the most important of LANXESS’s credit lines is the Cash and syndicated credit facility of €1.25 billion with a term until Februcash equivalents 355 ≤ 3 months ary 2020, which has not been significantly drawn upon to date. Near-cash assets 40 ≤ 3 months This credit facility is designed as an operating line of credit and Total liquidity 395 Net financial to provide funds for capital investment. It corresponds to marliabilities 2,394 ket requirements in the European syndicated loan market for Time deposits and investment-grade companies with a BBB rating. The company securities available for sale also has an undrawn bridge loan agreement which was conclu2,125 Net financial ded in September 2016 to finance the acquisition of Chemtura. liabilities after This bridge loan agreement had an initial volume of €2.0 billion, deduction of which was gradually adjusted downward with the issuance of time deposits and securities two eurobonds and a hybrid bond. It amounted to €500 million available for sale 269 as of December 31, 2016. None of our major loan agreements contains a financial covenant. LANXESS had unused credit lines totaling around €1.8 billion as of December 31, 2016, compared with €1.5 billion at the end of the previous year. The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us available liquidity of around €4.3 billion, which is some €2.3 billion more than in the prior year. This higher amount is related to our preparations for the acquisition of Chemtura and serves to secure our entrepreneurial flexibility; it is an expression of our conservative financial policy. Our solvency is safeguarded for the short and long term. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 137 Management’s Summary of Business Development and the Fiscal Year Bond performance – evolution of credit volumes in the High Performance Materials segment could not spread in 2016 compensate for the lower selling prices resulting from raw material An important indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the abprices. At Group level, higher volumes, the successful implemensolute change in price, is the relative valuation of the risk specific to tation of measures to improve operational competitiveness and the issuer in comparison with a reference interest rate. This credit favorable exchange rate effects more than offset the impact of the risk premium is expressed in what is known as the credit spread. challenging business environment in our ARLANXEO segment. EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2016 increased by 12.4 % to LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index €995 million from €885 million. This was mainly attributable to in the BBB range1) higher volumes and lower production costs resulting from the imBasis points plementation of measures to improve operational competitiveness. 120 Net income and earnings per share improved in comparison 100 to the prior year, rising from €165 million to €192 million and 80 €1.80 to €2.10, respectively. 60 We view the development of earnings as positive overall. We upheld our conservative accounting and financing policy 40 in 2016 as well. In accordance with the consistency principle, we 20 essentially applied the same measurement methods and exer0 cised the same discretion as in the previous year. Our equity ratio improved from 32.2 % to 37.7 %, mainly due to Saudi Aramco’s Jan. 1, 2016 Dec. 31, 2016 interest in ARLANXEO. Total assets increased from €7,219 milLANXESS Eurobond 2018 LANXESS Eurobond 2021 lion to €9,877 million because of the financing secured for the LANXESS Eurobond 2022 LANXESS Eurobond 2026 BBB Corporates, 5 years planned acquisition of Chemtura and because of Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO. 1)  T he LANXESS hybrid bond that matures in 2076 is not included in the overview. Our statement of financial position shows that our liquidity position remains solid. Additional substantial liquidity reserves in The development of our credit spreads underscores the fact the form of undrawn credit lines are also available. Of the total that we retain very competitive access to capital market financing. financial liabilities, almost 100 % bear a fixed interest rate over the term of the financing, which is above the prior-year level of 90 %. Our financial liabilities are free of financial covenants. MANAGEMENT’S SUMMARY After consideration of time deposits with a term of more than OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 90 days and investments in securities, our net financial liabilities fell AND THE FISCAL YEAR by €942 million to €269 million. In fiscal 2016, the rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s confirmed our ratings of BBB– and In 2016, LANXESS Group sales declined by 2.6 % from Baa3, respectively. Following the announcement of the acquisition €7,902 million in the prior year to €7,699 million. The company’s of Chemtura, Standard & Poor’s lowered its outlook from “positive” business performance in 2016 continued to be characterized by to “negative,” while Moody’s kept its outlook at “stable.” reduced selling prices resulting from lower purchase prices for raw We continue to regard our business situation as positive. materials. This particularly affected our ARLANXEO segment due We are responding to the changes and challenges confronting to the persistently difficult competitive environment for synthetic the European chemical industry especially with our program rubbers. Our Advanced Intermediates segment saw a decline in for the global realignment of the LANXESS Group. Through its sales which was largely attributable to selling price adjustments dristrategic alignment, LANXESS aims to become a less cyclical ven by raw material prices. The Performance Chemicals segment specialty chemicals group with a strong cash flow and a more posted higher sales due to volume and portfolio effects. Higher balanced portfolio. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 138 Combined Management Report Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview Indicators € million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Earnings performance Sales 9,094 8,300 8,006 7,902 7,699 EBITDA pre exceptionals 1,223 735 808 885 995 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 13.4 % 8.9 % 10.1 % 11.2 % 12.9 % EBITDA 1,186 624 644 833 945 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 847 288 402 422 514 Operating result (EBIT) 808 (93) 218 415 464 EBIT margin 8.9 % (1.1 %) 2.7 % 5.3 % 6.0 % Net income (loss) 508 (159) 47 165 192 Earnings per share (€) 6.11 (1.91) 0.53 1.80 2.10 Financial position Cash flow from operating activities 838 641 797 692 689 Depreciation and amortization/ reversals of impairment charges 378 717 426 418 481 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 696 624 614 434 439 Net financial liabilities 1,483 1,731 1,336 1,211 2,394 Net financial liabilities after deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale 1,483 1,731 1,336 1,211 269 Assets and liabilities Total assets 7,519 6,811 7,250 7,219 9,877 Non-current assets 3,747 3,592 4,101 4,180 4,519 Current assets 3,772 3,219 3,149 3,039 5,358 Net working capital 1,849 1,679 1,600 1,526 1,628 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 2,330 1,900 2,161 2,323 3,728 Pension provisions 893 943 1,290 1,215 1,249 Indicators ROCE 15.6 % 5.8 % 7.9 % 8.4 % 6.9 % Equity ratio 31.0 % 27.9 % 29.8 % 32.2 % 37.7 % Non-current asset ratio 49.8 % 52.7 % 56.6 % 57.9 % 45.8 % Asset coverage I 62.2 % 52.9 % 52.7 % 55.6 % 82.5 % Net working capital/sales 20.3 % 20.2 % 20.0 % 19.3 % 21.1 % Employees (as of December 31) 17,177 17,343 16,584 16,225 16,721 EARNINGS, ASSET AND FINANCIAL the operating business entities in the LANXESS Group and on POSITION OF LANXESS AG the development of the chemical industry. The balance of income and losses from investments in affiliated companies resulting from LANXESS AG serves primarily as the management holding profit or loss transfers and dividends from affiliated companies company for the LANXESS Group. The principal management is of key importance for the future ability of LANXESS AG to pay functions for the entire Group are performed by the Board of a dividend. Therefore, especially the statements made in the Management. The Board of Management shapes Group strategy “Opportunity and risk report” in this combined management and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and organization. report apply in principle to LANXESS AG as well. The Group management company is also responsible for financ­ The financial statements of LANXESS AG are prepared in ing and communication with LANXESS’s key stakeholders. The accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the economic performance of LANXESS AG depends principally on German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview 139 Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of ­L ANXESS AG Sales and earnings of LANXESS AG General administration expenses decreased against the prior year, down €7 million, or 15.9 %, to €37 million. They principally comprised personnel and other business expenses not directly LANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged ­related to the services provided to Group companies. The de­crease in other operating income was primarily due to lower reversals of € million 2015 2016 Change % provisions. The operating result declined by €27 million to minus Sales 4 6 50.0 €43 million. Cost of sales (4) (6) (50.0) Gross profit 0 0 – The financial result, which comprises the balance of income General administration and losses from investments in affiliated companies, the net inter­ expenses (44) (37) 15.9 est position, income from other securities and loans included in Other operating income 32 3 (90.6) financial non-current assets, and other financial income and ex­ Other operating expenses (4) (9) < (100) pense, increased by €502 million to €710 million. This change was Operating result (16) (43) < (100) primarily due to the profit transfer of €762 million from LANXESS Income from investments in affiliated companies 252 762 > 100 Deutschland GmbH, which was €510 million higher than in the Income from loans held as prior year. Major effects came from, for example, the establishfinancial assets 7 8 14.3 ment of the strategic alliance for the synthetic rubber business, a Net interest expense (44) (50) (13.6) merger, and changes in legal provisions governing the valuation of Other financial income and expenses – net (7) (10) (42.9) pension obligations. The financial result was negatively influenced Financial result 208 710 > 100 by the €6 million deterioration in the net interest position to minus Income (loss) before €50 million. The bundling of external financing at LANXESS AG, income taxes (101) (89) 11.9 initiated in 2015, had a full-year effect for the first time in 2016. Income taxes 91 578 > 100 Income taxes resulted in expenses of €89 million. These were Net income 91 578 > 100 Carryforward to new account 7 43 > 100 comprised of tax expenses of €68 million for 2016 and €21 million Withdrawal from other retained for previous years. Net income for 2016 was €577 million after earnings 0 (289) – €91 million in the previous year. Distributable profit 98 332 > 100 Taking into account the addition of €289 million (2015: €0) to other retained earnings and the profit carryforward of €43 million, the distributable profit as of December 31, 2016, increased to The earnings of LANXESS AG are largely determined by profit or €332 million from €98 million at the end of 2015. loss transfers from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. Sales at LANXESS AG stood at €6 million, which was above the prior-year level of €4 million. They related mainly to services provided to LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A balanced result remained after deducting the cost of sales, which consisted mostly of personnel expenses and appropriate shares of the general administration expenses. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 140 Combined Management Report Asset and capital structure of LANXESS AG Equity increased by €523 million to €2,041 million, largely due to net income of €578 million. This was partly offset by the dividend payment for 2015. The equity ratio was 34.5 %, after LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged  44.2 % at the end of 2015. Liabilities increased by €1,979 million to €3,748 million, mainDec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 Change ly because of the issuance of new bonds amounting to €1,500 mil€ million % € million % % lion and the rise in payables to affiliated companies, which were ASSETS €802 million above the prior-year figure at €1,021 million. The Financial assets 956 27.9 980 16.6 2.5 redemption of a bond for €200 million had an opposing effect. Non-current The provisions decreased by €15 million to €130 million and assets 956 27.9 980 16.6 2.5 related mainly to commitments to employees and to statutory Receivables from and contractual obligations. affiliated companies 2,035 59.3 2,510 42.4 23.3 Other assets 21 0.6 1,985 33.5 > 100 The issuance of the bonds amounting to €1,500 million Liquid assets and served to secure the financing for the planned acquisition of securities 411 12.0 415 7.0 1.0 Chemtura. At the closing date, these financial funds were invested Current assets 2,467 71.9 4,910 82.9 99.0 in time deposits. Prepaid expenses 9 0.2 29 0.5 > 100 Total assets 3,432 100.0 5,919 100.0 72.5 EMPLOYEES EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 1,518 44.2 2,041 34.5 34.5 As of December 31, 2016, the LANXESS Group had a total Provisions 145 4.2 130 2.2 (10.3) of 16,721 employees, against 16,225 at the closing date of the Bonds 1,400 40.8 2,700 45.6 92.9 prior year. The increase was mainly attributable to amended local Liabilities to banks 148 4.3 23 0.4 (84.5) legislation in South Africa and China, which requires external serPayables to affiliated vice providers to be recorded as Group employees after a certain companies 219 6.4 1,021 17.2 > 100 Other liabilities 2 0.1 4 0.1 100.0 period of deployment for the company, and to the acquisition of Liabilities 1,769 51.6 3,748 63.3 > 100 the Chemours specialties business. Total assets 3,432 100.0 5,919 100.0 72.5 In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of employees as of December 31, 2016, was 3,251, up from 3,143 in the previous year. In Germany, the headcount rose from 7,523 to 7,600. In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the The number of employees in the North America region in­ statement of financial position of LANXESS AG is dominated creased to 1,418 from 1,312 as of December 31, 2015, while by financial assets and liabilities and by receivables from, and Latin America saw its workforce grow from 1,412 at the end of payables to, subsidiaries. 2015 to 1,435. At the reporting date, we employed 3,017 people LANXESS AG had total assets of €5,919 million as of Dein the Asia-Pacific region, which was 182 more than a year earlier. cember 31, 2016, which was €2,487 million, or 72.5 %, above A total of 13,649, or 81.6 %, of our employees were men ­­the prior-year figure. Non-current assets were €980 million and and 3,072, or 18.4 %, were women. The number of employees primarily included the carrying amount of the investment in who were non-German nationals was 9,596. In addition, 1,003 LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, which stands at €739 million, employees worldwide worked on temporary contracts for the and loans of €198 million to subsidiaries. The share of non-current Group. LANXESS AG had 135 employees as of the reporting assets in total assets decreased from 27.9 % to 16.6 %. Current date, versus 127 the year before. assets increased by €2,443 million, or 99.0 %, to €4,910 million As of the end of 2016, the Group had a total of 533 trainees and accounted for 83.0 % of total assets, compared with 71.9 % in 18 different career paths and six combined vocational training in 2015. Receivables from subsidiaries accounted for 42.4 % of and study programs. We thus continue to train more young people total assets and related principally to short-term loans, financial than we need to meet our own requirements. In 2016, we hired transactions and claims to profit or loss transfers. Other receivables 81 % (2015: 80 %) of those who completed their vocational train­ largely consisted of non-disposable time deposits and accounted ing with us in Germany. for 33.5 % of total assets (2015: 0.6 %). The share of bank balances and securities in total assets decreased from 12.0 % to 7.0 %. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of ­L ANXESS AG 141 Employees Part-time employees accounted for 7.0 % of the workforce at Employees by Region our German core companies as of the reporting date. Individuals % with severe disabilities made up 5.6 % of the workforce at our German companies. In addition, we routinely award contracts to 8.5 work centers for the disabled. 8.6 Germany Indicators for the assessment of occupational safety at EMEA (excluding Germany) LANXESS are the recordable incident rate (RIR) and injuries for Asia-Pacific 45.5 every million hours worked (MAQ). In 2016, the MAQ was 2.0 and 18.0 Latin America thus once again below the prior-year level. The RIR, which enables North America better international comparison, improved from 0.9 in 2015 to 0.7. Personnel expenses for the Group in fiscal 2016 totaled €1,467 million (2015: €1,432 million). Wages and salaries, at 19.4 €1,168 million (2015: €1,124 million), accounted for the greater part of this figure. Social security contributions amounted to €194 million (2015: €198 million), while pension plan expenses Employees by Segment were €92 million (2015: €97 million) and social assistance benefits % €13 million (2015: €13 million). 9.5 Personnel expenses for LANXESS AG in fiscal 2016 came to €33 million, after €36 million in the previous year. Wages and sal­ Performance Chemicals 16.5 33.4 aries accounted for the largest proportion of personnel expenses ARLANXEO at €31 million (2015: €26 million). Social security contributions Advanced Intermediates decreased from €10 million to €2 million. Pension plan expenses Reconciliation1) accounted for €1 million (2015: €9 million) of this amount. High Performance Materials 19.9 20.7 HR strategy 1) Includes group functions, LANXESS’s long-term entrepreneurial success is fundamenLANXESS Distribution and HPE/TSR employees in LANXESS companies tally based on our employees’ sense of responsibility, profession­ alism and focus on finding solutions. Our global HR activities Employees by Functional Area ( Annual Average) are supporting the fundamental change processes within the % Group – both organizationally and culturally – which makes them more important to strategic success than ever before. 3.5 11.0 Following our realignment, LANXESS’s identity as an employ­ er is based on five central values: respect, ownership, trust, proProduction 11.3 fessionalism and integrity. We seek to foster a corporate culture in Marketing which responsible and morally irreprehensible actions and striving Administration for performance do not contradict but complement each other. Research LANXESS aims to be a company whose success is driven by the personal commitment of each and every employee. At an organi74.2 zational level, significant HR strategy and operational support was provided in 2016 for the spin-off of ARLANXEO, the integration of employees acquired as a result of the Chemours transaction and the preparation of the planned acquisition of Chemtura. We also applied a great deal of attention to expanding our “Xcare” demographic program. In addition to developing and implementing innovative concepts for addressing the challenges resulting from demographic change, our top long-term strategic human resources goal is to attract and cultivate a range of talented employees for LANXESS. We aim to strengthen our diversity, particularly in terms of age, national origin and gender. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 142 Combined Management Report COMPENSATION REPORT Annual base salary The fixed compensation comprises the annual base salary Compensation of the Board of Management and compensation in kind, the latter consisting mainly of the tax The structure of the compensation system and the level of value of perquisites, such as the use of a company car. The annual compensation for the members of the Board of Management are base salary of the members of the Board of Management is marketdetermined by the Supervisory Board. The appropriateness of the oriented and in line with that paid at other comparable companies. compensation is regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining the appropriateness of the compensation for an individual Board Variable compensation of Management member include, in particular, his duties, his perThe annual performance-based component of the variable sonal performance, the economic situation, and the success and compensation, known as the Annual Performance Payment (APP), sustainable growth of the LANXESS Group. Consideration is also is based on corporate business targets and other conditions, such given to compensation at comparable companies and the comas the attainment of certain targets for EBITDA pre exceptionals, pany’s overall compensation structure, including as well the ratio which are defined by the Supervisory Board before the beginning between the compensation of the Board of Management and that of the respective fiscal year. In the case of 100 % target attainment, of LANXESS’s senior executives and the rest of the workforce, both the individual APP budget for 2016 for Mr. Zachert is 125 % and overall and in terms of time. The compensation structure is also for the other members of the Board of Management 100 % of designed to be competitive in the international market for highly their respective annual base salaries. The maximum payment is qualified executives and provide the motivation to successfully defined on an annual basis by the Supervisory Board. For fiscal work toward sustainable corporate development. 2016, it was capped at 150 % of the individual budgets for the The compensation system that was introduced for members members of the Board of Management – assuming 100 % target of the Board of Management in 2010 was approved by the Annual attainment. For fiscal 2017, the maximum payment is capped at Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 28, 2010. This 200 % of the individual budgets in line with the caps applied for compensation system was applied when concluding the service non-managerial and managerial staff. Actual payments may differ contracts with all Board of Management members. from the amount calculated in advance. The components of the compensation for members of the The Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) is another Board of Management are the annual base salary; the variable comelement of variable compensation. This compensation component ponents, which are the Annual Performance Payment, the Longis based on the performance of LANXESS stock against a referTerm Stock Performance Plan and the Long-Term Performance ence index, the Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM. The LTSP Bonus; and a retirement pension. The three variable components responds to the call by legislators for a stronger focus on long-term are linked to LANXESS’s annual performance and, particularly, company performance. It is divided into four four-year tranches. to its corporate success over a number of years. The average The possible payment per tranche is 30 % of the individual target compensation mix of 31 % annual base salary and 69 % variable income, assuming 100 % target attainment. The condition for compensation components, assuming 100 % target attainment, is participation in the LTSP is a prior personal investment each year strongly aligned with the company’s performance and long-term in LANXESS shares to a value of 5 % of the annual base salary. value creation. The present service contracts for members of the These shares are subject to an average vesting period of five Board of Management set out the annual base salary and caps on years (LTSP 2010–2013) and four years (LTSP 2014–2017). the amounts for the variable compensation components. They do The rights granted by the LTSP may be exercised at the end of not provide for a separate cap on total compensation, even taking these periods. The exercise period is three years in general, but into account a possible discretionary bonus. five years for the 2012 and 2013 tranches. The LTSP 2014–2017 program uses the MSCI World Chemicals Index as a new reference index. There were no further material changes compared with the Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management  LTSP 2010–2013. For more information, particularly regarding the valuation % parameters applied, please see Note [15] to the consolidated Annual base salary 31 financial statements. Annual Performance Payment 35 Long Term Stock Performance Plan 20 The personnel expenses in fiscal 2016 for share-based Long Term Performance Bonus 14 compensation for active members of the Board of Management 100 were €1,966 thousand for Mr. Zachert (2015: €450 thousand), €293 thousand for Dr. Fink (2015: €0 thousand), €293 thousand for Mr. Pontzen (2015: €0 thousand) and €879 thousand for Dr. van Roessel (2015: €245 thousand). The personnel expenses for former members of the Board of Management were €0 thousand for Dr. Düttmann (2015: €755 thousand). LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Compensation Report 143 The Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB), which is the third variable compensation component, is likewise aligned with long-term corporate performance. It rewards target attainment only after two successive fiscal years. The basis for calculating the LTPB is the individual APP target attainment for the fiscal years in question. The exact amount of the LTPB results from the average individual APP target attainment for the two fiscal years. Assuming an average APP target attainment of 100 %, the LTPB amounts to 45 % of the annual base salary. Actual payments in 2017 and 2018 may differ from the amounts calculated in advance. Compensation of the Board of Management  Payments Fixed compensation Variable compensation from LTSP rights Year Annual CompensaPerforLTPB Payment Total cash Fair Total base salery tion in kind mance (multifor previous compen­ values € thousand bonus1) year) years2) sation Serving members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016 2016 1,200 73 2,250 8104) (82) 4,251 1,337 5,588 Matthias Zachert 2015 1,200 66 2,250 8103) – 4,326 721 5,047 Dr. Hubert Fink 2016 450 53 675 3044) (7) 1,475 446 1,921 (as of October 1, 2015) 2015 113 14 169 763) – 372 – 372 Michael Pontzen 2016 450 44 675 3044) (20) 1,453 446 1,899 (as of April 1, 2015) 2015 338 33 506 2283) – 1,105 – 1,105 2016 650 50 975 4394) (38) 2,076 368 2,444 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2015 650 49 975 4393) (31) 2,082 347 2,429 Former members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016 Dr. Bernhard Düttmann 2016 – – – – – – – – (until March 31, 2015) 2015 163 15 187 733) (31) 407 – 407 2016 2,750 220 4,575 1,857 (147) 9,255 2,597 11,852 Total 2015 2,464 177 4,087 1,626 (62) 8,292 1,068 9,360 1) Payment in 2016 and 2017, respectively 2) Payment in 2015 and 2016, respectively 3) Payment of 50 % each in 2016 and 2017 4) Payment of 50 % each in 2017 and 2018 The aggregate compensation of the Board of Management The pension plan for the members of the Board of Managewas €11,852 thousand (2015: €9,360 thousand), comprising ment is a defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution €2,970 thousand (2015: €2,641 thousand) in non-performanceto be made by the company equal to 25 % of the annual base salary related components, €6,285 thousand (2015: €5,651 thousand) and APP. The maximum amount taken into account for calculating in performance-related components and €2,597 thousand (2015: the APP contribution is that due on 100 % target attainment, irre€1,068 thousand) in components with a long-term incentive effect. spective of the actual target attainment. Moreover, the members Under the LTSP, members of the Board of Management were of the Board of Management must themselves pay an amount granted a total of 1,740,000 rights for 2016 and an additional from deferred compensation amounting to 12.5 % of the APP. 1,350,000 rights for 2012 and 1,350,000 rights for 2013. A The members of the Board of Management may increase their total of 1,200,000 rights were granted in 2015. personal contribution to up to 25 % of the APP. From the date of entitlement, up to 30 % of the accumulated capital – including the Retirement pensions interest thereon – may be converted to a pension benefit. There On termination of their service contracts, the members of the are claims arising from provisions in place before 2006 that are Board of Management receive benefits under the company pension granted as vested rights to individual members of the Board of plan. These benefits are paid when the beneficiary reaches the age Management. If the service contract ends before the beneficiary of 60 or if the beneficiary is permanently unable to work. They are reaches the age of 60, the company pays certain additional benefits paid to surviving dependents in the event of the beneficiary’s death. up to a defined ceiling. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 144 Combined Management Report LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims No additional benefits have been pledged to any member of Board of Management members. In 2016, the total service of the Board of Management in the event of termination of their cost recognized under IFRS accounting rules in the consolidated service. financial statements for this purpose was €1,173 thousand (2015: Dr. Düttmann resigned from the Board of Management by €1,640 thousand). The present value of the obligations for the mutual agreement effective March 31, 2015, and left the company. members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, Up to this time, the contractually agreed benefits were granted 2016, was €16,033 thousand (2015: €11,903 thousand). Under and paid, including the variable compensation for fiscal 2015 IFRS accounting principles, the service cost for pension entitlethat had already been earned. At that time, existing LTSP rights ments earned in 2016 and the present value of the obligations, were evaluated at €1.00 per right and compensation paid pro including acquired rights, as of December 31, 2016, amounted to, rata, depending on the length of the vesting period that had alrespectively, €659 thousand and €4,522 thousand (2015: €597 ready elapsed. This resulted in an entitlement of €857 thousand. thousand and €2,716 thousand) for Mr. Zachert, €142 thousand In addition, Dr. Düttmann was granted a severance payment of and €3,162 thousand (2015: €43 thousand and €2,322 thou€3,380 thousand comprising two times the target income, which sand) for Dr. Fink, €228 thousand and €1,607 thousand (2015: was the annual base salary plus the APP and LTPB assuming €432 thousand and €1,018 thousand) for Mr. Pontzen, and 100 % target attainment. €144 thousand and €6,742 thousand (2015: €151 thousand Dr. Breuers left the company on expiration of his service conand €5,847 thousand) for Dr. van Roessel. The service cost for tract effective May 31, 2015. He had already resigned from the former Board of Management member Dr. Düttmann for his service Board of Management effective August 5, 2014. The contractually in 2015 came to €417 thousand. agreed terms of his compensation remained applicable until he The net expense for pension entitlements recognized under left the company. At that time, existing LTSP rights were evaluated HGB accounting rules in the 2016 annual financial statements for at €1.00 per right and compensation paid pro rata, depending on this purpose was €1,385 thousand (2015: €2,628 thousand). The the length of the vesting period that had already elapsed. This represent value of the obligations for the members of the Board of sulted in an entitlement of €729 thousand. In addition, Dr. Breuers Management serving as of December 31, 2016, was €11,691 thouwas granted and paid a severance payment of €1,690 thousand sand (2015: €10,307 thousand). Under HGB accounting rules, comprising a target income, which was the annual base salary plus the present value of the obligations, including vested rights, the APP and LTPB assuming 100 % target attainment. for the members of the Board of Management serving as of In 2016, compensation of former members of the Board of December 31, 2016, amounted to, respectively, €3,026 thousand Management totaled €1,244 thousand (2015: €3,673 thousand). for Mr. Zachert (2015: €2,237 thousand), €2,116 thousand for Dr. Fink (2015: €1,927 thousand), €972 thousand for Mr. Pontzen Other benefits (2015: €802 thousand) and €5,577 thousand for Dr. van Roessel In 2016, no member of the Board of Management received (2015: €5,341 thousand). benefits or assurances of benefits from third parties in respect of As of December 31, 2016, obligations to former members their duties as members of the Board of Management. of the Board of Management totaled €34,497 thousand (2015: No loans were granted to members of the Board of Manage€30,318 thousand) under IFRS accounting rules and €26,041 thoument in fiscal 2016. sand (2015: €26,682 thousand) under HGB accounting rules. Individual compensation in line with the Benefits associated with and following recommendations of the German Corporate termination of service on the Board of Governance Code Management The following tables list the compensation, additional benefits The members of the Board of Management have indemniand allocations (payments) for 2015 and 2016, in line with the fication rights should their service contracts be terminated for recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. defined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of The variable compensation components differ depending on a material change of control over the company. The terms depend the reference period. The amounts of compensation shown also on the respective circumstances and include severance payments include the maximum and minimum attainable compensation. amounting to up to two times the annual base salary or, in the event of a change of control, three times the annual base salary, plus the APP and LTPB assuming 100 % target achievement and compensation pro rata temporis of LTSP rights. On the basis of agreements existing with Dr. Fink and Mr. Pontzen, the calculation of severance payments to be made in the event of early termination of their service contracts does not include the LTPB and LTSP variable compensation components. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Compensation Report 145 Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016) Matthias Zachert Dr. Hubert Fink Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Appointed April 1, 2014 Appointed October 1, 2015 Target Target 2016 2016 Target Target 2016 2016 value value (min.) (max.) value value (min.) (max.) € thousand 2015 2016 2015 2016 Annual base salary 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 113 450 450 450 Compensation in kind 66 73 73 73 14 53 53 53 Total 1,266 1,273 1,273 1,273 127 503 503 503 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1,500 1,500 0 2,250 113 450 0 675 Multi-year variable compensation 1,261 1,876 0 5,670 152 649 0 1,924 LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) – – – – 25 – – – LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) 540 – – – 127 – – – LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) – 540 0 810 – 203 0 304 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) – 356 0 1,620 – 119 0 540 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) – 243 0 1,620 – 81 0 540 LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2015) 721 – – – – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016) – 737 0 1,620 – 246 0 540 Total 4,027 4,649 1,273 9,193 392 1,602 503 3,102 Service cost 597 659 659 659 43 142 142 142 Total compensation 4,624 5,308 1,932 9,852 435 1,744 645 3,244 Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016) Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management Appointed April 1, 2015 Appointed January 1, 2007 Target Target 2016 2016 Target Target 2016 2016 value value (min.) (max.) value value (min.) (max.) € thousand 2015 2016 2015 2016 Annual base salary 338 450 450 450 650 650 650 650 Compensation in kind 33 44 44 44 49 50 50 50 Total 371 494 494 494 699 700 700 700 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 338 450 0 675 650 650 0 975 Multi-year variable compensation 253 649 0 1,924 640 661 0 1,219 LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) 76 – – – – – – – LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) 177 – – – 293 – – – LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) – 203 0 304 – 293 0 439 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) – 119 0 540 – 3 0 0 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) – 81 0 540 – 10 0 0 LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2015) – – – – 347 – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016) – 246 0 540 – 355 0 780 Total 962 1,593 494 3,093 1,989 2,011 700 2,894 Service cost 432 228 228 228 151 144 144 144 Total compensation 1,394 1,821 722 3,321 2,140 2,155 844 3,038 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 146 Combined Management Report Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016) Matthias Zachert Dr. Hubert Fink Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Appointed April 1, 2014 Appointed October 1, 2015 € thousand 2015 2016 2015 2016 Annual base salary 1,200 1,200 113 450 Compensation in kind 66 73 14 53 Total 1,266 1,273 127 503 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 2,250 2,190 169 670 Multi-year variable compensation 405 788 38 188 LTPB (tranche 2013–2014) – – – – LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) 405 (11) 38 (1) LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) – 799 – 189 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2011) – – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) – – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014) – – – – Total 3,921 4,251 334 1,361 Service cost 597 659 43 142 Total compensation 4,518 4,910 377 1,503 Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016) Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management Appointed April 1, 2015 Appointed January 1, 2007 € thousand 2015 2016 2015 2016 Annual base salary 338 450 650 650 Compensation in kind 33 44 49 50 Total 371 494 699 700 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 506 661 953 949 Multi-year variable compensation 114 260 343 427 LTPB (tranche 2013–2014) – – (4) – LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) 114 (3) 347 (6) LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) – 263 – 433 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2011) – – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) – – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014) – – – – Total 991 1,415 1,995 2,076 Service cost 432 228 151 144 Total compensation 1,423 1,643 2,146 2,220 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Compensation Report 147 Compensation Granted (Former Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016) Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Chief Financial Officer Resigned March 31, 2015 Target value Target value 2016 2016 € thousand 2015 2016 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary 163 – – – Compensation in kind 15 – – – Total 178 – – – Annual Performance Payment (APP) 187 – – – Multi-year variable compensation 37 – – – LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) – – – – LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) 37 – – – LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) – – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) – – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2015) – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016) – – – – Total 402 – – – Service cost 417 – – – Total compensation 819 – – – Allocations (Former Members of the Board of Management as of December 31, 2016) Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Dr. Werner Breuers Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management Resigned March 31, 2015 Resigned August 5, 2014 € thousand 2015 2016 2015 2016 Annual base salary 163 – – – Compensation in kind 15 – – – Total 178 – – – Annual Performance Payment (APP) 165 – – – Multi-year variable compensation 1,054 – 729 – LTPB (tranche 2013–2014) (4) – – – LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) 164 – – – LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) 37 – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2011) 305 – 272 – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) 255 – 269 – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) 175 – 188 – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2014) 122 – – – Total 1,397 – 729 – Service cost 417 – – – Total compensation 1,814 – 729 – LANXESS Annual Report 2016 148 Combined Management Report Compensation of the Supervisory Board Payment of the variable compensation depends on how The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by LANXESS’s stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX Section 12 of the company’s articles of association. The members 600 Chemicals SM index during a member’s five-year term. The of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG receive fixed compenaverage price of LANXESS stock and the average level of the sation of €80 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Supervisory index during the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Board receives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half Meeting at which the Supervisory Board members were elected times, this amount. Serving as the chair or a member of Super­ are each compared with the respective average for the 90 trading visory Board committees is compensated separately in accordance days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at the conclusion with the German Corporate Governance Code. Supervisory Board of which the members’ terms end. The variable compensation is members who belong to a committee receive one half of the only payable if the stock has outperformed the benchmark index. fixed compensation amount in addition. The chair of the Audit The exact amount of the variable compensation depends on the Committee receives a further half. Supervisory Board members extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark index who chair a committee other than the Audit Committee receive in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has outperformed a further quarter. However, no member may receive in total more the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to ten percentage than three times the fixed compensation amount. points, the variable compensation amounts to €50 thousand for Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their exthis five-year period; if it has outperformed the index by between penses in addition and also receive an attendance allowance of 10 and 20 percentage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if the €1.5 thousand for each Supervisory Board meeting and each degree of outperformance is greater than this, the compensation committee meeting they attend, with the exception of meetings is €150 thousand. of the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3 No variable compensation was paid out in fiscal 2016. of the German Codetermination Act and meetings of the NomThe expected compensation payable for the current terms of inations Committee. With respect to their membership on the office of Supervisory Board members was valued at €600 thousupervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the members sand (2015: €1,200 thousand) as of December 31, 2016, and of the Supervisory Board are remunerated only for their service recognized as a provision. on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH in None of the members of the Supervisory Board received the amount of €5 thousand each. benefits for services provided personally during the reporting The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term inperiod. No loans or advances were granted to members of the centive based on the company's performance during the standard Supervisory Board during the reporting year. term of an individual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five The following table breaks down the compensation received years). Unlike the fixed compensation component, this variable by each member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the compensation component is not paid every year, but only once Supervisory Board in fiscal 2016. at the end of the standard term of office. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term, the amount is prorated. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Compensation Report 149 Compensation of the Supervisory Board  Year Fixed Compensation Attendance Fixed Total compensation as committee allowance compensation ­L ANXESS AG member ­L ANXESS €1) ­L ANXESS AG Deutschland GmbH Dr. Rolf Stomberg, 2016 240,000 – 18,000 5,000 263,000 Chairman 2015 240,000 – 21,000 5,000 266,000 Ralf Sikorski, Vice Chairman 2016 103,388 40,000 18,000 5,000 166,388 (appointed May 13, 2015) 2015 51,068 25,534 13,500 3,192 93,294 Gisela Seidel 2016 49,836 16,612 7,500 2,077 76,025 (resigned May 31, 2016) 2015 105,753 40,000 21,000 5,000 171,753 Ulrich Freese, 2016 – – – – – former Vice Chairman (resigned May 13, 2015) 2015 43,726 14,575 7,500 1,822 67,623 Axel Berndt 2016 – – – – – (resigned May 13, 2015) 2015 29,151 14,575 7,500 1,822 53,048 Werner Czaplik 2016 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 (appointed May 13, 2015) 2015 51,068 25,534 10,500 3,192 90,294 2016 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets 2015 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Dr. Heike Hanagarth 2016 40,219 – 6,000 2,514 48,733 (appointed July 1, 2016) 2015 – – – – – 2016 80,000 80,000 16,500 5,000 181,500 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 2015 80,000 94,575 21,000 5,000 200,575 Robert J. Koehler 2016 – – – – – (resigned May 13, 2015) 2015 29,151 14,575 3,000 1,822 48,548 Rainer Laufs 2016 – – – – – (resigned May 13, 2015) 2015 29,151 14,575 7,500 1,822 53,048 2016 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Thomas Meiers 2015 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Claudia Nemat 2016 39,781 19,891 4,500 2,486 66,658 (resigned June 30, 2016) 2015 80,000 25,534 13,500 5,000 124,034 Lawrence A. Rosen 2016 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 (appointed May 13, 2015) 2015 51,068 25,534 6,000 3,192 85,794 Hans-Jürgen Schicker 2016 – – – – – (resigned June 30, 2015) 2015 39,671 19,836 9,000 2,479 70,986 Manuela Strauch 2016 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 (appointed July 1, 2015) 2015 40,329 20,164 13,500 2,521 76,514 Ifraim Tairi 2016 46,776 15,847 9,000 2,924 74,547 (appointed July 1, 2016) 2015 – – – – – 2016 80,000 55,847 19,500 5,000 160,347 Theo H. Walthie 2015 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber 2016 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 (appointed May 13, 2015) 2015 51,068 25,534 9,000 3,192 88,794 2016 1,160,000 468,197 190,500 60,001 1,878,698 Total 2015 1,161,204 480,545 220,500 60,056 1,922,305 1) Figures exclude value-added tax LANXESS Annual Report 2016 150 Combined Management Report Report Pursuant to Section 289, Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act provides that Paragraph 4, and Section 315, a resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is required for any Paragraph 4 of the German amendment to the articles of association. Pursuant to Section Commercial Code 17, Paragraph 2 of the articles of association, resolutions of the Stockholders’ Meeting require a simple majority of the votes Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 and Seccast and, if a capital majority is required, a simple majority of tion 315, Paragraph 4, Nos. 1 to 9 of the German Commercial the capital stock, unless otherwise required by law or provided Code, we hereby make the following declarations: by the articles of association. The articles of association contain no further provisions in this regard. Section 10, Paragraph 9 1. The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936 of the articles of association of LANXESS AG authorizes the as of December 31, 2016, and is composed of 91,522,936 Supervisory Board to resolve on amendments relating solely to no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and the form of the articles of association. obligations. One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. The rights and obligations arising from the 7. T he Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been shares are governed by the German Stock Corporation Act. authorized to issue or repurchase shares as follows: 2. We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights Own shares or the transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May employee stock plans are subject to a lock-up period before 20, 2016, authorized the Board of Management until May 19, they may be sold. 2021, to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10 % of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted 3. We received no reports of direct and indirect equity investby law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of ments in the capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10 % of total the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its voting rights. subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be acquired either in the market or via a public tender 4. No shares carry special rights granting control authority. offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by law, especially those purposes detailed in 5. Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG the authorization. Among other things, it can retire the shares, through employee stock programs. There are no restrictions sell them other than via the stock exchange or an offer to the on directly exercising the control rights arising from these stockholders, or transfer them against consideration in kind for shares. the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of companies or equity interests in companies or in order to conclude mergers. The Board 6. Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act of Management is further authorized to offer the shares acquired and Section 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply for sale to persons who are or were employed by the company or to the appointment and dismissal of Board of Management an affiliated company (employee shares). members. Under the provisions of these sections, Board of Management members are appointed by the Supervisory Conditional capital Board for a term not exceeding five years. Such appointment ­The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May may be renewed or the term of office may be extended, pro13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management until May 22, vided that the term of each such renewal or extension shall 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one not exceed five years. Appointments require a majority of at or more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board members’ votes. profit-participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination Section 6, Paragraph 1 of the articles of association states that of these instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as either the Board of Management must consist of at least two memregistered or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to bers. The number of members of the Board of Management €1,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and to grant is determined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory option rights to, or impose exercise obligations on, the holders or Board may appoint a chairman of the Board of Management creditors of warrant bonds, profit-participation rights with warrants and a vice chairman of the Board of Management. Alternative or income bonds with warrants, and/or to grant conversion rights members of the Board of Management may be appointed. The to, or impose conversion obligations on, the holders or creditors Supervisory Board may revoke the appointment of a member of convertible bonds, convertible profit-participation rights or conof the Board of Management or the appointment of a member vertible income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the company as Chairman of the Board of Management for cause (Section representing a total pro rata increase of up to €18,304,587 in the 84, Paragraph 3 of the German Stock Corporation Act). company’s capital stock on the terms to be defined for these bonds. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code 151 Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of the articles of association, May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management until May the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase by up to €18,304,587 (Conditional Capital). the company’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to new no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a the extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to total amount of €18,304,587 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholdexercise, warrants or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued ers are generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized by the company or a dependent company against cash contribuCapital is utilized. However, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 tions, or issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the of LANXESS AG’s articles of association and with the approval company or a dependent company, on or before May 22, 2018, on of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management can exclude the basis of the authorization granted to the Board of Management these subscription rights when, for example, the company’s capital by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 13, 2015, exercise stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the their warrants or conversion rights or, where they are obligated acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded to do so, fulfill such obligation, or to the extent that the company if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than elects to grant shares in the company in place of all or part of the the stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the cash amount due for payment. The conditional capital increase issued shares do not exceed 10 % of the company’s capital stock. shall not be implemented if cash compensation is granted or if the When deciding on the exclusion of the subscription rights of company’s own shares, shares issued out of authorized capital or stockholders for shares from Authorized Capital II, the Board of shares in another listed company are used to service the warrant Management will use the authorizations granted by the Annual or conversion rights. Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, for capital measures The Board of Management is authorized, with the approval under exclusion of the stockholders’ subscription rights in the of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights in certain maximum amount of 20 % of the capital stock that exists at the cases which are detailed in the authorization. time the resolution is passed. The shares issued from Authorized When deciding on the exclusion of the subscription rights of Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights by way of capital stockholders, the Board of Management will only use the authoriincreases against contributions in kind shall not exceed 10 % of zations granted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, the capital stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. 2015, for capital measures under exclusion of the stockholders’ The Board of Management will be bound by this condition until a subscription rights in the maximum amount of 20 % of the capital future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. The Board of the Board of Management to implement capital measures under Management will be bound by this condition until a future Annual exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights. Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of Management to implement capital measures under exclusion of 8. The service contracts between the company and the memstockholders’ subscription rights. bers of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain provisions regarding the potential departure of the members Authorized Capital I and II­ of the Board of Management in the context of a change of Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of LANXESS AG’s arcontrol. These are outlined in the compensation report in this ticles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May combined management report. Such agreements, albeit with 23, 2013, authorized the Board of Management until May 22, different terms, also exist between the company and mem2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase bers of the first level of upper management. In addition, the the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par terms for placing bonds under the company’s existing debt shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount issuance program may contain a change-of-control clause of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally which gives bondholders the right to redeem the bond should entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. certain events occur that affect its rating. This applies to the However, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of LANXESS AG’s €500 million eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. articles of association and with the approval of the Supervisory in fiscal 2011 and the €500 million eurobond issued by Board, the Board of Management can exclude these subscription LANXESS Finance B.V. in fiscal 2012, both of which were rights when, for example, the company’s capital stock is increased taken over by LANXESS AG in 2015. The terms for two priagainst contributions in kind, particularly for the acquisition of vate placements with a volume of €100 million each made by companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded if the issue LANXESS Finance B.V. under the debt issuance program in price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the stock fiscal 2012 likewise contain corresponding change-of-control market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued clauses. These placements have now also been taken over by shares do not exceed 10 % of the company’s capital stock. LANXESS AG. Equally, the terms of the bonds with a volume In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 of LANXESS of €500 million (maturity 2021) and €500 million (maturity AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on 2026), respectively, issued by LANXESS AG in 2016 under LANXESS Annual Report 2016 152 Combined Management Report the debt issuance program contain corresponding change-ofReport pursuant to Section 289a control clauses. The terms of the subordinated hybrid bond of the German Commercial Code with a volume of €500 million also issued by LANXESS AG in 2016 contain a change-of-control clause as well. According The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have isto these terms, in the event of a change of control and in sued the corporate governance declaration pursuant to Section connection with certain events that affect its rating, LANXESS 289a of the German Commercial Code (HGB). This has been AG must pay bondholders an increased rate of interest if the made available to the stockholders and can be found on our webcompany does not make use of the right of termination that site at www.lanxess.com under Investor Relations/Corporate is similarly available. The company has entered into an agreeGovernance. ment with a syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility with a current volume of €1,250 million. This agreement can be terminated without notice if another company or person Report on risks, opportunities takes control of more than 50 % of LANXESS AG. In addition, and future perspectives a further bridge loan agreement has been concluded between the company and a syndicate of banks in connection with In the economic outlook below, we describe our expectathe acquisition of Chemtura Corporation; the agreed credit tions for economic development. Following the report on future line, which has since been reduced to €500 million, can no perspectives, we discuss the opportunities and risks which may longer be utilized if another company or person takes control result in deviations from our predictions. of more than 50 % of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according to agreements between the company and LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., the company is obligated to make considerable Economic outlook payments to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. in the event of a The interest rate turnaround initiated in the United States, change of control. although it is gradual, increases the risk of volatile exchange rates. In connection with the conclusion of an agreement with We expect low commodity prices to dent growth in the relevant Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A. to establish export countries. An escalation of the crisis in the Middle East a strategic partnership for synthetic rubber in which each could curb global growth in 2017, as could the still unresolved party holds a 50 % interest, it was agreed in the shareholders’ problems in the banking sector and the countries’ tight publicagreement that, in the event of a change of control at one sector finances. In Europe, growth may be held back by Brexit of the shareholders, the other shareholder has the right to and its as yet uncertain economic impact. In the United States, acquire the shares of the other shareholder at a reduced price. the planned fiscal measures may additionally stimulate growth; on the other hand, we would expect global growth to slow further 9. The service contracts between the company and the memif protectionist measures were to be put in place, especially in bers of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as the United States. between the company and members of the first and second levels of upper management of LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements applicable in the event of a change of control, as such change is more particularly described in the respective contracts. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report Pursuant to Section 289, Paragraph 4, and Section 315, Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code 153 Report Pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives In fiscal 2017, we expect moderate growth of 2.5 % for the In our Performance Chemicals segment, we anticipate a slight global economy, supported mainly by business performance in improvement in business performance. We also expect a positive Asia-Pacific. China should remain the driver of economic expancontribution in 2017 from the Clean and Disinfect specialties sion in Asia despite a slight weakening of growth there. At 1.5 %, business acquired from Chemours at the end of August 2016. growth in EMEA (including Germany) will remain at a low level, For our High Performance Materials segment, which inparticularly in view of Brexit, which will additionally dampen the cludes the business with plastics for lightweight construction in poor outlook in Europe. In the Americas, we anticipate growth of the automotive industry and for applications in the electrical and 2.0 % based on high consumer spending. electronics industry, we are predicting 2017 performance at the We expect chemical industry production to expand by 3.5 %. prior-year level. We believe business will remain challenging for our ARLANXEO segment in 2017. The ongoing price pressure in our EPDM rubber Expected Growth in 2017  business will persist in 2017 due to existing overcapacities, though Change vs. prior year Gross domestic Chemical we expect a moderate improvement for our butyl rubber products. in real terms (%)1) product production Overall, we expect a slight deterioration in fiscal 2017. The U.S. Americas 2.0 2.0 dollar is the key currency for our rubber business and we expect EMEA (incl. Germany) 1.5 1.5 Asia-Pacific 4.0 5.0 its average price to be on a par with the prior year. World 2.5 3.5 In the Reconciliation segment, we anticipate lower expenses for currency hedging than in the prior year. 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5 %. Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight Against the background of the expected performance of our segments, we predict that EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year 2017 will be slightly higher compared with the prior year. This takes The following table shows the anticipated evolution of our account of the anticipated cost savings from our realignment and selling markets. a contribution from the acquired Chemours Clean and Disinfect specialties business. For LANXESS, fiscal 2017 will be marked by integration and Expected Evolution of Major User Industries in 2017  the ongoing strategic realignment of the company, especially Tires AutoAgro­ Conafter closing the acquisition of U.S. chemical company Chemtura, Change vs. prior year motive chemi­struccals tion which is expected by mid-2017 and would make an additional in real terms (%)1) contribution to the expected earnings position in 2017 described Americas 4.0 1.5 3.5 2.0 EMEA (incl. Germany) 1.0 3.5 2.0 2.5 here. Moreover, we will continue to pursue the organic growth Asia-Pacific 2.5 1.5 3.0 4.0 projects we announced back in 2015. World 2.0 2.0 2.5 3.0 We anticipate moderate increases in procurement prices 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5 % especially for petrochemical raw materials compared with 2016. Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight We expect a continuation of the volatility in raw material prices that has now been ongoing for several years and is in some cases substantial. Future perspectives The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for our businesses. Expected earnings position of the LANXESS Group In fiscal 2017, we expect our existing business to post a slightly positive performance. The forecast moderate growth of the global economy should have a corresponding effect on our earnings performance. For the Advanced Intermediates segment, we expect business in 2017 to be stable overall at the prior-year level. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 154 Combined Management Report Expected financial position of the LANXESS Group Expected earnings position of LANXESS AG In fiscal 2017, we expect the financial statements of LANXESS Liquidity situation AG to show substantially lower net income than in 2016. The prior LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking and year was influenced by special effects resulting from the establishconservative financial policy in the current year. With around ment of ARLANXEO, a merger and changes in commercial law €4.3 billion in cash and undrawn credit lines as of the end of concerning the valuation of pension obligations. Other than by 2016, as described under “Financial condition,” we have a very the administration expenses the company incurs in performing its good liquidity and financing position. We have thus secured the tasks as a management holding company, net income is impacted liquidity needed in the short term for the planned acquisition of by the financial result, especially the net interest position and the Chemtura as well as the entrepreneurial flexibility required in the balance of income and losses from investments in affiliated comlong term to implement our strategy. panies. We expect the net interest position to decline on account of the changed financing structure. The balance of income and Capital expenditures losses from investments in affiliated companies and the correAs in the past fiscal year, our capital expenditures will be sponding ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will depend primarily directed toward the maintenance of existing production in large measure on the profit transfers and dividends paid by the facilities as well as efficiency improvements and the expansion of other companies of the LANXESS Group. We will maintain our existing plants. At the end of 2015, we already announced capital consistent dividend policy and expect LANXESS AG to report a expenditures of around €60 million to construct two new producdistributable profit that will enable our stockholders to adequately tion lines for our Saltigo business unit at the Central Organics participate in the LANXESS Group’s earnings in the coming year. Pilot Plant (ZeTO) in Leverkusen, Germany. They are scheduled to start up at the end of 2017. In the current year, we expect total Dividend policy cash outflows for capital expenditures of around €450 million to LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. For future div€500 million. In this way, we are still seeking to achieve a balanced idend proposals, we intend to increase the dividend if possible but investment cycle to ensure our financial headroom. at least to maintain it at a stable level. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG will therefore propose to Financing measures the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017, that a dividend LANXESS is in a good position due to the long-term nature of €0.70 per share be declared for fiscal year 2016. of its financing. Financing for the Chemtura acquisition had already been secured in 2016. In 2017, therefore, we anticipate Summary of the Group’s projected performance that LANXESS will be able to cover the acquisition of Chemtura We anticipate slightly positive business development in the and capital expenditures from liquidity and existing credit lines. current year. The same applies to the expected dividend payment. In 2017, Following the planned acquisition of U.S. chemical company no significant financing instruments will be maturing and require Chemtura, fiscal 2017 at LANXESS will be characterized by inrefinancing. We will continue our ongoing efforts aimed at securtegration and the ongoing strategic realignment of the company ing long-term funding as part of a conservative financing policy. We will also drive forward organic growth projects. We assume a slightly positive development of EBITDA pre exceptionals for the full year 2017. We will be continuing the strategic realignment of the Group in 2017 with the aim of achieving a more stable and less cyclical business profile. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives 155 Opportunity and risk report Roles of key organizational units Our business units each conduct their own operations, for Opportunity and risk management system which they have global profit responsibility. Group functions and Our success is significantly dependent on identifying opporservice companies support the business units by providing finantunities and risks in our business activities and actively managing cial, legal, technical and other centralized services. Complementthem. The goal of the opportunity and risk management system is ing this global alignment of the business units and group functions, to safeguard the company’s existence for the long term and ensure the country organizations ensure the required proximity to markets its successful ongoing development by identifying opportunities and the necessary organizational infrastructure. and risks and, depending on their nature, appropriately considIn line with this division of duties, we have assigned responering these in strategic and operational decisions. Opportunities sibility to risk owners for the following: and risks are understood as possible future developments or events that may result in either positive or negative deviations ›› Identification and assessment of opportunities and risks from business objectives. ›› Implementation of control measures (measures taken to exOur management system is based both on internal orgaploit or enhance opportunities and to avoid or minimize risks) nizational workflows that are managed by way of control and ›› Monitoring the development of opportunities and risks monitoring mechanisms and on early warning systems that are (e.g. on the basis of performance indicators and, perhaps used to closely observe changes in external conditions and sysalso, early warning indicators) tematically implement the appropriate measures. This approach ›› Risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon occurapplies equally to opportunities and risks. rence of a risk event) Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this ›› Communication of the key opportunities and risks to the system does not offer absolute protection. However, it is intended management committees of the business units and Group to prevent business risks from having a material impact on the functions company with a sufficient degree of certainty. The Corporate Controlling Group Function is responsible for Structural basis collecting and aggregating key information across the Group at The principles of our opportunity and risk management system the following intervals: are set forth in a Group directive. The management system, which uses the COSO model as the enterprise risk management frame›› Twice per year during the intrayear forecasting process work, comprises many different elements that are incorporated into ›› Once per year as part of the budget and planning process for business processes through the company’s organizational structure, the subsequent year and the medium-term forecast horizon its workflows, its planning, reporting and communication systems, and a set of detailed management policies and technical standards. The Corporate Development Group Function systematically The system is based on an integration concept. In other words, analyzes and measures significant and strategic opportunities and the early identification of opportunities and risks is an integral part risks with the goal of ensuring the Group’s long-term strategy. of the management system and not the object of a separate orgaTransactions particularly for the transfer of financial but also nizational structure. The management of opportunities and risks is operating risk (hedging transactions or insurance) are managed therefore a primary duty of the heads of all business units, as well as centrally by the Treasury & Investor Relations Group Function. This of those people in Group companies who hold process and project is explained in “Opportunities and risks of future development.” responsibility. This is why our opportunity and risk management is Due to the highly integrated nature of our general business based on clearly defined business processes, the precise assignment processes, we have specialized committees composed of repreof responsibilities, and reporting systems that ensure the timely prosentatives of the business units and Group functions which deal vision of the information required for decision-making for the Board with issues concerning the Group’s opportunities and risks. This of Management or other management levels. enables us to react quickly and flexibly to changing situations and their influence on the company. In addition, a Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer analyzes the material risks and their development for their potential impact on the company as a whole. The Risk Committee brings together representatives from selected Group functions to analyze existing measures to counter risks, initiate additional measures, define Group-wide risk management standards and guidelines and, if necessary, initiate further analyses of individual opportunities and risks. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 156 Combined Management Report The duty to report opportunities and risks to the Corporate Controlling Group Function, which works closely in this regard Controlling Group Function is based on the anticipated impact on with the business units. Certain Board of Management meetings Group net income or EBITDA pre exceptionals. All opportunities are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate planning and risks must be reported if their anticipated impact is more than outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks. We €1 million following the implementation of countermeasures. In monitor, and if necessary adjust, the annual budget in any given addition, those risks must be reported which have an anticipated fiscal year by regularly updating our expectations for business impact that was reduced by more than €10 million through the development. implementation of countermeasures. These minimum thresholds guarantee that the information gathered about opportunities and Compliance as an integral component risks is comprehensive and that the collection of information is not Risk management also includes preventing illegal conduct by just limited to material risks or risks that could jeopardize the future our employees. To this end, we obtain extensive legal advice conof the company as a going concern. The Corporate Controlling cerning business transactions and obligate employees by means Group Function centrally determines the top opportunities and of our “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and compliance at risks only after the information has been gathered. LANXESS” to observe the law and our internal directives and to There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on act responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprehensive specific risk issues such as unexpected operational events with compliance management system (CMS) that has been structured an impact of more than €10 million after the implementation of in accordance with the principles of an internationally recognized countermeasures. In 2016, there was no cause for immediate framework for enterprise risk management (COSO). This CMS is reporting of this kind. supported by the compliance organization, which is made up of The reported opportunities and risks are collected in a central the Group Compliance Officer and a network of local Compliance database and regularly analyzed for the Board of Management Officers in the countries in which we have subsidiaries. The oband Supervisory Board. This ensures that when new opportunities jective of the CMS is to ensure the observance of our compliance and risks arise or when existing ones change substantially, the principles. The Compliance function, which includes the global necessary information can be communicated in a timely manner compliance organization, reports directly and regularly to the to the Board of Management and therefore also be specifically Board of Management. integrated into the general management of the company. (Group) accounting aspects of the internal Opportunity and risk assessment control and risk management system Opportunity and risk management is integrated into the planThe aspects of the internal control and risk management ning and forecasting process and identifies opportunities and system relating to the (Group) accounting process include the risks as potential deviations from planned or forecast EBITDA pre principles, procedures and measures required to ensure the efexceptionals or Group net income. fectiveness, efficiency and propriety of the company’s accounting, Depending on the type of opportunity or risk, different caland compliance with applicable legal regulations. To this end, culation methods are applied in their assessment. Distribution clear organizational, control and monitoring structures have been opportunities and risks are described by scenario-based flucestablished. The distinctive features of the chemical industry and tuations in planning parameters (exchange rates, raw material the risk management tools we regularly use in this regard are prices, energy prices and economic development assumptions). taken into account. In addition to the (Group) accounting proChanges in these variables may result in either positive or negative cess in its narrower sense, this also includes the aforementioned deviations from planned or forecast figures. structured budget and forecasting process, and extensive contract Event-based opportunities and risks (such as the failure of a management. However, the effectiveness and reliability of the supplier or the occurrence of an insured event) that would only internal control and risk management system can be restricted impact earnings if they actually occurred are evaluated on the by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or other basis of the expected probability of their occurrence and effect circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are on EBITDA pre exceptionals or Group net income. applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group) accounting issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance. Significance of the Group-wide planning process Corporate planning is a core element of our opportunity and risk management. Events with a high probability of occurrence flow directly into the planning process. The processes for corporate planning and intrayear forecasting as well as the corresponding analyses and suggestions for action are steered by the Corporate LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives 157 The Accounting Group function, which reports to the Chief standards (COSO model). There were no material changes to Financial Officer, is responsible for the (Group) accounting prothis system during the period under review. Corresponding stancess and therefore for preparing the annual financial statements dards also apply to the single-entity financial statements of the of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the subsidiaries. LANXESS Group. It is also responsible for ensuring the uniform Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based preparation of the financial statements of the subsidiaries that are on a detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement included in the consolidated financial statements. The Board of calendar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. Management prepares the annual financial statements and the A further component is regular reviews of the correctness and consolidated financial statements, which are then forwarded to completeness of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee without delay. Upon segregation of duties as expressed in structured authorization and recommendation by the Audit Committee, the annual financial approval procedures and the dual-control principle as well as constatements and the consolidated financial statements are adopted tinual plausibility testing on data is applied end-to-end throughout and approved by the Supervisory Board at its financial statements the preparation and consolidation process. meeting. The Supervisory Board, and especially its Audit CommitFor the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries tee, deal with major questions relating to LANXESS’s accounting, subject to reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting opportunity and risk management, the audit mandate and the areas data using the above-mentioned consolidation system. Validaof focus for the auditor’s audit of the annual financial statements. tion rules integrated into the system ensure on delivery that the Quarterly statements are prepared for the first and third quardata reported by the subsidiaries are consistent. The accounting ters. The condensed consolidated half-year financial statements departments of the subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring the that are also prepared are reviewed, while the annual financial correctness of the reported data content, which is also tested by the statements and the consolidated financial statements are subjectCorporate Accounting Department within the Accounting Group ed to a full audit by the auditor of the company’s annual financial Function. To this end, the department evaluates standardized statements and consolidated financial statements. reports in which the companies explain material facts relevant to Our accounting in compliance with the German Commercial financial reporting. After the process-based controls have been Code is based on a structured process with appropriate organiapplied, consolidation including currency translation is carried zational structures and workflows, including the related working out in the same system, without additional interfaces, utilizing instructions. In addition to the segregation of duties, the dualboth automated and manual procedures. The correctness of the control principle and continual plausibility testing serve as fundaautomated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary mental monitoring tools during the financial statement preparation for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information process. On the IT side, the accounting process is supplemented that must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to by an integrated IT system that is based largely on off-the-shelf softthe extent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented ware and is protected by security measures against unauthorized by validation rules that are integrated into the system. access. The correctness of the automatically generated postings and the master data required for them is regularly reviewed. Manual postings are based on a systematic voucher system, documented to the necessary extent and verified downstream. The foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant consolidated financial reporting at LANXESS is the Group Financial Statements Guideline. This governs the way the provisions of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable to the Group are applied by the subsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, the guideline also defines the chart of accounts that is binding throughout the Group. On the IT side, the guideline is supplemented by a uniform, Group-wide delivery and consolidation system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected by security measures against unauthorized access. By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) accounting process, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices in line with the applicable laws and standards are applied and guarantee reliable financial reporting. The (Group) accounting-related internal control system we use is based on generally accepted LANXESS Annual Report 2016 158 Combined Management Report Regular coordination with other financial Group functions, parOpportunities and risks of future development ticularly the Treasury & Investor Relations, Tax & Trade Compliance Full identification of the LANXESS Group’s opportunities and and Controlling Group functions, assists the financial reporting risks is performed on the basis of a catalog of categories, which process. A continual exchange of information with the operating are summarized in the table below: business units and other Group functions makes it possible for the Accounting Group Function to identify and deal with issues arising Categories  outside of accounting processes. These include litigation risks, Procurement markets projections for impairment testing and special contractual agreeHuman resources ments with suppliers or customers. In addition, third-party service Plant operations and hazards providers are consulted on special issues, particularly relating to Corporate strategy the valuation of pensions and other post-employment benefits. Sales markets Finance Monitoring of risk management system and Legal, regulatory and political environment internal control system (ICS) LANXESS’s Corporate Audit Department within the Legal & Compliance Group Function oversees whether the internal control Subsequent reporting in respect of the main categories is and monitoring system works and whether organizational safegenerally based on a planning horizon of one year. guards are being observed. The planning of audits (selection of audit subjects) and the audit methods applied are correspondingly Procurement markets aligned with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual On the procurement side, the principal opportunities and self-assessment is also carried out in major Group companies, risks lie in the high volatility of raw material and energy prices. An operating units and Group functions. The Supervisory Board increase or decrease in the price of the materials we use directly exercises control functions, including regular monitoring of the results in higher or lower production costs. If prices decrease, efficiency of the management systems described above by the full write-downs may have to be recognized on inventories. In addition, Supervisory Board and by its Audit Committee. The Audit Comchanges in raw material prices result in higher or lower selling mittee reviews reports about the Compliance function’s activities prices – either immediately or after a delay. We mitigate situations and findings, the work of the Corporate Audit Department, and like this by following a sensible inventory and procurement policy. the status of the risk management and internal control system. Most of the company's raw material and energy needs are met In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by the external by long-term supply contracts and contracts containing price auditor as part of the audit of the consolidated and annual financial escalation clauses. Many agreements with customers also constatements. tain price escalation clauses. We also have the option of hedging this risk via derivatives transactions if liquid futures markets are available for hedging raw material and energy price risks (see also “Financial markets”). Additionally, we are constantly looking for ways to use our resources more efficiently so that we can offset higher costs by raising productivity. The volatility of raw material prices, especially for our key raw material butadiene, impacts our ARLANXEO segment in particular. To guard against possible supply bottlenecks due to factors such as the failure of a supplier or of an upstream operation at a networked site, we pursue an appropriate inventory strategy and line up alternative sources of supply. If we were to be forced to utilize an alternative source of supply, this could result in, for example, higher procurement prices or additional transportation costs. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives 159 Human resources At the end of 2015, aware that the steps already taken might not The risk of industrial action resulting from disputes in connecbe sufficient to adequately counter demographic risk, we collabotion with negotiations concerning future collective pay agreements rated with the businesses to launch a range of new initiatives that or associated with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out. We were given greater focus in the reporting year and are now being also face increases in our personnel expenses because of future gradually implemented. wage increases. Such an increase in the cost of human resources can be just as detrimental to earnings as increases in raw material Plant operations and hazards prices, as described above, but in the case of human resources A lack of plant availability due to disruptions can make it imwe cannot hedge the risk in futures markets or pass it on to our possible for us to meet production targets and adequately service customers. We counter this risk by fostering open communication demand, resulting in a loss of marginal income. We use a comwith our employees and their representatives in a culture of active prehensive range of measures to counter this scenario. These labor relations. Particularly with regard to the challenges to the include proactive facility maintenance, systematic training of our working world from globalization and increasing digitalization, we employees and regular audits to analyze weak points. Systematic make continuous use of existing dialogue platforms such as the safety appraisals and risk assessments also contribute to improvEuropean Forum, which brings together the works councils in ing plant and process safety. Implementation and application of Europe. We also actively seek dialogue with the representatives the various measures are subject to global compliance checks. of our employees, the trade unions and other interest groups in We also counter the risk of unplanned production stoppages by the other regions in which we operate, particularly concerning manufacturing certain products at various sites worldwide. corporate acquisitions and integration. Although LANXESS applies high technical and safety stanOur employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and dards to the construction, operation and maintenance of producissues relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor tion facilities, interruptions in operations, including those due to in the efficiency of our business operations. We take various apexternal factors, such as natural disasters or terrorism, cannot be proaches to mitigating the risk of losing this expertise. We seek ruled out entirely. These could lead to explosions, the release of to increase our employees’ loyalty to the company with attractive materials hazardous to health, or accidents in which people, propcompensation models, challenging jobs and international career erty or the environment are harmed. In addition to systematically options. We continue to invest in the next generation of employmonitoring compliance with quality standards in order to avoid ees, either by increasing the number of training opportunities in such stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against the Germany or by offering internship programs and scholarships for resulting damage to the extent usual in the industry. gifted students. Our Corporate Trainee Program has also proved Our product portfolio includes substances that are classified its worth in fostering upcoming management talents. as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health, The growing lack particularly of skilled employees in our we systematically test the properties of our products and draw our markets is a problem for us in Germany especially. That applies to customers’ attention to the risks associated with their use in the specific engineering qualifications but also to individual specialist context of our Responsible Care® activities. We also carry product careers. A forward-looking human resources policy will therefore liability insurance that is customary in our industry. remain one focus, which is evidenced by regular HR development In line with our forward-looking approach, product monitoring conferences, for example. In line with our needs, we continue to enables us to identify and evaluate potential hazards associated with foster our cooperations with research institutes, universities, colour product portfolio and initiate suitable measures if applicable. leges and high schools in Germany, as well as with public-sector entities both in Germany and all other key target markets. At many events and conferences around the world, we have positioned our company as an attractive employer and continue to seek early contact with highly talented young people. In Germany, where we have the largest headcount, we have established a LANXESS program to provide both financial and expert support for undergraduate and postgraduate students. We are also extending our loyalty program for particularly outstanding interns. Both these programs focus on the natural and engineering sciences. Back in 2011, the Board of Management established the extensive “Xcare” demographic program to deliver a structured approach to countering the risk presented by a lack of skilled employees. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 160 Combined Management Report Our information technology (IT) supports our business activiWhen gathering information in the context of acquisitions, it ties worldwide, including the processes from receiving an order to is possible that certain facts required to assess an acquisition canreceiving payment and from placing an order to paying a vendor. It didate’s future performance or to determine the purchase price are is important that the people who use the systems receive correct not available or are not correctly interpreted. We address this risk and meaningful information when they need it. We support this by by conducting well-structured due diligence analyses and, where developing a uniform, integrated system architecture and investing possible, by concluding appropriate agreements with the sellers. in the expansion of IT services worldwide. Insufficient integration of acquired companies or businesses can The operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For examresult in expected developments not materializing. For this reason, ple, networks or systems may fail, or data and information may be we have processes in place with which full integration of acquired compromised or destroyed because of operator and programming businesses is assured. If assumptions concerning future developerrors or external factors. In particular, we are observing a growing ments – such as the realization of synergies – do not materialize, threat to our IT infrastructure resulting from outside attack. All of this might result in a write-down on assets. We monitor this risk these can cause serious business interruptions. To mitigate such by carrying out impairment testing at least once a year. risks, we invest in suitable data protection systems designed to Unlocking and exploiting operational opportunities is an imprevent the loss of data and information. Various security and monportant aspect of our entrepreneurial activities. We are committed itoring tools and access restriction and authorization systems are to using existing products and new solutions to advance our growth used to ensure the integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and sustainably strengthen our position in global markets. Investing and information and the trouble-free operation of systems. With a in new plants as well as expanding the capacities and increasing view to improving the security of our IT infrastructure, we evaluate the productivity of existing ones are key elements in these efforts. security measures for their suitability in defending against current The anticipated effects are taken into account in our planning or are attack scenarios. Where necessary, these measures are upgraded. reported as opportunities. In principle, we expect investments to Additional security systems are being established worldwide and yield benefits but they are also coupled with risks. Thus, for examexisting ones adapted to current needs as defense against new ple, the success of our investments in Asia has been substantially and specific threats. We also regularly inform the users of our impacted by the challenging competitive situation in the synthetic IT systems about IT risks, appropriate rules of conduct and prerubber businesses. The preparatory work for investments that exventive measures. ceed a specified significance threshold is the responsibility of the relevant business units. After review by an Investment Committee Corporate strategy set up for this purpose, the information is presented to the Board We actively pursue the strategic optimization of the enterprise. of Management for a decision. By following this procedure, we Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enhancement, strengthening ensure that investments are in line with our corporate strategy of core businesses, active portfolio management and proactive and satisfy our profitability and security requirements. participation in industry consolidation through partnerships, diSales and earnings effects expected from our investments vestments and acquisitions. Further information can be found and from acquisitions completed by the reporting date are already in the “Strategy” section of this combined management report. considered in our forecasts. These targeted investments may also The success of the decisions associated with these efforts is generate further operational opportunities because they enable us naturally subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future to unlock new potential and improve our positioning in key markets. (market) developments and the feasibility of planned measures. For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment could be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to be unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and systematically analyzing the information that is relevant to decisionmaking. During this process, the business units affected and the Board of Management receive support from departments with the requisite expertise and, if necessary, from external consultants. Our product portfolio is systematically aligned with key global trends that promise continuous growth in the coming years. With our products, we offer innovative solutions for these trends and generate recognizable added value for our customers. We are successfully positioned in those markets in which our product portfolio will enable us to particularly benefit from these trends in the medium and long term. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives 161 Sales markets Finance Our company is inherently exposed to general economic The Treasury & Investor Relations Group Function has the developments and to political and geopolitical change in the task of centrally recording and managing financial opportunities countries and regions in which we operate. Regional differences and risks. Chief among these are: in economic performance and the associated demand trends can affect the Group’s pricing and sales potential in its various Financial Opportunities and Risks  geographical markets, with corresponding positive or negative effects on its earnings. Our global presence, which we are conPrice Liquidity Counter­ Capital Insurance changes and party risks investments tinuing to expand in growth markets, enables us to participate in refinancing favorable regional developments and, at the same time, reduce Currencies Availability Customers Investments Shortfall our dependence on certain regions. This approach is discussed of cash in pension in cover in further detail in the “Strategy” section of this combined manInterest rates Access to Banks assets agement report. Raw multiand materials bilateral The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of the global capital Energies chemical and polymer markets and their dependence on demarkets velopments in customer industries harbor uncertainties for our business. As well as the influence of general economic development, the particular dependence of the rubber business in our In regular strategy meetings, the Financial Risk Committee ARLANXEO segment on customers in the tire and automotive chaired by the Chief Financial Officer reports on the outcome of industries can result in sales volatility. Additional and unplanned financial risk management, the current risk and further action. The sales opportunities may arise through access to new markets or aim of financial risk management is to identify and evaluate risks the acquisition of new customers. In addition to being subject to so that their impact can be controlled and, if necessary, limited. these demand-side market influences, our earning power can be impacted by structural changes in markets, such as the exit Price changes of existing competitors or the entry of new ones and the availCurrencies ability of additional capacities, regional shifts, the migration of Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in varicustomers to countries with lower costs, and product substitution ous currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the relative value of or market consolidation trends in some sectors. We counter such these currencies. Fixed exchange rates were used in our planning trends by systematically managing costs and continually adjustfor fiscal 2017. The development of the U.S. dollar against the ing our product portfolio, sharpening its focus and aligning our euro is of particular relevance. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar offering with innovative customer segments which will enable compared with the exchange rate used in planning would have a us to operate successfully in the long term. positive effect on our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals (and vice In our ARLANXEO segment, the synthetic rubber businesses versa). We have already entered into hedging transactions for continue to face intense competition, partly from new manufac2017 and 2018 to mitigate the effects of currency fluctuations. turers entering the market. In some business units, this may result Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial in further overcapacities and stronger competition on prices. We instruments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) are pursuing a product-specific strategy in these areas based on arise mainly when receivables and payables are denominated in factors such as product and process differentiation and global a currency other than the company’s functional currency. These positioning. Through the partnership with Saudi Aramco we inrisks and the currency risks arising on financial transactions, tend to achieve a strategic strengthening of our synthetic rubbers including the interest component, are generally fully hedged business in this competitive environment in the medium term. through forward exchange contracts. In the short term, therefore, the appreciation or depreciation of the euro against other major currencies can have no material impact on future cash flows. In addition, translation risks exist from converting entries in the financial statements from local currencies into euros for inclusion in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements. Unlike the effects of exchange rate fluctuations in the case of the transaction risk, the translation risk has no impact on the company’s cash flows in local currencies. In addition, material assets and liabilities in local currencies are subject to a longterm currency risk which is regularly estimated and evaluated. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 162 Combined Management Report However, currency hedging is only undertaken if LANXESS is Our main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit considering withdrawal from certain businesses and intends to facility, which remained largely undrawn on the reporting date. repatriate the funds released as a result. In February 2015, its original term was extended by one year to The opportunities and risks relating to operating activities are February 2020. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has shortsystematically monitored and analyzed. To this end, both sales and term liquidity reserves of €395 million in the form of cash and cash costs are planned in foreign currencies. In the long term, exchange equivalents and highly liquid investments in AAA-rated money rate fluctuations could adversely affect future cash flows should market funds. Furthermore, as of the reporting date, LANXESS had the LANXESS Group not be able to counter them, for example, by bilateral investments at banks, money market funds and commercial pricing its products in the respective local currencies. This risk is paper amounting to €2,125 million. Accordingly, the LANXESS minimized by partial hedging with derivative financial instruments. Group has a liquidity position based on a broad range of financing Hedging is performed in line with principles determined by the instruments. Board of Management and is subject to continuous monitoring. Counterparty risks Interest rates Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade relationMarket interest rate movements can cause fluctuations in ships with customers and dealings with banks and other financial the fair value of a financial instrument. They affect both financial partners, especially with regard to the investment business and assets and financial liabilities. financial instrument transactions. Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and fixed interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years managed using both internal and external information sources. will have only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. Customer portfolios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the risk profile is elevated. Raw materials/energies The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is In the course of its business operations, the LANXESS Group to collect all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and is exposed to changes in the market prices for energies and raw thus to minimize the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is materials. As a rule, these changes are passed on to customers. computer-assisted, based on the payment terms agreed with the Where certain market-price risks for energies and raw materials customers. These are generally based on the customary payment cannot be passed on to customers in their entirety, they may be terms for the business or country. Reminders are sent out at regular hedged on a case-by-case basis by forward commodity conintervals if payments are overdue. The maximum risk of default tracts in order to reduce the volatility of cash flows. LANXESS on receivables, cash and cash equivalents, near-cash assets, had only a small number of forward commodity contracts as of derivatives and other financial assets is reflected in their carrying the reporting date. amounts in the statement of financial position (disregarding netting arrangements not reflected in the statement of financial position). Liquidity and refinancing Credit risk relating to receivables from customers is covered We ensure our access to the capital markets and our solvency by opening letters of credit in favor of the LANXESS Group for through a conservative financing policy and a target capital strucsome customers and by agreeing prepayment with contractual ture that is largely based on the ratio systems used by leading ratpartners. In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title ing agencies. Our conservative financing policy takes into account to goods until the contractual partner has paid the full purchase the risk of a change to our rating and the associated effects on price. The vast majority of receivables relate to customers with financial risk management, even though LANXESS has no direct very high credit standing. influence on the assessments by independent rating agencies. The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in the financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS Group, especially in the selection of banks and financial partners for capital investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks and other financial counterparties that have at least an investment-grade rating. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives 163 Credit risk management also includes global management about compliance can be found in the Corporate Governance of the counterparty risk relating to all existing relationships with Report and in the “Compliance as an integral component” section banks and financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular of this opportunity and risk report. attention to risk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could Regulatory measures may lead to the tightening of safety, jeopardize its continued existence. Through master agreements, quality and environmental regulations and standards in different the market values of open trading positions can be netted if a areas. These may result in additional costs, production bans and partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks. liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the implementation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration, Capital investments Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). Opportunities and risks associated with the investment of As well as direct costs that could arise due to additional measures pension assets are monitored by the Pension Committee, which necessary to comply with these standards, market structures could is made up of the Chief Financial Officer and representatives change to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and from the Treasury & Investor Relations, Accounting and Human customers to regions outside Europe. Additional requirements Resources Group functions. imposed by energy and environmental policy, such as the new emissions trading regulations, new environmental taxes and the Insurance redistribution of costs associated with the German Renewable The LANXESS Group carries insurance cover against mateEnergy Act, could result in higher costs and in part substantial rial risks such as those arising from property damage, business disadvantages in international competition. With a view to mitigatinterruption and product liability. If a loss event occurs, LANXESS ing this risk, we engage in active energy management to reduce must therefore pay only those damages in excess of the deductible. the consumption of energy. We are also discussing the economic However, there is a residual risk of events that are not covered by consequences of increasing energy prices with the authorities the insurance or which result in damages in excess of the cover and government – either directly or in cooperation with other guaranteed by the insurer. energy-intensive companies via industry organizations. LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which Legal, regulatory and political environment chemicals have been produced for periods that in some cases exCompanies in the LANXESS Group are subject to legal risks ceed 140 years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal and are parties to various litigations. The outcome of individual facilities. The possibility cannot be ruled out that ground pollution proceedings cannot be predicted with assurance due to the unoccurred during these periods that has not been identified to date. certainties always associated with legal disputes. To the extent We are committed to the Responsible Care® initiative and pursue necessary in light of the known circumstances in each case, we active environmental management and proactive environmental have set up risk provisions for the event that the outcome of such protection management. This includes constant monitoring and proceedings is unfavorable to LANXESS. Taking into account testing of the soil, groundwater and air and of various emissions. existing provisions and insurance, as well as agreements reached We have set up sufficient provisions for necessary containment with third parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal disor remediation measures in areas with identified contamination. putes, it is currently estimated that none of these proceedings will Additional information on our environmental provisions can be materially affect our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. found in Note [15], “Other non-current and current provisions,” As an approach to avoiding legal risks, LANXESS has esto the consolidated financial statements. tablished an extensive compliance management system (CMS) Any violations of foreign trade regulations may result in proincorporating a range of preventive organizational measures. hibitions and restrictions on LANXESS’s export activities and the Among the main risks LANXESS has identified are those relating loss of its privileges in respect of export procedures. In individual to antitrust legislation, plant safety and environmental protection, cases, this may also result in fines, trade sanctions and loss of foreign trade legislation and corruption. Within the framework of reputation. The LANXESS Group ensures compliance in foreign the CMS these issues are assigned as specific responsibilities trade and export control through the global implementation and to different Group functions that have established relevant comoptimization of appropriate and stable control instruments and pliance programs. In connection with risks relating to antitrust automated screening processes. By proactively monitoring trade legislation, for example, LANXESS has developed a program that policy developments, timely information is provided to both the combines classroom training and e-learning to ensure compliance with competition law. In this way, our employees and managers are schooled in the particular risks pertaining to their areas of business and made aware of their significance. This training is performed and documented at regular intervals. Our employees can also contact designated experts in the Legal & Compliance Group Function if they have any specific questions. Further information LANXESS Annual Report 2016 164 Combined Management Report operating units and the management organs concerning changes There were no changes to the categories for the 2017 planto foreign trade and the associated opportunities and risks, and ning year. appropriate recommendations for action are made. Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms Opportunity and Risk Profile1) of their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other % countries. Even if we believe that all circumstances have been Legal, reported correctly and in compliance with the law, the possibility regulatory and cannot be ruled out that the tax authorities may come to a different Economic Raw material political development prices Currencies environment conclusion in individual cases. +15 % +10 % Significance of opportunities and risks and result of opportunity and risk assessment +5 % The opportunities and risks of future development that we identify are categorized and grouped, as described above. Their Forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals significance lies in their potential impact on planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. Individual categories in which the opportunity or –5 % risk may produce a deviation of more than 5 % from our projected –10 % EBITDA pre exceptionals in the planning year are considered to be of medium to high significance. This also applies to groups in –15 % which this threshold is exceeded only on a cumulative basis across all the categories assigned to each group. Opportunities Within the context of opportunity and risk management for Risks the planning year, the economic developments, raw material 1) E  ventand distribution-based opportunities and risks in line with assumed scenarios; on account of the interactions between the various categories, prices and currency categories as well as the legal, regulatory and the effects of the opportunities and risks may not be added. political environment group were considered to be of medium to high significance. Based on the scenarios applied or the assumed probability of occurrence, these categories and this group could In light of its extensive global activities and its dependence on produce a positive or negative deviation of up to 10 % from our raw materials characterized by volatile price trends, ARLANXEO projected EBITDA pre exceptionals, which is our key controlling especially may be vulnerable to these risks, which we seek to parameter. The legal, regulatory and political environment group mitigate by means of suitable countermeasures. was particularly influenced by opportunities and risks in the energy and environmental policy category. Opportunities and risks in other Summary of overall opportunities and risks categories – such as legal risks – are of very little significance. The chemical industry worldwide remains in a phase of radical change, which naturally entails economic opportunities and risks. However, the three-phase “Let’s LANXESS again” program for the global realignment of the LANXESS Group initiated in 2014 gives us the headroom which will enable us to remain effective and competitive even in the evolving operating environment (see the “Strategy” section in this combined management report). In addition, the realignment will allow us to leverage strategic and operational opportunities and to make maximum use of growth potential. Despite mixed economic developments across regions and sectors, our risk exposure during the reporting year was not fundamentally or materially different from our risk exposure during the previous year due to our broadly diversified product and customer portfolios. However, with the acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect specialties business completed in the reporting year, we further expanded our position in mid-sized and less cyclical markets with a high margin and good growth prospects. With the planned acquisition of U.S. chemical company Chemtura we are LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Report on Risks, Opportunities and Future Perspectives 165 seeking to build on our additives business and become one of the world’s major actors in the growing market for flame retardant and lubricant additives. We point to the intense competitive pressure still facing our synthetic rubber businesses. Within the context of our realignment, we have found a strong partner for this in Saudi Aramco and together we have successfully launched the ARLANXEO operation. All planning is subject to a certain degree of forecasting risk, which could necessitate flexible adjustments to rapidly changing business conditions over the course of the year. This is particularly true in view of the fact that planning and forecasts in general have become somewhat less reliable due to the changes in our procurement and customer markets. The economic ramifications of Brexit and future U.S. economic policy represent uncertainties that are difficult to assess. In light of our present financing structures, our sound liquidity position and the headroom created by our realignment and in particular by the changes to our Group portfolio implemented or agreed in the reporting year, we are confident of mastering risks that arise in the future. Based on an overall evaluation of risk management information, the Board of Management at the present time cannot identify any sufficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would jeopardize the continued existence of LANXESS. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements 168 Statement of Financial Position 209 (16) O ther Non-Current and Current Financial Liabilities 169 Income Statement 210 (17) Non-Current and Current Income Tax Liabilities 170 Statement of Comprehensive Income 210 (18) O ther Non-Current and Current Liabilities 171 Statement of Changes in Equity 210 (19) Trade Payables 172 Statement of Cash Flows 210 (20) Further Information on Liabilities 173 Notes to the Consolidated 211 Notes to the Income Statement Financial Statements 211 (21) Sales 173 General Information 211 (22) Cost of Sales 173 Structure and Components of the 211 (23) Selling Expenses Consolidated Financial Statements 211 (24) Research and Development Expenses 173 Financial Reporting Standards and 211 (25) General Administration Expenses Interpretations Applied 211 (26) Other Operating Income 173 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory 212 (27) Other Operating Expenses 176 Change of Presentation 212 (28) Financial Result 176 Consolidation 212 (29) Income Taxes 177 Currency Translation 214 (30) Earnings and Dividend per Share 177 Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles 214 (31) Personnel Expenses 184 Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion 215 Other Information 187 Companies Consolidated 215 (32) Employees 215 (33) C ontingent Liabilities and Other Financial 191 Notes to the Statement of Financial Position Commitments 191 (1) Intangible Assets 216 (34) Related Parties 192 (2) Property, Plant and Equipment 216 (35) C ompensation of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board 193 (3) Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method 217 (36) Financial Instruments 193 (4) Investments in Other Affiliated Companies 224 (37) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows 194 (5) Derivative Financial Instruments 225 (38) Segment Reporting 194 (6) O ther Non-Current and Current Financial Assets 228 (39) Audit Fees 195 (7) Non-Current and Current Income Tax Receivables 228 (40) D eclaration of Compliance Pursuant to Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act 195 (8) Other Non-Current Assets 228 (41) Utilization of Disclosure Exemptions 195 (9) Inventories 228 (42) Events after the Reporting Period 195 (10) Trade Receivables 196 (11) Near-Cash Assets 229 Responsibility Statement 196 (12) Other Current Assets 230 Auditor’s Report 196 (13) Equity 198 (14) P  rovisions for Pensions and Other Post-Employment Benefits 205 (15) O ther Non-Current and Current Provisions 168 Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of Financial Position LANXESS Group € million Note Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 Assets Intangible assets (1) 300 494 Property, plant and equipment (2) 3,447 3,519 Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 0 0 Investments in other affiliated companies (4) 12 12 Non-current derivative assets (5) 1 1 Other non-current financial assets (6) 21 19 Non-current income tax receivables (7) 11 7 Deferred taxes (29) 361 442 Other non-current assets (8) 27 25 Non-current assets 4,180 4,519 Inventories (9) 1,349 1,429 Trade receivables (10) 956 1,088 Cash and cash equivalents 366 355 Near-cash assets (11) 100 40 Current derivative assets (5) 14 65 Other current financial assets (6) 4 2,130 Current income tax receivables (7) 44 67 Other current assets (12) 206 184 Current assets 3,039 5,358 Total assets 7,219 9,877 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital stock and capital reserves 1,317 1,317 Other reserves 1,313 1,257 Net income 165 192 Other equity components (485) (214) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 13 1,176 Equity (13) 2,323 3,728 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits (14) 1,215 1,249 Other non-current provisions (15) 271 319 Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 19 7 Other non-current financial liabilities (16) 1,258 2,734 Non-current income tax liabilities (17) 19 31 Other non-current liabilities (18) 108 93 Deferred taxes (29) 46 83 Non-current liabilities 2,936 4,516 Other current provisions (15) 411 406 Trade payables (19) 779 889 Current derivative liabilities (5) 100 42 Other current financial liabilities (16) 443 78 Current income tax liabilities (17) 85 44 Other current liabilities (18) 142 174 Current liabilities 1,960 1,633 Total equity and liabilities 7,219 9,877 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Statement of Financial Position 169 Income Statement Income Statement LANXESS Group € million Note 2015 2016 Sales (21) 7,902 7,699 Cost of sales (22) (6,154) (5,945) Gross profit 1,748 1,754 Selling expenses (23) (759) (781) Research and development expenses (24) (130) (131) General administration expenses (25) (284) (303) Other operating income (26) 207 147 Other operating expenses (27) (367) (222) Operating result (EBIT) 415 464 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Interest income 4 9 Interest expense (70) (72) Other financial income and expense (61) (62) Financial result (28) (127) (125) Income before income taxes 288 339 Income taxes (29) (121) (144) Income after income taxes 167 195 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 2 3 of which attributable to ­L ANXESS AG stockholders [net income] 165 192 Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) (30) 1.80 2.10 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 170 Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of Comprehensive Income LANXESS Group € million 2015 2016 Income after income taxes 167 195 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans 83 (233) Income taxes (24) 75 59 (158) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss if specific conditions are met Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (15) 179 Financial instruments (17) 68 Income taxes 5 (20) (27) 227 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 32 69 Total comprehensive income 199 264 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 2 56 of which attributable to L ­ ANXESS AG stockholders 197 208 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Statement of Comprehensive Income 171 Statement of Changes in Equity Statement of Changes in Equity LANXESS Group Capital Capital Other Net Other equity Equity Equity Equity stock ­reserves reserves income ­components attributable attributable (loss) to to nonCurrency Financial LANXESS AG controlling translation instruments stock­holders interests € million adjustment Dec. 31, 2014 91 1,226 1,253 47 (407) (51) 2,159 2 2,161 Allocations to retained earnings 47 (47) 0 0 Transactions with owners 0 9 9 Dividend payments (46) (46) 0 (46) Total comprehensive income 59 165 (15) (12) 197 2 199 Income after income taxes 165 165 2 167 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 59 (15) (12) 32 0 32 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans 83 83 83 Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (15) (15) 0 (15) Financial instruments (17) (17) (17) Income taxes on other comprehensive income (24) 5 (19) (19) Dec. 31, 2015 91 1,226 1,313 165 (422) (63) 2,310 13 2,323 Allocations to retained earnings 165 (165) 0 0 Transactions with owners (15) 102 2 89 1,107 1,196 Dividend payments (55) (55) 0 (55) Total comprehensive income (151) 192 121 46 208 56 264 Income after income taxes 192 192 3 195 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (151) 121 46 16 53 69 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (222) (222) (11) (233) Exchange differences on ­translation of operations outside the eurozone 121 121 58 179 Financial instruments 65 65 3 68 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 71 (19) 52 3 55 Dec. 31, 2016 91 1,226 1,257 192 (199) (15) 2,552 1,176 3,728 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 172 Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of Cash Flows LANXESS Group € million Note 2015 2016 Income before income taxes 288 339 Amortization, depreciation, write-downs and reversals of impairment charges of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment 418 481 Gains on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (42) 0 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Financial losses 66 56 Income taxes paid (98) (184) Changes in inventories 55 (45) Changes in trade receivables 64 (96) Changes in trade payables (26) 94 Changes in other assets and liabilities (33) 44 Net cash provided by operating activities (37) 692 689 Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (434) (439) Cash outflows for financial assets (11) (2,125) Cash inflows from financial assets – 66 Cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, less acquired cash and cash equivalents – (198) Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 45 7 Interest and dividends received – 10 Cash outflows for external funding of pension obligations (CTAs) – (200) Net cash used in investing activities (37) (400) (2,879) Cash inflows from non-controlling interests 9 1,194 Proceeds from borrowings 78 1,529 Repayments of borrowings (298) (422) Interest paid and other financial disbursements (76) (73) Dividend payments (46) (55) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (37) (333) 2,173 Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities (41) (17) Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 418 366 Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents (11) 6 Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (37) 366 355 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Statement of Cash Flows 173 General Information Structure and Components of the Consolidated financial Statements Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Applied Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS APPLIED LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group Its registered office is at Kennedyplatz 1, 50569 Cologne, Geras of December 31, 2016, were prepared in accordance with the many. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the by the European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretaconsolidated financial statements of the LANXESS AG, to which tions, together with the additional requirements of Section 315a, the auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafts­ Paragraph 1 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). prüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unqualified The mandatory first-time application of the following financial auditor’s reports, are published in the German Federal Gazette reporting standards and interpretations in 2016 currently has no (Bundesanzeiger). impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group: The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group for fiscal 2016 were prepared by the Board of Management of Standard/Interpretation LANXESS AG and authorized for submission to the Supervisory IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – Board on March 1, 2017. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory Amendments to IAS 19 Board to examine the consolidated financial statements and declare Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial whether or not it approves them. Reporting Standards, 2010–2012 Cycle IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations – Amendments to IFRS 11 IAS 16, IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of STRUCTURE AND COMPONENTS Depreciation and Amortisation – A ­ mendments OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL to IAS 16 and IAS 38 STATEMENTS IAS 16, IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial The consolidated financial statements comprise the stateReporting Standards, 2012–2014 Cycle ment of financial position, the income statement and statement IFRS 10, IFRS 12, IAS 28 Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception – Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, and IAS 28 the statement of cash flows and the notes, which include the IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative – Amendments to IAS 1 segment information. The consolidated financial statements were prepared in euros (€). Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ million) except where otherwise indicated. Assets and liabilities are classified FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS in the statement of financial position as current or non-current. AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT Further details of their maturities are provided in these Notes in NOT YET MANDATORY certain cases. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on the In 2016, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) basis of historical acquisition, construction or production costs of and the IFRS Interpretations Committee issued financial reporting the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, standards and interpretations, whose application was not yet manthese are used. They are explained in the section on accounting datory for that year and which the LANXESS Group thus did not policies and valuation principles. yet apply. The application of these standards and interpretations The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales is in some cases contingent upon their endorsement by the E.U. method. It is therefore possible that the dates for mandatory application The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements may ultimately be later than indicated below. is the calendar year. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 174 Consolidated Financial Statements Financial instruments IFRS 15 published in September 2015, the date of initial applicaIn July 2014, the IASB published the final version of IFRS 9. tion has been postponed from January 1, 2017, to annual periods This contains revised regulations for classifying and measuring beginning on or after January 1, 2018. In April 2016, the IASB financial assets and rules on the impairment of financial instrupublished further clarifications relating to the identification of perments. Beside already incurred losses, the expected loss model formance obligations, the definition of principal versus agent, and is used to anticipate and recognize expected future losses and to recognition of license revenues. The E.U. endorsed the standard set up provision for them. Further, the standard introduces new in September 2016 but has not yet endorsed the clarifications rules on hedge accounting. The new standard was endorsed by issued in April 2016. the E.U. in November 2016 and is to be applied for annual periods In 2015, the LANXESS Group set up a project on the introducbeginning on or after January 1, 2018. Earlier application is pertion of IFRS 15. This analyzed which business models and areas of mitted. The LANXESS Group will apply this standard prospectively the company are affected by the new requirements of IFRS 15. A from January 1, 2018. more detailed analysis was then performed of contracts and data In 2016, the LANXESS Group set up a project on the introfor these areas and a concept for implementation was developed. duction of IFRS 9. Based on the present status of this project, the This is currently being finalized. Practical implementation and any following effects are expected: necessary IT adjustments will be undertaken in fiscal 2017. The standard will initially be applied as of January 1, 2018, using the ›› The analysis of the classification and measurement of finansimplified retrospective approach. cial assets is at the finalization stage. Neither the new classiBased on the analyses performed, the following principal fication of financial assets nor the fair value measurement of effects are expected compared with the present method of revequity instruments is expected to have a material impact on enue recognition: accounting. ›› Implementation of the new rules on the impairment of finan›› One business model used by the LANXESS Group is the cial instruments requires the development of an expected manufacture of products on the basis of long-term sales loss model based on historical losses and future loss expeccontracts with a contractually defined minimum purchase tations. The concept for the expected loss model is still at requirement. Based on current contractual terms, under the development stage. A reliable estimate of the expected IFRS 15 in future the expected total revenue from sale of the impact can only be made following technical implementation minimum amount must be estimated for the full term of the of the concept. contract and allocated among the individual deliveries. The ›› Implementation of the new requirements for hedge accountchanges may result in a shift in the timing of revenues, which ing mainly relates to currency hedges. The concept to imwould be reflected as contract liabilities. By contrast, under plement the new principles is still at the development stage. the present method, revenue is recognized on the basis of the Consequently, a reliable estimate of the expected impact agreed selling price. Based on the present status of the projcan only be made following technical impact of the concept. ect, this will affect some consolidated sales in the Advanced In general, separate designation and measurement of indiIntermediates, ARLANXEO and Performance Chemicals vidual components of forward rates and the exclusion of segments. individual components is expected to lead to higher levels ›› Another business model used by the LANXESS Group is the of ineffectiveness. manufacture of customer-specific products on the basis of long-term supply agreements with a contractually defined minimum purchase requirement. Based on the rules Revenue from contracts with customers of IFRS 15, the LANXESS Group has no alternative use for The IASB published the new standard IFRS 15 on May 28, the products created under these contracts. Moreover, it has 2014. It supersedes IAS 11 and IAS 18 and introduces a fivea contractually enforceable right to payment for the minimum step model containing basic principles for revenue recognition. amount under the purchase requirement. Under the present These basic principles relate, in particular, to the identification contractual terms, in the future the revenue from the sale of performance obligations and the associated revenues and of the minimum amount will have to be recognized over the rules on the timing of revenue recognition. The standard also production period and thus earlier than at present. Contract introduces contract assets and contract liabilities as line items assets will be recognized for the corresponding receivables in the statement of financial position for differences between the until the products are delivered. At present, revenue is recogrevenue recognized in accordance with IFRS 15 and amounts nized as of the delivery date. Based on the present status invoiced. The standard also contains further rules on specific of the project, this will affect some consolidated sales in the issues and requires additional disclosures in the notes on the Advanced Intermediates segment. type, level, timing and uncertainties relating to revenues from contracts with customers. As a result of the amendment to LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory 175 Reliable quantification of the shift in the timing of revenue ing the lease liabilities are recorded in the income statement. For recognition for these two business models will only be possible lessees, the distinction between operating and finance leases once technical implementation of the concept has been completed. is abolished. The new standard also contains options for the treatment of short-term leases and leases of low value. If these ›› All segments use a business model where the sale of prodoptions are applied, the costs of these leases are recognized as ucts includes organizing freight services. Under IFRS 15, current expenses. There are no significant changes for lessors. the timing of revenue recognition is based on the transfer of The new standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning control to the customer. Based on the present status of the on or after January 1, 2019. Earlier application is permitted if analysis of the defined criteria, this will probably shift revenue IFRS 15 is applied. It has not yet been endorsed by the E.U. recognition to completion of the freight service, which means The LANXESS Group will probably apply the new standard from the freight service would not be treated as a distinct perforJanuary 1, 2019. mance obligation. This is expected to have a one-time effect In 2016, the LANXESS Group set up a project on the inas of the date of initial application, i. e. January 1, 2018, troduction of IFRS 16. Initial analyses of the impact have been because the impact on subsequent periods would be of the performed at Group level and possible technical solutions have same order of magnitude. been evaluated. If IFRS 16 had been applicable as of January 1, 2017, it would have been necessary to present the future lease payments relating to operating leases contained in Note [33] as Leasing discounted financial lease payments in the statement of financial On January 13, 2016, the IASB published the new standard position. No decisions have yet been taken on whether to apply IFRS 16, which supersedes IAS 17. Under IFRS 16, lessees will the options. The analysis of contracts and implementation of the recognize all leases as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability technical solutions are scheduled to start in 2017. in the statement of financial position on the basis of the present The following financial reporting standards and interprevalue of the lease payments. Depreciation and amortization on the tations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the capitalized right-of-use asset and interest expense for compoundLANXESS Group: Standard/Interpretation Date of Mandatory for Endorsed publication LANXESS as of by the E.U. fiscal year IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Jan. 30, 2014 − no IFRS 10, IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture – Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sept. 11, 2014 − no IAS 12 Income Taxes – Amendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Jan. 19, 2016 2017 no IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows – Amendments to IAS 7 – Disclosure Initiative Jan. 29, 2016 2017 no IFRS 2 Share-based Payment – Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement June 20, 2016 2018 no IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts – Applying IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” with IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts” Sept. 12, 2016 − no Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2014–2016 Cycle Dec. 8, 2016 2017/2018 no IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Dec. 8, 2016 2018 no IAS 40 Investment Property – Amendments to IAS 40 – Transfers of Investment Property Dec. 8, 2016 2018 no LANXESS Annual Report 2016 176 Consolidated Financial Statements CHANGE OF PRESENTATION Fully consolidated companies Business combinations are accounted for using the acquiTo enhance transparency and allow more appropriate allosition method. The cost of a business combination is stated as cation to the individual categories of the statement of cash flows, the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the from 2016 cash outflows for external funding of pension liabiliassets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity ties through contractual trust arrangements (CTA) are no longer instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. It also allocated to cash flows for operating activities. Instead, they are contains the fair value of assets and liabilities resulting from conallocated to cash flows for investing activities in line with their tingent consideration contracts. nature as reinsurance and thus investing activities. For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date. CONSOLIDATION For each business combination, there is an option to include any shares not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro rata The financial statements of the consolidated companies share of the fair value of the acquiree’s net assets. They are reportwere prepared using uniform accounting policies and valuation ed in the statement of financial position as equity attributable to principles. non-controlling interests. If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt December 31, interim financial statements are prepared for the or equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss. purpose of consolidation. Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess Intra-Group profits, losses, sales, income and expenses as of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling well as receivables and payables between consolidated companies interests and the fair value of any previously held equity interest are eliminated. over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is immediately recognized in profit or loss after the purchase price allocation has been re-examined. Scope of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the control of Investments accounted for using LANXESS AG. Control exists if LANXESS AG is exposed to variable the equity method returns from the relationship with a company and has power over The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the eqthe company. Power means that LANXESS AG has existing rights uity method is adjusted annually by the percentage of any change that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage interest in company and thus exert a significant influence over the variable the entity. If any decline in value exceeds the carrying amount of returns. The ability to control another company generally derives the entity, write-downs are recognized on the associated nonfrom direct or indirect ownership of a majority of the voting rights. current assets. If the carrying amount of the entity and the assoIn the case of structured entities, control normally derives from ciated assets are reduced to zero, liabilities would be recognized contractual agreements. A company is consolidated as of the if the owner has entered into a legal or substantive obligation, date from which LANXESS AG is able to exercise control and e.g. to offset pro rata losses, or has made payments for the entity. deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. Differences arising from the first-time accounting for investInterests in associates in which the LANXESS Group exerts ments using the equity method are determined according to the a significant influence, generally through an ownership interest same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is between 20 % and 50 %, and interests in joint ventures are acincluded in the carrying amount of the entity. counted for using the equity method. Entities that are in aggregate immaterial to the Group’s earnings, asset and financial position are not consolidated, but Joint operations are included in the consolidated financial statements at cost of Joint operations are arrangements in which the parties that acquisition. exercise joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the section the liabilities relating to the arrangement. LANXESS accounts headed “Companies consolidated,” which also contains a list of for its share of the joint assets and joint liabilities of such joint companies. operations and its share of the revenues and expenses, including its share of jointly incurred expenses. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Change of Presentation 177 Consolidation Currency Translation Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles Transactions with owners Equity is translated at historical rates, while income, e­ xpenses Transactions with non-controlling interests, which do not and other changes during the year are translated at average result in a loss of control, are treated as transactions between rates. The differences between the resulting amounts and those shareholders of the LANXESS Group. Changes in ownership obtained by translating at closing rates are reported separately interests are accounted for by adjusting the carrying amounts of in other comprehensive income as exchange differences on the controlling and non-controlling interests. Differences between translation of operations outside the eurozone. the adjustment to the carrying amount of the non-controlling If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange difinterests and the fair value of the consideration paid or received ferences are reversed and recognized in profit or loss. are recognized immediately in other reserves and thus assigned The principal exchange rates used for currency translation to the equity attributable to the stockholders of LANXESS AG. in the LANXESS Group were: Exchange Rates CURRENCY TRANSLATION Closing rate, Dec. 31 Average rate In the financial statements of the individual consolidated €1 2015 2016 2015 2016 companies that form the basis for the consolidated financial stateArgentina ARS 14.10 16.70 10.28 16.33 ments of the LANXESS Group, all foreign-currency assets and Brazil BRL 4.25 3.44 3.69 3.86 China CNY 7.06 7.32 6.97 7.35 liabilities are translated at closing rates, irrespective of whether United Kingdom GBP 0.73 0.86 0.73 0.82 they are hedged. Forward contracts serving as economic hedges India INR 72.02 71.60 71.19 74.34 against fluctuations in exchange rates are reflected at fair value. Japan JPY 131.07 123.40 134.31 120.29 Exchange differences resulting from currency translation are Canada CAD 1.51 1.42 1.42 1.47 reflected in profit or loss in the net exchange result within other Singapore SGD 1.54 1.52 1.53 1.53 financial income and expense. South Africa ZAR 16.95 14.46 14.17 16.27 The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on United States USD 1.09 1.05 1.11 1.11 the basis of the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the majority of foreign companies are financially, economically and organizationally autonomous and their functional currencies are ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND therefore the respective local currencies. The assets and liabilities VALUATION PRINCIPLES of these companies are translated at closing rates, while income and expense items are translated at average rates for the year. The accounting policies and valuation principles are the Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is resame as those used in the previous fiscal year and have been corded in the currency of the acquired entity and translated at the consistently applied. However, certain changes have resulted from closing rate, irrespective of the date on which it arose. the mandatory first-time application in 2016 of new or amended financial reporting standards and interpretations. These changes are explained in the section headed “Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied.” Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets such as software, concessions, industrial property rights, similar rights and assets, and licenses to such rights and assets. Acquired intangible assets with a definite useful life are recognized at cost and amortized over their respective useful lives using the straight-line method. The amortization for intangible assets other than goodwill is between 3 and 20 years. Amortization in the reporting period is allocated to the respective functional areas. Any further decline in value is recognized by means of a write-down. Write-downs are reversed in the following year if the reasons for them no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the carrying amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would have been carried if the write-downs had not LANXESS Annual Report 2016 178 Consolidated Financial Statements been recognized or their current recoverable amount. The lower of Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recthese two amounts is recognized. Goodwill is not amortized. It is ognized directly in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition or tested for impairment annually or more often if events or a change construction costs are capitalized if they will result in future in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Any impairment economic benefits and can be reliably determined. charges are recognized in other operating expenses. Impairment Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants charges on goodwill are not reversed. are recognized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of The costs incurred for in-house software development at the related assets and depreciated over the period between one the application development stage are capitalized and amortized general overhaul and the next using the straight-line method. over the expected useful life of the software from the date it is Where assets comprise material components with differcompleted. ent purposes, different properties, or different useful lives, the Emissions allowances are recognized at cost. Allowances components are capitalized individually and depreciated over allocated free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority their useful lives. (DEHSt) or comparable authorities in other European countries When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference are capitalized at a value of zero. between the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or loss in other operating income or expenses. Assets are depreciated by the straight-line method based on Property, plant and equipment the following useful lives, which are applied uniformly throughout Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acquithe Group: sition or construction less usage-based depreciation. LANXESS does not use the revaluation model. Write-downs are recognized Useful Lives  for any reduction in value that goes beyond normal depreciation. Buildings 20 to 50 years In compliance with IAS 36, impairment charges are measured by Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years comparing the carrying amounts with the discounted cash flows Plant installations 6 to 20 years expected to be generated by the assets in the future. Where it Machinery and equipment 6 to 12 years is not possible to allocate future cash flows to specific assets, Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years the impairment charge is assessed on the basis of the discountStorage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years ed cash flows for the cash-generating unit to which the asset Vehicles 5 to 8 years belongs. Write-downs are reversed accordingly if the reasons Computer equipment 3 to 5 years for them no longer apply, provided that this does not cause the Furniture and fixtures 4 to 10 years carrying amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would have been recognized if they had not been written down or their current recoverable amount. The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment Leasing comprises the direct costs, as well as an appropriate share of In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantially the necessary material and manufacturing overheads. It also all risks and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred (fiincludes the shares of depreciation as well as of expenses for nance leases) are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and company pension plans and discretionary employee benefits the present value of the minimum lease payments at the date of that are attributable to production. addition. They are depreciated over their useful lives. If subsequent Where an obligation exists to decommission or dismantle transfer of title to the leased asset is uncertain, it is depreciated assets at the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its origover the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease term. inal condition, the present value of the obligation is capitalized along with the cost of acquisition or construction and a provision in the same amount is recognized. If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over a long period, the directly attributable borrowing costs incurred up to the date of completion are capitalized as part of the cost of acquisition or construction. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles 179 The future lease payments are recorded as financial liabilities. Investments in affiliated companies and the equity instruments Liabilities under finance leases are recognized at the fair value of included in non-current assets are classified as available-for-sale the leased asset at the inception of the lease or the present value financial assets and recognized at fair value, except where their of the minimum lease payments, whichever is lower. Thereafter fair value cannot be reliably determined, in which case they are the minimum lease payments are divided into financing costs and recognized at amortized cost. Where objective evidence exists that the portion representing repayment of the principal. In the case of such assets may be impaired, an impairment charge is recognized leasing contracts that do not include the transfer of substantially on the basis of an impairment test. all risks and rewards incidental to ownership (operating leases), Investments in companies accounted for using the eqthe lessee recognizes the lease payments as current expenses. uity method are recognized at the amounts corresponding to Property, plant and equipment also include assets that LANXESS’s shares in their equity in accordance with IAS 28. LANXESS leases or rents out to third parties under agreements Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value. other than finance leases. However, if the lessee is to be regarded Any gain or loss arising from subsequent measurement is reflected as the economic owner of the assets, a receivable is recognized in the income statement. in the amount of the discounted future lease or rental payments. All other primary financial assets are classified as available Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts. for sale and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to Where IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing arloans and receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent rangement, the components of the contract are recognized and measurement, with the exception of write-downs and of gains and measured separately. losses from currency translation, is recognized in other comprehensive income until the asset is derecognized. Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair valFinancial instruments ue less any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they are Financial instruments are contracts that give rise simultanemeasured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. ously to a financial asset for one party and a financial liability or LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating nonequity instrument for another. These include primary financial derivative financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit instruments, such as trade receivables or payables and other finanor loss upon initial recognition. cial assets or liabilities, as well as derivative financial instruments, which are used to hedge risks arising from changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices or interest rates. Derivative financial instruments and Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the hedging transactions LANXESS Group becomes the contracting party to them. Financial The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruassets are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive ments as assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. payments from them expire or the financial assets are transferred Changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. Where fortogether with all significant risks and rewards. Financial liabilities eign currency derivatives or forward commodity contracts used to are derecognized when the contractual obligations are met or hedge future cash flows from pending business or forecast transcanceled, or when they expire. actions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant financial In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments are date is the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the of financial assets in the financial statements. underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially here are subsequently reclassified to other operating income recognized at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amoror cost of sales, as appropriate, when the hedged transaction is tized cost using the effective interest method. Where write-downs recognized in profit or loss. Any portion of the change in value are necessary as a result of impairment testing, they are recognized of such derivatives deemed to be ineffective with regard to the using separate accounts. hedged risk is recognized directly in profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest rates – provided such derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting – are recognized in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit or loss as interest income or expense at the same time as the income from the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 180 Consolidated Financial Statements Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivInventories ering non-financial items based on expected purchases, sales Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary or utilization and held for this purpose are recognized not as course of business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in financial derivatives but as pending transactions. If the contracts the process of being manufactured for sale (work in process) and contain embedded derivatives, the derivatives are accounted for assets consumed during the production process (raw materials separately from the host contract, provided that the ­economic and supplies). They are valued by the weighted-average method characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not and recognized at the lower of cost and their respective net real­closely related to those of the host contract. izable value, which is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated remaining production costs and selling expenses. Determination of fair value The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring direct manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed the fair value of financial instruments are outlined below: and variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivcapacity utilization, where these are attributable to production. alents are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is It also includes expenses for company pension plans, cortherefore their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are porate welfare facilities and discretionary employee benefits that discounted using current interest rates to determine their fair value. can be allocated to production. Administrative costs are included The fair value of securities is determined from their market where they are attributable to production. price on the closing date, disregarding transaction costs. Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not The fair value of loans and liabilities to banks is calculated included in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as from discounted future interest payments and capital repayment the products are not manufactured using long-term production amounts. processes. The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair Given the production and distribution sequences charactervalues are the prices determined and published by the market. istic of the LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods If no liquid market price is available for a bond, its fair value is are grouped together. determined on the basis of observable inputs, using a risk-related discount rate. The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial Cash and cash equivalents liabilities due within one year is normally their carrying amount. Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and balancThat of all other liabilities is determined by discounting them to es with banks. Securities with maturities of up to three months from present value where feasible. the date of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash equivalents The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance in view of their high liquidity. leases are the present values of the net lease payments calculated using the market rate for comparable lease agreements. Most of the derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS are traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values as of the end of the reporting period pertain principally to forward exchange contracts and, to a small extent, to forward commodity contracts. They are derived from their trading or listed prices using the “forward method.” Where no market price is available, values are determined using recognized capital market pricing methods based on observable market data. In determining the fair values, adjustments for LANXESS’s own credit risk and counterparty credit risk are made on the basis of the respective net positions. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles 181 Non-current assets and liabilities The stock-based employee compensation programs (Longheld for sale Term Stock Performance Plan – LTSP) provide for cash settlement. Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be Provisions are established for the obligations entered into under sold in their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such such programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of the assets may be individual non-current assets, groups of assets rights allocated to employees. The fair value is determined using (disposal groups) or complete business entities. A disposal group the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and may also include liabilities if these are to be divested together with the expected payment is calculated from the value of the rights the assets as part of the transaction. based on a two-dimensional standard distribution of returns. The Assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated. fair value of the rights is reflected in a pro rata provision during They are recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell the vesting period. and the carrying amount. The stock-based compensation program for members of the Supervisory Board provides for variable cash settlement, provided that LANXESS stock has outperformed a defined index during Provisions their term of office. Provisions are established for the expected Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with obligations. IAS 37 and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best Provisions are established for restructuring if there is a legal estimates of the amounts of the obligations. Non-current portions or constructive obligation to do so on the basis of a detailed reof material provisions due in more than one year are discounted structuring plan adopted at the management level authorized to to present value if the extent and timing of the obligation can be decide on this, and the employees affected or their representatives assessed with reasonable certainty. Where the projected obligation have been informed. Such provisions contain the expenses that alters as the time of performance approaches (interest effect), the are directly allocable to the restructuring measures, are necesrelated expense is recognized in the other financial result. sary to implement these measures and not related to the future If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change operating business. in the estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or amount and the effect is recognized in the income or expense pending legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be item(s) in which the provision was originally recorded. reasonably estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits and legal costs and the cost of potential settlements. However, are established for defined benefit pension plans. The provision is litigation expenses are only included if it is assumed that they will measured according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, have to be borne by LANXESS. The amounts of such provisions calculated using the projected unit credit method. This takes into are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the account not only the known pensions and pension entitlements Group’s legal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed as of the closing date, but also expected future salary and benefit together with the Group’s legal advisers and adjusted if necessary. increases. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are fully recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. They are not reclassified to profit or loss in a Contingent liabilities subsequent period. Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual or existing commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably bonus payments, payments under multi-year compensation proestimated or which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources. grams and other personnel costs. They are not recognized in the statement of financial position unless they have been entered into in connection with a business combination. Liabilities Other current liabilities are recognized at repayment or redemption amounts. Other non-current liabilities are recognized at amortized cost. Subsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or construction of property, plant and equipment are reflected in other liabilities and released to the respective functional area of the income statement over the underlying period or expected useful life of the assets to which they relate. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 182 Consolidated Financial Statements Sales and other revenues The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made each closing date and only the amount likely to be realizable due or the service rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and to future taxable income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from deductions. This is normally the case when the significant risks loss carryforwards are recognized if it is probable that the carryand rewards associated with ownership of the goods pass to the forwards can be utilized. purchaser. It must also be sufficiently probable that the economic Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to benefits will be obtained and the costs incurred must be reliably income taxes levied by the same tax authorities. determinable. Customer rebates are reflected in the period in which the revenues are realized. Revenues such as license fees, rental income, Statement of cash flows interest income or dividends that are attributable to a subsequent The statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and fiscal year are accrued. outflows during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents The LANXESS Group does not have long-term production of the LANXESS Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, orders. Accordingly, the percentage-of-completion method is not investing and financing activities in accordance with IAS 7. The applied to determine when revenues are realized. liquidity reported in the statement of cash flows comprises cash and cash equivalents. The cash flows from operating activities are calculated using Research and development costs the indirect method. This involves eliminating the translation According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, effects and the effects of changes in the scope of consolidation whereas development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, from the changes recognized in the items on the statement of specific narrowly defined conditions are fulfilled. Development financial position. Therefore, the cash flows calculated by the costs must be capitalized if it is sufficiently certain that the deindirect method cannot be directly derived from the statement velopment activity will generate future economic benefits which of financial position. will also cover the associated development costs. However, since Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and the development and optimization of products and processes equipment are included in the cash flows for investing activities frequently involves uncertainty with regard to the ability to realafter deducting any third-party subsidies. Investments involving ize future economic benefits, the conditions for capitalization of finance leases, along with capitalized borrowing costs, are not development costs are generally not met. included. Comparison therefore should not be made between these items and the capital expenditures shown in the schedule of changes in property, plant and equipment. Income taxes Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in flows from operating activities. Disbursements made under the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are finance leases where LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as computed on the basis of local tax rates. cash outflows for financing activities, while cash inflows under Income tax receivables and liabilities relate to both the refinance leases where LANXESS is the lessor are recognized as spective fiscal year and previous years. They are assessed on the cash inflows from investing activities. basis of the applicable legislation, taking into account present legal Cash flows relating to the financing of pension obligations practice judgments and prevailing opinion. Uncertain income tax where future pension payments will be made directly out of items are recognized at their expected value provided that payment external plan assets are allocated to cash flows for operating or reimbursement is considered probable. activities. Cash flows relating to the financing of pension obliIn accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for gations where LANXESS only has a claim to reimbursement of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets future pension payments (CTA) are allocated to cash flows for or liabilities in the statement of financial position and the tax base investing activities. and for differences arising from consolidation measures or realizable tax loss carryforwards. The calculations are based on tax planning calculations and customary and realizable tax strategies. Deferred taxes are calculated at the rates which are expected to apply in the individual countries at the time of realization, taking into account the period for which deferred taxes may be used and any constraints on the utilization of loss carryforwards. These are based on the statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in relation to future periods, as of the closing date. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles 183 Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquiThe recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value sitions or divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities less costs of disposal and the value in use. If the carrying amount are included in the investing cash flows after deducting cash of a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an and cash equivalents acquired or divested. impairment charge is recognized in certain circumstances. The fair Interest and dividends received are also included in investvalue less costs of disposal – which represents the best estimate of ing cash flows, while interest and dividends paid are reflected the potential sale proceeds at the time of the respective impairment in financing cash flows. test – is the amount obtainable from the sale of a cash-generating unit in an arm’s-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal. The value in use is defined as Global impairment testing procedure the present value of future cash flows based on the continuing use and impact of the asset and its retirement at the end of its useful life. The first In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current step in assessing whether to recognize or reverse an impairment assets starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment charge is to determine the fair value less costs of disposal. If this is charges need to be recognized or previously recognized impairlower or higher than the carrying amount of the cash-generating ment charges reversed. If there are indications that this is the case, unit, the value in use is then determined. The fair value less costs of the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is compared with disposal is generally calculated using a net present value method its recoverable amount. In the LANXESS Group these analyses which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see under are performed at least once a year. “Fair value measurement” in Note [36]). As of January 1, 2015, the Butyl Rubber and Performance Determination of the recoverable amount based on the fair Butadiene Rubbers business units were combined to form the value less costs of disposal generally relies on a forecast of fuTire & Specialty Rubbers business unit, the High Performance ture net cash flows. This is based on the planning approved by Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers business units were combined the management of LANXESS AG, which contains estimates of as High Performance Elastomers, and the antioxidants and accelexpected market conditions and other factors such as future raw erators product lines of the former Rubber Chemicals business material prices, energy costs, functional costs, exchange rates and unit were integrated into the Advanced Industrial Intermediates capital expenditures. The interactions between these factors are business unit. For impairment testing of assets, the LANXESS reflected in the expected net cash flows. The estimates are based Group defines its business units as cash-generating units, with on management’s past experience, taking account of internal and the exception of the following cash-generating units which were external economic and industry-specific sources of information. defined in connection with the reorganization of the LANXESS Capacity expansions, reorganization projects and the resulting Group in 2015: Butyl Rubber, Performance Butadiene Rubbers, synergies, provided these can also be used by a third party, are High Performance Elastomers, Keltan Elastomers, Advanced reflected in future net cash flows through estimates. Determination Industrial Intermediates, and Antioxidants & Accelerators. of the value in use is based on a corresponding forecast of future If there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current assets net cash flows. However, cash inflows and outflows relating to below the level of the cash-generating units, impairment testing is expansion projects that have not yet commenced, restructuring performed at this level and impairment charges or reversals of imthat is planned but has not yet been approved, and the associated pairment charges are recognized in profit or loss where necessary. synergies are not taken into account. The forecasts used to calcuCash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are late the fair value less costs of disposal and to determine the value tested annually for impairment – or more frequently if events or in use cover a five-year period. The perpetual annuity calculation changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. The is generally based on the last year in the planning period and does carrying amount of each cash-generating unit, including the goodnot reflect growth rates. Where necessary, adjustments are made will allocated to it, is compared with its recoverable amount. For to reflect the so-called steady state of the perpetual annuity. Future the impairment test on goodwill in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers net cash flows are discounted using the weighted average cost of business unit in 2016, as in the previous year, the Butyl Rubber capital, which is derived according to IAS 36 from capital market and Performance Butadiene Rubbers cash-generating units were models, taking into account the capital structure and business tested as a group of cash-generating units. Moreover, the Adrisks specific to the chemical industry, and is extrapolated from vanced Industrial Intermediates and Antioxidants & Accelerators external market information. cash-generating units form a group for the purpose of the impairment test on goodwill in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 184 Consolidated Financial Statements If a decline in value is determined, an impairment charge Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the is first recognized for any goodwill assigned to the respective measurement of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are cash-generating unit. Any remaining impairment amount is alloexplained below. cated among the other non-current assets of the cash-generating At least once a year, the LANXESS Group conducts impairunit in proportion to the carrying amounts on which the impairment ment tests on its individual cash-generating units or groups of test was based. The recoverable amount of any non-current assets cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. Imbelow the level of the cash-generating unit is assessed and the loss pairment tests are also conducted if the need arises (for further is allocated, but only up to the recoverable amount of these assets. information see the section headed “Global impairment testing Any further impairment charge that would have been allocated procedure and impact”). to these assets is allocated proportionately to the other assets in Management’s assumptions and estimates used for the the cash-generating unit. impairment test conducted on assets in fiscal 2016 could difImpairment charges are fully recognized in the income statefer from the actual values in subsequent periods, necessitating ment under other operating expenses and reflected in the segment subsequent valuation adjustments. Management’s expectations reporting in the expenses of the respective segments. of future net cash flows therefore have an indirect impact on the If the impairment test on the cash-generating units indicates valuation of goodwill and other assets. The annual impairment a need to reverse impairment charges recognized on assets in tests are based on a discount rate after taxes of 5.8 % (2015: previous years because the reasons for the impairment no longer 6.6 %), while the impairment tests as of the closing date are based exist or have changed, the impairment charge is reversed only up on a discount rate after taxes of 6.4 %. The impairment tests of to the amount that would have existed after depreciation or amorthe cash-generating units showed no need for the recognition tization if the impairment had not been recognized. Impairment of impairment charges in fiscal 2015 and 2016. Compared with charges on goodwill are not reversed. Reversals of impairment the prior year, no need for reversals of impairment charges reccharges are fully recognized in the income statement under other ognized for assets in previous years was identified in fiscal 2016. operating income and reflected in the segment reporting in the In 2015, the LANXESS Group and Aramco Overseas Holdincome of the respective segments. ings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal 2015 and Saudi Aramco, agreed to enter into a strategic alliance for synthet2016 are outlined in the following section. ic rubber, named ARLANXEO, in which each party holds a 50 % interest. On the basis of the agreement, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units that belong to ARLANXEO – Butyl ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES AND THE Rubber, Performance Butadiene Rubbers, High Performance EXERCISE OF DISCRETION Elastomers and Keltan Elastomers – was valued at €2.75 billion in 2015. This was allocated among the four cash-generating units The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accoron the basis of the respective fair value less costs of disposal. dance with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and The recoverable amount of the High Performance Elastomers valuation principles and the use of forward-looking assumptions cash-generating unit, which is active in the production and marand estimates that may affect the measurement of assets and keting of synthetic rubbers with special technical properties for liabilities, income and expenses, and contingent liabilities. processing industries, especially automotive, construction and All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated fiengineering, was valued at €464 million on the basis of future nancial statements are based on management’s expectations. anticipated business development. In the ARLANXEO segment Information that could alter these estimates is reviewed continually (2015: Performance Polymers segment), impairment testing and may result in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the resulted in a reversal of less than €1 million of the impairment respective assets and liabilities. charge on intangible assets and of €37 million of the impairment charge on property, plant and equipment. The Antioxidants & Accelerators cash-generating unit in the Advanced Intermediates segment was formed as a result of the reorganization of the LANXESS Group effective January 1, 2015, through the integration of the antioxidants and accelerators product lines of the former Rubber Chemicals business unit into the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit. As a result of the reorganization, the cost structures were optimized in 2015, and a recoverable amount of €154 million was calculated. This led to a reversal of impairment charges recognized on assets in previous years of €2 million pertaining to property, plant and equipment and €17 million pertaining to intangible assets. The fair value less LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Accounting Policies and Valuation Principles 185 Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion costs of disposal was calculated using net present value methods Information on calculating the net cash flows can be found which are allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The in this chapter and the previous chapter. The Material Protection reversal of the impairment charges was limited to the carrying Products business unit is dependent on the development of variamount that would have existed if the impairment had not been ous industries, while the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit is recognized and was reflected in other operating income in the dependent in large part on market developments in the tire and auincome statement and in the respective segments in the segment tomotive industries, and the Rhein Chemie Additives business unit reporting for 2015. primarily on development in various processing industries. The The annual impairment test for the principal goodwill items High Performance Materials business unit is influenced primarily is performed on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal. The by market development in the automotive industry. The estimates goodwill items are carried in local currency. of future market developments on which detailed planning is In fiscal 2016, the LANXESS Group acquired goodwill of based are dependent on the respective customer industries and €93 million through the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect draw on management’s past experience, taking account of internal specialties business of U.S. chemical company Chemours. The and external economic and industry-specific sources of informanewly acquired goodwill was allocated to the Material Protection tion. Bearing in mind the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect Products business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment specialties business of the U.S. chemical company Chemours, and tested for impairment as of the reporting date. As a result of average annual sales growth of 5 % (2015: 4 %) is assumed for the newly acquired goodwill and currency effects, the goodwill the Material Protection Products cash-generating unit. The fiveof the Material Protection Products business unit increased to year planning period for the group of cash-generating units that €125 million (2015: €28 million). The fair value less costs of comprises the Tire & Specialty Rubber business unit assumes disposal was calculated using a net present value method which average annual sales growth of 5 % (2015: 2 %). Average annual is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. sales growth of 4 % (2015: 4 %) is assumed for the Rhein Chemie Further significant goodwill of €76 million (2015: €62 million) Additives cash-generating unit, and 2 % (2015: 1 %) for the High relates to the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. The change Performance Materials cash-generating unit. No growth rates are in goodwill compared with the previous year is attributable to reflected in the perpetual annuity calculation. In the current fiscal currency effects. The Rhein Chemie Additives business unit has year, lower EBITDA values than in the last planning period are goodwill of €21 million (2015: €21 million) and the High Perforassumed for the steady state for the Leather, Keltan Elastomers mance Materials business unit carries goodwill of €18 million and Butyl Rubber cash-generating units in the perpetual annuity (2015: €18 million). calculation. In 2015, in view of the overcapacities for synthetic rubbers in the detailed planning period, it was expected that the Tire & Synthetic Rubbers business unit would achieve higher EBITDA for the perpetual annuity in the long term than in the last planning year due to the anticipated increase in demand, especially for higher-quality rubber products. The impairment test performed on goodwill items in 2015 and 2016 did not indicate any need for recognition of impairment charges. Neither a one-percentage-point increase in the discount rate nor a 10 % reduction in expected future net cash flows would have led to the recognition of an impairment charge on goodwill items. The recognition and measurement of provisions are also affected by assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timing, the underlying discount rate and the absolute level of risk. The LANXESS Group performed sensitivity analyses on all provisions existing as of December 31, 2016, as required by the IFRS. These involved calculating the impact of isolated variations in the parameters used, especially the forecast probability of occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. The outcome of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in the assumptions described above would not have a material impact on the level of other provisions reported in the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. For further information on the sensitivity analyses relating to provisions for pension and other post-employment benefits, see Note [14]. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 186 Consolidated Financial Statements Defined benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial There is also uncertainty surrounding the assessment of cercomputations and measurements. The section on provisions for tain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS pensions and other post-employment benefits contains informaGroup believes it has presented all tax-relevant information cortion on the assumptions on which the actuarial calculations and rectly and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax estimates were based (see Note [14]). authorities may occasionally reach different conclusions. ProviFurther, the LANXESS Group is affected by legal disputes. As sions have been established where changes in tax assessments an international chemicals group, LANXESS is exposed to adminare probable. In addition, charges from tax risks from previous istrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business and years are not considered to be likely. In the event of unfavorable may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedings developments, LANXESS could be faced with additional charges generally involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are in the low-double-digit millions of euros. The calculations are therefore subject to a number of imponderables. The outcomes principally based on experience of the outcome of previous tax of any current or future proceedings cannot be predicted with audits and their impact on the subsequent periods and the apcertainty. It is therefore possible that legal judgments could give plicable legislation, taking into account present legal practice rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully covered, by and prevailing opinion. recognized provisions or equivalent insurance and that could Other significant estimates and discretion are used to assess materially affect the business operations, revenues, earnings or the useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipcash flows of the LANXESS Group. ment, the capitalization of development costs, the probability of The establishment of provisions for environmental protection collecting receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventoand remediation measures also involves uncertainty and requires ries and the ability to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets calculations and estimates of future costs. Information about recognized for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. this can be found in the section headed “Other non-current and The first-time consolidation of business operations also involves current provisions” (see Note [15]). estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion in determining the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion 187 Companies Consolidated COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group GRI G4–23 include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign affiliates. EMEA (excl. Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total Germany) Fully consolidated companies (incl. parent company) Jan. 1, 2016 21 10 4 5 17 57 Additions 2 3 1 6 Retirements 0 Mergers (1) (1) Changes 1 1 Dec. 31, 2016 24 9 7 5 18 63 Consolidated associates and jointly controlled entities Jan. 1, 2016 2 2 Additions 0 Retirements 0 Mergers 0 Changes 0 Dec. 31, 2016 0 2 0 0 0 2 Non-consolidated companies Jan. 1, 2016 3 1 1 3 1 9 Additions 1 1 1 3 Retirements (1) (1) Mergers 0 Changes (1) (1) Dec. 31, 2016 1 2 2 3 2 10 Total Jan. 1, 2016 24 13 5 8 18 68 Additions 2 1 4 2 9 Retirements (1) (1) Mergers (1) (1) Changes 0 Dec. 31, 2016 25 13 9 8 20 75 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 188 Consolidated Financial Statements GRI The LANXESS Group and Aramco Overseas Holdings Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain, and Rhein Chemie G4–23 Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of Saudi (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, are production companies Aramco, have formed a strategic alliance for the synthetic rubber in which LANXESS has a stake of 52 % and 90 %, respectively. business named ARLANXEO in which each party holds a 50 % These companies are fully consolidated because LANXESS holds interest. Financial closing of the transaction took place on April 1, the majority of the voting rights and therefore exercises control. 2016. ARLANXEO is still included in the consolidated financial The non-controlling interests in these companies have a negligible statements of the LANXESS Group and is fully consolidated influence on the activities and cash flows of the LANXESS Group. because the casting vote of the chairman of the Shareholders’ In the reporting period Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, MannCommittee of ARLANXEO, who is appointed by LANXESS, gives heim, Germany, was merged with LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, LANXESS the opportunity to determine key aspects of its financial Cologne, Germany. The non-consolidated company LANXESS and business policy. Mining (Proprietary) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa, was liquiIn connection with the structuring of the strategic alliance, ledated. Further, Sechste LXS GmbH, Cologne, Germany, LANXESS gal entities were renamed and new legal entities were established. Thai Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand, and LANXESS Additives Inc., ARLANXEO-TRSC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Wilmington, United States, were established. Nantong, China, is a producer of nitrile rubber. LANXESS’s share Cash transfers from companies in Argentina, Brazil, China, in its capital is 50 %. This company is fully consolidated because India, Russia, South Africa and South Korea are subject to reLANXESS can determine key aspects of its financial and business strictions as a result of regulated capital markets. These affect policy. approximately 20 % (2015: 10 %) of the LANXESS Group’s cash, Also consolidated in the EMEA (excluding Germany) region cash equivalents and near-cash assets. are the structured entities Dirlem (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at cost. These Africa, and Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust, companies are immaterial to the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset Modderfontein, South Africa. The purpose of these structured and financial position, since together they account for less than entities is to ensure employee participation in the company in 0.1 % of Group sales and less than 0.1 % of equity. accordance with South Africa’s Black Economic Empowerment legislation. LANXESS exercises control because the principal business activities were defined by LANXESS when the structured Acquisitions entities were established. LANXESS guarantees the value of the The LANXESS Group acquired the Clean and Disinfect speinterests in LANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, cialties business of U.S. chemical company Chemours effective South Africa, held and managed by these structured entities. This August 31, 2016. In this connection, LANXESS acquired all shares does not entail any material risks for the LANXESS Group. in Antec International Ltd., Sudbury, Suffolk, United Kingdom; DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, is included in International Dioxcide Inc., North Kingstown, United States; and the consolidated financial statements as a joint operation on a Chemours Jersey Ltd., St Helier, Jersey, and a production site in pro rata basis in accordance with IFRS 11 because the partners Memphis, United States. Initial consolidation took place as of this exercise joint control and purchase most of its output between date. The preliminary purchase price of around €200 million was them. The interest held by LANXESS in this company’s capital is paid out of existing liquidity. The new business was allocated to 50 %. The purpose of the company is to produce polybutylene the Material Protection Products business unit in the Performance terephthalate base resins and blends for the joint owners and their Chemicals segment. As well as expanding this business unit’s affiliated companies. This business relationship does not involve active ingredient portfolio, it extends the veterinary disinfection any material risks. value chain through to the end market. Further, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, is The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination an associate accounted for in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 3. For the purchase price allocation, the using the equity method (see Note [3]). LANXESS’s share in its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the busicapital is 40 %. Given its ability to contribute to material aspects of ness acquired were recognized at fair value. The purchase price financial and business policy decisions, LANXESS is able to exert allocation was performed on the basis of the information available a significant influence. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG principally on and immediately after the acquisition date. IFRS permits adprovides site services in the areas of energy, infrastructure and justment of the purchase price allocation within one year after the logistics for LANXESS’s production sites in Germany. In view of its acquisition date on the basis of new knowledge and information. status as a personally liable partner, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital in the future. Transactions with this company are outlined in Note [34]. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Companies Consolidated 189 Since the acquisition date, the new business has contribOther information on companies GRI G4–17 uted sales of €28 million and has not had a material impact on consolidated G4–23 the earnings of the LANXESS Group. The earnings contribution The following table lists the affiliated companies in accorwas influenced by remeasurement effects in connection with the dance with Section 313, Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial purchase price allocation. If the business had been acquired as of Code: January 1, 2016, the contribution to LANXESS Group sales would have been approximately €62 million higher compared with the Company Name and Domicile acquisition date, while the contribution to Group earnings would have been around €5 million higher. Interest held % The goodwill of €93 million resulting from the acquisition reflects, in particular, additional business opportunities with exFully consolidated companies isting and new customers, primarily in Asia and North America. Germany Approximately €69 million of the goodwill of €93 million is exLANXESS AG, Cologne – pected to be tax-deductible. Transaction costs of approximately ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH, Dormagen 100 €3 million in connection with the acquisition are included in other Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon 100 operating expenses. IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100 LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne 100 The following table shows the effects of the acquisition on LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl 100 the Group’s assets: LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne 100 LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Additions from Acquisition Fair values at first-time EMEA (excluding Germany) consolidation Antec International Ltd., Sudbury, Suffolk, U.K. 100 € million ARLANXEO Belgium N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium 100 Intangible assets 94 ARLANXEO Elastomères S.A.S., Lillebonne, France 100 Property, plant and equipment 16 ARLANXEO Emulsion Rubber S.A.S., La Wantzenau, Inventories 9 France 100 Trade receivables 10 ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands 50 Other assets 3 ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V., Total assets 132 Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands 100 Non-current liabilities 16 ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A., Granges-Paccot, Current liabilities 9 Switzerland 100 Total liabilities 25 Chemours Jersey Ltd., St Helier, Jersey 100 Net acquired assets (excl. goodwill) 107 Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52 Cost of acquisition 200 ­L ANXESS (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 Goodwill 93 ­ ANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., L Bratislava, Slovakia 100 LANXESS CISA (Pty.) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100 LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 L ­ ANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 ­L ANXESS Epierre SAS, Epierre, France 100 ­L ANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey 100 ­L ANXESS Limited, Newbury, U.K. 100 ­L ANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 ­L ANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100 ­L ANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 OOO L ­ ANXESS, Moscow, Russia 100 OOO L ­ ANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Ede, Netherlands 100 Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 190 Consolidated Financial Statements GRI Company Name and Domicile  Company Name and Domicile  G4–17 Interest held Interest held % % Fully consolidated companies Structured entities North America EMEA (excluding Germany) ARLANXEO Canada Inc., Sarnia, Canada 100 Dirlem (RF) (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 49 ARLANXEO USA Holdings Corp., Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust, ARLANXEO USA LLC, Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 ­Modderfontein, South Africa 0 International Dioxcide Inc., North Kingstown, U.S.A. 100 ­L ANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries ­L ANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S.A. 100 Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Germany LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Cologne 100 Latin America Sechste LXS GmbH, Cologne 100 ARLANXEO Brasil S.A., Duque de Caxias, Brazil 100 LANXESS Industria de Produtos Quimicos e Plasticos EMEA (excluding Germany) Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil 100 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 ­L ANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100 ­L ANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 North America Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 LANXESS Additives Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 ­L ANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Asia-Pacific ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers (Changzhou) Latin America Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago, Chile 100 ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 Petroflex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay 100 ARLANXEO-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China 50 Asia-Pacific ­ ANXESS Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., L LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand 100 Shanghai, China 100 PCTS Specialty Chemicals Malaysia (M) Sdn. Bhd., ­L ANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 100 ­L ANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China 100 ­ ANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd., L Other non-consolidated immaterial companies Ningbo City, China 100 ­L ANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 Latin America ­L ANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong 100 Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil 39 ­L ANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100 ­L ANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 ­L ANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, South Korea 100 ­L ANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 ­L ANXESS PTY Ltd., Lidcombe, Australia 100 ­L ANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 ­L ANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS (Wuxi) High Performance Composite Materials Company Limited, Wuxi, China 100 Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90 Jointly controlled entity Germany DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 Associate accounted for using the equity method Germany Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Companies Consolidated 191 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 1 | Intangible Assets Changes in intangible assets were as follows: Changes in Intangible Assets in 2015 Acquired Other Advance Total € million goodwill intangible assets payments Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2014 164 361 28 553 Acquisitions – – – 0 Capital expenditures – 6 14 20 Disposals – (2) – (2) Reclassifications – 6 (6) 0 Exchange differences (16) (3) 0 (19) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2015 148 368 36 552 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2014 (13) (220) 0 (233) Amortization and write-downs in 2015 – (31) 0 (31) of which write-downs – 0 – 0 Reversals of impairment charges – 2 – 2 Disposals – 2 – 2 Reclassifications – 0 0 0 Exchange differences 1 7 – 8 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2015 (12) (240) 0 (252) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2015 136 128 36 300 Changes in Intangible Assets in 2016  Acquired Other Advance Total € million goodwill intangible assets payments Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2015 148 368 36 552 Acquisitions 93 94 – 187 Capital expenditures – 10 15 25 Disposals – (7) 0 (7) Reclassifications – 15 (15) 0 Exchange differences 20 7 0 27 Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2016 261 487 36 784 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2015 (12) (240) 0 (252) Amortization and write-downs in 2016 – (33) 0 (33) of which write-downs – 0 0 0 Reversals of impairment charges – – – 0 Disposals – 4 0 4 Reclassifications – 0 0 0 Exchange differences (1) (8) – (9) Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2016 (13) (277) 0 (290) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2016 248 210 36 494 The changes due to acquisitions in fiscal 2016 relate to the chemical company Chemours. In the previous year, reversals of acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. impairment charges on other intangible assets related to impairment charges recognized on assets of the cash-generating units in previous years. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 192 Consolidated Financial Statements 2 | Property, Plant and Equipment Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2015  Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction € million Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2014 1,587 6,852 316 861 9,616 Acquisitions – – – – 0 Capital expenditures 40 155 23 219 437 Disposals (27) (123) (17) (2) (169) Reclassifications 220 567 15 (802) 0 Exchange differences 1 27 (1) 35 62 Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2015 1,821 7,478 336 311 9,946 Accumulated depreciation and ­w rite-downs, Dec. 31, 2014 (965) (5,041) (231) (46) (6,283) Depreciation and write-downs in 2015 (55) (346) (38) (4) (443) of which write-downs (1) (18) (2) (4) (25) Reversals of impairment charges 21 30 1 2 54 Disposals 27 122 17 2 168 Reclassifications (11) (33) 1 43 0 Exchange differences 4 0 0 1 5 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2015 (979) (5,268) (250) (2) (6,499) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2015 842 2,210 86 309 3,447 Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2016  Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction € million Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2015 1,821 7,478 336 311 9,946 Acquisitions 4 11 0 1 16 Capital expenditures 25 129 21 262 437 Disposals (10) (138) (22) 0 (170) Reclassifications 30 165 16 (211) 0 Exchange differences 30 110 7 14 161 Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2016 1,900 7,755 358 377 10,390 Accumulated depreciation and ­w rite-downs, Dec. 31, 2015 (979) (5,268) (250) (2) (6,499) Depreciation and write-downs in 2016 (61) (353) (34) 0 (448) of which write-downs (2) (6) (1) 0 (9) Reversals of impairment charges 0 0 0 – 0 Disposals 7 137 22 0 166 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences (13) (72) (4) (1) (90) Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2016 (1,046) (5,556) (266) (3) (6,871) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2016 854 2,199 92 374 3,519 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 193 The changes due to acquisitions in fiscal 2016 relate to the Data from the Income Statement and acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of U.S. Statement of Comprehensive Income  chemical company Chemours. € million 2015 2016 Write-downs were recognized on land and buildings, technical Sales 1,251 1,212 equipment and machinery, and other fixtures, fittings and equipOperating result (EBIT) 75 110 ment due to reorganization and other value-decreasing events. Income after income taxes 27 81 The reversals of impairment charges in 2015 related to imOther comprehensive income, pairment charges recognized in previous years on assets of the net of income tax 53 (57) cash-generating units. Total comprehensive income 80 24 Capitalized property, plant and equipment includes assets with the following gross and net values held under finance leases: Data from the Statement of Financial Position  Assets Held Under Finance Leases Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2015 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 Non-current assets 662 739 Gross Net Gross Net Current assets 526 582 carrying ­c arrying carrying ­c arrying Total assets 1,188 1,321 € million amount amount amount amount Non-current liabilities 1,026 1,106 Buildings 3 2 4 2 Current liabilities 272 307 Technical equipment Total liabilities 1,298 1,413 and machinery 91 60 88 56 Equity (110) (92) Fittings and equipment 18 9 19 10 Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest and 112 71 111 68 equity valuation 56 45 Pro rata loss not recognized in consolidated financial statements 54 47 Investments accounted for using Directly attributable borrowing costs of €2 million (2015: the equity method 0 0 €6 million) were capitalized. An average cost of debt for the LANXESS Group of 3.5 % in 2016 (2015: 3.1 %) was used for capitalization. The carrying amount of the investment in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG was unchanged from the previous year at €0 million. As of the reporting date, a share of the losses amounting to €47 mil3 | Investments Accounted for lion (2015: €54 million) was not recognized in the consolidatUsing the Equity Method ed financial statements. This loss declined by a net amount of €7 million in the reporting period due to income of €32 million, As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkuwhich was countered primarily by a loss of €23 million that was sen, Germany, was accounted for using the equity method. recognized in other comprehensive income and would not subThe following tables show the main items of the income statesequently be reclassified to profit or loss. In the previous year, ments, statements of comprehensive income and statements of the unrecognized loss declined by €32 million due to income of financial position of that company: €11 million and gains of €21 million recognized in other comprehensive income. 4 | Investments in Other Affiliated Companies This item contains interests in other affiliated companies totaling €12 million (2015: €12 million). As of December 31, 2016, all the other investments classified as available-for-sale financial assets – apart from the shares in BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States – comprised unlisted equity instruments. Since the fair values of these instruments at the closing date could not be reliably determined, they were recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of these investments. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 194 Consolidated Financial Statements 5 | Derivative Financial Instruments The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized losses on currency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income The derivative financial instruments held by the LANXESS in 2016, €12 million will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss Group comprise forward exchange contracts and forward comin 2017 and €2 million in 2018 (2015: €54 million in 2016 and modity contracts. They are capitalized in the consolidated finan€8 million in 2017). cial statements for fiscal 2016 at a total fair value of €66 million (2015: €15 million). Instruments with a negative fair value totaling Forward commodity contracts €49 million (2015: €119 million) are recognized as liabilities. The unrealized gains recognized in other comprehensive income in fiscal 2016 for forward commodity transactions that qualify for hedge accounting amounted to €0 million. The notional amount Derivative Financial Instruments  of the forward commodity contracts held for hedging purposes Dec. 31, 2015 was €4 million and they had a positive fair value of €0 million on Notional Positive Negative December 31, 2016. The contracts were due within one year and € million amount fair values fair values the hedged cash flows will be realized within the next year. There Current forward exchange contracts 2,334 14 (100) were no forward commodity contracts in the previous year. Non-current forward Information on the maturity structure of derivative assets and exchange contracts 463 1 (19) liabilities is given in Note [36]. Current forward commodity contracts – – – 2,797 15 (119) 6 | Other Non-Current and Current Financial Assets Derivative Financial Instruments Other Financial Assets Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Notional Positive Negative € million amount fair values fair values € million Non-current Current Total Current forward Available-for-sale financial exchange contracts 2,725 65 (42) assets 1 0 1 Non-current forward Other financial receivables 20 4 24 exchange contracts 121 1 (7) 21 4 25 Current forward commodity contracts 4 0 – 2,850 66 (49) Other Financial Assets Dec. 31, 2016 Cash flow hedges € million Non-current Current Total As of December 31, 2016, the unrealized losses recognized in Available-for-sale financial assets 1 176 177 other comprehensive income in 2016 or earlier periods from curOther financial receivables 18 1,954 1,972 rency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting amount19 2,130 2,149 ed to €14 million (2015: €62 million). In 2016, €36 million was reclassified from equity to profit or loss due to the realization of the hedged transactions and recognized as a loss (2015: €102 million). Currency hedging contracts concluded to hedge future sales in The other non-current financial receivables mainly comprise foreign currencies had a total notional amount of €452 million loans granted to site service providers. The increase in available(2015: €1,268 million). As of December 31, 2016, these confor-sale financial assets and current financial receivables mainly tracts had positive fair values of €7 million (2015: €4 million) and relates to the investment of liquid funds in connection with the negative fair values of €26 million (2015: €91 million). Contracts issue of bonds. Write-downs of other financial assets amounted to with a total notional amount of €357 million (2015: €881 million) €0 million, as in the previous year. They related to other financial were due within one year. The hedged cash flows will be realized assets that have been written down entirely. within the next two years. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 195 7|N  on-Current and Current Income 10 | Trade Receivables Tax Receivables All trade receivables – totaling €1,088 million (2015: €956 milThe non-current income tax receivables amounting to €7 million) – are due within one year. Of the trade receivables, €3 million lion (2015: €11 million) mainly comprise minimum tax payments (2015: €8 million) pertained to investments accounted for using the already made that are offsettable in the future. equity method and €1,085 million (2015: €948 million) pertained The increase in current income tax receivables to €67 million to other customers. (2015: €44 million) mainly results from prepayment of taxes and Trade receivables as of December 31, 2016, are stated after from receivables relating to disputed tax issues where reimbursewrite-downs of €17 million (2015: €16 million) on gross receivment is considered probable. ables of €19 million (2015: €17 million). The changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as follows: 8 | Other Non-Current Assets Write-Downs of Trade Receivables  Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less any write-downs. No write-downs were made in 2015 or 2016. € million 2015 2016 The other non-current assets amounting to €25 million January 1 (17) (16) (2015: €27 million) mainly include periodic accruals and other Additions charged as expenses (4) (4) Reversals/utilization 4 4 reimbursement claims. Exchange differences 1 (1) December 31 (16) (17) 9 | Inventories The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprised: as follows: Inventories Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2015 2016 € million 2015 2016 Raw materials and supplies 257 275 Carrying amount 956 1,088 Work in process, finished goods and of which neither impaired nor past due 858 954 ­merchandise 1,092 1,154 of which unimpaired but past due by 1,349 1,429 up to 30 days 76 109 between 31 and 60 days 11 12 between 61 and 90 days 2 4 more than 90 days 8 7 Inventories of €210 million (2015: €216 million) are reflected at net realizable value. The changes in write-downs of inventories were as follows: With regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired nor past due, there were no indications as of the closing date that Write-Downs of Inventories  the respective debtors would not meet their payment obligations. € million 2015 2016 January 1 (127) (107) Additions charged as expenses (70) (49) Reversals/utilization 92 53 Changes in scope of consolidation 0 – Exchange differences (2) (1) December 31 (107) (104) LANXESS Annual Report 2016 196 Consolidated Financial Statements 11 | Near-Cash Assets exclusion of the stockholders’ subscription may only be used up to a maximum amount of 20 % of the capital stock that exists at the The near-cash assets of €40 million (2015: €100 million) time the resolution is passed. The shares issued from Authorized comprise units of money market funds that can be sold at any Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights by way of capital time and are expected to be realized within twelve months after increases against contributions in kind shall not exceed 10 % of the closing date. the capital stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. The Board of Management will be bound by this condition until a future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize 12 | Other Current Assets the Board of Management to implement capital measures under exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights. Authorized Capital I Other receivables and other assets totaling €184 million and II have not yet been utilized. (2015: €206 million) are stated at amortized cost less any writedowns, which amounted to €1 million in the reporting period Conditional capital (2015: €0 million). They principally comprise miscellaneous claims As of December 31, 2016, the company’s conditional capital for tax refunds amounting to €145 million (2015: €137 million), comprised the following: mainly pertaining to sales taxes, and other reimbursement claims The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on from goods and service transactions totaling €30 million (2015: May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management until May 22, €50 million). The year-on-year decline is mainly attributable to 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one settlement of a receivable relating to site services in Germany. or more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profit-participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as 13 | Equity either registered or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to €1,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and Capital stock to grant option rights to, or impose exercise obligations on, the The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936 holders or creditors of these bonds in respect of bearer shares as of December 31, 2016, and is composed of 91,522,936 no-par of the company representing a total pro rata increase of up to bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. €18,304,587 in the company’s capital stock on the terms to be One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4 of the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus Authorized capital conditionally increased by up to €18,304,587 (Conditional Capital). As of December 31, 2016, the company’s authorized capital The Board of Management is authorized, with the approval of comprised the following: the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights in certain Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2 of LANXESS AG’s articles cases, which are set out in further detail in the authorization. When of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2013, deciding on the exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights, authorized the Board of Management until May 22, 2018, with the the Board of Management will take into consideration that the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the capital stock on issue of shares on the basis of other authorizations granted by one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against cash the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, for capital or contributions in kind up to a total amount of €16,640,534 (Aumeasures under exclusion of the stockholders’ subscription rights thorized Capital I). In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3 may only be used up to a maximum amount of 20 % of the capital of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. The Board of Meeting on May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management Management will be bound by this condition until a future Annual until May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of increase the company’s capital stock on one or more occasions Management to implement capital measures under exclusion of by issuing new no-par shares against cash or contributions in stockholders’ subscription rights. The authorization to issue bonds kind up to a total amount of €18,304,587 (Authorized Capital II). has not yet been utilized. Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital I and II are utilized. However, these rights can be excluded in certain cases which are defined in Section 4, Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the articles of association of LANXESS AG. When deciding to exclude stockholders’ subscription rights for Authorized Capital II, the Board of Management will take into consideration that the authorizations granted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, for capital measures under LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 197 Share buyback and retirement Data on the ARLANXEO Subgroup The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 20, 2016, authorized the Board of Management until May 19, Interest held and Proportional Voting Rights 2021, to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10 % of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted % 2016 by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of Interest held 50 the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its Proportional voting rights 50 subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be acquired either on the market or via a public tender offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any Data from Income Statement and Statement of purpose permitted by law, especially the purposes specifically comprehensive Income listed in the authorization. So far, no shares in the company have € million 2016 been purchased on the basis of this authorization. Sales 2,087 Income after income taxes 6 Capital reserves Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 105 The capital reserves of LANXESS AG are unchanged from Total comprehensive income 111 the previous year at €1,225,652,280. Income after income taxes attributable to non-controlling interests 3 Other reserves The €56 million decrease in other reserves to €1,257 million was principally attributable to the reduction in retained earnings Data from Statement of Financial Position from €1,154 million to €1,098 million. € million Dec. 31, 2016 Retained earnings comprise prior years’ undistributed income of companies included in the consolidated financial statements. Non-current assets 2,070 Current assets 1,369 They also contain remeasurements of the net defined benefit liabilTotal assets 3,439 ity from post-employment benefit plans and the related tax effects. Non-current liabilities 347 Current liabilities 760 Other equity components Total liabilities 1,107 The other equity components mainly comprise exchange Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1,170 differences from the translation of operations outside the euroDividend attributable to non-controlling interests – zone and remeasurements of derivatives for purposes of cash flow hedge accounting. Data from Statement of Cash Flows Non-controlling interests In connection with the establishment of the ARLANXEO strate€ million 2016 gic alliance as of April 1, 2016, the interest held by Aramco Overseas Net cash provided by operating activities 204 Net cash used in investing activities (159) Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary Net cash used in financing activities (19) of Saudi Aramco, in ARLANXEO is reflected in non-controlling Change in cash and cash equivalents from interests. business activities 26 This global subgroup, whose parent company is ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands, is presented in full in the following tables as the individual companies are not material for the LANXESS Group. The other shareholder, Aramco Overseas Holding Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, has protective rights in respect of, among other things, decisions on changes in the business model, equity, shareholder rights and the payment of a dividend. The transaction with owners totaling €1,196 million is preliminary and may still change when the final purchase price is determined. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 198 Consolidated Financial Statements Capital management Bayer-Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurThe main purpose of capital management in the LANXESS ance company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance Group is to maintain the long-term viability of the business opSupervision Act. Since the obligations of the participating entities erations and achieve an attractive return on capital compared are not confined to payment of the contributions for the respective with the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy fiscal year, Bayer-Pensionskasse constitutes a defined benefit defines an additional condition for capital management, which is multi-employer plan and therefore would generally have to be to maintain an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the accounted for pro rata as a defined benefit plan. Group has to meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most Bayer-Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of coverof these are derived from the statement of financial position, the age for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial equivincome statement or the statement of cash flows. Details can be alence principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This means found in the section headed “Value management and control that the sum of existing plan assets and the present value of future system” in the combined management report for fiscal 2016. contributions must be at least equal to the present value of the Capital management in the LANXESS Group entails decisions future benefits payable under the plan. The LANXESS Group is by the relevant internal bodies on the capital structure shown therefore exposed to the actuarial risks of the other entities paron the statement of financial position, the appropriateness of the ticipating in Bayer-Pensionskasse. Thus no consistent or reliable company’s equity, the use of the distributable profit, the amount basis exists for allocating the benefit obligation, plan assets and of the dividend, the financing of capital expenditures, and thus on costs that would enable LANXESS to account for Bayer-Pensions­ issuances or repayments of debt. The articles of association of kasse as a defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19. As LANXESS AG do not contain any specific capital requirements. contributions are based on future coverage of the total obligation, all participating entities pay contributions at the same rates based on the employee income levels on which social security contribu14 | P  rovisions for Pensions and Other tions are payable. Bayer-Pensionskasse is therefore accounted for Post-Employment Benefits as a defined contribution plan and not as a defined benefit plan. There are no minimum funding requirements, nor is there any Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retireinformation that could be used to estimate the future contributions ment benefits on the basis of contractual agreements or statutory on the basis of current underor overfunding. The statutes do regulations. These are provided through defined contribution or not provide for the sharing of any surplus or shortfall in the event defined benefit plans. that Bayer-Pensionskasse is wound up or LANXESS ceases to participate. Defined contribution plans LANXESS’s share of the total contributions to Bayer-Pensions­ In the case of defined contribution plans, the company pays kasse was unchanged from the previous year at approximately contributions into separate pension funds. These contributions are 16 %. Bayer-Pensionskasse has been closed to new members included in the functional cost items as expenses for the respective since January 1, 2005. year, and thus in the operating result. Once the contributions have been paid, the company has no further payment obligations. PayDefined benefit plans ments to defined contribution plans in 2016 totaled €49 million The global post-employment benefit obligations are calculated (2015: €48 million). at regular intervals – at least every three years – by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Comprehensive Multi-employer plans actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for all major The pension plan in Germany financed through Bayer-Penpost-employment benefit plans. sionskasse is also accounted for in the consolidated financial Contractually based defined benefit pension plans exist pristatements as a defined contribution plan. The above amounts marily in Germany, Canada and Brazil. include contributions of €26 million (2015: €26 million) to BayerPensions­kasse. Contributions of about the same amount are expected for the following fiscal year. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 199 The defined benefit pension obligations in Germany mainly Financing of the defined benefit pension obligations is relate to lifelong benefits payable in the event of death or disabilachieved both internally through provisions and externally through ity or when the employee reaches retirement age. Benefits are legally independent pension funds. The pension obligations in determined on the basis of the total annual pension increments Germany are partly covered on a voluntary basis via LANXESS earned during the period of employment and vary according to Pension Trust e. V., Leverkusen, Germany. The allocation of funds employees’ individual salaries. Additional pension entitlements to the LANXESS Pension Trust e. V. is dependent on future deexist that are related to salary components set aside by employees cisions by the company. In Canada and Brazil, it is mandatory and are payable when they reach retirement age. Alongside direct to primarily finance pension obligations through pension funds. commitments, the pension adjustment obligation assumed by Allocations to pension funds in these countries are determined by Bayer-Pensionskasse is accounted for in a separate defined benefit the regulatory environments and the need to comply with funding plan in accordance with Section 16 of the German Occupational regulations. Contributions are paid mainly by the employer. The Pensions Improvement Act (BetrAVG). investment strategy is determined principally by the LANXESS In Canada, the defined benefit obligations comprise, in parCorporate Pension Committee and is designed to protect the capticular, lifelong pension benefits, which are payable in the event ital, optimally manage risks, take into account changes in pension of disability or death or when the employee reaches retirement obligations and ensure the timely availability of pension assets. At age. The level of these benefits is determined from the total annual the regional level, the strategy is generally directly coordinated pension increments earned during the period of employment, and monitored by representatives of LANXESS via the relevant depending on the employee’s individual salary and the actual committees of the pension funds or of LANXESS Pension Trust date of retirement. The existing defined benefit pension plans are e. V., taking regulatory requirements into account. In Brazil, the closed to new members. investment of plan assets forms an integral part of the pension In Brazil, the defined benefit obligations comprise lifelong fund’s overall investment strategy and is basically managed and benefits, principally in the event of death or disability or when supervised by the pension fund. the employee reaches retirement age. The benefits are calcuMinimum funding requirements may have to be met for delated according to the total annual pension increments earned fined benefit obligations in both Brazil and Canada. These depend during the period of employment and also depend on individual on the local regulatory framework and are reflected in additional salary, the number of years for which statutory social insurance pension provisions. Funding surpluses from defined benefit plans contributions have been paid, and comparable statutory pension are recognized as receivables relating to pension obligations to benefits. The principal defined benefit pension plans are closed the extent that they can be used to reduce future contributions, to new members. taking into account the asset ceiling. These mainly relate to defined Only limited defined benefit pension obligations exist on the benefit plans in Brazil. The respective calculations are based on basis of statutory regulations. These principally comprise obligaactuarial valuations. tions to make a lump-sum payment if employment is terminated. The amount of this payment mainly depends on years of service and final salary. The other post-employment benefit obligations primarily relate to the reimbursement of retirees’ healthcare costs in North and South America. The other post-employment benefit obligations in Germany comprise other long-term benefits payable to employees and benefits payable upon termination of employment. These are mainly early-retirement benefits and collectively agreed salary components granted in the form of pension benefits. They are included in pension provisions as they are by nature pension entitlements. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 200 Consolidated Financial Statements In 2016, total expenses of €74 million (2015: €76 million) for The table shows the amounts recognized in other compredefined benefit plans were recognized in profit or loss and are split hensive income rather than profit or loss in 2016: between the operating result and the financial result as follows: Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans Pension plans Other Pension plans Other post­employment post­employment benefit plans benefit plans € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 Return on plan assets excluding Operating result amounts included in interest (56) (5) 0 0 Current service cost 39 35 1 6 Actuarial gains/losses from c­ hanges in demographic Past service cost 0 1 0 0 assumptions 0 (1) 0 0 Gains/losses from settlements 0 – – – Actuarial gains/losses from Administration expenses/taxes 1 0 0 0 changes in financial ­assumptions 81 (247) 9 (5) Actuarial gains/losses from Actuarial gains/losses from changes in financial ­assumptions – – 0 0 ­experience adjustments 17 (17) 5 1 Financial result Changes in effects of the Net interest 31 28 4 4 asset ceiling 20 41 – – Amounts recognized in Changes in effects of minimum profit or loss 71 64 5 10 funding requirements 7 0 – – Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income 69 (229) 14 (4) Administration expenses in the operating result contain expenses from the investment of assets that are not directly attributable to the earning of income on plan assets. The costs of managing the plan assets that are directly attributable to the earning of income on plan assets are recognized in other comprehensive income. The actuarial gains and losses relate to other non-current employee benefits or termination benefits that are included in pension provisions because they are by nature retirement benefits. The net interest is the balance of the interest expense from compounding the defined benefit obligation, interest expense from changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements, and interest income from plan assets. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 201 The change in the net defined benefit liability for post-emThe defined benefit obligation developed as follows: ployment benefit plans is shown in the following table: Changes in Defined Benefit Obligation Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability Pension plans Other post­employment Pension plans Other benefit plans post­employment benefit plans € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 Defined benefit obligation Net defined benefit liability, Defined benefit obligation, January 1 1,130 1,091 160 124 January 1 2,178 2,017 166 131 Amounts recognized in Current service cost 39 35 1 6 profit or loss 71 64 5 10 Interest expense 88 90 4 4 Amounts recognized in other Actuarial gains/losses from comprehensive income (69) 229 (14) 4 changes in demographic Employer contributions assumptions 0 1 0 0 (14) (234) (1) 0 Actuarial gains/losses from Benefits paid (24) (27) (23) (23) changes in financial assumptions (81) 247 (9) 5 Business combinations 0 1 0 0 Actuarial gains/losses from Exchange differences (3) 5 (3) 5 experience adjustments (17) 17 (5) (1) Net defined benefit liability, Past service cost 0 1 0 0 December 31 1,091 1,129 124 120 Gains from settlements (1) – – – Amounts recognized in Employee contributions 2 2 – – the statement of financial position Benefits paid (85) (82) (23) (23) Receivables from pension Disbursements for settlements – – 0 – obligations 0 0 – – Business combinations 0 2 0 0 Provisions for pensions and other Other additions 1 0 – – post-employment benefits 1,091 1,129 124 120 Administration expenses/taxes (1) (1) 0 0 Net defined benefit liability, Exchange differences (106) 93 (3) 5 December 31 1,091 1,129 124 120 Defined benefit obligation, December 31 2,017 2,422 131 127 The expected cash outflows for employer contributions and benefit payments in 2017 are €26 million and €51 million, respecOf the defined benefit obligation for pensions, Germany actively, based on year-end 2016 exchange rates. In the previous year, counts for 60 % (2015: 61 %), Canada for 20 % (2015: 22 %) and the expected cash outflows for employer contributions and benefit Brazil for 15 % (2015: 11 %). payments in 2015 were €15 billion and €48 million, respectively, The other post-employment benefit obligations comprise based on exchange rates at year end 2015. €67 million (2015: €58 million) for the reimbursement of health The components of the reconciliation of the net recognized care costs and €60 million (2015: €73 million) for miscellaneous liability are explained in the following tables, which show the other benefit commitments. The actuarial gains and losses from development of the defined benefit obligation, the external plan changes in demographic assumptions in 2016 mainly resulted assets and the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding from chan­ges in the law on early retirement in Belgium. Remearequirements and explain the major changes. surements of the defined benefit liability due to changes in actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in financial assumptions are mainly attributable to changes in the discount rates for defined benefit obligations in the main countries of relevance for LANXESS. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 202 Consolidated Financial Statements In 2016, the past service cost for pension obligations relatOf the plan assets, Canada accounts for 34 % (2015: 42 %), ed to early-retirement agreements, to improvements to existing Brazil for 26 % (2015: 27 %) and Germany for 33 % (2015: 23 %). benefit entitlements for employees taking early retirement, and Employer contributions are used both for external funding to severance agreements. of pension obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimburseGains from settlements in the previous year resulted from ments of pension payments and for external funding of pension the closure of defined benefit pension plans in Spain as a result obligations where subsequent pension payments will be made of their conversion into defined contribution plans. directly out of external plan assets. The effects shown under business combinations in 2016 The latter type of obligations totaled €34 million in 2016 relate to the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties (2015: €14 million). External funding where LANXESS can asbusiness of the U.S. chemical company Chemours, which was sert reimbursement claims mainly pertains to LANXESS Pension closed on August 31, 2016, and contain benefit obligations for Trust e. V. Additional funding of €200 million was provided to employees in India and Switzerland. LANXESS Pension Trust e.V in 2016. No additional funding was The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit obprovided in the previous year. ligations mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates for Losses from settlements in the previous year resulted from the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real. the closure of defined benefit pension plans in Spain as a result The change in external plan assets is shown in the following of their conversion into defined contribution plans. table: The effects shown under business combinations in 2016 relate to the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of the U.S. chemical company Chemours, which was Changes in External Plan Assets closed on August 31, 2016, and contain benefit obligations for Pension plans Other employees in India and Switzerland. post­employment benefit plans The exchange differences pertaining to plan assets mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 dollar and the Brazilian real. Plan assets at fair value Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum Plan assets, January 1 1,125 970 6 7 Interest income 64 67 0 0 funding requirements are shown in the following table: Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest (56) (5) 0 0 Losses from settlements Changes in Effects of Asset Ceilings and Minimum Funding (1) – – – Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans Employer contributions 14 234 1 0 Employee contributions 2 2 – – Effects of the Minimum funding Benefits paid (61) (55) 0 0 asset ceiling requirements Disbursements for settlements – – – – € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 Business combinations 0 1 0 0 Other additions 1 – – – January 1 59 33 18 11 Costs of managing plan assets/ Interest expense 6 5 1 0 taxes (2) (1) 0 0 Additions (deductions) (20) (41) (7) 0 Exchange differences (116) 91 0 0 Exchange differences (12) 3 (1) 0 Plan assets, December 31 970 1,304 7 7 December 31 33 0 11 11 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 203 Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling mainly relate to the The following weighted valuation assumptions were used for Brazilian defined benefit pension plans, while changes in minimum the other parameters: funding requirements relate to the Canadian plans. The fair value of plan assets comprises: Valuation Assumptions as of December 31 Pension plans Other Breakdown of Plan Assets as of December 31 post­employment benefit plans € million 2015 2016 % 2015 2016 2015 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 8 17 of which quoted in an active market 8 17 Expected salary increases 3.2 3.3 4.5 3.5 Equity instruments 156 190 Expected benefit increases 2.2 2.0 – – of which quoted in an active market 105 131 Expected increases Government bonds 370 393 in medical costs – – 6.6 6.6 of which quoted in an active market 370 393 Expected long-term increases Corporate bonds 230 232 in medical costs – – 5.1 5.2 of which quoted in an active market 186 197 Investment funds 122 375 of which quoted in an active market 101 329 Real estate 26 32 The assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined of which quoted in an active market 0 0 benefit obligation at year end. The discount rates used for Germany Insurance contracts 61 68 of which quoted in an active market 2 1 and Canada are derived from high-quality fixed-interest corporate Other 4 4 bonds with the same maturities. In Brazil, however, there is no of which quoted in an active market 3 4 liquid market for such bonds so the discount rate is based on those 977 1,311 for government bonds with the same maturities. This method of deriving the discount rates is unchanged from the previous year in the principal countries. The plan assets do not include any real estate used by the The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to company. Financial instruments owned by the company account take place within 15 years (2015: 16 years). for approximately 3 % (2015: 0 %) of the plan assets. Index products The Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric could conceivably include LANXESS securities. basis for the computation of pension obligations in Germany. The following weighted discount rates were used to calculate Current national biometric assumptions are used to compute the defined benefit obligation and determine the pension expense: benefit obligations at other Group companies. Discount Rates as of December 31 Pension plans Other post­employment benefit plans % 2015 2016 2015 2016 Discount rate 4.40 3.78 3.09 3.22 Germany 3.00 2.00 0.41 0.20 Canada 3.75 3.50 4.00 3.50 Brazil 14.25 12.25 14.25 12.25 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 204 Consolidated Financial Statements A change in the principal valuation parameters would result in The weighted average duration of defined benefit pension the following percentage changes in the defined benefit obligation: obligations was 17 years (2015: 17 years). This figure was based on weighted average durations of 21 years (2015: 20 years) for Germany, 13 years (2015: 13 years) for Canada and 9 years (2015: Sensitivities of Defined Benefit Obligations as of December 31 9 years) for Brazil. The weighted average duration of the defined Pension plans Other benefit obligations for other post-employment benefits was 9 years post­employment benefit plans (2015: 7 years). The funded status is reported in the following table as the % 2015 2016 2015 2016 underfunding or overfunding of the defined benefit obligation after Discount rate deduction of plan assets, without taking into account changes in +0.5 %-pt. (7.6) (7.9) (2.9) (3.5) – 0.5 %-pt. 8.8 9.0 3.1 3.8 the effects of the asset ceiling or minimum funding requirements. Expected salary increases +0.25 %-pt. 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.3 Funded Status as of December 31  – 0.25 %-pt. (0.4) (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) Expected benefit increases Pension plans Other post­employment +0.25 %-pt. 4.0 4.5 – – benefit plans – 0.25 %-pt. (3.8) (4.3) – – Mortality € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 – 10 % 2.6 2.7 0.6 0.8 Funded status Expected increases in Defined benefit obligation for medical costs funded plans 1,643 1,949 12 11 +1 %-pt. – – 2.9 3.7 External plan assets (970) (1,304) (7) (7) – 1 %-pt. – – (2.7) (3.5) Underfunding of funded plans 673 645 5 4 Defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans 374 473 119 116 Funded status, December 31 1,047 1,118 124 120 The sensitivity of the mortality rates was calculated for the countries with significant pension obligations. A reduction in mortality increases the individual life expectancy of insurees. A 10 % reduction would increase the average life expectancy of employees of retirement age in the countries of importance for LANXESS by about one year. Sensitivity is calculated by altering one parameter while leaving all the others unchanged. The method used is the same as for the actuarial valuation of benefit obligations. However, sensitivity calculations depend on interest rate effects and the absolute change in the parameter. Moreover, it is unlikely in practice that only one parameter would change, so the change in a parameter could correlate with other assumptions. Where the expected development of the parameter used in the sensitivity calculation was based on a different variation in the parameter, the stated change in the benefit obligation was approximated using the straight-line method. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 205 15 | Other Non-Current and Current Provisions As of December 31, 2016, the LANXESS Group had other current provisions of €406 million (2015: €411 million) and other non-current provisions of €319 million (2015: €271 million). The maturity structure of other provisions is shown in the following table: Other Provisions Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 € million Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Personnel 177 48 36 261 197 76 41 314 Environmental protection 18 29 66 113 22 30 76 128 Trade-related commitments 83 7 – 90 90 9 – 99 Restructuring 42 13 9 64 15 12 4 31 Miscellaneous 91 45 18 154 82 35 36 153 411 142 129 682 406 162 157 725 The total of other provisions increased from €682 million to €725 million in 2016. The changes in other provisions were as follows: Changes in Other Provisions in 2016 Jan. 1, Additions Interest Utilization Reversals Exchange Dec. 31, € million 2016 effect differences 2016 Personnel 261 221 2 (168) (12) 10 314 Environmental protection 113 15 2 (6) (5) 9 128 Trade-related commitments 90 57 2 (42) (9) 1 99 Restructuring 64 5 0 (29) (10) 1 31 Miscellaneous 154 74 2 (28) (58) 9 153 682 372 8 (273) (94) 30 725 Personnel-related provisions Personnel-related provisions include particularly provisions established for annual performance-related compensation and multi-year compensation programs. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 206 Consolidated Financial Statements Multi-year compensation programs Obligations arising from the stock-based compensation are valued on the basis of the following principal parameters: Stock-based compensation LANXESS AG offers a stock-based compensation program to Principal Parameters as of December 31 members of the Management Board and top-level managers. The program provides for cash settlement. The two present Long-Term % 2015 2016 Stock Performance Plans (LTSP) were introduced in 2010 and Expected share price volatility 31.0 29.0 Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 2014. Under the LTSP 2010–2013 program introduced in 2010, Expected volatility of rights were granted for the years 2010–2013. Awards are based Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM 18.0 18.0 on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the Dow Jones Correlation between LANXESS stock and STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index. The LTSP 2014–2017 program Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM 64.0 65.0 Expected volatility of introduced in 2014 is largely identical with the LTSP 2010–2013. MSCI World Chemicals Index 13.0 13.0 The main difference is that awards are based on the performance of Correlation between LANXESS stock and LANXESS stock relative to the MSCI World Chemicals Index. The MSCI World Chemicals Index 56.0 57.0 total term of all tranches in both programs is generally seven years. In 2016, the exercise periods for the 2012 and 2013 tranches of the LTSP 2010–2013 compensation program were extended by The relevant risk-free interest rate in 2016 was minus 0.65 % two years each, so the full term of these two tranches is now nine (2015: 0.01 %). years. The base price of the stock and the benchmark index for the The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility LTSP programs are calculated using a volume-weighted average of LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM of the closing prices on the first ten trading days in January of Index or the MSCI World Chemicals in the past four years. the year of issue of the tranche. The date of issue of the rights granted and still outstanding and the rights from the outstanding tranches is February 1 each year. Participation in the programs is conditional upon each manager making a personal investment in LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary. If LANXESS stock outperforms the index, a payment of at least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.125 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 207 The following table provides information on the tranches outstanding as of December 31, 2016: Long Term Stock Performance Plan  LTSP 2010 – 2013 LTSP 2014 – 2017 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2011 Tranche 2012 Tranche 2013 Tranche 2014 Tranche 2015 Tranche 2016 Duration 7 years 7 years 9 years 9 years 7 years 7 years 7 years Vesting period 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years 4 years Lock-up period for personal investment shares Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2018 Jan. 31, 2019 Jan. 31, 2020 Initial L ­ ANXESS share price €27.28 €55.60 €44.54 €63.25 €47.41 €35.04 €38.39 Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM price 432.44 points 564.17 points 533.45 points 665.98 points − − − Initial MSCI World Chemicals Index price − − − − 238.07 points 254.06 points 233.45 points Fair value per right as of December 31, 2015 €0.27 €0.03 €0.12 €0.10 €0.80 €1.29 − Fair value per right as of December 31, 2016 − €0.10 €0.44 €0.30 €1.55 €1.86 €1.53 Change in number of outstanding rights Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2016 10,979 6,358,816 7,093,999 8,025,905 9,925,833 10,892,535 − Rights granted − − 1,350,0001) 1,350,0002) 0 0 11,682,506 Rights exercised 10,979 − − − − − − Rights compensated − 197,099 208,622 219,511 280,437 281,011 102,343 Rights forfeited − 187,472 402,213 425,590 257,590 415,422 172,291 Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2016 0 5,974,245 7,833,164 8,730,804 9,387,806 10,196,102 11,407,872 1) Lock-up period for personal investment shares for newly granted rights until January 31, 2021 2) Lock-up period for personal investment shares for newly granted rights until January 31, 2022 LANXESS shares were trading at €62.35 at year end 2016. Environmental provisions The Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM benchmark index stood The Group’s activities are subject to extensive legal requireat 857.41 points, while the MSCI World Chemicals Index was ments in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Compliance 272.85 points. with environmental laws may require LANXESS to remove or mitDue to the performance of the LANXESS share relative to igate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances the benchmark and to the granting, settlement and forfeiture of at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous rights, net expense in fiscal 2016 was €22 million (2015: €9 milsite owner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of lion). The extension of the exercise period for the 2012 and 2013 removing hazardous substances from the soil or groundwater tranches of the LTSP 2010–2013 compensation program did not on its property or neighboring areas, or rendering them harmhave any material effect on expenses or the level of provisions. A less, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or provision of €30 million existed as of December 31, 2016 (2015: caused the presence of the contaminants, and often regardless €8 million). In 2016, as in the prior year, the rights exercisable as of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were of the closing date had no intrinsic value. legal at the time they occurred. As many of LANXESS’s production sites have a long history of industrial use, it is not always possible to accurately predict the effects such situations may have on the LANXESS Group in the future. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 208 Consolidated Financial Statements Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility thereIt is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental fore cannot be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination protection and remediation because of many uncertainties conmay have occurred at its locations in the past. Claims in this regard cerning the legal requirements and the information available about could be brought by government agencies, private organizations conditions in the various countries and at specific sites. Subject to or individuals. Such claims would then relate to the remediation these factors, but taking into consideration experience gained to of sites or areas of land owned by the LANXESS Group where date with matters of a similar nature, we believe our provisions to products were manufactured by third parties under contract manube adequate based upon currently available information. However, facturing agreements or where waste from production facilities opthe possibility that additional costs could be incurred beyond the erated by the LANXESS Group was treated, stored or disposed of. amounts accrued cannot be excluded. LANXESS nevertheless Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under estimates that such additional costs, should they occur, would not legislation such as the U.S. environment law commonly known materially impact the Group’s earnings, asset and financial position. as “Superfund.” At locations in the United States, numerous companies, including LANXESS, have been notified that the U.S. Trade-related commitments authorities or private individuals consider such companies to be Provisions for trade-related commitments mainly relate to potentially responsible parties under Superfund or related laws. energy and waste disposal services that have not been billed. At some sites, LANXESS may be the sole responsible party. ReThey also comprise provisions for impending losses and onerous mediation measures have already been initiated at most of the contracts, rebates, customer discounts and product returns. sites concerned. The existing provisions for environmental remediation costs Provisions for restructuring relate primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, reProvisions for restructuring totaled €31 million on cultivation of landfills, and redevelopment and water protection December 31, 2016 (2015: €64 million), comprising €12 million measures. The provisions for environmental remediation costs are (2015: €29 million) for human resources measures, €14 million stated at the present value of the expected commitments where (2015: €17 million) for environmental protection measures and environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable, the costs €5 million (2015: €18 million) for other expenses. can be reasonably estimated and no future economic benefit is expected to arise from these measures. Costs are estimated Sundry provisions based on significant factors such as previous experience in simThe sundry provisions principally comprise provisions for ilar cases, environmental assessments, current cost levels and onerous contracts and for other obligations. new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of current environmental laws and regulations, the number of other potentially responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial position of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of the liability, and the remediation methods likely to be employed. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 209 16 | Other Non-Current and Current Financial Liabilities The following tables show the structure and maturities of other financial liabilities: Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2015  Current Non-current € million 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 > 2020 Total Bonds 200 – 499 – – 693 1,192 Liabilities to banks 208 – – – – – 0 Liabilities under finance leases 10 8 7 6 6 34 61 Other primary financial liabilities 25 3 0 0 0 2 5 443 11 506 6 6 729 1,258 Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2016  Current Non-current € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 > 2021 Total Bonds – 499 – – 496 1,676 2,671 Liabilities to banks 44 – – – – – 0 Liabilities under finance leases 9 8 7 6 6 34 61 Other primary financial liabilities 25 0 0 0 0 2 2 78 507 7 6 502 1,712 2,734 The following bonds were outstanding on December 31, 2016: The €200 million bond issued in 2009 was redeemed in September 2016. In addition, bonds with a total nominal value of €1.5 billion were issued in fiscal 2016. Bonds The weighted average interest rate for the LANXESS Group’s Issuance Nominal Carrying Interest Maturity financial liabilities denominated in euros and other currencies at amount amount rate € million € million % year end was 2.7 % (2015: 3.8 %). May 2011 Liabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased 500 499 4.125 May 2018 assets are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the April 2012 100 100 3.500 April 2022 economic property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payments April 2012 100 99 3.950 April 2027 totaling €92 million (2015: €95 million), including €22 million November November 2012 500 496 2.625 2022 (2015: €24 million) in interest, are to be made to the respective October October lessors in future years. 2016 500 496 0.250 2021 Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest October October 2016 500 492 1.000 2026 of €23 million (2015: €24 million) on financial liabilities. Of this December December amount, €23 million (2015: €22 million) relates to the above2016 500 489 4.500 2076 mentioned bonds. Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the contractually agreed payments, especially interest payments, is given in Note [36]. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 210 Consolidated Financial Statements 17 | Non-Current and Current Income Other Current Liabilities Tax Liabilities Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2015 2016 The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprised: Payroll liabilities 25 38 Other tax liabilities 42 38 Income Tax Liabilities Social security liabilities 21 26 Miscellaneous liabilities 54 72 Dec. 31, 2015 142 174 € million Non-current Current Total Provisions 19 72 91 Payables – 13 13 Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own 19 85 104 tax liabilities, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf of third parties. Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance contributions that had not been paid by the closing date. Income Tax Liabilities The miscellaneous liabilities principally comprise accruals for Dec. 31, 2016 outstanding invoices relating to the reporting period. The liabilities € million Non-current Current Total to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, were less Provisions 31 39 70 than €1 million as of December 31, 2016. There were no liabilities Payables – 5 5 to this company in the previous year. 31 44 75 The decrease in provisions for income tax liabilities was mainly 19 | Trade Payables due to tax payments in Germany for previous years. Trade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in the previous year, the entire amount totaling €889 million (2015: 18 | O  ther Non-Current and Current €779 million) is due within one year. Liabilities Trade payables of €131 million (2015: €120 million) relate to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is At year end the other non-current liabilities comprised: accounted for using the equity method, and its affiliated companies, while trade payables of €758 million (2015: €659 million) relate to other suppliers. Other Non-Current Liabilities Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2015 2016 20 | Further Information on Liabilities Asset subsidies granted by third parties 96 81 Social security liabilities 5 5 Payroll liabilities 3 1 Of the total liabilities, €1,716 million (2015: €733 million) Miscellaneous liabilities 4 6 have maturities of more than five years. 108 93 The asset subsidies granted by third parties include, to a small extent, government grants that are contingent upon the maintenance of employment or the use of assets for the company’s own production purposes over defined periods of time. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Statements of Financial Position 211 Notes to the Income Statement NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 24 | R  esearch and Development Expenses The research and development expenses of €131 million 21 | Sales (2015: €130 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain new scientific and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the Sales, which amounted to €7,699 million (2015: €7,902 milsearch for alternative products and production processes, and lion), mainly comprise goods sold less discounts and rebates. costs for applying the results of research. A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment and region is given in the segment information (see Note [38]). 25 | General Administration Expenses 22 | Cost of Sales The general administration expenses, amounting to €303 million (2015: €284 million), comprise costs not directly related to operational business processes and the costs for the Cost of Sales country organizations. € million 2015 2016 Expenses for raw materials and merchandise 3,451 3,325 26 | Other Operating Income Direct manufacturing and other production costs 2,703 2,620 6,154 5,945 Other Operating Income  € million 2015 2016 The manufacturing costs include, among other costs, those Income from non-core business 78 73 Income from the reversal of provisions 3 31 for personnel, depreciation, amortization, write-downs, energies, Exceptional items 99 6 and goods and services procured. The other production costs Income from reversals of write-downs mainly comprise inventory valuation effects and inventory disof r­ eceivables and other assets 3 4 crepancies. Gains from the disposal of non-current assets 1 2 Miscellaneous operating income 23 31 207 147 23 | Selling Expenses Selling Expenses  The exceptional items contain income from the reversal of € million 2015 2016 provisions for restructuring established as exceptional items in Marketing costs 459 481 previous years. Based on economic relevance, they comprise Outward freight charges and €5 million allocated to the cost of sales and €1 million allocated other selling expenses 300 300 to other operating expenses. 759 781 In the previous year, the exceptional items contained income of €56 million from the reversal of impairment charges recognized on cash-generating units in previous years and related to the The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal former Performance Polymers segment and to the Advanced and external marketing and sales organization, freight charges, Intermediates segment. They were principally allocated to the cost warehousing, packaging and the provision of advice to customers. of sales. In addition, the exceptional items included gains from the disposal of assets totaling €43 million. In line with their economic relevance, these were allocated to other operating income. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 212 Consolidated Financial Statements 27 | Other Operating Expenses 28 | Financial Result The financial result is comprised as follows: Other Operating Expenses € million 2015 2016 Financial Result Expenses for non-core business 70 67 Exceptional items 106 56 € million 2015 2016 Expenses for hedging with Income from investments accounted derivative financial instruments 143 50 for u ­ sing the equity method 0 0 Write-downs of trade receivables Interest income 4 9 and other current assets 4 4 Interest expense (70) (72) Losses from the disposal of Net interest expense (66) (63) non-current assets 0 1 Interest expense from compounding Miscellaneous operating expenses 44 44 interest-bearing provisions (46) (40) 367 222 Net exchange loss (16) (24) Miscellaneous financial expense and income 0 (5) Dividends and income from other affiliated companies 1 7 Of the exceptional items of €56 million (2015: €106 million), Other financial income and expense (61) (62) €7 million (2015: €65 million) was allocable to the cost of sales Financial result (127) (125) in line with its economic relevance, while €3 million (2015: €7 million) was allocable to selling expenses, €2 million (2015: €2 million) to research and development expenses, €10 million Interest expense includes in particular payments of bond (2015: €10 million) to general administration expenses and interest. The amount recognized has been adjusted for capitalized €34 million (2015: €22 million) to miscellaneous operating borrowing costs of €2 million (2015: €6 million). The interest expenses. portion of the lease payments under finance leases, amounting In both 2016 and 2015, the exceptional items mainly related to €4 million (2015: €4 million), is included in interest expense. to the strategic realignment of the LANXESS Group. 29 | Income Taxes This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the basis of local tax rates. The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows: Income Taxes by Origin  € million 2015 2016 Current taxes (109) (141) Deferred taxes resulting from temporary differences 21 2 statutory changes in tax rates 0 0 loss carryforwards (33) (5) Income taxes (121) (144) LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Income Statement 213 The actual tax expense for 2016 was €144 million (2015: The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the €121 million). This was €35 million (2015: €29 million) more than various items of the statement of financial position as follows: the expected tax expense of €109 million (2015: €92 million). In calculating the expected tax expense for the LANXESS Deferred Taxes Group, the aggregated income tax rate of 32.3 % (2015: 32.1 %) for the German tax entity was applied. This comprises a corporation Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 tax rate of 15.0 %, plus a solidarity surcharge (5.5 % of corporation DeDeDeDetax) and trade tax. The increase in the aggregated income tax rate ferred ferred ferred ferred tax tax tax tax was mainly due to changes in trade tax multipliers. € million assets ­liabilities assets ­liabilities The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax Intangible assets 15 37 26 63 result is as follows: Property, plant and equipment 18 139 19 134 Inventories 35 5 33 3 Receivables and other assets 9 21 15 20 Reconciliation to Actual Tax Result Pension provisions 220 0 292 0 € million 2015 2016 Other provisions 105 11 104 8 Liabilities 58 0 32 1 Income before income taxes 288 339 Loss carryforwards 68 – 67 – Aggregated income tax rate of ­L ANXESS AG 32.1 % 32.3 % 528 213 588 229 Expected tax result (92) (109) of which non-current 321 176 404 197 Tax difference due to differences between Set-off (167) (167) (146) (146) local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate 8 (17) 361 46 442 83 Reduction in taxes due to tax-free income and reduction of tax bases 4 5 utilization of unrecognized loss The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: ­carryforwards 1 – Increase in taxes due to non-tax-deductible expenses (5) (6) Changes in Deferred Taxes  Other tax effects (37) (17) Actual tax result (121) (144) € million 2015 2016 Effective tax rate 42.0 % 42.5 % Deferred taxes, January 1 359 315 Tax income/expense recognized in the income statement (12) (3) Changes in scope of consolidation – (15) As in the previous year, the other tax effects of minus €17 milDeferred taxes recognized in other lion (2015: minus €37 million) mainly comprise income taxes for comprehensive income (18) 53 Exchange differences (14) 9 previous years and unrecognized deferred taxes on tax losses. Deferred taxes, December 31 315 359 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 214 Consolidated Financial Statements The deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive 30 | Earnings and Dividend per Share income comprised €72 million (2015: minus €23 million) relating to remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for The calculation of earnings per share for 2016 includes post-employment benefit plans and minus €19 million (2015: only earnings from continuing operations and is based on the €5 million) relating to financial instruments. In addition, other weighted average number of shares outstanding in the reporting comprehensive income contains current taxes of €2 million period. As of December 31, 2016, 91,522,936 shares were (2015: minus €1 million). outstanding. Since there are currently no equity instruments Deferred tax assets of €156 million (2015: €324 million), in issue that could dilute earnings per share, basic and diluted which exceed the reversal of taxable temporary differences, relate earnings per share are identical. Further information on equity to tax jurisdictions in which losses were recorded in 2016 or instruments that could dilute earnings per share in the future is 2015. In 2015, they included deferred tax assets of €224 million contained in Note [13]. for the German tax entity, which reported a loss in 2014, primarily due to the exceptional items in connection with the “Advance” Earnings per Share and “Let’s LANXESS again” realignment programs. LANXESS assumes that it will generate sufficient taxable income in the 2015 2016 Change % future to realize the deferred tax assets. Net income (€ million) 165 192 16.4 Number of shares Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred ­outstanding 91,522,936 91,522,936 – tax assets of €67 million (2015: €68 million) were recognized on Earnings per share in € the €237 million (2015: €231 million) in tax loss carryforwards (­undiluted/diluted) 1.80 2.10 16.4 that represent income likely to be realized in the future. This amount included deferred taxes of €35 million (2015: €45 million) on loss carryforwards with an unlimited carryforward period. LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €332 million Deferred taxes were not recognized for €255 million (2015: for fiscal 2016 (2015: €98 million). The dividend payment made €226 million) of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, €130 milto stockholders of LANXESS AG during fiscal 2016 amounted to lion (2015: €105 million) can theoretically be used over more €0.60 per share (2015: €0.50 per share). than five years. Further, deferred tax assets were not recognized in 2016 for tax-deductible temporary differences of €44 million (2015: €49 million). Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carry31 | Personnel Expenses forwards of €67 million (2015: €57 million) and deferred tax assets on tax-deductible temporary differences of €16 million The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: (2015: €18 million) were not recognized. Personnel Expenses  € million 2015 2016 Wages and salaries 1,124 1,168 Social security contributions 198 194 Retirement benefit expenses 97 92 Social assistance benefits 13 13 1,432 1,467 Total personnel expenses grew in 2016, mainly as a result of the increase in the headcount and salary adjustments in 2016. The personnel expenses shown here do not contain the interest expenses for compounding personnel-related provisions, especially pension provisions, which is reflected in the financial result (see Note [28]). LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Notes to the Income Statement 215 Other Information OTHER INFORMATION As explained in the section on accounting policies and valuation principles, operating leases are those which – unlike finance leases – do not transfer substantially all risks and rewards inci32 | Employees dental to the ownership of the leased assets to the lessee. In the LANXESS Group, operating leases are mainly used for operational The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group reasons and not as a means of financing. in 2016 was 16,643 (2015: 16,310). The increase compared The minimum non-discounted future lease and rental paywith the previous year was mainly attributable to amended local ments relating to operating leases totaled €334 million (2015: legislation in South Africa and China, which requires external €341 million). service providers to be recorded as Group employees after a The respective payment obligations mature as follows: certain period of deployment for the company. Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments  Employees by Function Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2015 2016 € million 2015 2016 Production 12,123 12,407 Up to 1 year 56 57 Marketing 1,814 1,837 1 to 2 years 47 50 Administration 1,770 1,809 2 to 3 years 41 43 Research 603 590 3 to 4 years 37 38 16,310 16,643 4 to 5 years 33 35 More than 5 years 127 111 341 334 33 | C  ontingent Liabilities and Other Financial Commitments Payments under operating leases in 2016 amounted to Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and similar in€61 million (2015: €65 million). Future lease and rental paystruments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent ments include agreements relating to the Group’s headquarters potential future commitments in cases where the occurrence of in Cologne, to which it relocated in 2013, and to the production certain events would create an obligation that was uncertain as of site in Singapore. the closing date. An obligation to perform under such contingent Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed liabilities arises in the event of delayed settlement or insolvency under purchase agreements relating to planned or ongoing of the debtor. capital expenditure projects in the area of property, plant and Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2016, amounted to equipment and intangible assets totaled €110 million (2015: €1 million (2015: €1 million). There are no contingent liabilities €90 million). All of these payments are due in fiscal 2017. relating to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method. As a p ­ ersonally liable partner in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital into this company in the future. Apart from provisions, liabilities and contingent liabilities, financial commitments also exist under operating leases. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 216 Consolidated Financial Statements Description of the master agreement 35 | Compensation of the Board Under the master agreement that was concluded between of Management and Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the Spin-Off and Takethe Supervisory Board over Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed, among other things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification For fiscal 2016, total compensation of €11,852 thousand for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on (2015: €9,360 thousand) was paid to the members of the Board special arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims of Management of LANXESS AG, comprising €7,545 thousand in the areas of product liability, environmental contamination and (2015: €6,728 thousand) in short-term compensation (fixed antitrust violations. The master agreement also contains arrangecompensation, annual bonus, benefits in kind and other), minus ments for the allocation of tax effects relating to the spin-off and €147 thousand (2015: minus €62 thousand) in adjustments for to the preceding measures to create the subgroup that was subprevious years, and other long-term compensation components sequently spun off. totaling €1,857 thousand (2015: €1,626 thousand) as part of the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB). The total also includes compensation paid under the stock-based Long-Term Stock Per34 | Related Parties formance Plan (LTSP). In 2016, 1,740,000 compensation rights were granted to the members of the Board of Management for In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group sources the 2016 tranche, and an additional 1,350,000 compensation materials, inventories and services from a large number of business rights were granted for the 2012 tranche and 1,350,000 compartners around the world. These include companies in which pensation rights for the 2013 tranche. In the previous year, a total LANXESS AG has a direct or indirect interest. Transactions with of 1,200,000 compensation rights were granted. The fair value these companies are carried out on an arm’s-length basis. of these rights at the grant date was €2,597 thousand (2015: Transactions with Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, €1,068 thousand). Personnel expenses for the stock-based comGermany, which is accounted for in the consolidated financial pensation programs amounted to €3,430 thousand in fiscal 2016 statements using the equity method, and its subsidiaries mainly (2015: €1,450 thousand). comprised the purchase of site services in the fields of utilities, inDetails of the compensation system for members of the Board frastructure and logistics totaling €420 million (2015: €436 milof Management and an individual breakdown of the compensation lion). As of December 31, 2016, payables of €131 million (2015: are given in the “Compensation report” section of the combined €120 million) and receivables of €3 million (2015: €38 million) management report for fiscal 2016. existed as a result of these transactions. There were also payment In addition, service costs of €1,173 thousand (2015: obligations to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG amounting to €8 mil€1,640 thousand) relating to defined benefit pension plans were lion (2015: €9 million) under operating leases and obligations incurred in 2016 for members of the Board of Management as part of €6 million (2015: €4 million) under purchase agreements. of their compensation package. The present value of the defined Contingent liabilities relating to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG are benefit obligation as of December 31, 2016, was €16,033 thououtlined in the previous section. sand (2015: €11,903 thousand). Information on the compensation of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board can be found in the next section. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Other Information 217 The total net expense for the compensation of the members 36 | Financial Instruments of the Board of Management in 2016 was €13,858 thousand (2015: €14,762 thousand). In the previous year, this item included The “Opportunity and risk report” in the combined manageexpense of €3,380 thousand for the severance payment made ment report outlines the LANXESS Group’s risk management to Dr. Düttmann. Together with settlement of his LTSP rights system, including its objectives, methods and processes, and the amounting to €857 thousand, benefits promised in 2015 to a material financial risks such as currency, interest rate, counterparty, former member of the Board of Management who stepped down liquidity and raw material price risks. during that fiscal year totaled €4,237 thousand and were granted The risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial during fiscal 2015. instrument could change due to fluctuations in market prices is The balances outstanding to members of the Board of Mandescribed below for the three market risks: agement as of December 31, 2016, totaled €11,514 thousand (2015: €6,477 thousand), comprising provisions of €4,575 thouCurrency risks sand (2015: €3,900 thousand) for annual bonuses, €2,612 thouA hypothetical appreciation of 5 % in the exchange rate of the sand (2015: €1,680 thousand) for the LTPB and €4,327 thousand euro against the hedged currencies as of the reporting date would (2015: €897 thousand) for the LTSP. have altered the fair value of derivatives by €14 million (2015: Pension benefits of €1,244 thousand (2015: €293 thousand) €33 million). This would mainly have affected other comprehensive were paid to former members of the Board of Management. The income by reducing the reported loss correspondingly. This effect total obligation toward former members of the Board of Managemainly relates to the U.S. dollar. A corresponding depreciation of ment as of December 31, 2016, was €34,497 thousand (2015: the euro would have had basically the opposite effect. €30,318 thousand). Payments totaling €1,244 thousand were made to former members of the Board of Management in fiscal Interest rate risks 2016 (2015: €3,673 thousand). Financial liabilities with variable interest rates are covered The members of the Supervisory Board received total comby investments with short-term fixed interest rates from available pensation of €1,879 thousand in 2016 (2015: €3,122 thousand). liquidity so the LANXESS Group will incur only slightly higher This compensation is generally paid at the start of the following interest costs if interest rates rise. A general change of one peryear. The provisions established for stock-based compensation for centage point in interest rates as of December 31, 2016, would Supervisory Board members as of December 31, 2016, amounted have altered Group net income by €3 million (2015: €0 million). to €600 thousand (2015: €1,200 thousand). In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory Raw material price risks Board who are on LANXESS’s payroll received remuneration A hypothetical increase or reduction in the hedged commodunder their employment contracts. The amounts of these salaity prices of 10 % as of the reporting date would have increased ries represented appropriate compensation for the employees’ or decreased other operating income by €0 million as a result of functions and tasks within the Group. changes in the fair value of hedging instruments. There were no Details of the compensation system for members of the Sufinancial forward commodity contracts on December 31, 2015. pervisory Board and an individual breakdown of the amounts paid are contained in the section headed “Compensation report” in the combined management report for fiscal 2016. No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2016 or 2015. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 218 Consolidated Financial Statements The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest components thereof and derivative financial instruments: December 31, 2015  € million 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 >2020 Bonds (230) (41) (541) (21) (21) (761) of which interest (30) (41) (41) (21) (21) (61) Liabilities to banks (208) – – – – – of which interest 0 – – – – – Trade payables (779) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Liabilities under finance leases (14) (12) (10) (9) (8) (42) of which interest (4) (4) (3) (3) (2) (8) Other primary financial liabilities (25) (3) 0 0 0 (2) of which interest (24) 0 – – – – Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (667) (203) – – – – Receipts 586 187 – – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (918) (53) 0 (13) – – Receipts 896 49 0 10 – – Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (163) (135) (44) – – – Receipts 166 133 43 – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (436) (1) – – – – Receipts 446 1 0 – – – LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Other Information 219 December 31, 2016  € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 >2021 Bonds (47) (570) (49) (49) (549) (3,003) of which interest (47) (70) (49) (49) (49) (1,303) Liabilities to banks (44) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Trade payables (889) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Liabilities under finance leases (13) (12) (10) (9) (8) (40) of which interest (4) (4) (3) (3) (2) (6) Other primary financial liabilities (25) 0 0 0 0 (2) of which interest (23) – – – – – Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (348) (89) – – – – Receipts 321 83 – – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (964) 0 (14) – – – Receipts 941 0 10 – – – Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (11) (11) – – – – Receipts 18 12 – – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (1,358) – – – – – Receipts 1,420 – – – – – The contractually agreed payments for other primary financial liabilities due within one year from the reporting date included accrued interest of €23 million (2015: €24 million) that mainly related to bonds. Carrying amounts, measurement and fair value of financial instruments The following tables show the carrying amounts of the individual classes of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis of measurement is also shown: LANXESS Annual Report 2016 220 Consolidated Financial Statements Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2015  IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount ­c ategory Dec. 31, 2015 € million Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 956 Other financial receivables LaR 24 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 366 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 100 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 13 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 4 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 11 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,392) Liabilities to banks FLAC (208) Trade payables FLAC (779) Liabilities under finance leases – (71) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (30) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (91) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (28) Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2016  IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount ­c ategory Dec. 31, 2016 € million Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,088 Other financial receivables LaR 1,972 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 355 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 40 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 189 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 8 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 58 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (2,671) Liabilities to banks FLAC (44) Trade payables FLAC (889) Liabilities under finance leases – (70) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (27) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (26) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (23) LaR Loans and receivables AfS Available-for-sale financial assets FAHfT Financial assets held for trading FLAC Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost FLHfT Financial liabilities held for trading LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Other Information 221 Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2015 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 956 956 24 24 366 366 100 100 10 3 13 4 4 11 11 (1,392) (1,531) (208) (208) (779) (779) ( 71) (76) (30) (30) (91) (91) (28) (28) Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2016 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 1,088 1,088 1,972 1,972 355 355 40 40 10 179 189 8 8 58 58 (2,671) (2,827) (44) (44) (889) (889) (70) (74) (27) (27) (26) (26) (23) (23) LANXESS Annual Report 2016 222 Consolidated Financial Statements Fair value measurement of the bonds is allocated to Level 1 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value  of the hierarchy outlined in the section “Fair value measurement.” However, two bonds with a fair value of €244 million (2015: Dec. 31, 2015 €240 million) are allocated to Level 2 of the hierarchy. The fair € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value of liabilities allocated to Level 2 is calculated using discounted Non-current assets cash flows and taking account of observed market interest rates. Investments in other affiliated companies 2 – – Non-current derivative assets – 1 – Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Category Other non-current Dec. 31, Dec. 31, financial assets – 1 – € million 2015 2016 Current assets Loans and receivables 1,346 3,415 Near-cash assets 100 – – Available-for-sale financial assets 113 229 Current derivative assets – 14 – Financial assets held for trading 11 58 Other current financial assets 0 – – 1,470 3,702 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (2,409) (3,631) Non-current derivative liabilities – 19 – Financial liabilities held for trading (28) (23) Current liabilities (2,437) (3,654) Current derivative liabilities – 100 – Fair value measurement Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value The measurement of fair value is based on a hierarchy reflecting the significance of the measurement inputs. The fair value meaDec. 31, 2016 surement hierarchy for an asset or liability comprises three levels: € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Non-current assets Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical Investments in other affiliated companies 2 – – assets or liabilities on the measurement date Non-current derivative Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 assets – 1 – that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly Other non-current financial assets – 1 – or indirectly Current assets Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability Near-cash assets 40 – – Current derivative assets – 65 – The following table shows the volumes of assets and liabilities Other current financial that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of the end assets 176 – – Non-current liabilities of the reporting period and the levels of the fair value hierarchy into Non-current derivative which the measurement inputs were categorized. Reclassification liabilities – 7 – between the levels is reviewed as of each reporting date. There Current liabilities were no reclassifications in 2015 or 2016. Current derivative liabilities – 42 – The investments in other affiliated companies measured at fair value pertain to shares in the listed company BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, United States. In the previous year the investments in other affiliated companies also included shares in the listed company Gevo, Inc., Englewood, United States, which were sold in 2016. The line item “Investments in other affiliated companies” in the statement of financial position also includes €10 million in non-listed equity instruments, the fair values of which at the end of the reporting period could not be reliably measured and which are therefore recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of these investments. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Other Information 223 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Offsetting was not used for the financial assets and financial liabilities recognized in the statement of financial position. The following table shows how legally enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements impact, or could impact, the Group’s financial position: Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2015  Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments € million Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 956 (11) 0 945 Derivative assets 15 (11) 0 4 Financial liabilities Trade payables (779) 11 0 (768) Derivative liabilities (119) 11 0 (108) Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2016  Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments Financial instruments Financial collateral € million Financial assets Trade receivables 1,088 (12) 0 1,076 Derivative assets 66 (13) 0 53 Financial liabilities Trade payables (889) 12 0 (877) Derivative liabilities (49) 13 0 (36) Either contracting party may offset on a net basis the positive and negative fair values arising from past-due derivative asset or liability contracts with the same counterparty. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 224 Consolidated Financial Statements Net result by category Net cash used in investing activities The following table provides an overview of the net results Purchases of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39: led to cash outflows of €439 million in 2016 (2015: €434 million). Cash inflows from investment grants reduced cash outflows for Net Results by IAS 39 Category capital expenditures by €7 million (2015: €8 million). The cash € million 2015 2016 outflows for financial assets in 2016 mainly comprised €1,950 milLoans and receivables 19 (34) lion (2015: €0 million) for mid-term money market investments Available-for-sale financial assets 1 7 and €175 million (2015: €0 million) for investments in securities. Assets and liabilities held for trading (111) 27 Further, there were inflows from money market funds of €60 milFinancial liabilities measured at lion (2015: €0 million) and inflows of €6 million from the sale of amortized cost 17 (76) (74) (76) financial assets (2015: outflows of 11 million). The inflows in fiscal 2016 mainly related to the sale of shares in Elemica Inc., Exton, United States. In the previous year there were cash outflows in connection with loans to a site service provider in the Netherlands. Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and The acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business expense and realized and unrealized exchange gains and losses. of U.S. chemical company Chemours resulted in cash outflows In addition, fees of €13 million were incurred in fiscal 2016 of €198 million in 2016 (2015: €0 million). Cash inflows from (2015: €8 million) in connection with financial instruments. interest and dividends received amounted to €10 million (2015: €0 million) and mainly comprised interest income from shortCollateralization of financial liabilities term investments in Brazil. Further, there were cash outflows of There were no financial liabilities collateralized by mortgages €200 million (2015: €0 million) for external funding of pension or other property claims in 2016 or 2015. obligations (CTA). The net cash outflow for investing activities was €2,879 million (2015: €400 million). Mezzanine financing Mezzanine instruments such as profit participation rights, conNet cash used in financing activities vertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued. Information The cash inflows from non-controlling interests of €1,194 milon the possible issuance of such instruments is given in Note [13]. lion relate to the payment received from Aramco Overseas ­Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, for the interest in ARLANXEO. In the previous 37 | Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows year, the cash inflows from non-controlling interests of €9 million related to the capital increase at the subsidiary ARLANXEO-TSRC Explanation of the method used to calculate and (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd. In 2016, there was a cash present cash flows outflow of €1,107 million for net borrowing (2015: €220 million for For a general explanation, please see the comments on the net repayments). The borrowing mainly related to the issue of three statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting policies new bonds with a total nominal value of €1,500 million. Repayment and valuation principles.” of borrowings mainly comprised an outflow of €200 million for the redemption of a bond and €138 million for the repayment of Net cash provided by operating activities the remainder of the U.S. dollar loan from the European InvestThe net cash flows from operating activities are determined ment Bank. Interest payments and other financial disbursements by deducting the financial result, depreciation, amortization, writeaccounted for cash outflows of €73 million (2015: €76 million). downs, reversals of impairment charges and non-cash items from In fiscal 2016, cash outflows for dividend payments amounted to income before income taxes. A further adjustment is then made for €55 million (2015: €46 million), principally to the stockholders the change in other assets and liabilities. Income before income of LANXESS AG. A net cash inflow of €2,173 million (2015: net taxes, which is the starting point for the statement of cash flows, cash outflow of €333 million) was recorded for financing activities. amounted to €339 million (2015: €288 million) after depreciation, amortization and write-downs of €481 million (2015: €418 million). Income taxes paid in 2016 amounted to €184 million (2015: €98 million). The change in net working capital resulted in cash outflows of €47 million (2015: inflows of €93 million). Taking into account the increase in other assets and liabilities of €44 million (2015: reduction of €33 million), the cash inflows provided by operating activities amounted to €689 million in 2016 (2015: €692 million). LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Other Information 225 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, which comprise cash, checks and bank balances, amounted to €355 million (2015: €366 million). In accordance with IAS 7, this item also includes securities with maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition. 38 | Segment Reporting Key Data by Segment Advanced Performance High Performance ARLANXEO Reconciliation LANXESS Intermediates Chemicals Materials € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 External sales 1,826 1,742 2,085 2,142 1,085 1,056 2,859 2,710 47 49 7,902 7,699 Inter-segment sales 51 57 11 10 2 1 0 0 (64) (68) 0 0 Segment/Group sales 1,877 1,799 2,096 2,152 1,087 1,057 2,859 2,710 (17) (19) 7,902 7,699 Segment result/EBITDA pre exceptionals 339 326 326 374 111 159 391 373 (282) (237) 885 995 Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (1) 2 (13) (3) 20 – (15) 2 (43) (51) (52) (50) Segment assets 1,120 1,149 1,427 1,752 721 710 2,883 3,016 146 124 6,297 6,751 Segment acquisitions – – – 200 – – – – – – – 200 Segment capital expenditures 99 136 144 124 39 47 151 138 24 17 457 462 Depreciation and amortization 94 102 85 92 43 45 204 216 23 17 449 472 Write-downs 5 3 3 2 3 0 14 4 – 0 25 9 Reversals of impairment charges 19 0 – – – – 37 0 – 0 56 0 Segment liabilities 555 741 770 827 250 274 706 712 645 576 2,926 3,130 Employees (December 31) 3,259 3,335 5,138 5,581 1,546 1,583 3,491 3,463 2,791 2,759 16,225 16,721 Employees (average for the year) 3,282 3,349 5,141 5,490 1,539 1,574 3,535 3,521 2,813 2,708 16,310 16,642 2015 figures restated Key Data by Region EMEA (exclud­ Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific LANXESS ing Germany) € million 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 External sales by market 2,325 2,254 1,365 1,292 1,368 1,326 830 788 2,014 2,039 7,902 7,699 Non-current region assets 655 783 1,035 1,067 446 572 244 304 1,394 1,313 3,774 4,039 Acquisitions – 102 – 2 – 95 – – – 1 – 200 Capital expenditures 91 96 163 212 79 74 24 31 100 49 457 462 Employees (December 31) 3,143 3,251 7,523 7,600 1,312 1,418 1,412 1,435 2,835 3,017 16,225 16,721 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 226 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the segment reporting On December 31, 2016, the LANXESS Group comprised The valuation principles applied in segment reporting corthe following reporting segments: respond to the uniform accounting policies and valuation principles used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. Segments Activities As a consequence of the strategic alliance with Aramco Advanced Intermediates The Advanced Intermediates segment comprises Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A, The Hague, Netherlands, a operational business units that manufacture basic and fine chemicals using primarily continuous subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, for the synthetic rubber business, the production processes. The business units also corporate structure was altered in fiscal 2016. The synthetic rubmanufacture precursors and intermediates for each other. The product portfolio includes ber business, formerly bundled in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers and high-grade intermediates for use by the agroHigh Performance Elastomers business units in the Performance chemicals and coatings industries, for example; Polymers segment, is now reported as the ARLANXEO segment, fine chemicals as precursors and intermediates for the pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and while the High Performance Materials business unit, formerly also specialty chemicals industries; customer-specific assigned to the Performance Polymers segment, is now a segment specialties; and tire chemicals. in its own right. In addition, organizational adjustments resulted in Performance Chemicals The Performance Chemicals segment comprises operational business units that manufacture proa shift in headcount between the segments. The prior-year figures cess and functional chemicals as well as specialty have been restated accordingly. products using chemical production processes. The product portfolio includes material protection products; inorganic pigments for the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other coatings; finishing agents for the leather industry; rubber additives; reverse osmosis membrane elements and ion exchange resins for water treatment; plastics additives such as flame retardants and plasticizers; disinfectant and hygiene solutions. High Performance The High Performance Materials segment manuMaterials factures high-tech plastics and high-performance composites using mainly continuous production processes. The product portfolio covers applications in the automotive and electrical/electronics industries, the construction industry, medicine, and the sports and leisure sectors. ARLANXEO The ARLANXEO segment comprises operational business units that manufacture synthetic rubbers primarily in continuous production processes. The segment is centrally managed by ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands. The product portfolio includes specialty rubbers for high-quality rubber products for use in automotive engineering, tires and construction. The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and reflects assets and liabilities not allocable to the core segments including, in particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. The reconciliation also includes Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method (see note [3]). The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transactions are calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been agreed upon between independent third parties in comparable circumstances (arm’s-length principle). The majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation provide services for more than one segment. They include technical service staff. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Other Information 227 The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activReconciliation of Segment Sales ities are organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle East, Africa), Germany, North America, Latin America and Asia-­ € million 2015 2016 Pacific. Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s Total segment sales 7,919 7,718 Other/Consolidation (17) (19) place of business. In fiscal 2016, no individual customer of the Group sales 7,902 7,699 LANXESS Group accounted for more than 10 % of Group sales. The earnings indicator used for internal management purposes in the LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals (see the Reconciliation of Segment Results section headed “Value management and control system” in the combined management report for 2016). This is disclosed as € million 2015 2016 the “segment result.” The starting point for calculating EBITDA Total segment results 1,167 1,232 Depreciation and amortization (474) (481) pre exceptionals is the operating result (EBIT), which comprises Reversals of impairment charges 56 0 gross profit, selling expenses, general administration expenses, Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (52) (50) research and development expenses and other operating income Other financial income and expense (61) (62) and expenses. EBITDA pre exceptionals is calculated from EBIT Net interest expense (66) (63) by adding back depreciation and impairments of property, plant Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 and equipment, amortization and impairments of intangible assets, Other/Consolidation (282) (237) disregarding exceptional items. The latter are effects that by nature Income before income taxes 288 339 or extent have a significant impact on the earnings position, but for which inclusion in the evaluation of business performance over several reporting periods does not seem to be appropriate. They may include write-downs, reversals of impairment charges, The reconciliation of segment results to income before income proceeds from the disposal of non-current assets, certain IT extaxes contains total exceptional items comprising net charges of penses, restructuring expenses, and income from the reversal of €50 million (2015: charges of €7 million) (see Notes [26] and provisions for restructuring, and the impact on earnings of portfolio [27]). These include exceptional items of minus €50 million (2015: adjustments and purchase price allocations. minus €52 million) that affect EBITDA, write-downs of €0 million In view of the Group’s central financial management, interest (2015: minus €11 million), and reversals of impairment charges income and expense and income tax income and expense are not of €0 million (2015: €56 million). reported at segment level. The change in segment results in the reconciliation is mainly The exceptional items that affected EBITDA in 2016 and the due to lower expenses for currency hedges. previous year principally related to the strategic realignment of Information on equity-method income is contained in Note [3]. the LANXESS Group. This mainly arises from the provision of site services by Currenta Capital expenditures made by the segments comprise addiGmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not allocated tions to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. among the segments. All depreciation, amortization and write-downs in fiscal 2015 and 2016 were recognized directly in profit or loss. In fiscal 2015, Reconciliation of Segment Assets impairment charges recognized in previous years on assets in the cash-generating units were reversed. Further information Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2015 2016 is provided in the section headed “Estimation uncertainties and Total segment assets 6,151 6,627 exercise of discretion.” Cash and cash equivalents 366 355 Deferred tax assets 361 442 Near-cash assets 100 40 Income tax receivables 55 74 Derivative assets 15 66 Other financial assets 25 2,149 Other/Consolidation 146 124 Group assets 7,219 9,877 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 228 Consolidated Financial Statements Segment assets principally comprise intangible assets, prop40 | Declaration of Compliance erty, plant and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. In Pursuant to Section 161 of the Stock particular, segment assets do not include cash and cash equivaCorporation Act lents, deferred taxes and other financial assets. The Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code has been issued by the Board of Management Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders € million 2015 2016 on the LANXESS website. Total segment liabilities 2,281 2,554 Other financial liabilities 1,701 2,812 Derivative liabilities 119 49 Income tax liabilities 104 75 41 | U  tilization of Disclosure Exemptions Deferred tax liabilities 46 83 Other/Consolidation 645 576 In 2016, the following German subsidiaries made use of disGroup liabilities 4,896 6,149 closure exemptions pursuant to Section 264, Paragraph 3 of the German Commercial Code (HGB): Segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade pay›› Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon ables and other liabilities. In particular, segment liabilities do not ›› IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin include income tax liabilities, liabilities from derivatives, or other ›› LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne financial liabilities. ›› LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl ›› LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne ›› LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen 39 | Audit Fees ›› Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim ›› Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen In 2016, total audit fees of €4,110 thousand (2015: ›› Sechste LXS GmbH, Cologne €3,346 thousand) for the auditor of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group were recognized as ­expenses. Outside of Germany, LANXESS Limited (registration no. Due to early application of the revised opinion of the Institute 03498959), Newbury, United Kingdom, utilized the exemption of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW RS HFA 36, new version), the from the auditing of its annual financial statements as permitted content of the reporting categories has been altered. The priorby Section 479A of the U.K. Companies Act 2006. As required year figures have been restated accordingly. The total amount by law, LANXESS AG, as the parent company, guaranteed all includes €2,969 thousand (2015: €1,820 thousand) relating to outstanding liabilities as of December 31, 2016 with respect to the auditing of financial statements. The increase in the year unSection 479C of the U.K. Companies Act 2006. der review is mainly due to audit services in connection with the ­establishment of the ARLANXEO strategic alliance. €245 thousand (2015: €144 thousand) related to other audit-related services and 42 | Events after the Reporting Period €896 thousand (2015: €1,382 thousand) to other services rendered to Group companies. They include services from IT service In September 2016, LANXESS and U.S. company Chemtura provider PwC Cundus AG, an affiliated company of the auditor, signed an agreement on the acquisition of Chemtura by LANXESS. totaling €735 thousand (2015: €1,307 thousand). The fees for Chemtura’s shareholders approved the acquisition at an extraordifinancial statements audit services comprise all fees, including nary shareholders’ meeting held on February 1, 2017. This transacincidental expenses, paid or to be paid for the audits of the consoltion is expected to be closed by mid-2017, providing outstanding idated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the financial regulatory approval is given. statements of LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries. No other events of particular significance took place after December 31, 2016, that could be expected to have a material effect on the earnings, asset and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements 229 Responsibility Statement RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the earnings, asset and financial position of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG. Cologne, March 1, 2017 LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft The Board of Management Matthias Zachert Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Dr. Hubert Fink LANXESS Annual Report 2016 230 Consolidated Financial Statements Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Report We have audited the consolidated financial statements preframework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual pared by the LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, comprising financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the statement of financial position, the income statement and the determination of the entities to be included in consolidation, the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated estimates made by the company’s Board of Management, as well financial statements, together with the group management report, as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial which is combined with the management report of the company, statements and the combined management report. We believe for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2016. that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the Our audit has not led to any reservations. combined management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the adopted by the E.U., and the additional requirements of German ­consolidated financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adcommercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 opted by the E.U. and the additional requirements of German HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) are the commercial law ­pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true responsibility of the parent company’s Board of Management. and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated operations of the Group in accordance with these provisions. The financial statements and the combined management report based combined management report is consistent with the consolidated on our audit. financial statements, complies with legal requirements and as a We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statewhole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitments in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally acably presents the oppor­tu­nities and risks of future development. cepted ­standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the ­Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors Cologne, March 2, 2017 in ­Germany) (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft the presen­t ation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the ­applicable financial reporting framework and in Bernd Boritzki Carsten Manthei the combined manage­ment report are detected with reasonable German Public Auditor German Public Auditor assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Further Information 231 About this Report About this Report Reporting methodology and GRi data collection The report is produced according to the GRI G4 guidelines The full report made here combines financial and sustainabiland complies with the core option. However, in order to satisfy GRI G4–22 ity reporting by the LANXESS Group. It is aligned to national and the information needs of rating agencies and other stakeholders, G4–23 international standards for financial and sustainability reporting, we go beyond these requirements in our reporting and compile especially the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), a more extensive GRI Content Index. GRI reporting is performed German accounting standards (DRS), the Global Reporting Initiaannually. The last report for fiscal 2015 was published in March tive (GRI) guidelines and the principles of the U.N. Global Compact. 2016. In addition, LANXESS meets the transparency requirements of The contents of the report for fiscal 2016 are based on a the U.K. Modern Slavery Act in its reporting. materiality analysis aligned to the four principles formulated The reporting period is 2016. In compiling the data, we apby GRI: sustainability context, materiality, completeness and plied the principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, stakeholder inclusiveness. An internal assessment conducted in clarity and reliability. The report covers the Group companies that 2014 forms the basis of the analysis. This was followed in 2015 are included in the consolidated financial statements. by a detailed survey of our most important external stakeholder We use a standardized global corporate information system groups. The consolidated findings of the two surveys, which for reporting HR data. Employee data therefore relates to the both used the same assessment methodology, are reflected in entire LANXESS Group. our materiality matrix. We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic The following table identifies the boundaries between the global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas key issues and the GRI aspects they cover. of safety and environmental protection. The two performance indicators we use to measure occupational safety – the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR, known as MAQ in Germany) and the recordable incident rate (RIR) – apply to all sites. Environmental protection data are gathered only at those production sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50 %. As LANXESS has an interest of exactly 50 % in ARLANXEO, the latter continues to be reflected in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements and will be fully consolidated from 2016 to 2018; the environmental data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites will continue to be included in our key data for this period. With regard to the collection of emissions data, we have taken into account the recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) and the International Energy Agency (IEA). To ensure the quality of the data, PricewaterhouseCoopers has audited selected indicators with limited assurance. These are identified accordingly in the report. In the case of other indicators which do not refer to the LANXESS Group, the areas of scope are explicitly defined in the report. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 232 Further Information GRI Boundaries  G4–19 G4–20 Areas of Activity/ Within the Organization Outside the Organization GRI Aspects G4–21 Key Issues (G4–20) (G4–21) PC AI HPM ARLANXEO Suppliers CustomComers pany Responsibility toward employees Education & training X X X X X X Training and Education Talent management X X X X Training and Education Demographic change X X X X X Employment | Training and Education Fair remuneration X X X X X Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Work-life balance X X X X X Occupational safety X X X X X X X Occupational Health and Safety Occupational health X X X X Occupational Health and Safety Product and process stewardship Quality X X X X X X Product and Service Labeling Product safety information X X X X X X Customer Health and Safety | Product and Service Labeling Responsible handling of chemicals X X X X X X X Customer Health and Safety | Effluents and Waste | Product and Service Labeling Plant & process safety X X X X X X X Responsible resource use X X X X X Research & development X X X X X X X Environmental responsibility Climate protection X X X X X X X Emissions reduction X X X X X X X Emissions Energy efficiency X X X X X X Energy Resource efficiency X X X X X X Environmental management X X X X X X X Environmental standards X X X X X X X Toxicity X X X X X X X Water management X X X X X X Water Transportation X X X X X X X Transport LANXESS Annual Report 2016 About this Report 233 Boundaries  GRI G4–19 Areas of Activity/ Within the Organization Outside the Organization GRI Aspects G4–20 Key Issues (G4–20) (G4–21) G4–21 PC AI HPM ARLANXEO Suppliers CustomComers pany Corporate governance Compliance X X X X X X X Compliance in the categories Environmental, Society and Product Responsibility | Grievance Mechanisms in Respect of Labor Practices, Human Rights, Impacts on Society and Environmental | Customer Health and Safety | Product and Service Labeling | Marketing Communications | Customer Privacy | Anti-competitive Behavior Anti-corruption X X X X X X X Anti-corruption Risk management X X X X X X X Transparency X X X X X X X Globalization X X X X X X Responsibility in the supply chain Business ethics X X X X X X Sustainable procurement X X X X X X Procurement | Supplier Environmental Assessment | Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices | Supplier Human Rights Assessment | Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Social responsibility Human rights X X X X X X X Investment | Non-discrimination | Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining | Child Labor | Forced or Compulsory Labor | Security Practices | Indigenous Rights | Assessment | Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Stakeholder relations X X X X X X X In the GRI Content Index, we list which indicators from the current GRI Guideline are addressed in the LANXESS Annual Report 2016. In addition to the disclosures contained in this report, supplementary information can be found on the LANXESS Group website. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 234 Further Information HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S Audit Firm’s Independence and LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT Quality Control We have complied with the German professional provisions To LANXESS AG, Cologne regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance enprofessional standards – in particular the Professional Code for gagement on the data in the “Environmental and Safety PerforGerman Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Bemance Data” table included in the “Health, safety, environment rufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer”: and climate protection along the value chain” section of the “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (“In“Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2016 stitute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW”): Requirements to of LANXESS AG, Cologne (hereafter the Company) for the period quality control for audit firms (“Entwurf eines IdW Qualitäts­ 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 (hereafter “Environmental sicherungsstandards 1 ‘Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung and Safety Performance Data” table). in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis’ (IdW EQS 1)”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with Management’s Responsibility ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparaand regulatory requirements. tion and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter Practitioner’s Responsibility the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the information to Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability be assessed. information in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” This responsibility includes the selection and application of table based on our work performed. appropriate methods to prepare the “Environmental and Safety Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform Performance Data” table as well as the use of assumptions and an audit on external sources of information or expert opinions, estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reareferred to in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” sonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility table. includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and We conducted our work in accordance with the International processes relevant for the preparation of the “Environmental and Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Safety Performance Data” table, which is free of material misstate“Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Hisments due to intentional or unintentional errors. torical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the sustainability information in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report 235 In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the folengagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained lowing recommendations for the reporting of the environmental than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures seand safety data: lected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. This includes the assessment of the risks of material misstatements of the sustain›› General annual update of process descriptions as well as ability information in the “Environmental and Safety Performance consistent performance and documentation of intended Data” table regard to the GRI-Criteria. controls; Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others ›› Implementation of automated system interfaces in data the following procedures: consolidation processes as well as obligatory comments in the system for certain deviations; ›› Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation for report›› Regular, systematic update of market-based CO2 emission ing the environmental and safety performance data regardfactors. ing the preparation process, the underlying internal control system and the environmental and safety data ›› Analytical procedures on the environmental and safety data Restriction on Use and Distribution ›› Assessment of the presentation of the environmental and We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed safety data in the “Environmental and Safety Performance with the company. The review has been performed for purposes Data” table of the Company and is solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the review. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not Conclusion assume any responsibility towards third parties. Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Cologne, 1 March 2017 Data” table of the Company for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 has not been prepared, in all material respects, PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Bernd Boritzki Hendrik Fink German Public Auditor German Public Auditor LANXESS Annual Report 2016 236 Further Information GRI Content Index  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Foreword by the Chairman of the Board pp. 7–8 of Management G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities pp. 24–45, 50–55, 158–164 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization LANXESS AG G4-4 Primary brands, products or services pp. 108–110 http://lanxess.com/en/corporate/products-solutions/products-solutions/ G4-5 Location of the organization’s Cologne, Germany headquarters G4-6 Countries where the organization pp. 109–110 http://lanxess.com/en/corporate/about-lanxess/sites-worldwide/ operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form pp. 91–92, 108 G4-8 Markets pp. 116, 126 G4-9 Scale of the organization Table of key data, inside front cover; pp. 75, 130 G4-10 Total workforce pp. 69, 71 6 G4-11 Employees covered by collective p. 73 3 bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of supply chain pp. 114–115 G4-13 Significant changes in the organization’s pp. 108–109, size, structure or ownership 187–189 G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary pp. 116–118, principle is addressed 155–156 G4-15 Participation in and endorsement of pp. 65–66, 76, 80, externally developed charters, principles 86–87 and initiatives G4-16 Important memberships pp. 83, 114–115 Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s pp. 189–190 consolidated financial statements G4-18 Process for defining the report content pp. 58–61 G4-19 Material aspects identified pp. 60, 232–233 G4-20 Material aspects within the organization pp. 232–233 G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization pp. 232–233 G4-22 Effects of any re-statements p. 231 of information G4-23 Changes in the scope, boundary or pp. 187–189, 231 measurement methods Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Overview of stakeholder groups pp. 58–59 G4-25 Basis for identification of stakeholder pp. 58–59 groups G4-26 Engagement of stakeholder groups pp. 58–61, 74, 76 G4-27 Consideration of key concerns raised pp. 58–61, 74, 77 by stakeholder groups LANXESS Annual Report 2016 GRI Content Index 237  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period p. 231 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report p. 231 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle p. 231 G4-31 Contact point Masthead G4-32 GRI Content Index pp. 236–242 G4-33 External assurance for the report pp. 234–235 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of pp. 97–99 the organizationn Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles and code of conduct pp. 58, 65–66 1–10 Economic Management approach pp. 50–55, 86–87 Economic Performance Indicators G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated pp. 86, 139, 140, 169 and distributed G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s pp. 198–204 defined-benefit plan obligations Market Presence G4-EC5 Wages An employee’s individual income is based on his or her responsibilities 6 and performance. As well as collective agreements that are the basis for the compensation of non-managerial staff in Germany and many other countries, legal requirements such as minimum wage levels are also important in ensuring fair compensation. In Germany, for example, we obtain temporary employees only from agencies that are covered by the collective agreement for temporary employment. In addition, the chemical industry pays industry-specific supplements. G4-EC6 Local hiring p. 70 6 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services pp. 86–87 provided primarily for public benefit Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Selection of locally based suppliers p. 114 Environmental Management approach pp. 61–65, 76–85, 114–115 Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume pp. 75, 114 7, 8 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Not relevant as LANXESS cannot use any significant quantities 8 recycled input materials of recycled input materials in the manufacture of its products Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the pp. 75, 84–85 7, 8 organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity pp. 80–81 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption pp. 80–81 8, 9 G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements pp. 80–81, 116–117 http://webmagazin.lanxess.de/nimms-leicht/nimms-leicht.html 8, 9 of products and services (German only) http://lanxess.com/corporate/corporate-responsibility/innovationand-products/green-mobility/ LANXESS Annual Report 2016 238 Further Information  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal pp. 75, 81–82, 7, 8 84–85 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions – pp. 75, 78–79, 7, 8 Scope 1 84–85 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions – pp. 75, 78–79, 7, 8 Scope 2 84–85 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions pp. 78–80 7, 8 – Scope 3 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity p. 79 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions pp. 77–80, 83 8, 9 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances pp. 84–85 7, 8 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air pp. 80, 84–85 7, 8 emissions Effluents and Waste Total water discharge pp. 75, 81–82, G4-EN22 8 84–85 G4-EN23 Quantity of waste pp. 75, 82, 84–85 8 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of Following a truck accident near Bangalore, India, on March 8, 10 t of 8 signifcant spills thionyl chloride were released. On May 14, during test operation of our new pigment plant in Ningbo, China, waste gases containing nitrogen oxides were emitted. The affected areas of the plant were shut down immediately. On June 1, approx. 800 kg of methyl chloroformiate leaked at the site in Dormagen, Germany. The leak was restricted to the immediate operational area and was properly disposed of by the fire department. Precautionary air measurements showed no irregularities. On June 3, also in Dormagen, larger quantities of a feedstock mix (including dichlorobutene, butadiene and chlorine) and some gaseous reaction products were released. A large product cloud formed above the plant and there was a perceptible odor. However, air measurements showed nothing above the detection limits. A fire department employee was slightly injured during the operation. On September 3, a goods train that was also transporting LANXESS products derailed near Durban, South Africa. Around 20 t of sodium dichromate solution and 500 kg of chromium trioxide crystals were spilled. We advised the local authorities and the rail company on the proper treatment and disposal of the spilled substances. The train driver was killed in the accident. On September 30, around 30 kg of ammonia were released at the site in Leverkusen, Germany. The fire department used a water curtain to bind the substance released. The release was restricted to the immediate operational area. Precautionary air measurements showed no irregularities. On October 28, a tanker left the road and turned over around 150 km from our site at Nagda, India. As a result, around 27 t of toluene were released. Products and Services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental pp. 31–35, 38–40, http://lanxess.com/corporate/about-lanxess/megatrends/water/ 7, 8, 9 impacts 43–45, 77–83 G4-EN28 Reclaiming of packaging materials p. 83 8 Compliance G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the 8 environmental laws and regulations audited financial statements. Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of p. 83 8 transporting products and other goods and materials, and transporting members of the workforce LANXESS Annual Report 2016 GRI Content Index 239  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 New suppliers screened using pp. 114–115 8 environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative pp. 114–115 8 environmental impacts in the supply chain Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Formal grievances about Any such grievances would be recorded decentrally by LANXESS. 8 environmental impacts However, there is currently no system for recording these grievances in a statistically relevant way. Labor practices and decent work Management approach pp. 61–65, 68–76, 114–115 Employment G4-LA1 Employee turnover pp. 68–69 6 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees pp. 70–73 G4-LA3 Parental leave p. 72 6 Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding In accordance with the German Works Constitution Act, LANXESS is 3 significant operational changes obliged to inform the Works Council fully and in good time of any planned operational changes which could result in material disadvantage to all or substantial parts of the workforce. The Economics Committee is also informed on a regular basis about the company's economic affairs. We fully comply with our legal obligations with respect to the responsible bodies. Notification periods are defined in the collective agreements in Germany and other countries. In Germany, for instance, it is four weeks. Similar periods in other countries are also always complied with. Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Workforce representation in health Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a regular aspect and safety committees of the dialogue between employee and employer representatives in all countries where collective agreements apply. In Germany, our occupational health management and workplace reintegration programs are based on agreements with employee representatives. The operational teams are managed by steering committees made up equally of employer and employee representatives. G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases pp. 74–76, 84, 141 and work-related accidents G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a regular aspect formal agreements with trade unions of the dialogue between employee and employer representatives in all countries where collective agreements apply. In Germany, our occupational health management and workplace reintegration programs are based on agreements with employee representatives. The operational teams are managed by steering committees made up equally of employer and employee representatives. Training and Education G4-LA9 (Vocational) training pp. 69–70 6 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and pp. 69–73 lifelong learning G4-LA11 Regular performance and career pp. 69, 73 6 development reviews LANXESS Annual Report 2016 240 Further Information  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies pp. 70, 71, 101–103, 6 140–141 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Pay differentials by gender For non-managerial employees, collective agreements mean there are no 6 notable differences between the salaries of female and male employees. Managers’ compensation is based on their responsibilities and performance and also on aspects such as industry and managerial experience. Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 New suppliers screened using labor pp. 114–115 practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative pp. 114–115 impacts for labor practices in the supply chain Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Formal grievances about labor practices Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to report grievances concerning labor practices. No material grievances concerning labor practices were filed in fiscal 2016. Human rights Management approach pp. 63–67, 114–115 Investment G4-HR1 Investment agreements and contracts pp. 66–67 2 that have undergone human rights screening G4-HR2 Training on human rights aspects pp. 66–67 1 Non-Discrimination G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination pp. 66–67 6 and actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Violation of the right to exercise freedom p. 73 3 of association or collective bargaining Child Labor G4-HR5 Principles and measures to eliminate pp. 66–67 5 child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Principles and measures to eliminate pp. 66–67 4 forced or compulsory labor Security Practices G4-HR7 Security personnel training LANXESS does not employ its own security personnel at its sites but 1 procures security services from specialized external providers. They, like all our suppliers, are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. In addition, professional security providers contracted by LANXESS are subject to the relevant security legislation in each country. In South Africa, for example, security personnel undergo regular training which is documented and complies with the requirements of the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority of South Africa (PSIRA). Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Violations involving rights of indigenous Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to 1 people report grievances concerning the violation of indigenous rights. In fiscal 2016, we received no reports or other indications of cases involving the violation of indigenous rights. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 GRI Content Index 241  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Assessment G4-HR9 Operations that have been subject to pp. 66–67 1 human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Suppliers and contractors that have pp. 114–115 2 undergone human rights screening G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative pp. 114–115 2 human rights impacts in the supply chain Significant Actual and Potential Negative Human Rights Impacts in the Supply Chain and Actions Taken G4-HR12 Formal grievances related to human pp. 66–67 1 rights Society Management approach pp. 61–67, 86–87 Local Communities G4-SO1 Operations with implemented local pp. 86–87 1 community engagement, impact assessments and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential pp. 75, 77–85 1 or actual negative impacts on local communities Anti-Corruption G4-SO3 Business units analyzed for risks related p. 67 10 to corruption G4-SO4 Percentage of employees trained in p. 67 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Incidents of corruption and actions taken p. 67 10 Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavThe company is not involved in any legal actions regarding antiior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices competitive behavior or violations of antitrust law. Compliance G4-SO8 Penalties for non-compliance with laws Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the and regulations audited financial statements. Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 New suppliers screened using criteria pp. 114–115 for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative pp. 114–115 impacts on society in the supply chain Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Formal grievances about impacts Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to on society report grievances concerning impacts on society. No formal grievances concerning material impacts on society were filed in fiscal 2016. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 242 Further Information  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Product responsibility Management approach pp. 58, 61–65, 76–78 Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Significant product and service categopp. 74–78, 83–84, ries for which health and safety impacts 114–115 are assessed G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulaOur employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line tions and voluntary codes concerning the to report grievances concerning the non-compliance with regulations health and safety impacts of products and concerning health and safety. In fiscal 2016, we received no indications services during their life cycle of non-compliance with pertinent regulations. Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information pp. 76–78 required by legislation G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with reguLANXESS currently does not yet have a system for recording such lations and voluntary codes concerning cases. We met the labeling and reporting deadlines resulting from the product and service information REACH and GHS regulations for all affected substances in our portfolio. G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction including results of p. 61 surveys measuring customer satisfaction Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products p. 78 Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Complaints regarding customer data Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to privacy report complaints regarding customer data privacy. In fiscal 2016, we received no reports or other indications of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the regulations concerning the provision and audited financial statements. use of products and services LANXESS Annual Report 2016 GRI Content Index 243 Glossary ISO 9001 Glossary International standard which defines minimum requirements for quality management systems. Industry-specific terms Networked site Production site where many different production processes Additives and value chains are integrated as a highly efficient network; for Additive are substances that are added in small quantities to example, the by-products from one production plant are used by products in order to improve or actually create certain properties. another facility are the same site to manufacture another product. The positive effects aimed for may relate to manufacturing, storage The network principle results in lower energy and raw material and processing, or they may be product characteristics that exist consumption while ensuring high production output. It is thus during and after a product’s service life. In contrast to fillers, addiresource-friendly and reduces logistics costs at the same time. tives are very highly dispersed in the material and almost always comprise just a few percent of the overall volume. OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration: an a­ gency CLP and GHS of the United States Department of Labor that is authorized to CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and packadopt occupational safety standards. OSHA also enforces these aging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains provisions for the classtandards with the aim of reducing the number of work-related sification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures. accidents and their consequences. It is based on the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which ensures Polyamide that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world. The A synthetic polymer with very good mechanical and electrical use of internationally agreed classification criteria and labeling properties and high resistance to chemicals and wear. elements is aimed at making things easier for distributors and at protecting people and the environment worldwide from the REACH hazards that may be caused by chemicals. Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals; the E.U. REACH Regulation stipulates Commodities the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals before This is the collective term for economic goods such as fuels, marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers agricultural products, precious metals and chemical products, the to determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and quality of which can be identified on the basis of unambiguous estimate their impact on health and the environment. criteria and does not differ from one supplier to the next. In virtually transparent markets for these goods, price and volume are the Synthesis only differentiators that sellers can use. In chemistry, a synthesis is a process used to manufacture a compound from several elements or a complex new substance Compounding facility from a number of simple compounds. A synthesis therefore goes A facility for processing and finishing ­engineering plastics to beyond the purely physical mixing of two or more substances. A enhance their functional properties. synthesized compound cannot be split back into its base products by physical means. ISO 14001 International standard which supports organizations in inVOC emissions troducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for organtargets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental ic carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become management system. gaseous at low temperatures. ISO 50001 International standard which defines requirements for systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 244 Further Information Financial glossary EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa region. Analysts Analysts work for banks and broker­ages. They produce Equity method industry-specific analyses of listed companies. These are used Accounting method that sets the interests in ­affiliated compato assess the stock of the companies analyzed and to make innies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any changes vestment recommendations. Published in the form of research in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the net assets studies, these recommendations are targeted at ­external users, of the affiliated company. especially institutional investors, and are intended to provide investment ideas. Financial covenants Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreements and term Capital employed sheets; these are contractually binding promises by the borrower This is defined as total assets less deferred tax assets and or the obligor during the term of the loan agreement, for example interest-free liabilities. that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined multiple of an earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals. Cash flow Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents. GDP Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services Corporate governance produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined Responsible corporate management and oversight aligned for consumption. with long-term value creation; it comprises the observance of laws, regulations, recognized standards and ­recommendations as well Goodwill as the implementation and application of company guidelines and Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company; it is meamanagement and control structures. sured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Deferred taxes Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the future Hedging from temporary differences between the carrying amount used An investment position intended to limit or offset certain clearly in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of assets identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or interest rate and liabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in the future changes. from unused loss carryforwards or tax credits. IAS/IFRS Due diligence International Accounting Standards/International Financial The careful investigation and analysis of a ­company, particuReporting Standards; these are uniform international accounting larly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial condition regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards and its performance in the areas of technology and the environBoard with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of finanment; it is undertaken especially by potential purchasers involved cial statements and the publication of information of relevance in acquisition projects. to decisions. EBIT Hybrid bond Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before A hybrid bond is a corporate bond with a very long or undeduction of interest and income taxes. limited term. The issuing company may terminate a bond after a previously defined date. Moreover, the agreed interest payments EBITDA may be canceled or suspended under certain conditions. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti­zation: Hybrid bonds are subordinated financial instruments. In the the operating result before deduction of interest and income taxes event of an insolvency or liquidation, they will only be serviced plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and after the company has fulfilled all other obligations toward third equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible parties. This higher risk borne by investors is compensated by assets. higher interest rates compared with conventional corporate bonds. Depending on the bond conditions, at least part of a hybrid bond is treated as equity by rating agencies and banks. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Glossary 245 Joint venture A contractual agreement between two or more partners concerning an economic activity which they manage jointly. NAFTA The North American Free Trade Agreement is an economic alliance between the United States, Canada and Mexico that makes the North American continent a free trade zone. Net financial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and non-­current financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. Net working capital The sum of all inventories and trade accounts receivable less trade accounts payable. Purchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Rating Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing; ratings are issued by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by banks applying their own criteria. ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 246 Further Information Index A  I  Advanced Industrial Intermediates 109, 127 Income statement 122 ff., 169, 211 ff. Advanced Intermediates 53 f., 109, 127, 133, 153, 225 f. Inorganic Pigments 43 ff., 109 Affiliated companies 108, 187 ff. L  Annual Stockholders’ Meeting 92, 100 ARLANXEO 53, 108, 110, 117, 129, 133, 153, Leather 38 ff., 109 197, 225 f. Liquid Purification Technologies 33 ff., 109 Awards 61, 67, 80 Liquidity 136 f., 154 B  M  Board of Management 6 ff., 97, 101, 142 ff. Markets 50 ff., 109 f., 115 f., 119 f., 152 f. Bonds 93, 135 ff. Material Protection Products 29 f., 109, 128 Boundaries 232 f. Materiality matrix 59 ff. Business conditions 119 f., 152 f. Multi-period overview 138 C  N  Capital expenditures 53 f., 132 f., 154 Net financial liabilities 113 f., 132 Chemtura 24 ff., 53, 109 Committees of the Supervisory Board 99 O Compensation 73, 142 ff. Offices 101 ff. Compliance 63 ff., 96 f. Opportunities 155 ff. Corporate governance 96 ff. Corporate responsibility 58 ff., 118 f. P  Customer industries 50 ff., 109 f., 116, 120, 153 Performance Chemicals 53 f., 109 f., 117, 128, 133, 153, D  225 f. Procurement 114 f. Declaration of Compliance 96 Products 24 ff., 116 ff. Demography 70 ff. Directors’ dealings 100 R  Diversity 70 Rating 93, 134 Dividend 92, 154 Realignment 51, 108 ff. E  Research and development 116 ff. Review 46 f. Earnings per share 125, 214 Rhein Chemie Additives 24 ff., 41 f., 109 EBITDA margin 123, 127 ff. Risk management 155 ff., 217 ff. EBITDA pre exceptionals 112, 121, 123 f., 127 ff., 153 f. Education initiative 86 f. S  Employees 68 ff., 140 f. Sales 122 ff. Environmental protection 74 ff. Saltigo 36 f., 109, 127 Equity 131, 171, 196 ff. Segment reporting 127 ff., 225 ff. F  Sites 109 f. Stakeholders 58 ff. Financial management 134 ff. Statement of cash flows 133 f., 172, 224 f. Forecasts 121, 152 ff. Statement of financial position 130 ff., 168, 191 ff. G  Stock 90 ff. Strategy 50 ff., 111, 153 f. GRI Content Index 236 ff. Supervisory Board 10 ff., 98 ff. Sustainability 50 ff., 58 ff. H  High Performance Materials 31 f., 108, 110, 117, 128 f., 133, 153, T  225 f. Targets 50 ff., 61 ff., 153 f. HR policy 68 ff. LANXESS Annual Report 2016 Index 247 Graphics and Tables Graphics and Tables Cover  LANXESS Group Key Data C2 The Segments in Brief: Advanced Intermediates 109 Sales by Region C2 The Segments in Brief: Performance Chemicals 109 Employees by Region C2 The Segments in Brief: High Performance Materials 110 The Segments in Brief: ARLANXEO 110 In Focus LANXESS Sites 110 LANXESS’s New Additives Business 25 Value Management and Control System 112 Global Positioning 26 Net Financial Liabilities 114 Selling Costs 116 Strategy Sales by Industry Sector 116 Research and Development Expenses 118 Three-Phase Realignment Program 51 Number of Employees in Research and Development 118 Strategic Guidelines 53 GDP and Chemical Production in 2016 119 Portfolio Optimization 55 Evolution of Major User Industries in 2016 120 Corporate Responsibility Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2016 121 Key Financial Data 122 Key Stakeholders 59 Group Sales 122 Materiality Matrix 60 Effects on Sales 122 Sustainability Targets 62 Sales by Segment 123 The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact 65 EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 123 Company Guidelines and Regulations 66 EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment 124 Employee Turnover 68 Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals to EBIT 124 New Employees 69 Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income 125 Employee Structure by Age Group 71 Reconciliation to Earnings per Share 125 Employee Structure by Employment Type 72 Sales by Market 126 Input-Output Balance Sheet 2016 75 Sales by Segment 127 Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in Absence 76 Advanced Intermediates: Overview of Key Data 127 from Work (LTIFR) Performance Chemicals: Overview of Key Data 128 Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees that are Reportable in 76 High Performance Materials: Overview of Key Data 128 Accordance with OSHA Regulations (RIR) ARLANXEO: Overview of Key Data 129 Product Portfolio Analysis on the Basis of Sustainability Aspects 77 Reconciliation: Overview of Key Data 129 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 79 Reconciliation to EBIT/EBITDA 130 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) 80 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position 130 VOC Emissions 80 Statement of Financial Position – Assets 131 Energy Consumption (Balance Sheet) 80 Statement of Financial Position – Equities and Liabilities 131 Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region 81 Ratios 132 Water Consumption 82 Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization 132 Production Wastewater 82 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment 133 Total Waste 82 Cash Flow Statement 133 Waste for Disposal 82 Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2012 134 Environmental and Safety Performance Data 84 Financing Structure 136 Social Activities by Topic 86 LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index 137 Social Activities by Region 86 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview 138 Social Activities by Type of Investment 86 LANXESS AG Income Statement (HGB) 139 LANXESS on the Capital Market LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position (HGB) 140 Employees by Region 141 Stock Performance 2016 90 Employees by Segment 141 Performance Data 2016 91 Employees by Functional Area 141 Capital Market Information 91 Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management 142 Stockholder Profile 92 Compensation of the Board of Management 143 Geographical Breakdown 92 Compensation Granted (Serving Members of the Board of Management) 145 Recommendations 92 Allocations (Serving Members of the Board of Management) 146 LANXESS’s Bonds 93 Compensation Granted (Former Members of the Board of Management) 147 Corporate Governance Allocations (Former Members of the Board of Management) 147 Compensation of the Supervisory Board 149 Offices held by Board of Management Members 101 Expected Growth in GDP and Chemical Production in 2017 153 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 102 Expected Evolution of Major User Industries in 2017 153 Risk Categories 158 Combined Management Report Financial Opportunities and Risks 161 Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS 108 Opportunity and Risk Profile 164 Principal Direct Subsidiaries of ARLANXEO Holding B.V. 108 LANXESS Annual Report 2016 248 Further Information FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017 May 11 August 10 Quarterly Statement Half-Year Financial Report Q1 2017 H1 2017 May 26 November 9 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Quarterly Statement Your direct route to the Cologne Q3 2017 LANXESS IR website We support WE SUPPORT www.unglobalcompact.org www.responsible-care.de www.chemiehochdrei.de www.cdp.net/ www.tfs-initiative.com LANXESS Stock in Sustainability Indices www.sustainability-indices.com www.ftse.com/products/indices/FTSE4Good carbon neutral natureOffice.com | DE-149-119100 print production LANXESS Annual Report 2016 CONTACTS Corporate Communications Christiane Dörr Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 2674 E-mail: mediarelations@lanxess.com Investor Relations Ulrike Rockel Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 9834 E-mail: ir@lanxess.com Date of publication: March 16, 2017 MASTHEAD ­L ANXESS AG Kennedyplatz 1 50569 Cologne, Germany Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 0 www.lanxess.com Consultancy: Kirchhoff Consult, Hamburg Agency: KD1 Designagentur, Cologne Photography: Frank Reinhold, Düsseldorf (employees) This annual report contains forward-looking stateLANXESS, Chemtura, Shutterstock ments based on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG management. Various known and unknown English edition: risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG differences between the actual future results, financial situation, Language Service development or performance of the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes no liability whatsoever to Printed by: update these forward-looking statements or to conform them Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen to future events or developments. Publisher lanxess AG 50569 Cologne Germany www.lanxess.com
