Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT & GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORT Communication on Progress and Global Citizenship, 2017 Cleveland Clinic compiles an annual sustainability report for our patients, caregivers, communities and global stakeholders. As a leader in the healthcare industry, we hold ourselves accountable for our social, environmental and economic impacts. We develop this report to highlight both our accomplishments and communicate our challenges as we strive to reach our goals. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, Cleveland Clinic has pledged to promote sustainability policies and practices to advance our organization in ways that benefit the economies and communities we serve. This year marks our eighth consecutive Communication on Progress and reflects our work in the 2016 calendar year. In addition to addressing the 10 principles of the U.N. Global Compact, this report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 guidelines – the world’s most common standard for sustainability reporting. To align our reporting process with our environmental stewardship goals, we have developed an interactive online report. Here we include our GRI Index, table of U.N. Global Compact Principles, and UN Sustainable Development Goals with the appropriate links to our online report: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future. Please view the full report at clevelandclinic.org/ungc. Dear Patients, Caregivers and Community Members, We are pleased to present our eighth Communication on Progress as part of the United Nations Global Compact. Cleveland Clinic shares the UN Global Compact’s principles of human rights, environmental responsibility and corporate integrity. This report uses the Global Reporting Initiative’s standard disclosures to measure our performance in these areas and is in accordance with G4 core guidelines. Today’s healthcare providers face an array of unique challenges. They include declining reimbursement, the move to value-based payment, integration of the electronic medical record, and the need to improve quality, safety and access. Cleveland Clinic is addressing these challenges through its ongoing Clinical Transformation initiative. The initiative is developing a system of integrated, coordinated, value-based treatment that includes, care paths, seamless electronic medical records, interdisciplinary care teams, and discharge planning to reduce readmissions. We are educating all staff physicians in patient communication, and pro-actively addressing caregiver burnout through a variety of programs. We continue to improve sustainability through strategic purchasing, construction and recycling. We have joined with local governments and community groups to promote weight loss and smoking cessation. Cleveland Clinic Stephanie Tubbs Jones Health Center’s Mobile Food Pantry provides free, nutritional meal options, promotes healthy eating and improves health outcomes for community families. We urge leaders at all levels of society to promote nutrition, exercise and greater personal responsibility for health. In 2016, Cleveland Clinic provided medical services to more patients from more places than ever before. We have been recognized among the World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere Institute, honored as a top five hospital by DiversityInc and ranked as a Top 25 hospital by Practice Greenhealth. We are proud to share the information in this year’s Communication on Progress. Thank you for your interest. Sincerely, Delos M. Cosgrove, MD Cleveland Clinic President and CEO Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 2 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality While all sustainability topics discussed in our online report are important to our leadership, our stakeholder engagement process has helped us determine what sustainability topics matter most, or how “material” they are to our operations, and where they matter most within our organization and externally beyond our walls. This materiality process has enabled us to prioritize the topics that require the most focus for our long-term success. We engage our patients and caregivers through internal surveys, we conduct ongoing inperson interviews with our executive team, board members and representatives from key external stakeholder groups, and we invite many of our stakeholders to attend facility openings, addresses by Cleveland Clinic executives and other Clinic-hosted events open to the public and other officials. We also periodically travel to the seats of federal, state and local governments to provide briefings on issues of importance to healthcare providers. The primary purpose of these discussions in 2016 was to prioritize the importance of each of our sustainability topics and find collaboration points for mutual benefit. Some of the external groups we engaged for this report include: • American Heart Association • Evergreen Cooperatives • American Lung Association • Health and Human Services • Our top suppliers • National Institute of Health • City of Cleveland • North Union Farmers Market • Cleveland Foundation • Ohio Hospitals Association • Department of Energy • Practice Greenhealth • Environmental Protection Agency • The White House All interviewed stakeholders were given a list of sustainability topics based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s aspects list and engaged in open dialogue on all topics. The internal interview team ranked each topic discussed on a low to high scale of 1 to 7, and then the mean of all stakeholder answers was utilized to generate vertical and horizontal points on the graph. The opinions of our patients and caregivers were weighted with additional consideration. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 3 Cleveland Clinic Materiality Assessment The vertical-axis of the chart corresponds to the ranking or caregiver safety, and transparency. One important topic that importance of a topic to our external stakeholders and the was discussed extensively by our external stakeholders was horizontal-axis corresponds to the importance to our internal the health impact climate change poses to our patients stakeholders. and communities and Cleveland Clinic’s mitigation and resilience efforts. The chart is divided into three distinct groups: topics to manage, topics to set goals and manage, and topics to Generally, the most important topics discussed internally set goals, manage and provide robust discussion in our concerned our patients and caregivers, and our external reporting. stakeholders cared most about our community and environmental impacts. Where available, we have Several topics emerged that were ranked highly by both our included robust discussion and reporting on the topics internal and external stakeholders. They are the indirect our stakeholders consider to be the most material to our economic impacts of our operations, our engagement with operations in this year’s report. Because 2016 was the the communities we serve, population health, research first year we completed a materiality assessment, no and innovation, access to care, quality of care, and the significant changes to our material topics have occurred inherent link between human health and the health of the since the last reporting period. We will continue to use environment. Other highly ranked topics internally were this materiality process to guide our reporting and data caregiver engagement, care transformation, patient and collection in the future. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 4 GRI Index Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Letter from Dr. Toby Cosgrove a. Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. T he statement should present the overall vision and strategy for the short term, medium term, and long term, particularly with regard to managing the significant economic, environmental and social impacts that the organization causes and contributes to, or the impacts that can be linked to its activities as a result of relationships with others (such as suppliers, people or organizations in local communities). The statement should include: • S trategic priorities and key topics for the short and medium term with regard to sustainability, including respect for internationally recognized standards and how such standards relate to long term organizational strategy and success • B roader trends (such as macroeconomic or political) affecting the organization and influencing sustainability priorities • Key events, achievements, and failures during the reporting period • Views on performance with respect to targets • O utlook on the organization’s main challenges and targets for the next year and goals for the coming 3–5 years • Other items pertaining to the organization’s strategic approach ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Cleveland Clinic a. Report the name of the organization. G4-4 Organizational Profile a. Report the primary brands, products, and services. G4-5 Cleveland, Ohio, United States of America a. Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. G4-6 Organizational Profile a. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 The Cleveland Clinic Foundation is an Ohio nonprofit a. Report the nature of ownership and legal form. corporation. As such, it is not owned by any indviduals or corporate entities. The Cleveland Clinic Foundation serves as a direct or indirect parent or as the “sole member” or “sole regular member” of each affiliate within the Cleveland Clinic Health System (CCHS). G4-8 Who are Our Patients? a. Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 By the Numbers, Annual Report a. Report the scale of the organization, including: • Total number of employees • Total number of operations •N  et sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) • T otal capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Q uantity of products or services provided Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 5 GRI Index Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-10 Caregiver Demographics Data a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. R eport the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. R eport any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 4% of our enterprise caregivers are covered by enterprise a. Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining collective bargaining agreements. Cleveland Clinic has agreements. collective bargaining agreements with various groups of employees working at certain subsidiaries in a variety of roles. Cleveland Clinic believes that its relationships with the unions are positive and that any expiring collective bargaining agreements during the current or upcoming fiscal years will be renegotiated without any disruption in service or operations of the related facilities. G4-12 Responsible Procurement a. Describe the organization’s supply chain. G4-13 In November 2015, Cleveland Clinic became sole owner of a. Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the Akron General Health System in Northeast Ohio. Our data organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: continued to be integrated from the AGHS in 2016, and as • C hanges in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility additional data becomes available we will include it in our openings, closings, and expansions future reporting. • C hanges in the share capital structure and other capital formation, Annual Report maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) • C hanges in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 We apply the precautionary prinicple in the care of our patients a. Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by and in our approach to our environmental impacts. the organization. Environment, Patient Safety G4-15 Community Impacts, Economic Vitality a. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships a. L ist memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • H olds a position on the governance body • P articipates in projects or committees • P rovides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • V iews membership as strategic This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 6 GRI Index Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Annual Report a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. The organization can report on this Standard Disclosure by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-18 Stakeholder Engagement, Materiality, Boundary a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Materiality a. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. G4-20 Boundary a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: • R eport whether the Aspect is material within the organization • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: – T he list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or – T he list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material • R eport any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 Boundary a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: • R eport whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization • If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified • R eport any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Annual Report a. Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 No significant changes have occurred between reporting a. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and periods. Indicator metrics that are determined for this Aspect Boundaries. report are internally verified prior to report publishing. The primary change in this year’s report is a GRI G4 matieriality assessment. If there is additional data that becomes available after our publish date, it is updated and incorporated into our historical data available for the subsequent reporting period. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement a. Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement a. Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 7 GRI Index Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement a. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Stakeholder Engagement a. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Calendar year, January–December 2016 a. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. G4-29 7/1/16 a. Date of most recent previous report (if any). G4-30 Annual a. Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). G4-31 For more information regarding this report’s content, contact a. Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Cleveland Clinic’s Corporate Communications Department at +1.216.444.0141 G4-32 In Accordance – Core a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 The Cleveland Clinic Foundation (“Cleveland Clinic”) is an a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking Ohio nonprofit corporation that is tax-exempt under Section external assurance for the report. 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. It operates an b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, academic medical center and health system. Cleveland Clinic report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. makes mandatory and voluntary disclosures to a variety of c. R eport the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. governmental and nongovernmental entities, including the d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in Internal Revenue Services, the Centers for Medicare and seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Medical Services, the Environmental Protection Agency, Ohio Department of Health, Department of Energy, Ohio Hospital Association and Practice Greenhealth. Cleveland Clinic’s financial statements are audited on an annual basis by Ernst & Young LLP, and it makes quarterly financial disclosures pursuant to requirements of its outstanding debt. The Cleveland Clinic’s Executive Steering Committee has determined it will not seek third-party verification of this report at this time. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, environmental and social impacts. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organizational Profile a. Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 8 Specific Standard Disclosures (Only required if these topics come up during materiality assessment) Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ECONOMIC ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Annual Report a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EC1 Annual Report a. Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components as listed below: • D irect economic value generated: – Revenues • E conomic value distributed: – Operating costs – Employee wages and benefits – Payments to providers of capital – Payments to government (by country) – Community investments • E conomic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) b. To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. G4-EC2 Climate Resilience a. Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, including: • A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other • A description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity • T he financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken • T he methods used to manage the risk or opportunity • T he costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity G4-EC3 Annual Report a. Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. b. Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: • T he extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them • T he basis on which that estimate has been arrived at •W  hen that estimate was made c. Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. d. Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. e. Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 9 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-EC4 Annual Report a. Report the total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from governments during the reporting period, including, as a minimum: • T ax relief and tax credits • S ubsidies • Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grants • A wards • R oyalty holidays • F inancial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs) • F inancial incentives • O ther financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation b. Report the information above by country. c. Report whether, and the extent to which, the government is present in the shareholding structure. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EC5 Not Material a. When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. b. Report whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums could be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. c. R eport the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. G4-EC6 Not Material a. Report the percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are hired from the local community. b. Report the definition of ‘senior management’ used. c. Report the organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. d. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Community a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 10 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-EC7 Community Impact a. Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. b. Report the current or expected impacts on communities and local economies. Report positive and negative impacts where relevant. c. Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. G4-EC8 Community Impact a. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organization has. These may include: • C hanging the productivity of organizations, sectors, or the whole economy • E conomic development in areas of high poverty • E conomic impact of improving or deteriorating social or environmental conditions • A vailability of products and services for those on low incomes • E nhancing skills and knowledge amongst a professional community or in a geographical region • J obs supported in the supply chain or distribution chain • S timulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct investment • E conomic impact of change in location of operations or activities • E conomic impact of the use of products and services b. Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Responsible Procurement, Supplier Diversity, Economic Vitality a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EC9 Responsible Procurement, Supplier Diversity, Economic Vitality a. Report the percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation spent on suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage of products and services purchased locally). b. Report the organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’. c. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: MATERIALS – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 11 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-EN1 Not Material a. Report the total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s primary products and services during the reporting period, by: •N  on-renewable materials used • R enewable materials used G4-EN2 Not Material a. Report the percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization’s primary products and services. ASPECT: ENERGY – MATERIAL G4-DMA Energy Conservation a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN3 In 2016, we used 513,856,229 kWh of electricity, and a. Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, 1,853,438 mcfs of natural gas. We generated 115,216 kWh of including fuel types used. renewable energy from our solar array on main campus. b. Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, Energy Efficiency including fuel types used. c. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • E lectricity consumption • H eating consumption • C ooling consumption • S team consumption d. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • E lectricity sold • H eating sold • C ooling sold • S team sold e. Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. f. R eport standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. g. R eport the source of the conversion factors used. G4-EN4 Not Material a. Report energy consumed outside of the organization, in joules or multiples. b. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. c. Report the source of the conversion factors used. G4-EN5 Reduction Progress a. Report the energy intensity ratio. b. Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. c. Report the types of energy included in the intensity ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. d. Report whether the ratio uses energy consumed within the organization, outside of it or both. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 12 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-EN6 Energy Efficiency a. Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. b. Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. c. Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. d. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G4-EN7 Not Material a. Report the reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples. b. Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. c. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. ASPECT: WATER – MATERIAL G4-DMA Water Stewardship a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN8 In Northeast Ohio, the regional water utility has struggled with a. Report the total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: accurate billing, monitoring and volume data. In 2014, we • S urface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans began utilizing a vendor to centralize the tracking our water • G round water use and in 2015 continued to monitor our data with greater • R ainwater collected directly and stored by the organization accuracy. As an enterprise, we use ~2.2 million gallons of •W  aste water from another organization water per day. Our sustainability and buildings and properties •M  unicipal water supplies or other water utilities department have formed a water conservation team to identify ways we can reduce our water use as an enterprise.  b. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Water Stewardship G4-EN9 95% of our water use comes from Northeast Ohio, specifically a. Report the total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by Lake Erie and the Cuyahoga River, Rocky River, Black River, type: and Chagrin River watersheds. 4% of our water use comes • S ize of water source from the Florida Biscayne Bay watershed, and less than 1% of •W  hether or not the source is designated as a protected area (nationally or our water use comes from Lake Mead and other international internationally) sources. • B iodiversity value (such as species diversity and endemism, total number of protected species) • V alue or importance of water source to local communities and indigenous peoples b. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G4-EN10 Not Material a. Report the total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization. b. Report the total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal reported under Indicator G4-EN8. c. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 13 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN11 Not Material a. Report the following information for each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas: • G eographic location • S ubsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the organization • P osition in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing portions of the protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside protected areas • T ype of operation (office, manufacturing or production, or extractive) • S ize of operational site in km2 • B iodiversity value characterized by: – T he attribute of the protected area or high biodiversity value area outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) – L isting of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation) G4-EN12 Not Material a. Report the nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: • C onstruction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure • P ollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and non-point sources) • Introduction of invasive species, pests, and pathogens • R eduction of species • H abitat conversion • C hanges in ecological processes outside the natural range of variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level) b. Report significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: • S pecies affected • E xtent of areas impacted • D uration of impacts • R eversibility or irreversibility of the impacts G4-EN13 Not Material a. Report the size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. b. Report whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from where the organization has overseen and implemented restoration or protection measures. c. R eport on the status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. d. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 14 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-EN14 Not Material a. Report the total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level of extinction risk: • C ritically endangered • E ndangered • V ulnerable •N  ear threatened • L east concern ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Climate Resilience a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN15 Carbon Mitigation a. Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. b. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). c. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. d. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. e. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. f. R eport the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. g. R eport the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). G4-EN16 Carbon Mitigation a. Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. b. Report gases included in the calculation, if available. c. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. d. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. e. Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source, if available. f. R eport the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 15 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-EN17 We currently do not track our Scope 3 emissions. We are in a. Report gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 the process of developing a method to track our emmisions equivalent, excluding indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or throughout our value chain. acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. b. Report gases included in the calculation, if available. c. R eport biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. d. Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. e. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. f. R eport standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. g. R eport the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source, if available. G4-EN18 Carbon Mitigation a. Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. b. Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. c. Report the types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). d. Report gases included in the calculation. G4-EN19 Carbon Mitigation a. Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). c. Report the chosen base year or baseline and the rationale for choosing it. d. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. e. Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. G4-EN20 Not Material a. Report production, imports, and exports of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 equivalent. b. Report substances included in the calculation. c. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. d. Report the source of the emission factors used. G4-EN21 Carbon Mitigation a. Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: •N  OX • S OX • P ersistent organic pollutants (POP) • V olatile organic compounds (VOC) • H azardous air pollutants (HAP) • P articulate matter (PM) • O ther standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations b. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. c. Report the source of the emission factors used. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 16 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Waste Reduction a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN22 Not Material a. Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: • D estination • Q uality of the water including treatment method •W  hether it was reused by another organization b. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G4-EN23 Landfill Diversion a. Report the total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: • R euse • R ecycling • C omposting • R ecovery, including energy recovery • Incineration (mass burn) • D eep well injection • L andfill • O n-site storage • O ther (to be specified by the organization) b. Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: • D isposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed • Information provided by the waste disposal contractor • O rganizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor G4-EN24 We did not have any significant spills during this reporting a. Report the total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. period. b. For spills that were reported in the organization’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: • L ocation of spill • V olume of spill •M  aterial of spill, categorized by: – Oil spills (soil or water surfaces) – Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces) – Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) – Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces) – Other (to be specified by the organization) c. Report the impacts of significant spills. G4-EN25 Not Material a. Report the total weight for each of the following: • H azardous waste transported • H azardous waste imported • H azardous waste exported • H azardous waste treated b. Report the percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 17 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-EN26 Not Material a. Report water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges based on the criteria described in the Compilation section below, adding information on: • S ize of water body and related habitat •W  hether the water body and related habitat is designated as a protected area (nationally or internationally) • B iodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Environment a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN27 Not Material a. Report quantitatively the extent to which environmental impacts of products and services have been mitigated during the reporting period. b. If use-oriented figures are employed, report the underlying assumptions regarding consumption patterns or normalization factors. G4-EN28 Not Material a. Report the percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product category. b. Report how the data for this Indicator has been collected. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Regulatory Compliance a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN29 Not Material a. Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: • T otal monetary value of significant fines • T otal number of non-monetary sanctions • C ases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms b. Where organizations have not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA Sustainable Transport a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 18 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-EN30 Not Material a. Report the significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Where quantitative data is not provided, report the reason. b. Report how the environmental impacts of transporting products, members of the organization’s workforce, and other goods and materials are mitigated. c. Report the criteria and methodology used to determine which environmental impacts are significant. ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Responsible Procurement a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN32 Not Material a. Report the percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. G4-EN33 Not Material a. Report the number of suppliers subject to environmental impact assessments. b. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. c. Report the significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified in the supply chain. d. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA We did not have any environmental grivances during the a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect reporting period. material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-EN34 Not Material a. Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period.  b. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: • A ddressed during the reporting period • R esolved during the reporting period c. Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 19 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Caregivers a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-LA1 Talent Development a. Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. b. Report the total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. G4-LA2 Talent Development a. Report the benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: • L ife insurance • H ealth care • D isability and invalidity coverage • P arental leave • R etirement provision • S tock ownership • O thers b. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. G4-LA3 Not Material a. Report the total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. b. Report the total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. c. Report the total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, by gender. d. Report the total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended who were still employed twelve months after their return to work, by gender. e. Report the return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, by gender. ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 20 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-LA4 Not Material a. Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. b. For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Caregiver Safety a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-LA5 Not Material a. Report the level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organization. b. Report the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. G4-LA6 EHS Data a. Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities, for the total workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by: • R egion • G ender b. Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for independent contractors working on-site to whom the organization is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by: • R egion • G ender c. Report the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. G4-LA7 Bloodborne Pathogens a. Report whether there are workers who are involved in occupational activities who have a high incidence or high risk of specific diseases. G4-LA8 Not Material a. Report whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and safety. b. If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Talent Development a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 21 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-LA9 Not Material a. Report the average hours of training that the organization’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by: • G ender • E mployee category G4-LA10 Talent Development a. Report on the type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. b. Report on the transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. G4-LA11 Nearly all of our organization receives an annual performance a. Report the percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category review with over 99% of employees receiving one in 2016 who received a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Diversity and Demographics a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-LA12 Caregiver Demographics Data a. Report the percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: • G ender • A ge group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old •M  inority groups • O ther indicators of diversity where relevant b. Report the percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: • G ender • A ge group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old •M  inority groups • O ther indicators of diversity where relevant ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-LA13 Not Material a. Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation. b. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 22 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-LA14 Not Material a. Report the percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. G4-LA15 Not Material a. Report the number of suppliers subject to impact assessments for labor practices. b. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices. c. Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices identified in the supply chain. d. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-LA16 Not Material a. Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. b. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: • A ddressed during the reporting period • R esolved during the reporting period c. Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS ASPECT: INVESTMENT – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 23 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-HR1 Not Material a. Report the total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. b. Report the definition of ‘significant investment agreements’ used by the organization. G4-HR2 Not Material a. Report the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. b. Report the percentage of employees in the reporting period trained in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR3 Not Material a. Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. b. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: • Incident reviewed by the organization • R emediation plans being implemented • R emediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR4 Not Material a. Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of: • T ype of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier • C ountries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk b. Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 24 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: CHILD LABOR – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR5 Not Material a. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: • C hild labor • Y oung workers exposed to hazardous work b. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor either in terms of: • T ype of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier • C ountries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk c. R eport measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR6 Not Material a. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor either in terms of: • T ype of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier • C ountries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk b. Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR7 Not Material a. Report the percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the organization’s human rights policies or specific procedures and their application to security. b. Report whether training requirements also apply to third party organizations providing security personnel. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 25 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR8 Not Material a. Report the total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. b. Report the status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to: • Incident reviewed by the organization • R emediation plans being implemented • R emediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action ASPECT: ASSESSMENT – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR9 Not Material a. Report the total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments, by country. ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. R eport the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR10 Not Material a. Report the percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. G4-HR11 Not Material a. Report the number of suppliers subject to human rights impact assessments. b. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts. c. Report the significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts identified in the supply chain. d. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 26 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS – NOT MATERIAL G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-HR12 Not Material a. Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. b. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: • A ddressed during the reporting period • R esolved during the reporting period c. Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period.  SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Community a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-SO1 Community Impact a. Report the percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs, including the use of: • S ocial impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes • E nvironmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring • P ublic disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments • L ocal community development programs based on local communities’ needs • S takeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping • B road based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups •W  orks councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts • F ormal local community grievance processes G4-SO2 Not Material a. Report operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities, including: • T he location of the operations • T he significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 27 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Transparency & Anti-Corruption a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-SO3 Not Material a. Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. b. Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. G4-SO4 Not Material a. Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. b. Report the total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. c. Report the total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. d. Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. e. Report the total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. G4-SO5 Not Material a. Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. b. Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. c. Report the total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. d. Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4-DMA Advocacy and Policy a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-SO6 Not Material a. Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by the organization by country and recipient/ beneficiary. b. Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated, if applicable. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 28 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-SO7 Not Material a. Report the total number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the organization has been identified as a participant. b. Report the main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. R eport the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-SO8 Not Material a. Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: • T otal monetary value of significant fines • T otal number of non-monetary sanctions • C ases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Environmentally Preferred Purchasing, Local and Diverse a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect Spend material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-SO9 Not Material a. Report the percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 29 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-SO10 Not Material a. Report the number of suppliers subject to assessments for impacts on society. b. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society. c. Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts on society identified in the supply chain. d. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-SO11 Not Material a. Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. b. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: • A ddressed during the reporting period • R esolved during the reporting period c. Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period.  SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Patients a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-PR1 A Culture of Safety, Patient Safety Goals, Patient Data a. Report the percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. G4-PR2 Not Material a. Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 30 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-PR3 Not Material a. Report whether the following product and service information is required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling: • T he sourcing of components of the product or service • C ontent, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact • S afe use of the product or service • D isposal of the product and environmental/social impacts • O ther (explain) b. Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. G4-PR4 Not Material a. Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. G4-PR5 Not Material a. Report the results or key conclusions of customer satisfaction surveys (based on statistically relevant sample sizes) conducted in the reporting period relating to information about: • T he organization as a whole • A major product or service category • S ignificant locations of operation ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Not Material a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-PR6 Not Material a. Report whether the organization sells products that are: • B anned in certain markets • T he subject of stakeholder questions or public debate b. Report how the organization has responded to questions or concerns regarding these products. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 31 Specific Standard Disclosures Standard Disclosure Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Requirements G4-PR7 Not Material a. Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Regulatory Compliance a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-PR8 Not Material a. Report the total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized by: • C omplaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organization • C omplaints from regulatory bodies b. Report the total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. c. If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Regulatory Compliance a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • T he results of the evaluation of the management approach • A ny related adjustments to the management approach G4-PR9 Not Material a. Report the total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 32 UN Global Compact Principles Principle Description Report Link CONTINUING SUPPORT Statement of Continuing Support Letter from Dr. Cosgrove HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights and Labor Standards internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Human Rights and Labor Standards abuses. LABOR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Caregivers, Governance and the effective recognition of collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Caregivers, Governance labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Caregivers, Governance Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of Caregivers, Governance employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Environment environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Environment, Research & Innovation environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Anti-Corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 33 UN Sustainable Development Goals No Poverty End poverty in all its forms everywhere Community Impact Zero Hunger End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and Mobile Food Pantry, Farmers Market promote sustainable agriculture Good Health and Well-Being Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Patients, Healthy Lifestyle Quality Education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote Healthy Lifestyle, Talent Development, Building the lifelong learning opportunities for all Pipeline Gender Equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Diversity and Demographics Clean Water and Sanitation Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and Water Stewardship sanitation for all Affordable and Clean Energy Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern Energy Conservation, Climate Resilience energy for all Decent Work and Economic Growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Caregivers full and productive employment and decent work for all Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable Community, Healthy Buildings industrialization and foster innovation Reduced Inequalities Reduce inequality within and among countries Diversity and Demographics Sustainable Cities and Communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient Economic Vitality and sustainable Responsible Consumption and Production Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Responsible Procurement Climate Action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Climate Resilience Life Below Water Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine Water Stewardship, Market Transformation resources for sustainable development Life on Land Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Environment ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Peace and Justice, Strong Institutions Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable Advocacy and Policy development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Partnerships for the Goals Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Community, Governance global partnership for sustainable development Cleveland Clinic: Serving Our Present, Caring for Our Future 34
