ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management Interactive PDF For fast and easy navigation click on the main menu and in the indexes. CONTENTS Key events and figures 5 Letter from CEO 6 Directors’ report 10 Annual Statement on Corporate governance 32 Consolidated annual accounts 44 Annual accounts for the parent company 102 Board and management 136 2 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 Key and figures events and Key events figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management 2016 HIGHLIGHTS AND KEY FIGURES • The Multiconsult group recorded strong re• Significant large contracts won in 2016: venue growth and solid earnings in 2016, New Tønsberg Hospital (Vestfold Hospital driven by acquisitions, organic growth and solid Trust), Bus transit lane in Stavanger (Norwegian operational performance. Public Roads Administration Region West), Zanzibar Energy Sector Support Project (Revoluti• Successful first ever capital markets day: onary Government of Zanzibar), new hospital Multiconsult completed a successful capital campus in Helsingborg (Regionservice), Åsane markets day in October 2016 presenting an uphigh school in Bergen (Hordaland Fylkeskomdated strategy with ambitions towards 2020. mune), frame agreements from Fosen Vind DA • Acquisition of aarhus arkitekterne A/S: and Statnett. In addition, substantial add-on Multiconsult acquired 100 per cent of the shagranted for Karmøy pilot plant (Hydro). res in the Danish architect company aarhus • Attractive employer: Multiconsult ranks as an arkitekterne A/S in December 2016, in line with attractive employer in the annual survey conits strategic initiatives. The total purchase price ducted by Universum among engineering stuwas DKK 49.2 million, settled in cash. dents and seasoned professionals. CONSOLIDATED KEY FIGURES Amounts in MNOK (except EPS, shares and percentage) FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2014 FINANCIAL Net operating revenues 2 604.6 2 247.7 1 986.5 Growth (%) 15.9% 13.1% 10.2% Reported EBITDA 332.8 212.7 246.5 EBITDA, underlying 225.5 263.4 246.5 EBITDA margin (%), underlying 8.7% 11.7% 12.4% EBIT, underlying 182.3 225.8 211.8 EBIT margin (%), underlying 7.0% 10.0% 10.7% Basic earnings per share (NOK) 8.15 5.73 6.35 Average number of shares 26 243 164 26 186 588 26 245 781 Net interest bearing debt (negative is asset) (116.5) (223.2) (438.2) Cash and cash equivalents 176.0 233.0 448.6 OPERATIONAL Order intake 3 084.7 2 808.0 2 598.0 Order backlog 1 793.1 1 727.5 1 506.9 Billing ratio (%) 69.2% 68.2% 67.1% Employees 2 344 2 147 1 724 4 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management WE ARE STRONG AND PREPARED GO (Growth and Opportunities) is at the heart of our revised strategy for the coming years. Our aim for Multiconsult is to become a Scandinavian heavyweight with an annual turnover of NOK 6 billion by 2020. That goal is ambitious, but realistic. The foundations for continuing on our ambitious growth path have been laid by the great achievements made during our previous strategy period. When Multiconsult launched its 3-2-1 strategy in 2013, the aarhus arkitekterne A/S. With LINK arkitektur’s 100 employaim was to triple profitability, double turnover and become ees in Denmark and 150 in Sweden, and our stated aim of the industry’s leading brand by the end of 2017. Having largeoffering multidisciplinary engineering services in Sweden, ly achieved those goals, and with our new ownership strucMulticonsult is becoming a Scandinavian heavyweight, and ture offering new opportunities, in autumn 2016 we decided not just a Norwegian one. the time was right to launch a revised group strategy for the period leading up to 2020. GLOBAL OPERATIONS Although Multiconsult has no desire to become a global Rather than changing course, we aim to push on with renewcompany, our operations are definitely global. Over the past ed vigour. That is why we have included the phrase 3-2-1 year we have worked on projects from the South Pole in the in our revised strategy, which we have called 3-2-1 GO. The south to Svalbard in the north, from Chile in the west to Sinfirst part of the name refers to the foundations we laid in the gapore in the east. In 2016 our international subsidiaries in previous strategy period, which have put us in a position to Poland, England and Singapore all grew their turnover, imcontinue on our ambitious growth path and to exploit new proved their profitability and helped to make the Multiconopportunities. We believe that our strength lies in our orgasult group more competitive. nisation’s culture of empowerment. Our willingness to search out and seize new opportunities will be the key to our success. Most of our international business outside Scandinavia is in the business areas Oil & Gas and Renewable Energy. With A GROWING PRESENCE ACROSS SCANDINAVIA oil prices remaining relatively low, we mainly see growth The Multiconsult group keeps on growing, both in Norway opportunities in renewable energy, where there is significaand internationally. With the acquisition of Akvator AS on nt potential. We are preparing for this growth, by targeting Anne Harris Stord, in 2016 we became the biggest firm of consulting enthe hydropower market in East Africa and South-East Asia. CFO gineers in Western Norway. However, our largest acquisition Turnover from wind power is growing, and international deChristian Nørgaard Madsen in 2016 was the highly respected Danish architectural firm mand for our solar power experts is greater than ever before. Chief Executive Officer 6 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management SIGNS OF IMPROVEMENT URBAN DEVELOPMENT our work processes and execution model. The project has facilities. There is growing demand from both the private and also received a great deal of attention from other countries, public sectors for integrated engineering and architectural 2016 was a year of fierce competition and significant presThe growth of cities and urbanisation are helping to drive which shows that the Norwegian construction industry is beservices, covering architecture, landscape architecture and sure on prices. When that is combined with wage growth, change all over the world. Most of the world’s population now ginning to set international standards. various engineering disciplines. When Multiconsult acquired profitability suffers. We are continuously working to make lives in urban areas. How we implement urbanisation will play LINK arkitektur in 2015, this was precisely one of the areas our operations more streamlined and efficient, and we reina key role in mitigating climate change and achieving our where we saw an opportunity to grow our presence by imCustomers will increasingly value consultants who can help forced those efforts over the past year. goals for sustainable development. Population growth, new proving collaboration between architects and engineers. We them to achieve the digital leap more efficiently – at the technology and the need for climate mitigation are creating have managed to do that, both in Norway and Sweden. In same time as identifying more innovative, better solutions. By Looking at 2017, it is tempting to cite the Governor of the completely new challenges for future urban development. Norway, we have worked together on Vestre Viken Hospital 2020, we want to be market leaders in the areas that we are Norwegian central bank’s prediction for 2016: «Winter is coMulticonsult wants to play a key role in solving them. and the Tønsberg project. Our joint projects in Sweden include calling the “digital architect” and the “digital engineer”. This ming». In the end, things did not go quite that badly – partly means not just developing digital tools, but also digital skills the new hospital in Helsingborg and Stockholm South General because we threw plenty of wood on the fire, as the Governor The group’s strength lies in its three-pronged approach: LINK and expertise that add value for both our customers and us. Hospital. The acquisition of aarhus arkitekterne will further said in his most recent speech. As a result, our Norwegian arkitektur, Analyse & Strategi and Multiconsult ASA. Led by reinforce our position in this market throughout Scandinavia. house is now quite warm and pleasant, and spring is on its LINK arkitektur, over the past year we have won a number of GREEN INNOVATION way. This is confirmed by various economic indicators, emurban development projects in Norway and Sweden, in spite ONE MULTICONSULT ployment figures and, last but not least, the oil price, which is of tough international competition. This shows that we have Keeping up with the times and the ability to come up with psychologically important to Norway. Highly relevant survthe most important building blocks in place. Nevertheless, new, sustainable designs and products are becoming increaOur strategy for the period leading up to 2020 is ambitious, eys by architectural firms and the Association of Consulting we see a huge opportunity to become a far more important singly important competitive factors. Over the past year, we but so it should be. Over our previous strategy period, we Engineers (RIF) show strong order backlogs and confidence player in this market if we exploit our combined expertise in have been working systematically with innovation. We are in built a fantastic platform for taking the Multiconsult group in the future. Those are promising signs for the market. Moanalysis, architecture and consulting engineering. Our goal the process of building a culture of innovation by providing up to the next level. According to Universum’s survey of the reover, politicians are showing a willingness to invest in inis to become the first big Scandinavian company capable of systematic training on how to foster and manage innovation most attractive employers, Multiconsult is number one in frastructure and maintenance, which should not be affected providing the interdisciplinary expertise needed to facilitate through our competence networks, in parallel with holding the industry. We employ many of the leading experts in the by the outcome of this autumn’s election. successful urban development, right from the vision through internal innovation competitions. industry, as well as many of the most talented young engito technical execution. neers. We want that to remain the case for many years to Faced with a somewhat more challenging environment in The results have been immediate. We just finished a compecome. Nevertheless, success does not just depend on the 2016, we and the rest of the industry have increased our effiDIGITALISATION IS CHANGING THE INDUSTRY tition focusing on green innovation and digitalisation. In tocontributions of individuals, it also requires everyone to pull ciency and streamlined our work processes. That should put tal there were 23 entries, several of which have the potential in the same direction, whatever department or country they Technology and our use of it is driving globalisation. We can us in a good position when the market prices hopefully improve. to give us a competitive edge in our existing operations, and are in. That is what we call One Multiconsult. communicate faster, more easily and across greater distances. some of which could open up new markets to us. This shows The importance of distances and national borders is dimiTHREE KEY DRIVERS that not only are our employees and teams highly skilled, Working as a team towards a joint goal will enable both our nishing. Technology has made the world “smaller”. However, they also care about the world they live in and want to help generation and future ones to achieve what we are really There are more of us, we live closer together – and we travel the impact of digitalisation on design and construction has build a healthier society. good at: making the impossible possible. more. Technology is making it easier for people to interact not been as great as in other comparable fields. That is beacross national borders. At the same time, rising greenhouse ginning to change. HEALTH FACILITIES I believe that we have made great strides in the right direction. gas emissions due to growing wealth are causing serious environmental impacts. Globalisation, urbanisation and digiDigital tools have been widely used by the industry for many Our population is growing and life expectancy is rising. This is We are strong, and we are ready to take the next step forwards. talisation are three concepts that receive a lot of attention years. The challenge is that the focus has been on tools rather creating challenges for the health service. Throughout Sca– and they are also key drivers for our industry. For us they than the idea that processes, tools and people should work ndinavia, large investments are being made in health care mean change – and opportunities. The Multiconsult group together seamlessly. We have taken this on board, for examwants to make the most of these opportunities. ple in our planning and design of the Tønsberg project for the Vestfold Hospital Trust. Excellent coordination was a particular priority for the client in this case. The result was the first project in Norway to use Integrated Project Delivery «Globalisation, urbanisation and digitalisaprinciples, which would have been impossible without systetion are three concepts that receive a lot of matic use of digitalisation. attention – and they are also key drivers for our industry. For us they mean change – and Another example of how digitalisation is changing how we opportunities. The Multiconsult group wants work and collaborate in the industry is the Smisto hydroChristian Nørgaard Madsen to make the most of these opportunities.» power project in Norway, our first project based on completChief Executive Officer ely drawingless design. This project has given us vast amounts of useful experience that we will try to incorporate into 8 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management PHOTO: VIDAR MOLØKKEN / MULTILUX ASN DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2016 2016 Highlights 13 Overview of the business 14 Strategic platform 14 Financial review 16 Segment information 20 Research and development 21 Financial risk and risk management 21 Going concern 22 Parent company results and allocation of net profit 22 Corporate governance 24 Corporate social responsibility 24 Employees, organisation and equal opportunities 28 Share and shareholder matters 30 Outlook 30 10 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management SOLID PERFORMANCE, READY Solid operations and cash flow combined with a robust fi• Multiconsult was selected as project implenancial position forms the basis for the board of directors’ mentation consultant for the Revolutionary dividend proposal of NOK 3.00 per share for 2016, in line Government of Zanzibar for the Zanzibar EnerTO EMBARK ON NEW GROWTH with established dividend policy. gy Sector Support Project. The three-year project supports institutional strengthening of the DepartCash flows in 2016 reflect solid operational performance, ment of Energy and Minerals and the Zanzibar Elefinancing of ordinary dividend payment and acquisitions of ctricity Corporation, in addition to the purchase of OPPORTUNITIES aarhus arkitekterne A/S and Akvator AS. The level of interestbearing debt is modest at NOK 59.5 million at year-end (NOK 9.8 million). Consolidated net interest-bearing debt energy meters and fault detection equipment. • Vestfold Hospital Trust awarded a significant contract for planning and design of the new Tønsamounted to an asset of NOK 116.5 million (asset of NOK berg hospital in Vestfold, Norway. The contract was 223.2 million at year-end 2015). awarded to Multiconsult ASA and LINK arkitektur AS The Multiconsult group recorded strong revenue growth and solid earnings in 2016, as partners in CURA group consisting of Multiconsult The overall market outlook for 2017 is fairly positive. MultiASA, Hjellnes Consult AS, Erichsen & Horgen, LINK driven by acquisitions, organic growth and solid operational performance. Signiconsult’s strong market position, flexible business model and Arkitektur AS, Henning Larsen Architects, and Bølbroad service offering provides a healthy base for further geblikk Architects. ficant shareholder value was created in 2016 and the board will propose a dividend growth, both domestic and international. The strong order • The Norwegian Public Roads Administration of NOK 3.00 per share, in line with the established dividend policy. The group has backlog, generated from a robust and diversified customer Region West awarded a contract to Multiconsult base, provides a strong foundation for continued growth. for detailed planning, design and impact assessment initiated work to achieve its new strategic objectives for 2020, and will maintain a The order backlog at year-end 2016 was NOK 1 793.1 milfor construction of a high quality transit lane that will lion (NOK 1 727.5 million), an increase of 3.8 per cent year secure prioritised accessibility for bus traffic betwestrong focus on improving sales, operations and profitable growth going forward. on year. Aarhus arkitekterne A/S was included in the group en Hillevåg, Stavanger center and Sundekrossen. order backlog as of 31 December 2016 and contributes posi• Frame agreement with Statnett was signed for tively to the increase. engineering services related to upgrading of existing substations as well as upgrading of voltage levels All amounts in brackets are comparative figures for 2015 blic sector clients caused delays in launch of new projects. The and new substations in Norway. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS • LINK arkitektur won a contract with Regionserunless otherwise specifically stated. energy sector remained strong in 2016, both in Norway and in• Multiconsult launched the new 3-2-1 GO strategy, vice for architectural services for the construction ternationally. Within the industry sector, 2016 was characterenewing its strategic objectives and initiatives toof the new hospital campus in Helsingborg, Sweden. Consolidated net operating revenues amounted to NOK rised by significant variations in demand. Within the oil and wards 2020. The step-up in the group’s growth strategy The architectural services include all phases of the 2 604.6 million (NOK 2 247.7 million), up 15.9 per cent from gas sector, demand declined throughout the year, following towards 2020 was announced at the company’s first ever project including design, production and follow-up. 2015. The increase was primarily driven by acquisitions and further reduction in investment and activity on the Norwegian Capital markets day on 12 October 2016. The group’s upThe project is part of a large investment initiative organic workforce growth in Norway. The billing ratio was Continental Shelf. dated ambitions for 2020 represent a revenue growth to in Helsingborg for providing functional and futuimproved to 69.2 per cent (68.2 per cent) and contributed NOK 6 billion, maintaining a 10 per cent EBIT margin over re-adapted premises for the public. The new hospipositively to net operating revenues. LINK arkitektur was The group’s continued focus on improving the billing ratio the cycle, growing internationally and developing a distal campus in Helsingborg is approximately 36 000 consolidated from 1 September 2015 and contributed with combined with increased capacity and high project actitinct and enabling culture. m2 and will be designed with high environmental NOK 228.6 million of the increase in net operating revenues vity, resulted in solid earnings for the year. Higher operating • Significant contract awards ambitions. year on year. All business areas were characterised by higher expenses, mainly due to increased headcount, office rent, • Multiconsult won an important frame agreement • Hordaland Fylkeskommune selected Multiconproject activity, except Oil & Gas and Environment & Natural IT and other administrative expenses, more than offset the with Fosen Vind DA for Europe’s largest wind sult as part of the Constructa Entreprenør AS, with resources. increase in revenues and resulted in a 14.4 per cent decreaportfolio for development of windfarms with a total HLM arkitekter, B+B arkitekter and Smedsvig landse in underlying EBITDA to NOK 225.5 million (NOK 263.4 capacity of 1 000 MW in Norway. The frame agreskapsarkitekter, to provide detailed planning and Multiconsult continued to win important contracts and frame million), adjusted for a positive, non-recurring effect of NOK ement includes services within civil-, construction-, design for Åsane high school in Bergen, Norway. Horagreements during the year, confirming the group’s strong 107.3 million due to the termination of the defined benefit electro-, and mechanical engineering as well as condaland Fylkeskommune will build the new Åsane high market position and acknowledged expertise. Although there pension plan. Results from associated companies were NOK trol of design and supervision on construction site. school, including vocational and cultural centers as were variations among the different geographical and busi4.1 million (NOK 20.9 million). • Existing contract with Hydro was extended for well as public libraries for the Åsane community. ness areas during 2016, overall market activity and demand additional engineering work related to building the • Employee share purchase programme 2016 sufor engineering consultancy services were high. Demand for Multiconsult acquired 100 per cent of the shares in aarhus full-scale technology pilot at Karmøy. Following Hyccessfully completed 30 November 2016. Multiconsult’s services in the building and property market arkitekterne A/S in December 2016 in line with its strategic dro’s formal decision to build the planned technology • Attractive recruitment position confirmed by in 2016 remained strong, but with some regional variations. initiatives. The acquisition offers potential for significant pilot, the project plan has been revised and the scope the annual Universum survey among engineering The Norwegian markets for transportation and infrastrucvalue creation through increased capabilities within healthof work for Multiconsult ASA has been extended. students and professionals in Norway. In the survey ture were strong, but new organisational structure in some pucare facilities and urbanism in a Scandinavian perspective. 12 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management for engineering students, Multiconsult reconfirmed • Buildings & Properties Inte 00 rn at its top spot among consultants and number four • Industry 60 i among all companies in Norway, four years in a row. • Oil & Gas MN wth gro In the survey for seasoned engineering professio• Renewable Energy OK al nals, Multiconsult was ranked number four among all • Transportation & Infrastructure on companies in Norway. • Environment & Natural resources • LINK arkitektur OVERVIEW OF THE BUSINESS REVENUE MODEL The board of directors’ report for the Multiconsult group (“Multiconsult” or “the group”) comprises Multiconsult ASA The group’s business model is mainly based on consultancy lt (“the parent company”) and all subsidiaries and associated fee revenues generated from own employees. In certain 10 su companies. projects, services are also provided by external consultants on pe ce (“sub-consultants”). In some projects, several partners have lt r ic BUSINESS AND LOCATION entered into cooperation agreements to bid collectively, nt u where partners recognise their share of revenues. There is On eM The parent company, Multiconsult ASA, is a Norwegian a clear definition of responsibility between Multiconsult and public limited liability company with its head office in Oslo, the partners or sub consultants. Projects can vary in duraNorway. International activities are pursued through foreign tion, and long-term projects may extend over a number of subsidiaries, project offices managed from Oslo and foreign years. The scope and duration of the projects are often expartners. The group has 59 offices in Norway and abroad tended through supplementary orders. and had 2 344 employees as of 31 December 2016, including age on the similarity in engineering standards and customer execution and client relations. “One Multiconsult” is an interabout 550 employed in wholly owned subsidiaries outside demand between Norway, which is the home market, and nal, strategic focal point aiming at strengthening the organiNorway. STRATEGIC PLATFORM Sweden. LINK arkitektur’s strong presence in Sweden will be sation and a shared, distinct and enabling corporate culture. The strategic platform from 2013 concentrated on achieving an advantage and solidify the expansion further. Multiconsult is one of Norway’s leading specialists in engithree principal goals by 2017 expressed as the “3-2-1 straMulticonsult has had a strong financial performance for neering design, consultancy and architecture services. Its tegy”, with an ambition of tripling profits, doubling revenues The company will take advantage of the growing market and many years. In order to secure a sufficient financial capacity business concept is to deliver multidisciplinary consultanand taking the number one brand position in the Norwegian significant investments within health buildings in Scandinavia to realise growth ambitions, Multiconsult has adjusted the cy, creating value for customers, shareholders, employees market. The IPO in 2015 and the progress achieved to date and combine architectural and engineering efforts to succeed financial policy, which now allows the group to increase net and the group. The group’s principal activities involve multiprovided the opportunity to renew the group's strategic in capturing a leading position. interest bearing debt (NIBD) to 1.5 times the EBITDA (Eardisciplinary consultancy, design, planning, project superviobjectives and initiatives under the title “3-2-1 GO”, where nings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation). sion, project management, geotechnical site surveys, veriGO stands for Growth Opportunities. Multiconsult is already in the urbanism market with LINK fication and controls in addition to architecture services in arkitektur’s initiative, Urban LINK, and will utilise the combined The accelerated growth strategy supports the current dividNorway and internationally. The group’s ambitions towards 2020 are to maintain proefforts of architects, engineers and analysis to succeed in end policy, which implies a dividend ambition of more than fitability with 10 per cent margin over the cycle, double recapturing a leading position in Urbanism in Scandinavia. 50 per cent of net profit. The group’s business is organised by three geographical divenues to NOK 6 billion, grow internationally and develop a mensions in addition to LINK arkitektur, and comprises the distinct and enabling culture. A stepwise build-up of renewable energy will mostly be reaMARKET AND CUSTOMERS following reporting segments: lised through acquisitions with focus in South-East Asia and Market conditions were generally good in 2016, both in Nor3-2-1 GO consists of six strategic objectives: East Africa. Multiconsult will leverage on its long history and way and in Multiconsult’s international markets. The negative • Greater Oslo Area hydropower expertise dating back to 1908. development in the oil sector has continued, and there have • Regions Norway 1. Develop multidisciplinary business in Sweden been significant variations between the different market seg• International 2. Stepwise international build-up in renewable energy Multiconsult will focus on the growing customer demand for ments and geographical regions where Multiconsult operates. • LINK arkitektur 3. Establish a leading position with health buildings process efficiency through innovative digital solutions. in Scandinavia The overall competitive landscape has migrated towards A detailed description of each segment is presented under 4. Capture a leading position within urbanism in Scandinavia The organic growth, estimated to be at least 50% of the more Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) segment information. 5. Scandinavian market leader within digitalisation growth, will come from continued strengthening of expertise contracts. Continued strong competition has maintained 6. One Multiconsult – Strong organisation built on a shared in the multidisciplinary business in Norway, especially within price pressure on large projects in Norway. Current market In 2016 Multiconsult comprised of seven business areas, group culture Buildings & Properties and Transportation & Infrastructure. rates have stabilised, however continued increase in salarwhich correspond to the group’s key market segments and ies for the Norwegian workforce has created challenges to which operate across geographical reporting segments: An expansion of the multidisciplinary business in Sweden will The ability to realise growth and profitability ambitions rests profitability for the industry in general. primarily be realised by acquisitions. Multiconsult will leveron the operational excellence in our sales processes, project 14 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management The buildings and properties market includes among othThe Norwegian energy market is characterised by large inOPERATING REVENUES BY BUSINESS AREA ers commercial buildings (offices, retail, hotels and resorts, vestment requirements in the transmission and grid sector. Amounts in MNOK industry), welfare infrastructure (health, education, cultuA major need for grid investments by Statnett and regional re, sports and leisure) and residential buildings. One of the utility companies are key drivers for the power market in main drivers in this market is population growth, especially Norway. Statnett alone is expected to invest NOK 5-7 billion 1000 FY 2015 FY 2016 in large urban areas such as Norway’s capital, Oslo. Public each year for the next ten years. Power production in Nor900 sector economic activity tends to be used as a political tool way is mainly related to hydropower, with new capacity in the in order to stimulate investments. Large maintenance and form of small greenfield hydropower plants. In addition, new 800 development needs have been identified in the Norwegian large wind power plants entered into the pipeline in 2016, 700 public sector for hospitals, educational buildings and other e.g. Fosen Wind where Multiconsult has been contracted as community buildings, creating an interesting market potential Statkraft’s consultant. Norwegian consulting engineers are 600 for Multiconsult. Demand for Multiconsult’s services in the in the forefront within renewable energy and are engaged 500 building and property market sectors in 2016 has been good in relation to engineering, construction, maintenance and and stable, but with some regional variations due to changes upgrades of hydropower plants worldwide. Internationally, 400 in Norwegian economy. renewable energy markets continue to grow, providing new 300 business opportunities for Multiconsult within hydropower, The Norwegian markets for transportation and infrastructure transmission and distribution, wind power and solar power. 200 are recognised as growth markets. The growth is mainly bas100 ed upon large projects that open for strong international The oil and gas industry encompasses both land based and competition and an increase in EPC-Contracts. The National offshore activities. Engineering services are integral within 0 Road Developer Company, Nye Veier, is now up and running the planning and development of land based structures and Buildings Transportation Renewable LINK Industry Oil & Gas Environment & and several new large road design-build contracts will be facilities such as terminals, landfalls and pipelines, docks & Properties & Infrastructure energy arkitektur 1) Natural resources assigned in the coming year. In the railway market, the first and harbours, storage facilities, process plants, supply basInterCity projects will be advertised as EPC Contracts in the es and electrification. However, engineering services are 1) Multiconsult ASA acquired LINK arkitektur AS on 15 September 2015 and consolidated as of 1 September 2015. coming year. equally important with regards to offshore activity, focusing on subsea structures and foundations, offshore and arctic The small and medium sized design projects organised by the concrete structures, marine steel structures for fixed and National Road Authority (NRA) and BaneNOR are expectfloating units and topsides including living quarters and difThe group’s robust and diversified customer base forms the consisting of operating revenues less sub consultants and ed mainly to be call-offs on framework agreements. Multiferent kinds of modules (process, utility, drilling). During the basis for the solid order backlog and provides a strong founcharges, came to NOK 2 604.6 million (NOK 2 247.7 million). consult has just been awarded three regional framework last years’ reduction in oil price, several field development dation for continued growth. The 15.9 per cent increase primarily reflects the capacity agreements in addition to several existing agreements for projects were postponed. Hence, the market for engineering expansion through acquisitions and organic growth of workboth NRA and BaneNOR that are expected to generate sigservices has declined and Multiconsult experiences increasforce in Norway as well as the increased billing ratio to 69.2 nificant revenues. ed competitive pressures. However, several field developFINANCIAL REVIEW per cent (68.2 per cent). LINK arkitektur, consolidated from 1 ment projects are in progress in the Barents Sea and theThe following financial review is based on the consolidated September 2015, contributed with 9.8 percentage points of Industries where Norway currently has a competitive adse will create opportunities for Multiconsult in the coming financial statements of Multiconsult ASA and its subsidiaries. the growth in net operating revenues year-on-year. All busivantage are fish farming, mining and metals, pharmaceutiyears, where our expertise, capacity and local experience will The statements have been prepared in accordance with Inness areas, with the exception of Oil & Gas and Environment cals and food, oil and gas, and shipbuilding. These are also add value for our clients. ternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted & Natural resources experienced revenue growth in 2016. the industries in which Norwegian consulting engineeby the EU as well as the Norwegian accounting legislation. Project write-downs partly offset the increase in revenues. ring companies are world‐leading and highly recognised. LONG-TERM, LOYAL CUSTOMER BASE The decreased activity within oil and gas hit the supplier inIn the view of the board, the income statement, the statements Operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and Multiconsult strives to maintain good, long-term customer dustry hard in 2016. Other industries showed an increased of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flow, impairment charges came to NOK 2 271.8 million (NOK 2 relations. Our customer portfolio comprises about 4 000 investment level, particularly within metals, chemicals and the balance sheet and the accompanying notes provide 035.0 million). The increase was mainly related to higher customers. The 15 largest of these account for about half of food. To a large degree, this increase resulted in large insatisfactory information about the operations, financial employee benefit expenses, recorded at NOK 1 841.6 million the group’s annual operating revenues, and represent large, vestment projects. The NOK 3.9 billion investment made by results and position of the group and the parent company at (NOK 1 649.2 million), driven by a rise in headcount and reputable companies and public entities. A majority of the Hydro at their Karmøy aluminum production plant is a good 31 December. general salary increase. The increase was reduced by the biggest customers are loyal, long-term customers, who have example. Investments in the aquaculture sector were strong NOK 107.3 million gain on settlement of the defined benefit been placing orders with Multiconsult for many years. The in 2016 and are expected to continue to grow. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME AND pension. Operating expenses for LINK arkitektur are includgroup’s ten largest customers are dominated by solid, public COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ed for the full year 2016 compared to four months in 2015. enterprises with predictable investment plans and limited The engineering consultancy market in the energy sector Other operating expenses amounted to NOK 428.0.2 million credit risk. Consolidated operating revenues in 2016 amounted to NOK 2 remained strong in 2016, both in Norway and internationally. (NOK 388.5 million), primarily impacted by higher office rent 968.0 million (NOK 2 554.7 million). Net operating revenues, 16 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management expenses due to the growing organisation, higher IT and FINANCIAL POSITION, FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY other administrative expenses. Total non-current assets amounted to NOK 397.2 million Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation (NOK 368.9 million) at 31 December, the increase was driven (EBITDA) amounted to NOK 332.8 million (NOK 212.7 million). mainly by higher goodwill at NOK 235.7 million (NOK 173.0 million) following the acquisition of Akvator AS and aarhus arkitekterne AS. With effect from 1 January 2017, the parent company has terminated its defined benefit pension plan for the remaining 280 participants. Termination included future salary Total current assets came to NOK 984.4 million (NOK 910.3 compensation. The new defined contribution plan now million), the increase being attributed to higher work in proincludes all employees. The new plan includes increased gress at NOK 270.3 (NOK 192.8 million), following the growth contributions in line with current industry practice. The change in operating revenues. Working capital, consisting of rehas resulted in a non-recurring positive effect calculated, in ceivables less current non-interest-bearing debt, amounline with IFRS, to NOK 107.3 million lower employee benefit ting to negative NOK 75.8 million (negative NOK 39.2 milexpense excluded from the underlying results in 2016. The lion). change does not have any short-term cash effect and is treated as a non-recurring item. The NOK 107.3 million positive Total shareholders’ equity was NOK 507.5 million (NOK effect is excluded from underlying EBITDA. 350.2 million) at 31 December, corresponding to an equity ratio of 36.7 per cent (27.4 per cent), mainly affected by Underlying EBITDA, adjusted for the positive, non-recurring dividend payments, profit for the year and the impact of oteffect of NOK 107.3 million due to the change to contribution her comprehensive income. pension plan, was NOK 225.5 million (NOK 263.4 million), a decrease of 14.4 per cent. Total liabilities were NOK 874.1 million (NOK 929.0 million). Total interest-bearing debt amounted to NOK 59.5 million Operating profit (EBIT) for the year was NOK 289.6 million (NOK 9.8 million). Net interest bearing debt amounted to (NOK 175.1 million). Underlying EBIT, adjusted for the posian asset of NOK 116.5 million (asset of NOK 223.2 million at tive, non-recurring effect of NOK 107.3 million due to the year-end 2015). The parent company has an overdraft fachange to contribution pension plan, was NOK 182.3 million cility of NOK 220.0 million with Nordea Bank and an addi(NOK 225.8 million), representing an underlying EBIT margin tional three-year revolving credit facility of NOK 80 million. of 7.0 per cent (10.0 per cent). The EBIT margin was negaThe revolving credit facility at 31 December 2016 was drawn tively impacted by a continued increase in employee cost, with NOK 50.0 million, related to the acquisition of aarhus which is not reflected in the stable billing rates. arkitekterne A/S. CASH FLOW Results from associated companies and joint ventures contributed NOK 4.1 million in 2016 (NOK 20.9 million). 2015 Net Cash flow from operating activities was NOK 90.2 million figures included a gain on the increase in the ownership in(NOK 206.2 million), the decrease is mainly due to lower terest in LINK arkitektur AS, explaining the decrease in 2016. operating profit adjusted for the positive non-recurring effect of the change in pension plan as well as a higher level Net financial items amounted to an asset of NOK 5.9 million of working capital resulting from growth in revenues. (NOK 1.8 million), impacted by a lower cash reserve following the dividend payments of NOK 76.1 million in May and acquiNet cash flow used in investing activities was NOK 101.3 million sitions of Akvator AS and aarhus arkitekterne A/S. (NOK 132.7 million), mainly related to the acquisitions of Akvator AS and aarhus arkitekterne A/S, as well as ordinary Profit before income taxes came to NOK 287.7 million (NOK asset replacement. 197.9 million). Profit for the period was NOK 213.8 million (NOK 150.1 million). Net cash flow used in financing activities was NOK 37.3 million (NOK 293.4 million), mainly related to dividend payments in Other comprehensive income recognised against equity was May and higher interest bearing debt at the end of the perNOK 24.3 million (NOK 59.3 million), mainly related to reiod. In 2015, the company paid ordinary and extraordinary measurement of defined benefit pension obligations after tax. dividends of NOK 275.6 million. 18 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management ORDER INTAKE AND ORDER BACKLOG Order intake for the segment in 2016 was NOK 1 336.1 million Net operating revenues amounted to NOK 97.0 million (NOK The market for architectural services in the Nordic countries (NOK 1 524.8 million). Order backlog for the segment at 67.0 million). The increase of 44.8 per cent is primarily drivis changing rapidly with growing demand for quality, compeOrder intake in 2016 amounted to NOK 3 084.7 million (NOK en by improved project activity. tence and capacity. Several companies in this industry have year-end 2016 fell to NOK 777.0 million (NOK 944.5 million). 2 808.0 million). The group recorded a strong order backlog established a Scandinavian presence, considering the whole There was a decline in the order backlog within all business at year-end of NOK 1 793.1 million (NOK 1 727.5 million), EBITDA was NOK 12.8 million (loss of NOK 3.3 million). The inregion as their home market. areas except Environment & Natural resources. an increase of 3.8 per cent year on year. LINK arkitektur crease is driven by higher activity from all three subsidiaries, had a strong contribution year on year including aarhuus REGIONS NORWAY particularly from Multiconsult UK. The increase in revenues arkitekterne A/S. Multiconsult won contracts within all buRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT was partly offset by higher employee benefit expenses. siness areas during the year, confirming the group’s strong The segment offers services in six business areas and comprises Multiconsult pursues both internal and external R&D projects. competitive position. New contracts awarded in Norway in regional offices in Kristiansand, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim Internal activities are conducted by the company’s expertise Order intake for the segment in 2016 was NOK 102.4 million 2016 include the new Tønsberg hospital, new transit lane and Tromsø. Regions Norway accounted for 36.9 per cent of networks or as separate projects. External R&D activities are (NOK 70.8 million). Order backlog for the segment at year-end pursued and financed primarily in collaboration with Norwegian between Hillevåg, Stavanger center and Sundekrossen, group net operating revenues in 2016. 2016 was NOK 150.2 million (NOK 161.5 million). and international research institutions, strategic partners Åsane high school, and Hotell Norway. Among new contracts and customers. Multiconsult conducted 20 R&D projects awarded internationally was the Zanzibar Energy Sector Net operating revenues amounted to NOK 960.6 million (NOK LINK ARKITEKTUR during the year, with the support of external funding. Support Project in Zanzibar. The majority of the order intake 909.5 million). The increase of 5.6 per cent was mainly related came from add-ons to existing contracts such as Campus to the significant lift in the billing ratio to 68.4 per cent (66.4 This segment comprises LINK arkitektur, included as a whollySpending on the company’s R&D projects totalled NOK 17.6 Ås, Hydro Karmøy, New Airbase Ørland and the Follo line proper cent) and increased workforce due to the acquisition of owned subsidiary in Muliticonsult’s consolidated accomillion (NOK 16.9 million). NOK 0.8 million (NOK 1.2 million) ject in Norway, as well as Neelum Jhelum in Pakistan and Mt. Akvator AS. The increase in revenues was partly offset by prounts from 1 September 2015. LINK arkitektur is one of the has been invoiced to customers. Support to development Coffee in Liberia. ject write-downs. Lower billing rates also reduced the growth leading architect firms in Scandinavia, with presence in activities related to PhD programmes amounted to NOK 1.9 in net operating revenues year on year. major cities and regions in Norway, Sweden and Denmark. million in 2016 (NOK 1.9 million). The company has a strong track record, driven by steady SEGMENT INFORMATION EBITDA was NOK 60.0 million (NOK 77.7 million), a decrease growth based on a solid financial position. LINK arkitektur The company also pursues and measures a number of other The group’s activities are organised in three geographical of 22.8 per cent. The increase in revenues was more than offrepresents an excellent strategic fit for Multiconsult, offering development activities, which are general in nature for the segments, Greater Oslo Area, Regions Norway, International, set by higher employee benefit expenses as a result of acquithe potential for significant value creation through operatwhole group. These involve typical support processes, which and a segment for LINK arkitektur. Segment revenues and sitions, salary adjustment, as well as increased administrative ional synergies as well as a further strengthened value proare not considered to meet the accounting definition of reexpenses reflect the geographical base of employees, which expenses and office rent. position to customers. search and development, but are important for the compadoes not necessarily coincide with the location where the ny’s development. Spending on these activities totalled NOK projects have been executed. Overhead expenses such Order intake for the segment in 2016 was NOK 1 063.8 million On 12 December 2016, LINK arkitektur acquired the Danish 9.2 million in 2016 (NOK 12.4 million). as administrative services, office rent and depreciation (NOK 963.9 million). Order backlog for the segment at yeararchitect company aarhus arkitekterne A/S and thereby are allocated to individual segments. end 2016 was 505.9 million (NOK 471.5 million). Buildings & further strengthens its position in the Scandinavian market Properties and Industry recorded an increase in order intafor hospitals. Originating back in 1909, aarhus arkitekterne FINANCIAL RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT GREATER OSLO AREA ke compared with 2015, with important contracts and frame A/S is a well-managed Danish architect company with 78 Through its business activities, Multiconsult manages a conagreements confirming the company’s strong position in the employees working from offices in Aarhus and Copenhagen. siderable contract portfolio of engineering, architectural The segment offers services in six business areas and and advisory services that are exposed to a wide variety of region. Order intake within Renewable Energy and TransportAarhus arkitekterne A/S changed the name to LINK comprises the central area of eastern Norway, with regional risk factors. The group has established a systematic appation & Infrastructure decreased year-on-year. Transportarkitektur in January 2017. offices in Oslo, Fredrikstad and Drammen. Greater Oslo is the roach to risk management, in particular project risks. The ation & Infrastructure experienced a decrease due to an largest segment, accounting for 46.0 per cent of group net other operational risks are related to HSE and are mitigated absence of major contract awards and limited tender flow. Net operating revenues amounted to NOK 346.1 million (NOK operating revenues in 2016. by contingency plans, continuous training and management 117.5 million). LINK arkitektur contributed to the full year 2016 focus in the organisation. INTERNATIONAL compared to four months in 2015 and explains the growth in Net operating revenues amounted to NOK 1 197.3 million net operating revenues of 194.6 per cent in the segment. LEGAL LIABILITY (NOK 1 132.7 million). The increase of 5.7 per cent was mainly The international segment comprises the subsidiaries Multirelated to higher activity due to increased workforce. Projeconsult UK, Multiconsult Asia and Multiconsult Polska. MultiEBITDA amounted to NOK 14.1 million (NOK 2.5 million). SigThe risk of disagreements and legal disputes related to the ct write-downs partly offset the increase in revenues. Lower consult UK primarily offers services in the energy sector, nificantly increased sales efforts that impacted earnings possible cost of delays and project errors is always present billing rates also reduced the growth in net operating rewhile Multiconsult Asia in Singapore concentrates mainly negatively in the beginning of the year resulted in strong in the consultancy business. Multiconsult has good insurvenues year on year. on the oil and gas sector. Multiconsult Polska offers services ance policies and routines for following up such cases. The order intake and order backlog at the end of 2016. in the transportation and infrastructure, environment and company’s insurance cover for project liability is mainly baEBITDA was NOK 139.8 million (NOK 188.8 million), a decrease natural resources, and oil and gas sectors. The internatised on collective policies for engineering consultancies. This Order intake for the segment in 2016 was NOK 582.3 million of 25.9 per cent. The increase in revenues was more than onal segment accounts for 3.7 per cent of the group’s net insurance takes the form of standard policies for engine(NOK 248.5 million), including aarhus arkitekterne A/S with offset by higher employee benefit expenses as a result of net operating revenues. ering projects, with an excess of NOK 300 000 per claim and NOK 49.0 million. Order backlog for the segment at yearrecruitment and salary adjustment, as well as increased adnormally with a maximum cover of up to 150 times the Norend 2016 was NOK 360.0 million (NOK 150.0 million). ministrative expenses and office rent. wegian national insurance base rate (G) – about NOK 13.9 20 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management million. Further details are provided in note 19 to the consomillion, related to the acquisition of aarhus arkitekterne A/S. lidated financial statements. Liquidity risk for the group is considered moderate. CREDIT RISK ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES RISK Credit risk arises primarily from transactions with customers Estimates are made in connection with revenues, hours and and from bank deposits. The group’s losses on accounts costs in projects and in the measurement of project proreceivable because customers are unable to meet their obligagress. The main uncertainty relating to the assessment of tions have been modest for a number of years. contract revenue is associated with the recoverable amount related to overruns, change orders, claims and incentives. New customers are subject to credit assessment and appAlthough the group has considerable experience in project roval before credit is granted. Responsibility for credit mamanagement and measurement, there is an inherent risk nagement in the parent company is centralised, and routines associated with such estimates. are incorporated in the group’s quality assurance system. See note 2a for further information on risks related to accoAccounts receivables represent about 32.9 per cent (33.4 unting estimates and policies. per cent) of the group’s total assets. The group has routines for assessing the creditworthiness of the customer, and the possible need for bank guarantees or other risk-reducing GOING CONCERN measures. As approximately 45 per cent of the revenues in The annual accounts have been prepared on a going con2016 come from customers in the public sector, credit risk is cern assumption. The board has confirmed that this asconsidered to be limited. sumption can be made on the basis of the group’s budgets and long-term forecasts. CURRENCY RISK The group is exposed to currency risk through ongoing proPARENT COMPANY RESULTS jects abroad with fees agreed in foreign currencies. Hedging AND ALLOCATION OF NET PROFIT contracts have been entered into for certain projects to The annual financial statements for the parent company are reduce this risk. Currency risk is regarded as modest. prepared in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act INTEREST-RATE RISK and the regulations on simplified application of international accounting standards (IFRS), as amended in November 2014. The parent company uses its credit facility periodically, and as a result, its interest-bearing debt is limited, and it accordSince the parent company accounts for 82 per cent (91 per ingly has a low interest-rate risk related to debt. Financial cent in 2015) of total revenues and 83 per cent (85 per cent in non-current assets relate nearly entirely to investment in 2015) of total assets in the group, the board of directors perassociated companies and joint ventures, while current asceives the comments on the group’s financial statements to sets consist almost entirely of bank deposits and current be applicable also to the financial statements for the parent receivables. Non-current liabilities consist primarily of company. non-current interest bearing liabilities and provisions for project responsibilities. The parent company’s profit before income taxes came to NOK 270.0 million (NOK 184.6 million), while net profit was LIQUIDITY RISK NOK 201.5 million (NOK 138.5 million). The group’s liquidity risk exposure is limited. Liquidity management is followed up actively through budgets and regular forecasting. To ensure sufficient freedom of action in terms The board proposes the following allocation of the net of liquidity, and thereby to moderate liquidity risk, an overprofit of NOK 201.5 million for the parent company: draft facility of NOK 220 million and an additional revolving credit facility of NOK 80 million for three years has been Transferred to other equity NOK 122.8 million established with the parent company’s bank. The revolving Dividend NOK 78.7 million credit facility at 31 December 2016 was drawn with NOK 50.0 22 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management Following an evaluation, the board has concluded that the usly to ensure that it meets its targets and promotes contiTraining programmes for employees at all levels have been nology with zero emission technology. Multiconsult is one of group will have an equity and liquidity after paying the pronuous improvement on all sustainability matters. implemented since 2012. To ensure increased awareness of several companies that supports the organisation in daily posed dividend, which is acceptable in relation to the risks business ethics matters, the compliance function has deveoperations and supports their annual conference. In 2016, and scope of its activities. Sustainable development forms one of the key elements in loped ‘The Value Game’ consisting of different dilemmas that Multiconsult worked together with the organisation on a the group’s strategy under the slogan «green in all we do», employees may face in their everyday work. couple of projects associated with solar power. and we are committed to deliver sustainable solutions to the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE community we serve. Aiming to promote the group’s effort Business ethics is also a key topic in the group’s programme Engineers without Boarders (IUG) Good corporate governance provides the foundation for towards securing a green and sustainable future, a training for new employees. A designated e-learning programme IUG is using engineering as the catalyst for the change, long-term value creation, to the benefit of shareholders, programme promoting ‘green in all we do’ was developed. with special emphasis on anti-corruption dilemmas is part of through addressing global challenges and enabling sustainemployees and other stakeholders. The board of directors The programme seeks to ensure that all employees have the the mandatory training for all employees. The programme is able human development. In 2016, Multiconsult supported of Multiconsult has established a set of governance princiknowledge to create sustainable solutions. HSE takes precealso implemented in new subsidiaries to include all employIUG in daily operations, as well as collaborated in four projects, ples in order to ensure a clear division of roles between the dence over financial considerations. ees across the group. sending Multiconsult engineers to different areas in Africa board of directors, the executive management and the sharefor a duration of two weeks. Multiconsult also supported the holders. The principles are based on the Norwegian Code of A dedicated corporate CSR policy, with associated business All projects are screened for relevant business ethical risks, “Missing Maps-project” by hosting workshops in which enPractice for Corporate Governance. partner and supplierand personal declarations, are imand integrity due diligence is performed on new and unknown gineers worked on providing maps of previously unmapped plemented in all parts of the group. In an effort to promote business partners before entering into any commercial places in the developing world. The maps and data provided Multiconsult is subject to annual corporate governance retransparency, and as an extension of the materiality analysis agreements. All partners and subcontractors have to sign are used by international and local NGOs and by individuals porting requirements under section 3-3b of the Norwegand stakeholder assessment carried out in 2015, Multiconsult a declaration of ethical business conduct as part of their to better respond to crises affecting the areas. In 2016 Mulian Accounting Act and the Norwegian Code of Practice has set out to adopt the framework of the Global Reporting contract with Multiconsult. Key people or partners are also ticonsult introduced a programme in which Multiconsult dofor Corporate Governance, cf. section 7 on the continuing Initiative (GRI). Data pertaining to sustainability matters for requested to sign the group’s code of conduct and complenates NOK 1 000 to IUG on behalf of invited guest speakers obligations of stock exchange listed companies. The Acco2016 will be published in accordance with GRI Core for the te Multiconsult’s anti-corruption e-learning programme. at Multiconsult’s events. For Christmas 2016, the employees unting Act may be found (in Norwegian) at www.lovdata.no. parent company. As a part of the wider company efforts, Compliance with these procedures are subject to audits on in Multiconsult decided that the foundation “Giving Hope to a The Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance, Multiconsult aims to report in accordance with GRI Core at a regular basis. Two audits were performed in 2016, confirchild” and the project of Vartekeh Childrens School in Liberia which was last revised on 30 October 2014, may be found at a group level for 2017. ming positive progress compared to previous years, but with should receive the annual Christmas gift of NOK 250 000. www.nues.no. further room for improvements being identified. Considerations relating to the work environment, sick leaTHE ENVIRONMENT The annual statement on corporate governance for 2016 ve and occupational injuries are included in the section on To promote transparency, and as part of the compliance has been approved by the board and can be found on page Multiconsult participates in the Eco-Lighthouse scheme, «employees and the organisation». programme, Multiconsult has established a whistleblowing 34 in this annual report. which is Norway’s most widely used certification scheme portal. The portal is available via www.multiconsult.no and for enterprises seeking to document their environmental INTEGRITY AND BUSINESS ETHICS ensures that both internal and external sources can report efforts and demonstrate social responsibility. Multiconsult has possible misconduct to the group’s compliance function. The CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A strong focus on business ethics and integrity is a prerequisite participated since 2013. The next audit is due in 2017. portal stores and handles information in accordance with Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is about running the for Multiconsult’s role and reputation as an independent and the requirements set forth in the license from the Norwegian business in a responsible and sustainable manner over time, trusted advisor. Multiconsult’s goal is to enhance environmental awareness Data Protection Authority, also giving sources the option to and in a way that contributes to a positive, trust-based relaamong all its employees, both in day-to-day operations and report anonymously. tionship between Multiconsult and the group’s stakeholders. The risk picture is constantly changing within the project in project execution. This work has mainly focused on the Multiconsult has identified business ethics, anti-corruption portfolio as the group frequently meets with clients, vendors parent company, which accounts for 82 per cent of consoThe business ethics programme has led to increased awareand health, safety and environment (HSE) as of particular and business partners. The group has therefore established lidated revenues and 76 per cent of employees. The strateness and expertise in risk identification, pro-active risk manrelevance to the group’s CSR responsibilites, and makes a business ethics programme, which seeks to ensure awaregies, goals and measures described below therefore apply agement and improved control of risks associated with busistructured efforts to ensure that these areas are strengtheness and competence in handling of integrity risks across the only to the parent company. In 2017, emphasis will be given ness partners as well as a climate for discussing and seeking ned, and are engrained in core operations throughout the entire organization, with special emphasis placed on antito develop environmental strategies and measures for the advice with regard to difficult situations and ethical dilemmas. group. corruption. other parts of the group. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PARTNERSHIPS In 2016 Multiconsult ASA became a signatory and active The group’s compliance function is responsible for overseMulticonsult participates actively in the development of member of the UN Global Compact Nordic Network. Multieing the group’s code of conduct, anti-corruption programFor the last four years, Multiconsult has supported the work Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessconsult supports and promotes the ten principles of the UN me and whistleblowing portal, and for providing guidance and of Zero Emission Resource Organisation (ZERO) and the ment Methodology (BREEAM), and has developed signifiGlobal Compact on human rights, labour, environment and integrity due diligence-services to the organisation. All emNorwegian part of Engineers without Boarders (IUG). cant expertise in this system for certifying the sustainability anti-corruption. The group has a dedicated function for CSR ployees have to sign Multiconsult’s ethical code of conduct. of buildings and being Accredited Professionals. The head and Business Ethics. Goals, strategies and action plans are Adherence to the code is followed up by the compliance Zero Emission Resource Organisation office in Oslo is the first commercial building in Norway clasestablished for each year, and the company works continuofunction, supported by local compliance resources and a deThe organisation is organised as a foundation, and focuses sified in accordance with all three parts of “BREEAM in use”. dicated ethics committee. on the opportunity to systematically replace polluting tech24 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 25 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 2016 Energy: Energy consumption in buildings is based on the consumption of electricity and district heating in the comAccording to Multiconsult’s strategy, sustainable developpany's offices. ment is one of the conditions the company intends to be recognised by. Our employees and their actions shall be Transport and machinery: Work-driving includes use of Environmental report 2016 characterised by sustainable solutions and strong focus on company cars and private cars in service. Work-driving using HSE, preceding economic considerations. electric vehicles have previously been excluded from the reporting, but will now appear in the form of number of kiloENVIRONMENTAL INDICATOR Unit1 20112 2014 2015 2016 Multiconsult has specific targets for the period 2013 2017 meters driven per employee. where 2011 is the reference year, which includes single meENERGY asures relating to procurement, travel habits, energy conFlights include number of roundtrip journeys reported sumption and waste management. Area efficiency1 m2/work-year 36 30 34 34 from the travel agency HRG and is based on an average length of flights in Norway, short international flights within Energy consumption in buildings1 kWh/work-year 4 890 5 031 5 066 5 529 Multiconsult aims to develop a culture of environment awareEurope and long international flights. Multiconsult mainly ness among all employees through training, professional deEnergy consumption in buildings kWh/m2 136 165 151 164 books flights through HRG. velopment, operations and project management. TRANSPORT AND MACHINERY Fuel from geology activities include fuel from drilling rigs, Environmental reporting for the parent company is Work driving by car km/work-year 2 685 1 679 1 794 2 056 construction equipment and related transportation. based on the following factors: Work driving by el-cars Km/work-year 33 42 Procurement and material consumption: Includes proEnergy: energy use in buildings based on consumption of curement of products and services for operations. Flights, domestic number/work-year 3.0 4.3 2.9 3.0 electricity and district heating in the group’s office premises. Flights, foreign number/work-year 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.4 Waste: Includes waste from office and laboratory activity Transport and machinery: driving related to work includand is sorted for recycling, residual waste, hazardous waste Fuel consumption, machinery litres/work-year 77 45 43 46 es the use of private cars for business purposes, company and electronic waste. Video Conferences Number 5 192 2 450 1 870 vehicles and rental cars. Air travel includes the number of one-way/return flights reported by the travel agency, and Emissions to the air: Carbon emissions are calculated carSkype-meetings/calls Number 197 000 based on an average travel time in Norway, short interbon equivalents from energy use in buildings (electricity and PROCUREMEBT AND MATERIAL CONnational (European) journeys and long international flights. district heating) and operational related fuel consumption of SUMPTION Fuel consumption for machinery includes drilling rigs, lorries service driving, flights and geology activities. Total paper consumption1 kg/work-year 31.0 23.5 20.7 21.3 and ships. Performance measurement Eco-labeled products Number 121 135 139 Procurement and material consumption: paper consumpEnvironmentally certified suppliers Number 218 228 270 tion includes the use of A3 and A4 sheets and plotter paper. Increasing number of environmentally certified suppliers and eco-labeled products and services by 30 per cent WASTE Waste: waste from office activities includes sorted waste for The mapping of environmentally certified products and Total waste1 kg/work-year 114 113 108 115 recycling as well as residual, hazardous and electronic waste. suppliers began in connection with the Eco-Lighthouse certification in 2013. The number of environmentally certified Residual waste % 52 % 50 % 46 % 43 % Emissions to the air: carbon emissions are the estimated products increased by 21 per cent from 2013. The number carbon dioxide equivalent emitted from energy consumption Waste for recycling % 48 % 50 % 54 % 57 % of environmentally certified suppliers increased by 33 per in buildings (electricity and district heating) and operationscent from 2013. Many of Multiconsult’s agreements run for EMISSIONS TO THE AIR related transport such as driving, air travel and use of a period of three years. It is therefore a delay in getting entonnes/work-year 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.6 Carbon emissions machinery and equipment in connection with rig operation. vironmental requirements. The goal is reached for environCarbon emissions (eks el-energy mentally certified suppliers. tonnes/work-year 1.3 buildings) EXPLANATION OF THE BASE DATA Parameters such as transport and procurement include all Waste sorting of minimum 75 per cent of all waste 1 All work-years performed for Multiconsult ASA are included in the accounts. Consumption figures for offices with fewer Multiconsult’s operations in Norway. Operating parameters Waste disposed is at the same level as in previous years. than five employees are excluded from the accounts. related to office premises, waste and energy consumption Waste sorting has increased by 9 per cent in the period from include only offices with more than five employees. 2011. Several of the offices achieve waste sorting well over 2 2011 is the reference year for environmental targets. 75 per cent. Business units with laboratory and rigs / boats 26 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management do not sort waste from these operations. The waste is sorted efforts to optimize space efficiency and technical operation 12 per cent have other educational backgrounds. 23 per cent The board considers the working environment and collaat the point of reception, which affects the overall recycling of the offices was initiated through a coordinated Facility of the new recruits during 2016 graduated in 2015 or 2016. borative relationship with union officials in the group to be rate as this is largely soil and sand. management program. positive and constructive. EMPLOYEES AND EXPERTISE Reduce air emissions by influencing employee travel to SICKNESS ABSENCE, INCIDENTS AND INJURIES EMPLOYEES, ORGANISATION AND EQUAL Recruitment capability, employee satisfaction and experand from work OPPORTUNITIES tise development are important factors for Multiconsult’s Multiconsult works systematically with HSE management The environmental accounts have no indicators that measure Highly educated employees is the main asset for the Multisuccess. and makes concerted efforts to mitigate health risks and employee travel to and from work. consult group as a knowledge based business. Employee prevent injuries. Dedicated action plans have been estastatistics per 31 December 2016 shows that 2 per cent hold a Multiconsult has a constant need to strengthen its experblished, and followed up closely by both central and regioWhen it comes to operations-related travel activities, it is PhD degree, 61 per cent a Master’s degree and 26 per cent a tise and capacity, both in line management and in project nal offices. Multiconsult’s working environment committee too early to point to a trend. Travel activity has increased Bachelor’s degree, while 12 per cent have other educational management. Great emphasis is placed on the develop(AMU Norway) receives periodic reports on the activities from last year, mainly due to higher activity, and especially in backgrounds. ment of managers, and substantial resources are devoand progress of HSE action plans. the northern part of Norway where there are long distances ted to this work. During 2016, a large number of people and limited opportunities for public transit. Registered flights The Multiconsult group had a total work force of 2 344 completed various internal courses and programmes for Multiconsult arranged its third HSE-week in October 2016. are on the same level as in 2011. (2 159) employees per 31 December 2016. Following the acproject managers. In the same period, the group put signiDuring the week, several seminars and workshops were avquisition of aarhus arkitekterne A/S, with 78 employees, and ficant effort into revising the existing programmes. In 2017, ailable to both employees and external stakeholders. The Increase the use of video conferencing and Lync meetnet recruitment, the number of employees has increased by the group will continue to develop these programmes and participants were presented with a range of relevant topics, ings with 50 per cent 185 during the year. 76 per cent of all employees are emoffer training to existing and potential line and project maincluding “How to cope with work related stress”, “Medical In 2013, most offices set up video conference equipment ployed by the parent company and the data and information nagers in order to build both capacity and excellence in the advice for travelling and working abroad” and “Advanced in an effort to reduce travel. The use of Skype in 2016 has reported for the parent company therefore apply to the vast group’s management pool. First Aid for employees working on site”. increased significantly from almost zero in 2011. The use of LifeSize has decreased considerably. Skype's availability majority of the group’s activities. EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PROGRAMME Sick leave in the parent company was 4.2 per cent (3.9 per and ease of use makes it a very good and functional way to At year-end the parent company Multiconsult ASA had a cent), which is slightly higher than the 3.3 per cent goal for collaborate. Employees are choosing this collaboration and Multiconsult believes that employee ownership promotes work force of 1 784 (1 683) employees. As a consequence of 2016. All sick leave is monitored and reported. Multiconsult meeting form rather than LifeSize. long-term commitment and loyalty to the business and that acquisitions and increased activity during the year, the work continues to work towards a goal of 3.3 per cent sick leathese factors influence the group’s performance over time. force has had a net increase of 101 employees. Staff turnover ve. Six injuries from work-related accidents were reported Online meetings save employees and the environment for This year the employees where offered to buy additional shawas 7.2 (7.87) per cent, in line with the target range of five in 2016 against seven in 2015. The company monitors abmany trips. Calculations on how large the savings are have res in the Multiconsult share purchase programme establishto ten per cent. sence due to injuries caused by work-related accidents or not been conducted. ed in 2015. The 2016 programme was successfully completed incidents. The key performance indicator, which expresses in the fourth quarter. Approximately 34 per cent of employees RECRUITMENT POSITON days of absence in relation to the total number of hours Reduce energy consumption in our buildings by 15 per across the Multiconsult group subscribed for shares. worked, was 0.3 in 2016 down from 1.1 in 2015. cent The group is well positioned to recruit employees with the The total energy consumption in our buildings shows an inrequired educational backgrounds, both in terms of new WORKING ENVIRONMENT EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES crease from 2015, but is at the same level as in 2013. There graduates as well as more experienced candidates. are no clear explanations for this except that minor variaMulticonsult strives to ensure a healthy and productive The purpose of Norway’s Anti-Discrimination Act is to protions can be explained due to variation in outside temperaMulticonsult strives to ensure a healthy and productive Within the business, Multiconsult ranks as the most attractive mote equal opportunities and rights, and to prohibit discriture. In 2016, Multiconsult bought energy with guarantees work environment for its employees. To make sure that the employer among students in the annual surveys conductmination on the grounds of gender, ethnicity, skin colour, of origin for the purpose of supporting the development of group efforts address the employees’ needs, Multiconsult ed among students by Universum. In the same survey, the language, religion and beliefs. Multiconsult works actively to renewable energy. If one chooses to report electricity conaims to ensure a high level of employee participation at all company was ranked as number two within the business promote the objectives of the Act in the group. sumption as CO2 neutral energy, the total CO2 impact of the levels of the group. A permanent collaboration committee, among seasoned engineering professionals in Norway. company reduced by about 300 kg per employee. comprising of employees` elected representatives and reThe board and the executive management are conscious of presentatives of the corporate management, is in place Close collaboration with selected universities and colleges anti-discrimination in recruitment, appointment, pay and Bergen and Trondheim have recently moved into new energy at group level. The committee holds regular meetings, in continued in 2016, with a substantial presence at both cacustomization of working conditions, and in work on develoefficient offices and the Tromsø office is about to move into which management informs of planned actions affecting reer fairs and company presentations. The commitment to ping attitudes. a new office space soon. It is expected that this will improve the working environment and invites the committee memprovide attractive summer programmes/jobs was mainthe energy figures for the coming year. Adaptation of office bers to present their views and engage in discussions. In tained, and feedback from students shows that Multiconsult 37 per cent of the group’s 2 344 employees at 31 December space per employee (space efficiency) will also provide an instances where the planned actions have local impact, or offers highly attractive summer positions. 2016 were female and 63 per cent were male which means no improvement. The 2011 figure is characterised by consideotherwise a narrower scope, the group holds meetings at change from 2015. The group is working actively to increase rable underreporting, so improvement from 2011 as the rethe relevant unit/level. Of the 101 new employees in the parent company, 2 per cent the proportion of female employees. ference can hardly be reached by 2017. In 2016 systematic have a PhD, 60 per cent a MSc, 26 per cent have a BSc, and 28 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management 33 per cent of the parent company’s 1 784 employees at 31 The turnover of shares is a measure of traded volumes. On OUTLOOK vate Partnerships (PPPs). A continued strong competition December 2016 were female and 67 per cent were male. The average, 18 790 Multiconsult shares were traded on Oslo These forward looking statements reflect current views has led to price pressure on large projects in Norway. Curtechnical departments had 32 per cent female staff and 68 Børs every day in 2016. about future events and are, by their nature, subject to rent market rates have stabilised, however the continued per cent male staff. The corresponding proportions for the significant risks and uncertainties because they relate to increase in salaries for the Norwegian workforce has lead to administrative departments were 66 and 34 per cent. Women As of 31 December 2016, Multiconsult had 1 985 shareholdevents and depend on circumstances in the future. challenging profitability for the industry in general. accounted for 30 per cent of middle managers. For new reers registered in the Norwegian Central Securities Deposicruits in 2016 the distribution was respectively 29 per cent tory (VPS), up from 1 861 shareholders as of 31 December The overall market outlook for 2017 is fairly positive. Multiconsult’s strong market position, flexible business female and 71 per cent male. 2015. model and wide service offering provides a sound base for Buildings & Properties is expected to have a modest, but stafurther growth, both domestic and international. Resources Multiconsult aims to be a workplace with no discrimination The shares are registered in the VPS. The company's regisble growth. In Norway, investments in the Industry segment from Multiconsult Polska are gradually being phased into on the grounds of disability. Active efforts are made to detrar is DNB Markets. The shares carry the securities number are expected to drop slightly due to finalisation of several ongoing projects to strengthen competitiveness. The acqusign and customize physical working conditions so that all of ISIN NO 001 0734338. major projects, while investments in aquaculture remain isition of top line synergies between Multiconsult and LINK the group’s facilities may be accessed by all employees. The high. The outlook for the architecture market shows signs of arkitektur AS is expected to continue to generate top line workplace and jobs are customised on an individual basis for DIVIDENDS positive development, but continues to be impacted by resynergies by and further strengthening the group’s value employees or job applicants with disabilities. gional variations. Going forward, demand for our services in proposition to customers. Multiconsult has an ambition to distribute annual dividends the Oil & Gas industry is expected to slowly improve. Public of at least 50 per cent of its net profit. When deciding the 9.0 per cent of employees in Multiconsult ASA had a native sector investment is driving a strong outlook for TransportThe order backlog remains strong and provides a strong annual dividend level the board of directors will take into language other than Norwegian as of 31. December 2016, ation & Infrastructure within road and rail, and several large foundation for continued growth, supported by valuable consideration expected future cash flow, capital expenditure with a total of 32 different languages being represented. projects are expected to be assigned in the coming year. The frame agreements generated from a broad and robust plans, financing requirements and appropriate financial flexRenewable Energy market in Norway is expected to be stacustomer base. ibility. For 2016, the board will propose a dividend of NOK CHANGES TO THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT AND ble, with continued growth within transmission. International 3.00 per share for approval to the Annual General Meeting BOARD OF DIRECTORS Renewable Energy market continues to grow, providing new Multiconsult will continue to focus on further improvement on 11 May 2017. This is in line with the dividend policy. business opportunities for Multiconsult. The overall compeof the billing ratio in addition to strong project execution The General Manager of LINK arkitektur Mr. Leif Øie was aptitive landscape is migrating towards more Engineering, Proand cost efficiency throughout the organisation to secure pointed to the group management team on 1. September The Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2016 resolved paycurement and Construction (EPC) contracts and Public-Pristrong profitability. The group is well positioned and committ2016. Executive Vice President International Mr Torbjørn ment of ordinary dividends related to the 2015 financial year ed to achieve its 3-2-1 GO strategic objectives for 2020. Blom-Hagen, left the company at year-end. Mr. Christopher of NOK 76.1 million to be paid to shareholders registered at Løken was appointed Vice President International and rethis date. This equals NOK 2.90 per share. The dividends ports to CFO Ms. Anne Harris. Mr. Løken is not part of the were paid on 6 May 2016. executive management team. SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAMME The board of directors and CEO The annual general meeting on 26 April re-elected the followThe Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2016 resolved Multiconsult ASA ing board of directors: Mr Steinar Mejlænder-Larsen (chairto authorise the board of directors to acquire own shares Oslo, 19 April 2017 man, 1 year), Mr Arne Fosen (director, 1 year), Ms Vibeke with a maximum aggregate nominal value of NOK 1 312 460, Strømme (director, 1 year). The annual general meeting equal to 2 624 920 shares. The maximum and the minire-elected Ivar Eng and Tove Helene Malvik as deputy memmum amounts, which may be paid per share, are NOK 250 bers of the board of directors for a period of one year. and NOK 5, respectively. The authorisation is valid until the Annual General Meeting in 2017, however, no longer than to Steinar Mejlænder–Larsen Nigel K Wilson Line Haugen Göran Carlson SHARE AND SHAREHOLDER MATTERS 30 June 2017. Chair of the board Deputy chair Director Director Multiconsult is listed on Oslo Børs, where it trades under the ticker symbol MULTI. As described in section 4 in the corporate governance statement, on 30 November 2016, Multiconsult ASA purchased 480 330 shares from its largest shareholder Stiftelsen MultiArne Fosen Vibeke Strømme Kari Medby Loland Elisabeth W Lokshall Multiconsult has only one share class, and all shares have Director Director Director Director equal rights in the company. No share issues were made by consult. The purchase price was NOK 104.80 per share, in Multiconsult in 2016. accordance with the conditional share sale agreement between the two parties announced on 22 June 2016. The share had a closing price on 30 December (last trading Christian Nørgaard Madsen day of 2016) of NOK 104.50. Chief Executive Officer 30 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Annual Statement on Corporate Corporate governance governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management PHOTO: MULTICONSULT ANNUAL STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Implementation and reporting on corporate governance 34 Business 35 Equity and dividends 35 Equal treatment of shareholders and transactions with close associates 35 Freely negotiable shares 36 General meetings 36 Nomination committee 37 Corporate assembly and board of directors, composition and independence 37 The work of the board of directors 38 Risk management and internal control 39 Remuneration of the board of directors 39 Remuneration of executive personnel 40 Information and communication 40 Takeovers 41 Auditor 41 32 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33 33 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Annual Statement on Corporate Corporate governance governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MOVE «The business activities of the group are to engage in consulting engineering business, property management and At Multiconsult, we set clear goals and expectations. We other business activities in connection therewith, including give responsibility, freedom and support throughout. Along ownership in other companies». the way, we share the knowledge we acquire, and the joy of succeeding. We are motivating. Within the framework of its articles of association, Multiconsult has established goals and strategies for its business. We deliver everything on time and with the quality agreed Multiconsult’s objectives and strategies are presented in the Good corporate governance provides the basis for long-term value creation, to the upon. We are organised and trustworthy. board of directors’ report in the section «Overview of the benefit of shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. The board of directors We are constantly looking for sustainable opportunities. We business». of Multiconsult has established a set of govern-ance principles in order to ensure think holistic and are team players. We are value creating. 3. EQUITY AND DIVIDENDS a clear division of roles between the board of directors, the executive management We are curious, full of initiative and seek opportunities. By developing and challenging others and ourselves, we break EQUITY and the shareholders. The principles are based on the Norwegian Code of Practice through boundaries. We are engaged. As of 31 December 2016, the group had a consolidated equity for Corporate Governance. of NOK 508 million, corresponding to an equity ratio of 37 BUSINESS ETHICS AND CORPORATE per cent. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The board has established guidelines for business ethics and The board of directors considers that the group has an Multiconsult is subject to annual corporate governance The board of directors’ annual statement on how Multiconsult corporate social responsibility (CSR) in accordance with the equity capital that is appropriate to its objectives, strategy reporting requirements under section 3-3b of the Norwegian has implemented the code is set out below. The presentagroup’s corporate values. and risk profile. Accounting Act and the Norwegian Code of Practice for Cortion covers each section of the code, and deviations from porate Governance, cf. section 7 on the continuing obligathe code, if any, are specified under the relevant section. Multiconsult’s work with business ethics and integrity is basDIVIDENDS tions of stock exchange listed companies. The Accounting ed on the principles of the UN Global Compact, ISO 26000 The dividend policy is based on an ambition to distribute at Act may be found (in Norwegian) at www.lovdata.no. The CORPORATE VALUES and guidelines from Transparency International. All Multileast 50 per cent of the group’s net profit annually. When Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance, consult employees receive regular training on business Multiconsult’s organisational values form the basis for imdeciding the annual dividend level the board of directors will which was last revised on 30 October 2014, may be found at ethics and CSR matters and are required to adhere to the portant principles for corporate governance. take into consideration expected cash flows, capital expenwww.nues.no. Multiconsult Code of Conduct, which describes the expected diture plans, financing requirements and appropriate finanbusiness conduct amongst our employees and other MultiOver the past year, Multiconsult has revised the company’s vacial flexibility. The annual statement on corporate governance for 2016 consult representatives. lues. Based on the organization’s needs and market demands, follows below. The statement has been approved by the board BOARD MANDATES TO INCREASE THE SHARE CAPITAL our values are updated with behavioural ambitions that will Multiconsult’s corporate social responsibility policy is based of directors on 19 April 2017. further clarify and reinforce the Culture of Empowerment. on two pillars: At the ordinary general meeting of the company on 26 April 2016 the board of directors was authorised to increase the 1. IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING ON Our corporate values are now expressed as MOVE: • commitment to responsible business practices share capital of the group by up to NOK 1 312 460. The manCORPORATE GOVERNANCE • enabling sustainable value creation and development for date is restricted to issue shares as consideration in conneThe board of directors is committed to building a sound and M stands for motivating, our customers, by maintaining a persistent focus on enction with a) acquisitions, b) raise new equity to finance such trust-based relationship between Multiconsult ASA and the O stands for organised and trustworthy, vironmental, social and economic factors acquisitions, c) in connection with incentive schemes for the company’s shareholders, the capital market participants, V stands for value creating, and employees in the group or d) in take-over situations. The and other stakeholders. E stands for engaged. More information about our values, ethical guidelines and authorisation is valid until the next ordinary general meeting CSR matters may be found in the annual CSR report, which is in 2017, but in no event later than 30 June 2017. The group’s overall principles for corporate governance have The Culture of Empowerment is based on having broad an integral part of the board of directors’ report. been approved by the board of directors and can be found at experience, the necessary expertise and the right balance of www.multiconsult-ir.com/corporate-governance. skills. It is about seeing opportunities where others see ob4. EQUAL TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS AND stacles. It is about breaking through barriers where others 2. BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES The group complies with the Norwegian Code of Practice for may be tempted to give up. Through MOVE, Multiconsult will Multiconsult’s articles of association are available on the Multiconsult has only one share class, and all shares have Corporate Governance (the code) issued by the Norwegian be one unified team moving towards common goals. group’s website. equal rights in the company. Corporate Governance Board, latest edition of 30 October 2014. Article 3 of these articles, the group’s business purpose states: No share issues were made by Multiconsult in 2016. 34 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 35 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Annual Statement on Corporate Corporate governance governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management Pursuant to the code, the reasons for waiving the pre6. GENERAL MEETINGS directors decides whether such a method exists before each members. The nomination committee is elected by the geemptive right in connection with a share capital increase individual general meeting. neral meeting and the members have a period of service for must be published in a stock exchange announcement. The NOTICE, REGISTRATION AND PARTICIPATION two years unless the general meeting determines otherwise. board will endeavor to comply with this recommendation if The notice of the general meeting must state whether votes The board makes provision for as many as possible of its such circumstances should arise. in advance are permitted and which guidelines, if any, that The nomination committee’s tasks are set out in the articles shareholders to exercise their rights by attending the gehave been issued for such voting. of association and include to; nominate new board members neral meeting. The annual general meeting will take place On 30 November 2016, Multiconsult ASA purchased 480 to the general meeting, propose remuneration to the board on 11 May 2017. The group’s financial calendar is published 330 shares from its largest shareholder Stiftelsen MulticonThe company’s articles of association sets forth that no shamembers at the general meeting, propose remuneration to via Oslo Børs and in the investor relations section of the sult at a price of NOK 104.80 per share, in accordance with reholder, including such shareholder’s close associates, may the members of the nomination committee, and to nominate group’s website. the conditional share sale agreement between the two parvote for more than 25 per cent of the shares at the general new members of the nomination committee to the general ties announced on 22 June 2016. The price, according to the meeting. This restriction can be removed by the general meeting. Notice of the general meeting, with comprehensive docuagreement, was determined based on the volume weighted meeting at any time by a 2/3 majority. mentation including the recommendations of the nominaaverage trading price of the Company’s shares on Oslo Børs The remuneration of the committee is determined by the getion committee, is made available to shareholders on the in the one-week period immediately preceding the launch of CHAIRING MEETINGS, ELECTIONS, ETC. neral meeting. The general meeting may issue further guidegroup’s website no later than 21 days before the meeting the application period under the employee share purchase lines for the nomination committee’s work. takes place. Shareholders who wish that the attachments General meetings will normally be chaired by the chair perprogramme. In a subsequent transaction, Multiconsult ASA are sent by mail can apply to the company for this to be son of the board. The board will however evaluate in respect sold 480 330 shares to its employees, in connection with the Pursuant to the code, the composition of the nomination done. The documentation must contain all the information of each general meeting whether it is appropriate to engage implementation of the 2016 employee share purchase procommittee must take account of the interests of sharerequired for the shareholders to form a view on every item an external chair person to chair the meeting. gramme. holders in general. to be considered. Shareholders must register intention to attend by the specified deadline. The deadline for registeThe group’s chair person of the board and chief executive The board and the executive management are concerned The present nomination committee was elected before the ring attendance is set as close to the meeting as possible, are required to attend, and the complete board of directors to ensure equal treatment of all the company’s shareholdpublic listing of the company, at the annual general meeting of and, pursuant to the articles of association; no sooner than is encouraged to attend the general meetings, following the ers and that transactions with related parties take place on 16 April 2015. It comprises Nils Erik Forsén, Eli Grøttheim (chair five days in advance. instructions for the board. an arm’s length basis. Note 22 to the consolidated financial person) and Martin Mæland. Martin Mæland was elected statements provides details about transactions with related PROXY FORM, ADVANCE VOTING AND VOTING as a member of the nomination committee at the annual geThe nomination committee is encouraged to attend those parties. Financial relationships related to the directors and RESTRICTIONS neral meeting in 26 April 2016. No directors or members of meetings where the election and remuneration of directors executive personnel are described in note 8. executive management are represented on the nomination Notices with documentation are made available on the and members of the nomination committee are to be consicommittee. group’s website immediately after the documentation has dered. The group’s auditor is present at the annual general Guidelines in respect of conflicts of interest are included in been issued as a stock exchange announcement. meeting. the instructions to the company’s board of directors, and reProcedures for shareholders to submit nominations to the quire that directors inform the board if they have a significant nomination committee will be implemented in advance of General-meeting notices provide information on the proceThe general meeting elects the members of the nomination direct or indirect interest in an agreement being entered into the annual general meeting in 2017. Further details and dures to be observed for attendance and voting, including committee as well as the shareholder-elected directors on by the group. deadlines for submission will be published on the company’s the use of proxies. Shareholders who cannot attend in perthe board. In its work, the nomination committee gives emwebsite. son are encouraged to appoint a proxy. phasis to ensuring that the board functions optimally as a To avoid unintentional conflicts of interest, the group has collective body, those legal requirements for gender repredrawn up an overview, which identifies the various roles of its A proxy form, where a proxy has been named, is framed in sentation can be met, and that the directors complement 8. CORPORATE ASSEMBLY AND BOARD OF directors, the offices they hold and so forth. This overview is each other in terms of their background and expertise. The DIRECTORS, COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE updated as and when required and in the event of changes such a way that the shareholder can specify how the proxy general meeting is normally invited to vote for a complete In 2015, Multiconsult entered into an agreement with its in the board’s composition. should vote on each issue to be considered. The notices shareholder-elected board. As a result, no opportunity has employees that the company would not have a corporate have included information on the right to raise issues for been provided to vote in advance for individual candidates. assembly. There are three employee representatives in the consideration at the general meeting, including the relevant 5. FREELY NEGOTIABLE SHARES board of directors. deadlines. The company's shares are freely negotiable. The articles of Minutes from general meetings are published as soon as association do not impose any restriction on the negotiability practicable via the stock exchange’s reporting system Pursuant to the articles of association, the board of directors Shareholders may cast a written vote in advance in matters of the shares. There are no restrictions on the purchase or (www.newsweb.no, ticker code: MULTI) and in the investor may comprise seven to nine members. The board currently to be discussed at the general meetings of the company. sale of shares by members of the company’s management relations section of the group’s website. has five shareholder-elected directors and three employeeSuch votes may also be cast through electronic communias long as they comply with the rules on insider trading. elected directors. cation. 7. NOMINATION COMMITTEE Two alternate directors have also been elected. The access to cast votes in advance is subject to the presence The group shall, according to its articles of association, of a safe method of authenticating the sender. The board of article 6, have a nomination committee consisting of three Directors and the chair person of the board are currently 36 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 37 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Annual Statement on Corporate Corporate governance governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management elected by the general meeting for either one or two-year management with particular emphasis on clear allocation of remuneration committee are and shall be independent of the hority to defined roles in the organisation. Risk management terms. responsibilities and duties. group’s executive management. The committee currently processes are established to identify, evaluate and report risk consists of Steinar Mejlænder-Larsen as the leader and in a systematic manner for the group's activities with partiThe composition of the board is intended to secure the inThe principal tasks of the board include determining the Vibeke Strømme as member. cular focus on project and other operational risks. terests of the shareholders in general, while the directors group’s strategy and monitoring how it is implemented. The also collectively possess a broad business and managework of the board also includes monitoring control functions The remuneration committee is an advisory committee for Financial risk is managed in accordance with the group’s ment background as well as in-depth sector understanding necessary to ensure acceptable management of the group’s the board that shall prepare matters for the board’s consifinancial strategy, which is described under the section and expertise in investment, financing and capital markets. assets. deration and decisions regarding the remuneration of, and “Financial risk and risk management” in the board of directors’ Weight is also given to the board’s ability to make indepenother matters pertaining to the group’s management. The rereport. dent judgements of the business in general and of the inThe board appoints the group’s chief executive officer. Incommendations of the remuneration committee shall cover dividual matters presented by the executive management. structions which describe the rules of procedure for the boall aspects of remuneration to the management, including The board is responsible for ensuring to that the enterprise, Consideration has also been given to gender representation ard’s work and its consideration of matters have been adopbut not limited to salaries, allowances, bonuses, long term financial reporting and asset management are subject to saand independence of directors from the company and its ted by the board. The division of responsibilities between the equity incentive plans and benefits-in-kind. tisfactory controls. Overall policies, governing processes and management. board and the chief executive is specified in greater detail routines have been established for day-to-day management. in the instructions. The chief executive is responsible for the The board has adopted separate instructions for the remuThe board periodically reviews the company’s risk manageThe general meeting on 16 April 2015 set the term of office group’s executive management. Responsibility for ensuring neration committee setting out further details on the duties, ment documentation and the most important risk areas and for each of the current members of the board of directors at that the board conducts its work in an efficient and correct composition and procedures of the committee. the internal controls established to mitigate these risks. either one or two years. It is the group's intention that terms manner rests with the chair person of the board. of office of board members will not exceed two years. The board evaluates its own work and that of the chief FINANCIAL REPORTING The board establishes an annual plan for its meetings, and executive and reports its evaluations to the nomination The group has in place processes and routines for internal The board of directors does not include executive personnel. evaluates its work and expertise once a year. The annual committee. control over financial reporting. The main principles are All shareholder elected directors are independent of the plan specifies topics for board meetings, including reviewing transparency, segregation of duties, analytical controls and group’s executive management and commercial partners. and following up the group’s goals and strategy, budgets, In the event that the chair person of the board is, or has systematic and thorough management reviews. The periodic Four out of five shareholder elected directors are indereporting of financial information, the notice for the genebeen, personally involved in matters of material character, review meetings between senior financial and operational pendent of the largest shareholders. Mr Nigel Wilson has a ral meeting with associated documentation, and the board’s the board's consideration of such matters will be chaired by management focus on revenue recognition, possible liability commercial consultancy assignment for Stiftelsen Multiconmeeting with the auditor. another member of the board. costs as well as performance reviews of both financial and sult, the largest shareholder at 31 December 2016. operational targets. The board of directors has elected an audit committee 10. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL Details on background, experience and independence of diamongst the members of the board of directors. CONTROL Management prepares periodic reports on business and rectors are presented on the group’s website. The group has in place processes and routines for internal operational developments to the board, which are discussed The committee currently comprises of Nigel Wilson as the control over risk management and financial reporting. During at board meetings. These reports are based on the results 8 board meetings were held in 2016. Each board member’s chair person and Line Haugen as member. All members of 2016, these processes have been updated to fully comply with of the review process and include status of key performance attendance at board meetings is recorded by the company. the audit committee are independent of the group. the code. indicators, update of market developments, operational issues, financial results and highlights of organisational issues. Members of the board are encouraged to own shares. The Pursuant to section 6-43 of the Norwegian Public Limited Through its business activities, Multiconsult manages an exshareholding of each board member can be found in note Liability Companies Act, the audit committee shall: tensive project contract portfolio of engineering, architectural Financial position and results are followed up in monthly 8 to the consolidated financial statements and in the bioand advisory services that are exposed to substantial risk accounting reports, compared to prior year, budgets and graphy of each board member on www.multiconsult-ir.com/ • prepare the board of directors’ supervision of the group’s factors, such as risk of disagreements or legal disputes with its forecasts. Reporting also includes non-financial key perforcorporate-governance/board-of-directors. financial reporting process; customers related to possible cost of delays or project errors mance indicators related to each business area. In addition, • monitor the systems for internal control and risk manathat are always present in our business. management prepares a long term forecast of financial gement; 9. THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS trends, showing profits and cash flow development. • have continuous contact with the group’s auditor regarThe board of directors has overall responsibility for manaThe organisation comprises a relatively large number of ding the audit of the annual accounts; and ging the group and for supervising the chief executive and employees. The group’s management model is based on an The interim reports and annual financial statements are re• review and monitor the independence of the group’s audithe group’s activities. appropriate delegation of authority, clearly defined market viewed by the audit committee in advance of consideration tor, including in particular the extent to which services other and operating parameters, in addition to effective internal and discussion in the board. Financial risk management than auditing provided by the auditor or the audit firm The board of directors establishes annual plans for its work, control. and internal control are also addressed by the board’s audit represent a threat to the independence of the auditor. with particular emphasis on business objectives, strategy committee. The latter reviews the external auditor’s findings and implementation. The board of directors has established Overall goals and strategies are periodically reviewed and and assessments after the interim and annual financial auThe group has established a remuneration committee that instructions for its own work as well as for the executive updated. Based on the current strategy, the corporate values dits. Significant issues in the auditor’s report, if any, are also consists of two members of the board. The members of the and ethical guidelines have been updated, instructions have reviewed by the board. been established by the board that specify delegation of aut38 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 39 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Annual Statement on Corporate Corporate governance governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management 11. REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD ment team consists of base salary (main element) and fringe Multiconsult holds public presentations in connection with pass any resolutions with the intention of obstructing any OF DIRECTORS benefits. the announcement of quarterly and annual financial retake-over bid unless this is approved by the general meeting The remuneration to the board of directors is described in sults as well as strategic updates. The presentations are following the announcement of the bid. note 8 to the financial statements. A bonus programme has been established, with maximum also available as live presentations via the internet. Prepayout for the CEO equal to four months' salary and maxisentation material is made available via Oslo Børs’ news site If a take-over bid is made, the board will issue a statement Directors’ fees are determined by the general meeting on the mum two month salary for other members of the executive www.newsweb.no and www.multiconsult.no. in accordance with statutory requirements and the rebasis of recommendations from the nomination committee. management team. The bonus criteria are linked to financial commendations in the code. These recommendations have been based on the board’s targets, agreed action plans and relevant key performanMulticonsult gives weight to maintaining an open and ongoing responsibility, expertise and the complexity of the business. ce indicators. The bonus obtained is paid partly in cash and dialogue with the investor community, hereunder frequent In the event of a take-over bid, the board will obtain a valuaThe directors have not been awarded share options or any partly in shares at a 30 per cent discount. More details are meetings with investors, fund managers, analysts and journation from an independent expert. other form of remuneration for the fiscal year 2016. described in note 8. lists. The company is also present at relevant investor conferences and seminars. All public presentations held at such Any transaction that is in effect a significant disposal of the None of the directors have undertaken any special assignMembers of the executive management team can also parevents are made public via www.multiconsult.no. group’s activities will be submitted to the general meeting ments for the group other than their work on the board. ticipate in the group's general share purchase programme for its approval. Directors are unable to accept such assignments without for all employees, in which they were offered to purchase up The guidelines for investor communication states that the approval from the board in each case. to 1 104 shares at a discount of 20 per cent. company should have limited contact with the investor community and the business press during the last three 15. AUDITOR CHANGES TO THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT weeks ahead of its quarterly reporting. The external auditor, Deloitte, annually presents its overAn overview of shares owned by the directors and their close AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS all plan for the audit of the group for the audit committee’s associates is included in note 8 to the consolidated financial Reporting of financial and other information shall be timely consideration. statements. The General Manager of LINK arkitektur Mr. Leif Øie was and accurate. The main purpose of this information present appointed to the group management team 1 September The external auditor’s involvement with the board of direa complete picture of the group’s financial results and posi12. REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE PERSONNEL 2016. Executive Vice President International Mr Torbjørn ctors during 2016 related to the following: tion as well as articulating the group’s long-term goals and In 2015 the board established a remuneration committee. Blom-Hagen left the company at year-end. Mr. Christoppotential, including its strategy, value drivers and important her Løken was appointed Vice President International and • Presented the main features of the audit work. risk factors. Multiconsult held a capital markets day on 12 The main responsibilities are evaluations and advice to the reports to CFO Ms. Anne Harris. Mr. Løken is not part of the • Attended board meetings approving the financial stateOctober, where the company presented its updated 3-2-1 board of directors relating to remuneration strategy, main executive management team. ments, reviewing possible significant changes in accounGO strategy. principles and systems for the total remuneration (including ting principles, assessing significant accounting estimabonus) to the CEO and other members of the group manaThe annual general meeting on 26 April 2016 re-elected the tes, and considering all possible disagreements between The group publishes a financial calendar every year with gement. The chief executive (CEO) normally participates in following board of directors: Mr Steinar Mejlænder-Larsen the external auditor and executive management. an overview of the dates of important events, including the the meetings, unless the committee discusses issues rela(chair person, 1 year), Mr Arne Fosen (director, 1 year), Ms • Conducted a review together with the board of the general meeting, publication of interim reports and open ting to the CEO. Vibeke Strømme (director, 1 year). The annual general meetgroup’s internal control procedures and systems, inclupresentations. This calendar is made available as a stock ing re-elected Ivar Eng and Tove Helene Malvik as deputy ding the identification of weaknesses and proposals for exchange announcement and on the group’s website as The group’s guidelines for the remuneration of senior exemembers of the board of directors for a period of one year. improvements. soon as it has been approved by the board. cutives are described in note 8 to the consolidated financial • Held a meeting with the board without the presence of statements. This note also provides further details about rethe executive management. 13. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION muneration in 2016 for certain senior executives. The guide14. TAKEOVERS • Confirmed its independence, and provided an overview of The board has established guidelines for investor communilines are presented annually to the general meeting in conThe board has established guiding principles for responding non-audit services provided to the group. cation. Multiconsult’s communication with the capital nection with the presentation of the annual report. to possible takeover bids. markets is based on the principles of transparency, full disclosure and equality. During 2016, the external auditor attended six meetings with The guidelines specify the main principles for the group’s In the event of a take-over bid being made for the compathe audit committee. executive pay policy, and have been prepared with the aim ny, the board will follow the overriding principle of equality of CEO, CFO and IRO are responsible for the main dialogue with of ensuring that the interests of shareholders and senior treatment for all shareholders, and will seek to ensure that Pursuant to the code, the board has established guidelines the investor community, hereunder the company’s shareexecutives are aligned as far as possible. No options have the group’s business activities are not disrupted unnecessfor the group’s management use of the external auditor for holders. been issued to employees or elected officers of the group. arily. The board will strive to ensure that shareholders are non-audit services. Information to the stock market is published in the form of given sufficient information and time to form a view of the Total remuneration to the executive management team offer. The board reports annually to the annual general meeting annual and interim reports, press releases, stock exchange consists of a fixed element and a variable performance baon the external auditor’s total fees, split between audit and announcements and investor presentations. All information sed bonus, a share purchase programme for all employees, The board will not seek to prevent any take-over bid unless it non-audit services. The annual general meeting approves considered relevant and significant for valuing the compaplus pension and insurance arrangements. believes that the interests of the group and the shareholders the auditor’s fees for the parent company. ny’s shares will be distributed and published in English via Oslo Børs disclosure system, www.newsweb.no, and via the justify such actions. The board will not exercise mandates or Fixed remuneration to members of the executive managegroup’s website www.multiconsult.no simultaneously. 40 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Annual Statement on Corporate Corporate governance governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management The board of directors and CEO Multiconsult AS Oslo, 19 April 2017 Steinar Mejlænder–Larsen Nigel K Wilson Line Haugen Göran Carlson Chair of the board Deputy chair Director Director Arne Fosen Vibeke Strømme Kari Medby Loland Elisabeth W Lokshall Director Director Director Director Christian Nørgaard Madsen Chief Executive Officer 42 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management PHOTO: VIDAR MOLØKKEN / MULTILUX ASN CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL ACCOUNTS Consolidated statement of income 46 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 47 Consolidated balance sheet 48 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 50 Consolidated statement of cash flows 51 Notes to the financial statements 52 Note 1 General information and basis for the pre52 Note 20 Guarantees 92 paration of the consolidated financial statements Note 21 Shareholder information 93 Note 2 A Significant accounting policies 52 Note 22 Related parties 94 Note 3 Financial risk management 56 Note 23 Earnings per share and dividends 95 Note 4 Business combinations 63 Note 24 Events after the reporting period 95 Note 5 Segments 66 Note 6 Research and development 69 Note 7 Other operating expenses 69 Note 8 Employee benefit expenses, number of 70 employees, remuneration, loans to employees etc. Note 9 Financial items 76 Note 10 Taxes 77 Note 11 Pensions 80 Note 12 Accounts receivable and other current 84 receivables Note 13 Intangible assets and goodwill 85 Note 14 Property, plant and equipment 88 Note 15 Cash and cash equivalents 89 Note 16 Associated companies and joint 89 arrangements Note 17 Leasing and other payment obligations 90 Note 18 Other current liabilities 91 Note 19 Provisions, disputes and contingent 91 liabilities 44 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45 45 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Amounts in NOK thousand, except earnings per share Note 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand Note 2016 2015 Profit for the period 213 768 150 109 OPERATING REVENUES AND EXPENSES Other comprehensive income Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations 11 37 923 87 298 Operating revenues 5 2 968 069 2 554 701 Income taxes 10 (9 471) (29 695) Expenses for sub contractors and disbursements 363 448 307 033 Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 28 452 57 603 Net operating revenues 2 604 621 2 247 668 Currency translation differences (4 187) 1 722 Employee benefits expenses 8, 11 1 841 605 1 649 240 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (4 187) 1 722 Other operating expenses 7 430 227 385 726 Total other comprehensive income for the period 24 265 59 325 Operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2 271 832 2 034 966 Total comprehensive income for the period 238 033 209 433 Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment (EBITDA) 332 788 212 702 Attributable to: Owners of Multiconsult ASA 238 033 209 433 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 13, 14 43 205 37 616 Operating profit (EBIT) 289 584 175 086 Share of profit from associated companies and joint ventures 16 4 053 20 945 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Financial income 9 4 082 8 882 Financial expenses 9 9 986 7 049 Net financial items (5 904) 1 832 Profit before income taxes 287 732 197 863 Income tax expenses 10 73 964 47 754 Profit for the period 213 768 150 109 Attributable to: Owners of Multiconsult ASA 213 768 150 109 Earnings per share: Basic 23 8.15 5.73 Diluted 23 8.15 5.73 46 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 47 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Amounts in NOK thousand Note 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Amounts in NOK thousand Note 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-current assets Equity Deferred tax assets 10 25 104 66 722 Share capital 21 13 125 13 125 Intangible assets 13 9 348 9 304 Treasury shares (1) (9) Goodwill 13 235 727 173 023 Share premium 13 320 13 320 Property, plant and equipment 14 85 984 84 783 Total paid-in equity 26 443 26 436 Total non-current non-financial assets 356 163 333 832 Other equity 481 077 323 745 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 16 10 464 7 258 Assets for reimbursement provisions 19 22 610 21 600 Total shareholders' equity 507 520 350 181 Other non-current financial assets 7 941 6 221 Non-current liabilities Total non-current assets 397 178 368 911 Pension obligations 11 5 859 161 344 Deferred tax 10 11 075 0 Current assets Provisions 19 33 527 41 297 Accounts receivables 12 455 058 427 448 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 3 55 994 7 190 Work in progress 12 270 346 192 781 Other current receivables and prepaid expenses 12 83 007 57 135 Total non-current liabilities 106 454 209 831 Total receivables 808 410 677 364 Current liabilities Accounts payable 151 903 139 894 Cash and cash equivalents 15 175 990 232 954 Current tax liabilities 10 29 454 54 676 Public duties payable 248 124 225 973 Total current assets 984 401 910 318 Current interest-bearing liabilities 3 3 477 2 614 TOTAL ASSETS 1 381 579 1 279 229 Other current liabilities 18 334 648 296 060 Total current liabilities 767 605 719 217 Total liabilities 874 059 929 048 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1 381 579 1 279 229 The Board and CEO of Multiconsult ASA Oslo, 19 April 2017 Steinar Mejlænder–Larsen Nigel Wilson Göran Carlson Line Karin Haugen Chair of the board Deputy chair Director Director Arne Fosen Vibeke Strømme Kari Medby Loland Elisabeth Lokshall Director Director Director Director Christian Nørgaard Madsen Chief Executive Officer 48 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 49 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Attributable to equity holders of Multiconsult ASA + are cash increasing and are cash reducing effects Note 2016 2015 RemeaCurrency Amounts in NOK thousand Share Treasury Share Total paidRetained Total surement translation Amounts in NOK thousand capital shares premium in capital earnings equity pensions differences CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: 31 December 2014 13 125 0 13 320 26 445 679 290 (287 278) 1 457 419 914 Profit before income taxes 287 732 197 863 Dividend 0 0 0 0 (275 617) 0 0 (275 617) Income taxes paid (60 412) (55 601) Treasury shares 0 (9) 0 (9) (1 750) 0 0 (1 759) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 13,14 43 205 37 616 Employee share purchase 0 0 0 0 (1 791) 0 0 (1 791) Results from associated companies and joint ventures (4 053) (20 945) programme Non cash pension cost 16 (110 238) 33 984 Comprehensive income 0 0 0 0 150 109 57 603 1 722 209 434 Sub total operating activities 156 233 192 918 31 December 2015 13 125 (9) 13 320 26 436 550 241 (229 675) 3 179 350 181 Dividend 0 0 0 0 (76 123) 0 0 (76 123) Changes in working capital (66 066) 13 251 Treasury shares 0 8 0 8 1 542 0 0 1 550 Net cash flows from operating activities 90 167 206 169 Employee share purchase programme 0 0 0 0 (6 119) 0 0 (6 119) Comprehensive income 0 0 0 0 213 768 28 452 (4 187) 238 033 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: 31 December 2016 13 125 (1) 13 320 26 443 683 309 (201 224) (1 008) 507 520 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and shares 441 99 Payments on acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (38 313) (42 052) See note 8 for information about treasury shares and employee share purchase programme. Proceeds/payments related to equity accounted investments 16 847 4 690 Net cash effect of business combinations 4 (64 260) (95 485) Net cash flows from investing activities (101 285) (132 748) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Change interest bearing liabilities 46 525 (610) Dividends paid 23 (76 123) (275 617) Purchase treasury shares 8 (50 339) (25 797) Sale treasury shares 8 42 607 8 608 Net cash flows from financing activities (37 329) (293 416) Foreign currency effects on cash and cash equivalents (8 516) 4 337 Net change in cash and cash equivalents (56 964) (215 657) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 15 232 954 448 611 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 15 175 990 232 954 50 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 51 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS line item in the statement of income, classified between operating profit and financial items. Refer to note 16 for more information. on an on-going basis. When it is probable that a project will incur a loss (total direct costs exceed total revenue), the estimated loss is recognised immediately. Direct costs include predominantly costs The group enters into working partnerships in certain projects where for own personnel and sub contractors. NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION AND BASIS FOR THE PREPARATION parties collaborate to offer a joint deliverable. Each participant is OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS responsible for, and has rights to the fee from its part of the deliveIn working partnerships not organised as separate legal entities, and rables (agreements related to project collaboration). The individual where the group is the project manager with no overall responsibility parties utilise their resources through the use of employees and subfor the engagement, the group invoices the client and subsequently Multiconsult ASA (the company) is a Norwegian Public limited liabiby the EU (IFRS) and the Norwegian Accounting Act. References to contractors. Some of these arrangements are considered to be joint pays the fee to the other parties for the work performed by them. lity company. The shares of the company were listed on Oslo Stock IFRS in these financial statements mean IFRS as adopted by the EU. operations within the scope of IFRS 11, and for which the group recogThe group only recognises its own share of revenue and expenses in Exchange on 22 May 2015. The company's head office is located in nises its share of income and expenses, and its own assets and liabilitisuch arrangements (refer also to the description above). Nedre Skøyen vei 2, 0276 Oslo. Restatements es. Certain arrangements are not jointly controlled. Such activities are The group has recognised provisions for project responsibilities, rerecognised on a line-by-line basis in accordance with the group's shaRental income which relates to sublease of office space is recogThe company and its subsidiaries (together the Multiconsult group/ fer to note 19. The group has at 31 December 2016 presented the re, similar to joint operations. There are no significant differences in the nised on a straight-line basis in profit or loss over the relevant duthe group) are among the leading suppliers of consultancy and deexpected reimbursement from the insurance company related to group's accounting for activities in arrangements without limited liability, ration of the rental agreement. Other operating income comprises sign services in Norway and the Nordic region. The group has some recognised provisions as a separate asset, instead of reducing the whether within the scope of IFRS 11 or not. payment for various services and expenditure incurred, and is reactivity and subsidiaries outside the Nordic region, including subsiprovisions as previously presented. This has affected the balance cognised when the services are rendered or the expenses incurred. diaries Multiconsult Polska, Multiconsult UK and Multiconsult Asia. sheet by increasing the provisions (liabilities) and assets, but the net Foreign currencies The principal activities of the group are described in note 5 Segamount is unchanged. Comparable balance sheet figures have been The financial statements of the individual companies in the group Interest income that reflects the effective return on an asset is rements. These consolidated financial statements were approved by restated. The change had no effect on the statement of income. are measured in the currency which is predominantly used in the cognised as income over the period earned and classified as financithe Board of Directors on 19 April 2017 for adoption by the Annual economic environment in which the company operates (functional al income in the statement of income. Dividends received on investGeneral Meeting on 11 May 2017. Some other restatements have also been made, as explained in recurrency). The consolidated financial statements are presented in ments are recognised as income when the group's right to receive levant notes. Norwegian kroner (NOK), which is the functional currency and the payment has been established. Dividends from investments that are The group prepares the consolidated financial statements in accorpresentation currency of the parent company. recognised using the equity method are recognised as a reduction dance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted of the investment. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaClassification of current and non-current items ctions. Currency gains and losses arising on the payment of such An asset is classified as current when it is expected to be realised or NOTE 2 A SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES transactions and on translation of monetary items in foreign currensold, or to be used in the group's normal operating cycle, or falls due cies at the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period, or is expected to be realised within 12 months after the end of the Basis of preparation excess consideration is classified as goodwill. Historically, it has been are recognised in profit or loss as financial items. reporting period. Other assets are classified as non-current. LiabiThe consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on considered that most of the consideration in excess of carrying amolities are classified as current when they are expected to be settled the historical cost basis, except for derivatives and pension assets that unt on net assets relates to employees, and the excess is therefore For companies with a functional currency other than Norwegian kroner, in the normal operating cycle of the group, are held for trading, are are measured at fair value, and pension liabilities that are measured recognised as goodwill. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in income and expense items are translated based on the average expected to be settled within 12 months of the end of the reporat present value. The consolidated financial statements are presented profit or loss as incurred. Refer to note 4 for more information relating exchange rates, and assets and liabilities are translated using the ting period, or if the group does not have an unconditional right in Norwegian kroner (NOK). Amounts are rounded to the closest thoto business combinations in 2016 and 2015. exchange rates prevailing on the end of the reporting period. Exchange to postpone settlement for at least 12 months after the reporting usand, unless stated otherwise. As a result of such rounding differendifferences are recognised in other comprehensive income. date. Provisions for obligations and other liabilities are classified as ces, amounts and percentages may not add up to the total. Investments in associated companies and joint ventures over which non-current. Derivatives are classified as current items. the group exercises significant influence or joint control, are accounRevenue Consolidation principles, investments accounted for in accordanted for using the equity method. The difference between cost price of The majority of the group's revenue is generated from rendering of Property, plant and equipment ce with the equity method and working partnerships the shares and the group's share of equity is allocated to the compaservices. When the outcome can be estimated reliably, and it is proProperty, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less accumuThe consolidated financial statements incorporate Multiconsult ASA ny's net assets, and any excess as goodwill. In accordance with the bable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction lated depreciation. Cost of acquisition includes costs directly attriand companies that Multiconsult ASA (directly or indirectly) control equity method, investments are initially recognised in the statement will flow to the entity, revenue is recognised in accordance with the butable to the acquisition of the fixed asset. Subsequent expen(the group). Control is achieved when the group is exposed or has rights of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter for changes in the stage of completion of the transaction, as at the end of the reporditure is added to the carrying value of the asset or is recognised to variable returns from its involvement with a company in which it group's share of net assets (i.e. total comprehensive income and equting period. separately when it is probable that future economic benefits relahas invested, and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns ity adjustments (including dividends)) less any impairment charges on ted to the expenditure will flow to the group, and the cost can be from this company. All subsidiaries are 100% owned and there are no investments. Corrections are made when it is necessary to adjust the The company's rendering of services consists of agreements that measured reliably. The carrying amount related to replaced parts non-controlling interests. accounting policies to match group accounting policies. Any goodwill are either time-based, time-based with a cap, or fixed price. The is expensed. Other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in included in the investment amount is not amortised, but is reviewed company has no construction contracts. Revenue recognition ocprofit or loss in the period during which the cost is incurred. Property, The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using unifor impairment as part of the investment. At the end of the reporting curs when the service is rendered, in line with the work being perplant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis. The form accounting policies. All material transactions and balances betperiod, the group assesses whether there are any indications that the formed. Revenue is recognised at the estimated value of the concost of acquisition of property, plant and equipment is depreciated ween group entities have been eliminated. investment may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the recosideration at the time of the transaction, exclusive of value added to their expected residual value, which in general is estimated to be verable amount of the investment is estimated in order to determine tax, rebates, discounts and fees that are not expected to be realised. nil. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation metShares in subsidiaries are eliminated in the consolidated financial stathe extent of the impairment loss, if any. Transactions between a group Contracts that are remunerated based on hours incurred are recoghods are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and changed tements in accordance with the acquisition method. This entails that company and an associated company or a joint venture are eliminated nised during the period in which the work is performed. Fixed price if necessary. When the carrying amount of an item of property, plant the consideration, as well as the acquired entity's assets and liabilities or deferred in proportion to the group's ownership. The group's share contracts and time-based contracts with a cap are recognised with and equipment is higher than its estimated recoverable amount (the (with some exceptions as determined by IFRS 3 Business Combinatiof profit or loss after tax, including amortisation, impairment loss and reference to the stage of completion. The stage of completion is norhigher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use), the carrying ons), are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition, and any reversal of impairment loss on the investment is presented as a single mally estimated as hours incurred as a percentage of expected total amount is reduced to the recoverable amount and recognised as imhours and milestones in the project. The total scope is evaluated pairment in the statement of income. Gains and losses on disposal of 52 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 53 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income stateThe group has financial liabilities measured at amortised cost and Pensions Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable ment as the difference between the sales price and the carrying fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities at amortised cost The group has various pension plans, including both defined benefit that the tax assets will be utilised. Tax rates that are enacted or subamount. These amounts are insignificant in the periods presented. comprise largely accounts payable, other current liabilities and inpension plans and defined contribution pension plans. Pension costs stantially enacted at the end of the reporting period and undiscoterest-bearing liabilities. These obligations are initially recognised and pension obligations for defined benefit plans are estimated on unted amounts are used. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reIntangible assets at fair value less transaction costs, and subsequently measured at an annual basis by independent actuaries using a straight-line earcognised net when there is a legal right to offset payable tax assets Intangible assets consist mainly of standard software and licenses amortised cost through using the effective interest method. nings profile and the expected salary at retirement date as the basis and liabilities, and the group is able to and intends to settle payable used by the company. The company has no internally generated for calculation, based on assumptions of discount rates, future salaincome tax net. intangible assets with a remaining carrying value at the end of the Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss consist of dery adjustments, state pensions and other social security payments, reporting period. Intangible assets are recognised at cost of acrivatives. The company uses, to a certain extent, foreign currency as well as actuarial assumptions related to mortality, disability and The group considers expenses as tax deductible and income as not quisition less amortisation. Intangible assets are amortised on a forward contracts in order to hedge future cash flows in foreign curvoluntary retirement. The discount rate is determined based on the taxable based on interpretation of applicable legislation and regustraight-line basis to an estimated residual value of nil. When the rencies. The company does not use hedge accounting. Derivatives interest rate of high quality corporate bonds adjusted to consider lations and when it is considered probable that the treatment will be carrying amount of an intangible asset is higher than its estimated are measured at fair value. Gains and losses arising as a result of the average remaining payment period. accepted by the taxation authorities. The group provides for uncerrecoverable amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recochanges in fair value are recognised in the statement of income as tain and contested tax positions based on the expected payment. verable amount and recognised as impairment in the statement of financial income and financial expenses. Derivatives are recognised The effect of changes in measurement of defined benefit obligatiincome. on a gross basis as assets when the fair value is positive and as lions (losses and gains due to changes in actuarial and financial asThe income tax expense for a period consists of income tax payable abilities when the fair value is negative, as long as the group does sumptions or underlying data) is recognised in other comprehensive and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss, except Goodwill not have a legal right to and intention of settling the contracts on income, net of deferred tax. Changes in defined benefit obligations for when it relates to items that are recognised in equity, either direGoodwill arising upon a business combination is not amortised. a net basis. resulting from past service costs (plan amendments), curtailments ctly or through other comprehensive income. Goodwill does not generate cash flows that are independent of other and settlements, are recognised immediately in profit or loss. Soassets or groups of assets, and is allocated to the cash-generaAn embedded derivative shall not be separated from the host concial security tax is included as part of the defined benefit obligation Statement of cash flows ting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the tract and recognised as a derivative if the economic characterisand the pension cost in the statement of comprehensive income. The statement of cash flows has been prepared in accordance with combination that gave rise to goodwill. Cash-generating units to tics and the economic risks of the embedded derivative are closePlan assets are measured at fair value as at the end of the reporting the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, which goodwill has been allocated are reviewed for impairment on ly related to the economic characteristics and the economic risk period. bank deposits and money market funds. Receipts and payments are an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indications of imof the host contract. The company has certain cross border sales presented separately for investing and financing activities, whilst pairment. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is contracts in a currency that is not the functional currency of either Net pension assets in plans with surplus assets are classified as operating activities include both cash and non-cash line items. less than its carrying value, the impairment loss is allocated first to of the parties to the contract. The company has determined that non-current assets. Net pension obligations in plans with a deficit Interest received and paid, and dividends received are reported as reduce the carrying value of goodwill and then to the other assets the currency used in the relevant contracts is a currency frequently and in unfunded plans are classified as non-current liabilities. The part of operating activities. Dividends paid are presented as part of in the cash-generating unit pro rata based on the carrying amount used in contracts related to acquisition or disposal of non-financial net pension cost for the period is split between employee benefit financing activities. of each asset in the unit. The carrying value of individual assets is assets in the economic environment in which the transaction takes expense and net interest expense where the service cost for the penot reduced below nil. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill place, and has therefore not separated a currency derivative. The riod is classified as an employee benefit expense and the net inteLease agreements is not reversed in subsequent periods if the recoverable amount of company is further of the opinion that this would only have been rest expense of the estimated obligation is classified as part of net Lease agreements are classified as finance leases when the terms of the cash-generating unit increases. Any impairment is recognised relevant for contracts with minimum obligations. If a separate curfinancial items. the lease transfers substantially all risks and rewards of ownership as part of impairment in the statement of income. rency derivative had been recognised, this could affect the timing of to the lessee. Other lease arrangements are classified as operating recognition in profit or loss, as a derivative instrument would have For defined contributions plans, the group pays contributions to prileases. The Group has identified only insignificant amounts of finanCash-generating units (CGU) been recognised at fair value through profit or loss. This would not vate, administered insurance plans for pensions on a statutory, conce leases. Lease payments under operating leases are recognised A cash-generating unit (CGU) is the smallest identifiable group of affect cash flows or the final result of the sales contract over the tractual or voluntary basis. The group has no additional obligations on a straight-line basis in profit or loss over the relevant lease term. assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of contract period. after the contributions have been paid. Contributions to defined cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. In order to identify contribution plans are expensed as incurred. LINK arkitektur AB Dividends whether cash inflows from an asset (or a group of assets) are inCash and cash equivalents participate in a defined benefit multi-employer plan that is accoDividends to the company's shareholders are classified as a liability dependent of cash inflows from other assets (or groups of assets), Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank deposits, money market unted for as a defined contribution plan. The company has no early when the dividends proposed have been approved by the Annual management assesses various factors, including how operations funds and other cash equivalents with a maturity of less than three retirement plans. General Meeting. are monitored, e.g. based on serviceor product areas, businesses months at the date of acquisition. Bank deposits include restricted or geographical areas. Each CGU or group of CGUs to which goodfunds if these can be released within three months. Income tax Employee share purchase Programme will has been allocated represent the lowest level in the entity where Assets and liabilities related to current tax payable are measured In 2015, Multiconsult ASA introduced a share purchase programme goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The group Provision for obligations at the amount expected to be received from or paid to the taxation for employees of the group. Through the share purchase programme of CGUs are in all instances no larger than an operating segment as Provisions for obligations such as restructuring, onerous contracts, authorities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated based the company offers employees shares in Multiconsult ASA with a defined in IFRS 8 Operating Segments. project liabilities and legal claims are recognised when the group, as on the liability method, including all temporary differences between discount of 20%. Shares purchased through the programme are a result of a past event, has an existing legal or constructive oblithe carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities in the subject to a two year lock-in period. Based on independent party Financial assets and liabilities gation, it is probable that the group will be required to settle the consolidated financial statements, including losses carried forward. calculations according to an option-pricing model (“Black SchoThe group has financial assets in the category loans and receivaobligation, and the amount can be measured reliably. Provisions are Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the tempoles”), a part of the discount is recognised as employee benefit bles, primarily accounts receivables and other receivables. Loans measured at management's best estimate of the expenditure rerary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill. For inexpense in the statement of income and a part directly to equity. and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed payquired to settle the obligation at the reporting date. The estimate is vestments in subsidiaries, associated companies or joint ventures, The main part of the discount can be related to reduction in value ments that are not quoted in an active market. Such financial assets made based on the actual circumstances related to each individual deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for taxable temporary due to the lock-in period and a loss on an equity transaction. See are initially recognised at fair value with the addition of transaction item. differences when the group is able to control the timing of reversal more details in note 8. costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost applying the of temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary difeffective interest rate method adjusted for impairment. Impairment Provision for project liabilities are measured at the expected cost to ference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Similarly, deferred Standards and interpretation not yet effective is recognised when there are objective indicators that the group will settle the obligation, or a net cost if the company is covered for losses tax assets are only recognised for such investments if it is probable At the time of the issue of these financial statements, the following not receive payment in accordance with the original terms. Specific incurred through an insurance company and it is virtually certain that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future standards and interpretations, which may be relevant for the group, receivables are impaired when management considers that they that the company will receive compensation. and that sufficient taxable income will be available to allow the asset had been issued, but were not yet effective: cannot be collected, fully or partially. The company has some minor to be recovered. investments in shares available for sale. 54 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 55 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective for accounting pethe statement of income. The standard also somewhat changcompany invoices customers continuously for hours worked on the assignments. The assessment of whether revenue has been earned is, in riods commencing on or after 1 January 2018). The group es the definition of when an agreement is or contains a lease. some cases, also performed after the hours have been invoiced, with a reduction of revenues and accounts receivable. In some cases, the does not expect any significant impact of this standard. The accounting requirements for lessors are largely unchanged, assessment has been that the invoiced revenue amounts have been earned, but where a dispute arises over consideration at a later point however a sublease shall be classified as financing or operain time. The most significant portion of allowances for losses on receivables relates to these instances. To the degree that these losses have • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (effective ting lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from been realised in the form of a credit note, revenues have been reduced, instead of recognising the adjustment as a realised loss. Realised for accounting period commencing on or after 1 January 2018, the head lease, rather than by reference to the underlying aslosses in the table below are therefore related to bankruptcies etc. at customers. but the amendments have not yet been approved by the EU). set. IFRS 16 will apply from 1 January 2019, but early adoption This standard establishes revenue recognition guidance in is permitted if IFRS 15 is adopted on or before the same date. one standard. The standard introduces a five-step approThe standard has not yet been approved by the EU. The compaach for analysis of transactions with customers, focusing on ny rents office premises, and it can be expected that assets and transfer of control. There are two methods for recognising liabilities will be recognised in this connection and that another income; at a point in time or over time. Adoption of the stanprofile for recognition and classification in the income statedard may require significant assessments and notes disclosument will be used. If the company has subleases at the time of MATURITIES OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, ACCRUED REVENUES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016 res. The group delivers customised services and solutions to implementation, the classification of such subleases may chanthe customers. A large majority of the contracts are paid by ge. Multiconsult is assessing the effects of IFRS 16 and cannot the customers on ongoing time and materials and the large provide an estimate of the effects of the new lease standard Maturities of receivables that have not been impaired Impaired contracts have successive deliveries. The group's assessment until the group has performed a detailed review. See note 17. is that the introduction of IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018 will not Carrying 0-30 30-60 60-90 result in significant change in the group's revenue recognition. • A number of limited scope amendments and interpretations Amounts in NOK thousand Not due >90 days amount days days days have been issued. These amendments and interpretations have • IFRS 16 Leases will replace the present IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. The been assessed to have no material impact on the group. Accounts receivables 467 450 334 873 60 783 18 014 4 621 14 574 34 584 new standard requires lessees to recognise right-of-use assets and liabilities for all leases, with the exception of some leases Management expects to implement these standards, amendments Work in progress 270 346 270 346 0 0 0 0 0 with lease periods of less than one year or where the underlying and interpretations on the aforementioned effective dates, assuassets are of low value. Depreciation, amortisation and impairOther current receivables 1) 51 428 51 141 0 0 0 287 0 ming that the standards and interpretations have then been adopted ment losses as well as interest expenses must be recognised in by the EU. Other non-current receivables 2) 5 194 5 194 0 0 0 0 0 Allowance for losses on receivables (12 392) 0 0 0 0 0 (12 392) NOTE 3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Total accounts and other receivables 782 025 661 553 60 783 18 014 4 621 14 861 22 192 1) Other current receivables do not include prepayments, which are not considered financial assets. The group's exposure to financial risk is primarily related to credit to a concentration of risk within a small number large customers. 2) Other non-current receivables do not include net pension assets and reimbursement assets. risk, liquidity risk, currency risk and interest risk. The group's penThe largest proportion of the group's customers are Norwegian, sion assets are also exposed to market risk and the present value thus creating a geographical concentration of risk. The company of gross pension liabilities is affected by the discount rate. Refer to has a large number of customers, however relatively few large note 11 for further information. customers. Out of the parent company's individual customers, the five largest individual customers comprised approximately one third MATURITIES OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, ACCRUED REVENUES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2015 Risk management in the group aims to support value creation in the of the parent company's operating revenues in 2016 and 2015, and group and to secure a continuing solid financial platform through vi15 % of accounts receivables as of 31 December 2016 (one third in sibility and strategic management of both financial and operational 2015). The fifteen largest customers comprised about half of operisk factors. Operational risk relates mainly to larger projects, which rating revenues and 30 % of accounts receivables. About half of the Maturities of receivables that have not been impaired Impaired are continuously reviewed by the group management. parent company's operating revenues and accounts receivables arose from public sector customers and public sector entities in NorCarrying 0-30 30-60 60-90 Amounts in NOK thousand Not due >90 days a) Credit risk way and abroad for both years. The parent company's customers, amount days days days Credit risk is the risk that customers are not able to settle their payin addition to the public sector, are mainly industrial companies Accounts receivables 441 563 357 786 35 355 8 935 6 167 16 056 17 264 ment obligations. Credit risk is considered to be a part of business (and other consulting engineers). risk and is reviewed as part of ongoing operations. A large part of Work in progress 192 781 192 781 0 0 0 0 0 the group's activities as of 31 December 2016 are within the parent The group's maximum credit exposure comprises the carrying company, with the sub-group LINK arkitektur as the second largest. amount of receivables and cash and cash equivalents. All current Other current receivables 1) 34 756 34 756 0 0 0 0 0 The company and LINK arkitektur have established procedures for receivables mature within one year. Normal payment terms are credit assessment of customers as well as suppliers. The risk that 30 days after invoicing. Non-current receivables comprise limited Other non-current receivables 2) 5 683 5 683 0 0 0 0 0 customers do not have the financial ability to settle their obligations amounts and have no fixed maturity date. The company assesses is considered to be low. Historically, only minor losses on receivaAllowance for losses on receivables (14 115) 0 0 0 0 0 (14 115) that the risk for recognised accounts receivable and accrued rebles have been realised due to customers experiencing financial venues not being realised relates mainly to disputes regarding conTotal accounts and other receivables 660 669 591 005 35 355 8 935 6 167 16 056 3 148 difficulties. The group's clients are to a large extent public sector sideration and changes in estimates related to progress in projects. or well-established companies. The company has a central credit The company has made estimates regarding these issues, but the policy and, for example, external credit information is obtained for 1) Other current receivables do not include prepayments, which are not considered financial assets. nature of estimates means that changes can occur in either a positi2) Other non-current receivables do not include net pension assets and reimbursement assets. customers of a significant size applying for credit with the company. ve or a negative direction. The company performs individual assessments of accounts receivable over a certain size, with a particular The company has a few large contracts that, to a certain extent, leads focus on those which are more than 90 days overdue. Generally, the 56 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 57 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management CHANGES IN ALLOWANCES FOR LOSSES ON RECEIVABLES DURING THE YEAR ETC In addition, as of 31 December 2016, the company had an undrawn Aarhus arkitekterne A/S was acquired in December 2016. Its intebank overdraft facility of NOK 220 million (2015: NOK 120 million). rest bearing liabilities are finance leases. It also had DKK 10 million The bank overdraft facility is renewed annually. The company had a undrawn bank overdraft facilities at 31 December 2016, with annual Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 NOK 80 million three year revolving credit facility, of which NOK 50 renewals and a right for the banks to cancel with short notice. It had million was drawn at 31 December 2016 (none at 31 December 2015). purchased bank guarantees for the benefit of customers of NOK 4 Opening balance allowance for losses on receivables 14 115 9 754 In March 2017, the revolving credit facility was increased to NOK 95 million as of 31 December 2016. million. The revolving credit facility was established in July 2015. Increase due to businesss combinations 1 550 4 798 LINK arkitektur AS and LINK arkitektur AB has a multi-currency cash As of 31 December 2016, the company had a guarantee facility of pooling system for coordinating the LINK group's liquidity. Under Change in allowances for losses on accounts receivable during the year (3 273) (437) NOK 120 million, of which NOK 81.2 million was drawn (2015: NOK 60 agreement LINK arkitektur AS is the group account holder and has Closing balance allowance for losses on receivables 12 392 14 115 million). The guarantee facility is renewed annually. Separate guadeposits or withdrawals from the external bank, while LINK arkitektur rantees included in the limit may have a term of up to five years. In AB is a participant and has receivables and payables against LINK Realised losses in the event of bankruptcy etc. 999 712 total, this secures the group adequate access to liquidity. arkitektur AS. The cash pooling system includes a credit facility of NOK 17.5 million as of 31 December 2016, of which no amounts were Loss on receivables in the statement of income (2 274) 275 The facilities contain negative pledge and cross default clauses, and drawn. The companies had purchased bank guarantees for of NOK limitations in entering into new loan agreements without the con0.6 million at 31 December 2016. sent of Nordea Bank Norge ASA. It includes a covenant requirement that net interest bearing liabilities (excluding restricted cash) of the Multiconsult Polska has some minor finance lease liabilities, and had group shall not exceed 1.5 times last twelve months EBITDA for the purchased bank guarantees of NOK 17.3 million as of 31 December group. 2016. b) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to settle financial obligations at maturity. Liquidity risk arises if there is no correspondence between The company's subsidiary in the United Kingdom (Multiconsult UK Multiconsult Asia had a short-term negative balance on its bank the cash flows from the business and the financial obligations. Managing liquidity risk is performed through development of liquidity Ltd) has a loan from Nordea UK with a remaining amount of GBP accounts. management strategies, which are operationalised through liquidity budgets and are continuously reviewed. Historically, the group has had 550 thousand (2015: GBP 750 thousand), with a term until May a surplus liquidity and has continuously paid dividends to the owners. The group's cash flows from operating activities in 2016 and 2015 2017 and with a guarantee from the company. Multiconsult UK also The maturities of non-current and current liabilities are disclosed were positive. The operations in Multiconsult are exposed to normal fluctuations that affect the cash flows during the year. The majority of has an uncommitted bank overdraft of GBP 200 thousand and an below. payments relate to employees and sub contractors. uncommitted guarantee limit of GBP 1 million, with a guarantee from the company. As of 31 December 2016, the group had interest bearing cash and cash equivalents less interest bearing debt of NOK 117 million (2015: NOK 223 million). MATURITY INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 31 DECEMBER 2016 INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES 31 DECEMBER Maturity 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand Carrying amount 1 year 2 years > 2 years Total payments Amounts in thousand NOK Currency NOK Currency Currency Interest bearing liabilities 59 470 3 476 54 366 1 628 59 470 Multiconsult ASA 50 000 50 000 0 0 NOK Interest 1) 0 1 882 1 020 21 2 923 Multiconsult UK 5 837 550 9 804 750 GBP Total interest-bearing liabilities incl. Multiconsult Asia 897 150 0 0 SGD 59 470 5 358 55 387 1 650 62 393 Interest Multiconsult Polska 457 222 0 0 PLN 1) Calculated using the interest rate as of 31 December 2016 Aarhus arkitekterne A/S 2 279 1 865 N/A N/A DKK Total interest bearing liabilities 59 470 N/A 9 804 N/A N/A Cash and cash equivalents 175 990 232 954 The group has forward currency contracts with negative fair value of NOK 286 thousand at 31 December 2016 (2015: negative NOK 646 Net interest-bearing cash 116 520 223 150 thousand) with terms to 2019. All other current financial obligations have a maturity within one year. There are no significant restrictions on the company's ability to access or use the group's assets or to settle the group's liabilities. 58 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 59 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management c) Currency risk The company is, to a certain extent, influenced operationally by curThe effect on monetary items from a reasonably possible change in rency fluctuations, mainly relating to revenues from assignments currency rates compared to the separate group entities' functional abroad. The risk relates to the delivery of engineering services from currency would be insignificant as of 31 December 2016 and 2015. Norway to other countries. Several ongoing foreign assignments have agreed rates in currencies other than NOK, mainly EUR and d) Interest rate risk Fair value Other financial USD. When a significant currency risk arises, the risk is assessed seThe group's operating revenues and cash flows from operating through liabilities at Estimated Level in the fair parately, but so far the risks have only been mitigated to a certain activities are to a limited degree directly affected by interest rate Amounts in NOK thousand profit or loss amortised cost Total fair value value hierarchy degree through the use of forward contracts. The group had limited changes. The group's interest risk is related to variable interest on amounts of forward currency contracts as of 31 December 2016 and bank accounts and deposits in addition to variable interest on liabi2015. The Company has, to a limited degree, bank accounts, accolities. The group holds no fixed interest deposits or liabilities, and is LIABILITIES unts receivable and accounts payable in foreign currency. The subtherefore not exposed to fair value interest risk. As of 31 December sidiaries holds monetary items primarily in their functional currency. 2016 (2015), an increase/decrease in interest rates of one percenDerivatives 286 0 286 286 2 Changes in currency rates between NOK and foreign currencies may tage point would result in an annual net interest income/expense influence the company's statement of income and equity. of approximately NOK 1 million (NOK 2 million), calculated on the Interest-bearing liabilities 0 59 471 59 471 59 471 2 amount of net interest-bearing cash. As the group has not held any Accounts payable and other current The group's operations are primarily run in and from Norway. For net interest-bearing liabilities, no policy for managing interest rate 0 637 698 637 698 637 698 N/A liabilities 2) accounting purposes, the group is exposed to currency translation risk has yet been developed. risk related to foreign subsidiaries and associated companies, priTotal liabilities 286 697 169 697 455 697 455 marily PLN, DKK, SEK and GBP. Equity in foreign entities are not e) Categories of financial instruments currency hedged, and currency changes affect the group's equity The group has the following categories of financial instruments: Estimated fair value 286 697 169 697 455 697 455 through other comprehensive income. The different group companies also conduct services abroad, which give rise to currency risk in 1) Prepayments are excluded since this analysis is only required for financial instruments. It also excludes net pension assets and reimbursement assets. the separate engagements. 2) Prepaid revenues and income taxes payable are excluded from accounts payable and other liabilities, since this analysis is only required for financial instruments. It also excludes provisions and net pension liabilities. AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2015 AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016 Available for Loans and Estimated Level in the fair Available for Loans and Estimated Level in the fair Amounts in NOK thousand sale receivables Total fair value value hierarchy Amounts in NOK thousand sale receivables Total fair value value hierarchy ASSETS ASSETS Shares and equity interests 538 0 538 538 3 Shares and equity interests 2 747 0 2 747 2 747 3 Other non-current receivables 0 5 683 5 683 5 683 N/A Other non-current receivables 0 5 194 5 194 5 194 N/A Accounts receivables and other current 0 654 986 654 986 654 986 N/A Accounts receivables and other current receivables 1) 0 776 831 776 831 776 831 N/A receivables 1) Cash and cash equivalents 0 232 954 232 954 232 954 N/A Cash and cash equivalents 0 175 990 175 990 175 990 N/A Total assets 538 893 623 894 161 894 161 Total assets 2 747 958 015 960 762 960 762 Estimated fair value 538 893 623 894 161 894 161 Estimated fair value 2 747 958 015 960 762 960 762 60 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 61 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Fair value Other financial through liabilities at Estimated Level in the fair Business combination in 2016 Amounts in NOK thousand profit or loss amortised cost Total fair value value hierarchy Values at the acquisition date in aarhus arkitekterne Akvator AS LIABILITIES NOK thousand 1) A/S Current receivables and accrued revenues 8 013 48 799 Derivatives 646 0 646 646 2 Interest-bearing liabilities 0 9 804 9 804 9 804 2 Deferred tax assets 858 0 Accounts payable and other current Equity investments 0 2 176 562 547 562 547 562 547 N/A liabilities 2) Property, plant and equipment 1 848 5 330 Total liabilities 646 572 351 572 997 572 997 Other assets 8 3 856 Estimated fair value 646 572 351 572 997 572 997 Cash and cash equivalents 4 120 15 585 1) Prepayments are excluded since this analysis is only required for financial instruments 2) Prepaid revenues and income taxes payable are excluded from accounts payable and other liabilities, since this analysis is only required for financial instruTotal identifiable assets 14 847 75 746 ments Deferred tax 0 11 032 Non-current interest bearing liabilities 2 550 2 279 Fair value estimates and the fair value hierarchy that the carrying amounts approximate fair value. Fair value of deThe group measures fair value based on the following hierarchy that rivatives (forward contracts) are calculated based on the present Other current liabilities 9 030 44 511 reflects the input used in measuring fair value: value of future cash flows, calculated using interest rate curves, curTotal identifiable liabilities 11 580 57 822 rency exchange rates and currency spreads as of the reporting date. Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical Net identifiable assets 3 267 17 923 financial instruments. f) Capital management The group has until now followed up its capital structure by securing Goodwill 21 108 41 667 Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that adequate free liquidity in the form of cash, bank placements and are observable for assets or liabilities, either directly (i.e. as prices) bank overdraft, to be able to continuously service its obligations Total consideration for the shares, paid in cash 24 375 59 590 or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). without significant loan financing, have adequate equity and to have Net cash paid 20 255 44 005 available liquidity to be able to, amongst others, make strategic acLevel 3: Inputs for assets or liabilities that are not based on obserquisitions. vable marked data (unobservable inputs). 1) Pending final information, the purchase price allocations are preliminary. The net carrying amounts of accounts receivables, other receivaPrior to the listing at the Oslo Børs in May 2015, the company paid bles, cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing liabilities and extraordinary dividends to reduce its excess cash. The company has accounts payable are deemed to approximate fair value. Shares and a dividend policy of paying at least 50% of the group's profit after equity interests that are not listed, have a low value and it is assumed tax as annual dividends. On 1 June 2016 Multiconsult ASA acquired 100% of the shares in of 1 October 2016, the company has not data for profit or loss of Akvator AS. The shares were acquired for NOK 24.4 million. IncreAkvator AS since the acquisition in 2016. If the company had been mental external transaction related costs estimated to NOK 1 million owned 100% from 1 January 2016 it would have had an additional have been expensed as part of other operating expenses. Akvator positive impact on net operating revenue of NOK 15.6 million and NET INTEREST-BEARING CASH AND EQUITY AS OF 31 DECEMBER AS is included in the segment Regions Norway. EBIT of negative NOK 1.4 million for the Multiconsult group. Akvator AS is a multidisciplinary consulting engineering company Recognised goodwill of NOK 21.1 million is related to the competence Amounts in NOK thousand except percentages 2016 2015 with a strong presence in Sunnhordaland. The company has a very of the staff. Goodwill is not tax deductible. The purchase price allostrong position on aquaculture in Norway. The acquisition strengthcation related to the transaction is preliminary. Cash and cash equivalents 175 990 232 954 ens Multiconsult's position in the region. With over 50 employees at Stord and 400 employees in total in western Norway, Multiconsult On 12 December 2016, Multiconsult’s subsidiary LINK arkitektur AS Less interest-bearing liabilities (59 470) (9 804) becomes the largest consulting environment between Bergen and acquired 100% of the shares in aarhus arkitekterne A/S. The total Net interest-bearing cash 116 520 223 150 Stavanger. purchase price is NOK 59.6 million (DKK 49.2 million). The acquisition was settled in cash and financed through Multiconsult’s exisEquity 507 520 350 181 Akvator AS had net operating revenues of NOK 34 million in 2015 ting credit facilities. Incremental external transaction related costs with a profit after tax of NOK 1 million. Akvator AS has been consoestimated to NOK 1.8 million have been expensed as part of other Equity ratio group 37 % 27 % lidated from 1 June 2016. The employees of Akvator AS has generaoperating expenses. Aarhus arkitekterne A/S is included in the LINK ted net operating revenues of NOK 19.7 million since the acquisition. segment. Equity ratio parent company 35 % 24 % Because of the merger of Akvator AS with the parent company as 62 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 63 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management Originating back in 1909, aarhus arkitekterne is a well-manaOn 15 September 2015 Multiconsult ASA acquired the remaining LINK reported consolidated operating revenues of NOK 367.7 million The acquisition is a first step towards Multiconsult’s strategic objeged Danish architect company with approximately 90 employees 68% of the shares in LINK arkitektur AS with subsidiaries (LINK). for the full year 2015 (2014: NOK 361.2 million) with a profit after tax ctive of developing a multidisciplinary business in Sweden. working from offices in Aarhus and Copenhagen. Aarhus arkitekterThe shares were acquired for NOK 108.8 million, paid in cash, which of NOK 9.0 million (NOK 14.7 million). In 2015, LINK contributed from ne is a market leader within health buildings in Denmark and has a corresponds to a value of NOK 160 million for 100% of the shares. the acquisition date NOK 127,165 thousand to the Group's operating Iterio AB are engineering consultants with focus on planning and strong track-record within large-scale projects. Aarhus arkitekterne LINK is one of the leading architect offices in Scandinavia, with a revenues and NOK 2,366 thousand to profit before income taxes. construction. They are mainly involved with project and design mais currently engaged in architecture, design, planning and consulting pan-Nordic presence in major cities and regions in Norway, Sweden Had LINK been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the Group's openagement as well as data coordination. Their core expertise is within in all stages, from concept development to construction manageand Denmark. The company has a strong track record on returns, rating revenues would have been approximately NOK 2.778.532 geotechnics, environment and traffic and they have a solid customer ment and technical oversight. driven by steady growth on the basis of a solid financial position. thousand and profit before income taxes would have been approxibase. The company was established in 2011 and employs more than LINK represents an excellent strategic fit for Multiconsult, offering mately NOK 208,191 thousand, excluding any effects from financing 70 engineers across offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmø. The background for the acquisition is to further strengthen LINK the potential for significant value creation through operational syof the cash payment. Iterio AB is a valuable addition and will be a good fit with LINK arkiarkitektur’s architectural competence as well as empower the Multinergies as well as further strengthened value proposition to custotektur’s and Multiconsult group’s existing presence and commitment consult group with expertise within health buildings, urban design mers. Stronger ties and enhanced cooperation will enable MultiBusiness combination in 2017 in Sweden and Scandinavia. and execution of large and complex projects. consult and LINK to jointly meet the growing demand from both the On 7 March 2017, Multiconsult ASA acquired all the shares of Iterio public and private sector for integrated engineering and architect AB for NOK 47 million (SEK 50 million). The acquisition was settled Due to time constraints, no purchase price allocation has been perAarhus arkitekterne has been consolidated from 31 December 2016. consultancy services. At the end of 2015, LINK had 332 employees. in cash and financed through Multiconsult’s existing credit facilitiformed to date. If the company had been owned 100% from 1 January 2016 it would For practical purposes, LINK is consolidated from 1 September 2015. es. Incremental external transaction related costs are estimated have had an additional positive impact on net operating revenue of to NOK 0.5 million, and will be expensed as part of other operating NOK 82.3 million (DKK 66 million) and EBIT of NOK 6.5 million (DKK Recognised goodwill relates to the competence of the employees, expenses in 2017. 5.2 million) for the Multiconsult group. expected synergies and future profits. Goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. Transaction costs related to the acquisition of Recognised goodwill of NOK 41.7 million is related to the compeNOK 628 thousand have been expensed as part of other operating tence of the staff. Goodwill is not tax deductible. The purchase price expenses. allocation related to the transaction is preliminary. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS IN 2015 Values at the acquisition date in LINK Arkitektur NOK thousand group Current receivables and accrued revenues 106 834 Deferred tax assets 3 462 Property, plant and equipment 6 303 Other assets 1 181 Cash and cash equivalents 13 315 Total identifiable assets 131 094 Non-current liabilities 219 Current liabilities 74 606 Total identifiable liabilities 74 825 Net identifiable assets 56 269 Goodwill 103 731 Total consideration for 100% of the shares 160 000 Fair value of the previously held 32% ownership interest 1) 51 200 Consideration paid in cash 108 800 Net cash paid 95 485 1) The previously held 32% ownership interest has been valued at fair value. The increase in value of the previously held interest was recognised as a gain in the consolidated statement of income in the line item Share of profit from associated companies and joint ventures with NOK 15.7 million in 2015. 64 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 65 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 5 SEGMENTS Amounts in NOK thousand The group's business is divided into four segments: 3. Industry Greater Regions InterLINK Not alloElimi4. Environment & Natural resources YEAR 2016 Oslo Area Norway national arkitektur cated 1) nations Total 1. Greater Oslo Area represented by the office in Oslo, the 5. Oil & Gas regions Østfold (Fredrikstad og Moss) and Buskerud/Vestfold/ 6. Transportation & Infrastructure External revenues 1 466 774 1 026 004 104 642 369 580 1 070 2 968 069 Telemark (Drammen, Skien og Tønsberg), 7. LINK arkitektur (architecture). Internal revenues 12 598 35 112 17 409 5 500 (70 619) 2. Regions Norway comprising the regions South (Kristiansand Greater Oslo Area and Regions Norway offer services within the and Grimstad), South West (Stavanger and Egersund), West whole service spectrum without architecture. Total operating revenues 1 479 372 1 026 004 139 754 386 989 6 570 (70 619) 2 968 069 (Bergen), Middle (Trondheim and Steinkjer) and North (Tromsø, Finnmark and Svalbard). International: Multiconsult UK primarily offer services within EnerNet operating revenues 1 197 326 960 560 97 036 346 126 3 573 2 604 621 gy, whilst the company in Poland primarily offers services within the Operating expenses 1 057 524 900 600 84 208 332 015 (102 516) 2 271 832 3. International comprising the companies Multiconsult Polska market areas Transportation, Oil & Gas and Environment & Natural (Poland), Multiconsult UK (England), Multiconsult Asia (Sinresources. Multiconsult Asia and Multiconsult Russia primarily offers EBITDA 139 801 59 960 12 828 14 111 106 089 332 788 gapore) and Multiconsult Russia. services within Oil & Gas. Depreciation, amortisation, impairment 14 675 22 668 1 696 4 166 43 205 4. LINK arkitektur comprising the companies LINK arkitektur AS, Unallocated consists mainly of some unallocated group expenses LINK arkitektur AB, LINK arkitektur aps and aarhus arkitekterand the subsidiary Analyse & Strategi AS, in addition to NOK 107,317 EBIT 125 125 37 292 11 132 9 945 106 089 289 584 ne A/S. Aarhus arkitekterne A/S has been consolidated from thousand gain on settlement of defined pension plan in 2016 and 31 December 2016 and not included in the income statement IPO expenses of NOK 50,662 thousand in 2015. Associates and joint ventures 513 3 539 4 053 in 2016. Expenses for administrative services, rent, depreciation etc. are alSegment Greater Oslo Area, Regions Norway and International are located to the segments. The allocation of expenses is not reported Receivables 2) 324 411 221 657 53 014 152 188 3 312 (18 241) 736 341 organised into geographical divisions and correspond with the interas intercompany revenue and expenses. Assets are not reported innal reporting to the group's chief operating decision maker, the CEO. ternally divided by segments. The information is the same as group # employees 879 793 130 420 122 2 344 Assignments are staffed across segments. Revenues and expenses management uses to allocate resources and evaluate performance. 1) Gain on curtailment of defined benefit pension plan of NOK 107.3 million is included as reduction to operating expenses, not allocated. are reported in a segment based on where the employee is based. The accounting policies for the segments are the same as the poli2) Receivables includes accounts receivables (before provision for loss) and accrued revenues. cies for the group. The group also reports revenues divided by market areas: 1. Buildings & Properties 2. Renewable energy Greater Regions InterLINK Not alloElimiYEAR 2015 Oslo Area Norway national arkitektur 3) cated 1) nations Total External revenues 1 366 755 973 803 68 632 127 165 18 345 2 554 701 Internal revenues 7 192 84 24 191 6 759 5 396 (43 622) 0 Amount in NOK thousand Total operating revenues 1 373 947 973 887 92 823 133 924 23 741 (43 622) 2 554 701 Special items 2016 2015 Segment Net operating revenues 1 132 735 909 456 66 994 117 490 20 993 2 247 668 Curtailment defined benefit pension plan (107 317) Unallocated Operating expenses 943 985 831 710 70 291 114 975 74 005 2 034 966 IPO expenses 50 662 Unallocated EBITDA 188 751 77 746 (3 297) 2 515 (53 012) 212 702 Total special items (107 317) 50 662 Depreciation, amortisation, impairment 12 789 22 319 1 677 830 0 37 616 EBIT 175 962 55 427 (4 975) 1 685 (53 012) 175 086 Associates and joint ventures (63) 2 764 2 561 15 683 20 945 Receivables 2) 294 568 207 572 36 976 99 990 3 428 (8 190) 634 344 # employees 833 756 108 330 120 2 147 1) IPO expenses of NOK 50.7 million recorded as not allocated operating expenses. 2) Receivables includes accounts receivables (before provision for loss) and accrued revenues. 3) Multiconsult ASA acquired LINK arkitektur AS on15 September 2015 and consolidated from 1 September 2015. 66 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 67 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 6 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 The company performs a number of research and development activities. Based on the definition in IFRS, the company has divided the REVENUES PER MARKET AREA activities into the following categories: Buildings & Properties 887 121 789 564 1. Projects with external funding 2. Projects with collaborating partners (i.e. SINTEF), Skattefunn, PhD arrangements Renewable energy 443 329 427 938 3. Activities related to methodology development, process etc. that the company uses to deliver to customers (product and process Industry 226 388 145 660 development), including these activities in group networks Environment & Natural resources 76 504 84 117 Total expenditures for these activities were NOK 17.6 million in 2016 (NOK 16.9 million in 2015), of which NOK 0.8 million was invoiced to customers in 2016 (NOK 1.2 million in 2015). In the income statement, these expenditures have been reduced by government grants (SkatOil & Gas 126 073 184 279 tefunn) of NOK 1.7 million 2016 and NOK 1.3 million in 2015. No development expenditures have been capitalised. Transportation & Infrastructure 839 072 795 978 LINK arkitektur 1) 369 580 127 165 NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Total 2 968 069 2 554 701 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 1) Multiconsult ASA acquired LINK arkitektur AS on15 September 2015 and consolidated from 1 September 2015. Rental expenses (operating lease) 139 005 115 078 Other real estate expenses 27 078 20 107 Consultants 45 778 32 423 IPO expenses related to listing on Oslo Stock Exchange 0 50 662 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Technical equipment 48 249 37 751 REVENUES PER GEOGRAPHY Office expenses, IT 66 797 42 760 The table below shows revenues distributed by geography, based on the customer’s location: Telecommunications services 19 122 16 222 Norway 2 489 482 2 228 280 Travel and per diem allowance 31 636 25 644 Abroad 478 588 326 421 Marketing 17 071 12 186 Total 2 968 069 2 554 701 Losses on receivables (2 274) 275 Customer location is based on the invoice address. Non-current assets (excluding goodwill) are mainly located in Norway. Other 36 764 32 619 Total other operating expenses 430 227 385 726 AUDITOR Percentage 2016 2015 Fees paid to Deloitte AS and affiliated companies 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand Deloitte Other Deloitte Other CUSTOMERS CONTRIBUTING MORE THAN 10 PERCENT OF GROSS REVENUES Statutory audit services 2 342 498 2 717 192 Public sector customer 1 10.7 % 13.1 % Tax advisory services 407 0 696 0 Public sector customer 2 10.0 % 8.3 % Other assurance services 83 0 219 0 These revenues are distributed between the segments Greater Oslo Area, Region Norway and LINK arkitektur. Other non-audit services 359 58 312 494 The amounts above are excluding VAT. Other non-audit services includes assistance related to financial due diligence and tax advisory services includes advice related to employees located abroad. 68 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 69 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 8 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES, NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, REMUNERATION, REMUNERATION FOR KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL LOANS TO EMPLOYEES ETC. 1.1. General guidelines they are offered to purchase shares at a discount of 20% with a twoAmounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Remuneration to the group management shall reflect the responyear lock-in period. sibilities of the CEO and other members of the group management EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES in Multiconsult, considering the complexity of the company, growth 2. Remuneration policy during the accounting year and sustainability. The company’s remuneration strategy is to offer The remuneration policy during 2016 has been based on the princiSalaries 1 511 490 1 274 523 competitive remuneration, but not to be in the forefront. ples described in section 1. above. Social security tax 221 554 187 726 As a basis for determination of the remuneration of the group ma3. Remuneration to the group management nagement, a benchmark was conducted in 2015. A new benchmark Total remuneration to the group management is shown in tables Pension expenses (see note 11) 4 733 100 307 will take place in 2017 to evaluate the value of the respective mabelow. nager’s responsibilities and complexity of their job content. As the Other employee benefit expenses 103 830 86 683 group's main business is conducted in Norway, the reference will be The CEO has an agreement which, in the event that he has to reto the Norwegian market. sign, gives him the right (unless he has shown gross negligence of Total employee benefit expenses 1 841 605 1 649 240 his duties according to laws), to receive salary until he enters a new Number of full time employees during the year 1) 2 144 1 814 Total remuneration to the CEO and other members of the group maposition, maximum 12 months. There are no other agreements for nagement is compounded of a base salary, fringe benefits, perforspecial compensation in the event of resignation, termination or Number of employees as of 31 December 2) 2 344 2 147 mance bonus, share purchase program for employees, pension and change in the employment or position for other leading employees insurance arrangements. or board members. 1) Number of full time employees is calculated as the total number of working hours (including overtime and paid sick leave) divided on normal working hours The bonus programme for 2016 had a payout potential equal to per full time employee for the period. four months base salary to the CEO, and two months for the other 2) The number of employees as of 31 December 2015 has been increased by 37 compared to reported in the annual financial statements for 2015 as a consemembers of the group management based on targets for financial quence of change in definition. margins and relevant KPIs. Number of full time employees during the year includes employees of Akvator from 1 June 2016 and LINK arkitektur from 1 September 2015. Aarhus arkitekterne A/S was acquired in December 2016, and its employees are included only in the number of employees as of 31 December 2016. 1.2. Pension and insurance arrangements Through 2016, Multiconsult ASA had a defined benefit plan and a defined contribution plan. The defined benefit plan was closed to new members in 2006, and was terminated per 31 December 2016. The members of the defined benefit plan where partly compensated for the future estimated difference in benefit between the defined SHARE PURCHASE PROGRAMME AND LOANS TO EMPLOYEES plan and the contribution plan as an addition to monthly salary. The group management members Grethe Bergly, Lars Opsahl and Ola In 2015 Multiconsult ASA introduced an employee share purchase the parent company). NOK 19,211 thousand was paid in cash and the Dalen were compensated in line with the others members of the deprogramme (SPP) for employees of the group. Through the SPP remaining NOK 21,119 thousand as loans granted to the employees, fined benefit plan. the employees are offered to buy shares in Multiconsult ASA at a maximum 3/5 G, NOK 55,545 per employee. The outstanding balandiscount of 20%. Shares purchased through the programme will be ce of loans per 31 December 2016 was NOK 19,359 thousand (NOK The board of directors decided to change the pension plan for the subject to a two year lock-in period. In 2016, the programme took 18,371 thousand for the parent company). The loans are interest CEO for salary above 12G, from an additional cash paid benefit, to be place from mid to end November. 34% (40% for the parent compafree and will be repaid over 12 months as deduction in salary. included in the fixed salary from 1 January 2016. ny) of the employees who passed the criteria to participate in the programme, subscribed for shares. In total the employees bought The discount is partially recognised as an expense for the group, The group management is included in the insurance program as ot481,090 shares (458,200 shares for the parent company). The toand partially recognised to equity, see accounting policies for further employees in Multiconsult ASA, except for the CEO of LINK arkital sales price was NOK 40,330 thousand (NOK 38,411 thousand for her description: tektur who is included in LINK arkitektur’s insurance program. 1.3 Guidelines for share based remuneration The board of directors has decided to implement a share based boAmounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 nus arrangement for the group management, effective for bonus Employee benefit expenses 2 012 1 296 earned in 2016. 75% of the bonus, will be paid in cash and 25% by shares at a 30 % discount and a three-year lock-in period. The toRecognised directly to equity (before tax) 1) 8 072 4 054 tal amount of bonus earned in 2016 for the group management is NOK 997 thousand (excluding any value of the discount and holiday Total discount 10 084 5 350 pay). The group management also has an option to buy additional shares at a 30% discount for an amount equal to 25% of the bonus 1) The amount recognised directly to equity as a discount may deviate from the amount recognised in the statement of equity before tax, attained. These shares can be financed by cash or by loan from Mulif the payments to acquire own shares deviates from the market price for the shares used as basis for calculating the discount. ticonsult ASA. In addition members of group management participate in the There is no unamortised expense remaining related to the shares sold. company's general share purchase program for employees, in which 70 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 71 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management REMUNERATION TO THE GROUP MANAGEMENT 2016 REMUNERATION TO THE GROUP MANAGEMENT 2015 Per 31 December 2016 Per 31 December 2015 CompenOther Other sation Base Salary benefit Bonus Bonus Amounts in NOK Base Salary benefit pension Bonus Bonus PensiAmounts in NOK thousand salary 1) paid 2) paid 2) earned 4) paid 5) Pension 6) Shares 7) Loans 8) thousand salary 1) paid 2) paid 2) paid 3) earned 4) paid 5) on 6) Shares 7) Loans 8) CEO CEO 3 150 000 3 213 764 142 933 372 750 778 050 77 724 48 158 50 916 2 667 600 2 774 996 125 240 269 028 778 050 514 759 76 134 46 554 16 128 Christian Nørgaard Madsen 3) Christian Nørgaard Madsen Other members of the Other members of the group management group management Grethe Bergly 1 639 000 1 591 878 130 604 96 974 112 736 274 365 22 659 50 916 Grethe Bergly 1 560 000 1 541 665 53 399 0 112 736 114 427 267 910 22 659 36 311 Torbjørn Blom-Hagen 10) 1 624 000 1 509 252 150 517 81 200 266 000 75 180 0 0 Torbjørn Blom-Hagen 9) 1 600 000 400 000 16 411 0 266 000 0 18 429 0 0 Ola Dalen 1 417 000 1 364 223 108 360 83 839 95 885 281 017 50 000 0 Ola Dalen 1 382 022 1 439 808 50 756 0 95 885 110 452 155 210 50 000 0 Anne Harris 1 720 000 1 712 833 39 461 101 767 112 471 77 652 8 759 50 916 Anne Harris 10) 1 621 080 1 528 406 11 687 0 112 471 147 031 75 799 8 759 36 311 Øyvind Holtedahl 1 576 000 1 580 668 153 351 55 948 93 951 76 520 6 572 50 916 Øyvind Holtedahl 1 539 000 1 587 060 101 037 0 93 951 114 427 74 966 6 572 21 789 Lars Opsahl 1 509 000 1 492 068 144 215 89 283 97 274 247 845 56 720 50 916 Lars Opsahl 1 430 000 1 406 288 84 731 0 97 274 114 594 224 168 56 720 36 311 Elisabeth M. Stene 1 464 000 1 456 425 76 212 86 620 98 867 80 260 8 492 39 002 Elisabeth M. Stene 1 425 000 1 438 590 27 414 0 98 867 112 177 78 549 8 492 0 Leif Øie 9) 1 750 000 527 772 13 755 28 875 0 40 733 1 104 55 545 Total 13 224 702 12 116 813 470 674 269 028 1 655 234 1 227 867 971 165 199 756 146 849 Total 15 849 000 14 448 882 959 408 997 256 1 655 234 1 231 296 202 464 349 127 1) Annual base salary per 31 December, or per the date of leaving the group management. 2) Salary is amount paid during the year presented, including holiday pay. Other benefit include all other cash and non-cash benefit received during the year and includes taxable parts of; insurance premiums; discount on shares purchased; company car; car allowance; per diem allowance; 1) Annual base salary per 31 December, or per the date of leaving the group management. compensation for work abroad; and telecommunication. 2) Salary is amount paid during the year presented, including holiday pay. Other benefit include all other cash and non-cash benefit received during the 3) Compensation pension paid; the pension arrangement for the CEO for salary above 12 G is an additional benefit paid in cash. year and includes taxable parts of; insurance premiums; discount on shares purchased; company car; car allowance; per diem allowance; compensati4) Bonus earned is an amount earned in the year presented, and normally paid the subsequent year. Holiday pay is paid in the year after the year on for work abroad; and telecommunication. presented. 3) The pension compensation to the CEO for salary above 12 G is from 1 January 2016 included in base salary. 5) Bonus paid is an amount earned (excluding holiday pay) in the year prior to the year presented. For 2014, the CEO renounced the four months' 4) Bonus earned is an amount earned in the year presented (excluding holiday pay), and normally paid the subsequent year. bonus potential and agreed with the board of directors a maximum two months' bonus potential. For Christian N Madsen and Anne Harris it includes 5) Bonus paid is an amount earned (excluding holiday pay) in the year prior to the year presented. extraordinary bonus for successful IPO; NOK 150,000 and NOK 100,000, respectively. 6) Pension: Grethe Bergly, Ola Dalen and Lars Opsahl were members of the defined benefit plan. The other members of the group management are 6) Pension: Grethe Bergly, Ola Dalen and Lars Opsahl are members of the defined benefit plan. The other members of the group management are included in the defined contribution plan. included in the defined contribution plan. 7) Shares owned by the members of the group management with related parties. 7) Shares owned by the members of the group management with related parties. 8) Short term loans for purchase of shares through to the company's share purchase programme, on the same terms as other employees of the 8) Short term loans for purchase of shares through to the company's share purchase programme, on the same terms as other employees of the company. company. 9) Employed in LINK arkitektur AS since 1 January 2016. Deduction for holiday pay for 5 weeks in 2016. Member of Group Management from 1 Septem9) T. Blom-Hagen, employeed and a member of the group management from 1 October 2015. ber 2016. Mr. Øie was part of LINK arkitektur’s pension plan until 31 December 2016. From the 1 January 2017 he will take part in the Multiconsult ASA 10) A. Harris, employeed and a member of the group Management from 1 September 2014. Holiday pay is calculated for 4 weeks in 2014, but deduplan in line with the other members of the group management team. ction for vacation spent is for 5 weeks in 2015. 10) Mr. Torbjørn Blom-Hagen resigned from Multiconsult 31 December 2016. In accordance with the severance pay agreement between Mr.Blom-Hagen and Multiconsult, Mr Blom-Hagen is entitled to retain base salary and company car until 30 June 2017 and base salary thereafter until 31 December 2017. The amount is not included in the table above. 72 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 73 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management 4. Remuneration to the board of directors REMUNERATION PAID TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2015 1) Remuneration to the board of directors consist of payment of board fees in relation to meetings in which they physically participate. The board of directors has no share option arrangements or share based payments. Only employee board members have loans from the Per 31 December 2015 company, and are a part of the company's share purchase program for employees. The board fee is determined by the members' positions. The Board fees are paid in retrospect, for members elected by shareholders twice a Amounts in NOK Function Payment 2) Loans Shares 3) year, and for employee elected board members once a year. For the period from the Annual General Meeting in 2016 to the Annual General Meeting in 2017, the board fee is determined by the Annual General Meeting in 2017. Steinar Mejlænder-Larsen 4) Chair, elected by shareholders 700 000 0 6 410 Total board fees and remuneration paid for the separate board members are shown in the tables below. Nigel Wilson 2) Deputy chair, elected by shareholders 133 000 0 6 410 Arne Fosen Elected by shareholders 133 000 0 3 205 Line Karin Haugen Elected by shareholders 133 000 0 3 846 REMUNERATION PAID TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2016 1) Freddy Holstad Elected by employees 6) 40 000 21 789 24 872 Per 31 December 2016 Elisabeth Lokshall 5) Elected by employees 6) 0 0 100 Kari Medby Loland Elected by employees 6) 40 000 0 134 Amounts in NOK Function Payment 2) Loans 3) Shares 4) Vibeke Strømme Elected by shareholders 133 000 0 2 564 Steinar Mejlænder-Larsen 5) Chair, elected by shareholders 474 000 0 8 004 Total 1 312 000 21 789 47 541 Nigel Wilson 6) Deputy chair, elected by shareholders 380 000 0 6 410 1) Members of the board after the Annual General Meeting in 2015. Arne Fosen Elected by shareholders 207 000 0 3 205 2) Total board fees paid in 2015 was NOK 1,440,000, including fees to board members that retired from the board in 2015 Due to administrative reasons, the board fee to Nigel Wilson was paid in April 2016 instead of December 2015. 3) Shares owned by the members of the board, including shares owned by the related parties. Line Karin Haugen 7) Elected by shareholders 240 333 0 3 846 4) Ordinary board fee is NOK 400,000. In addition it was paid NOK 300,000 as compensation for the work related to owners processes up to the IPO. 5) Elisabeth Lokshall was elected as board member by the Annual General Meeting in 2015. The first payment of fees will be made in May 2016. Freddy Holstad 9) Elected by employees 68 000 0 24 872 6) For employee elected board members, only fees for being a member of the board and any board committees are included. Remuneration as an employee of the company is consequently not included. Elisabeth Lokshall 9) Elected by employees 68 000 0 100 Kari Medby Loland 9) Elected by employees 68 000 0 134 Vibeke Strømme 8) Elected by shareholders 227 000 0 2 564 Ivar Eng 9) Deputy member 20 000 50 916 1 594 Nils Erik Forsen 9) Deputy member 25 000 50 916 54 760 Tove Helene Malvik Deputy member 20 000 0 0 Johan H. Bertnes Deputy member 25 000 0 50 000 Eli Grøttheim 9) Deputy member 35 000 0 40 000 Sum 1 857 333 101 832 195 489 1) Members of the board after the Annual General Meeting in 2016. 2) Total board fees paid in 2016 was NOK 1,857 333, including fees to board members that retired from the board in 2016. 3) Short term loans for purchase of shares through to the company's share purchase program, on the same terms as other employees of the company. 4) Shares owned by the members of the board, including shares owned by the related parties. 5) Includes NOK 26 667 as member of the compensation committee and NOK 33 333 as member of the audit committee 6) Includes NOK 133 000 from 2015 paid in 2016 and NOK 40 000 as member of the audit committee. 7) Includes NOK 33 333 as member of the audit committee. 8) Includes NOK 20 000 as member of the compensation committee. 9) For employee elected board members, only fees for being a member of the board and any board committees are included. Remuneration as an employee of the company is consequently not included. 74 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 75 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 9 FINANCIAL ITEMS NOTE 10 TAXES INCOME TAXES Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 The income tax expense for the year was as follows: FINANCIAL INCOME Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Other interest income 2 357 6 933 Income taxes payable 39 292 55 753 Other financial income 1 724 1 949 Net withholding tax after tax credit 3 248 1 220 Financial income 4 082 8 882 Regulation of previous years' taxes (489) (1 133) Change in deferred taxes 31 354 (6 193) FINANCIAL EXPENSES Effect of change in tax rate 558 (1 892) Other interest expenses 1 485 513 Income tax expense 73 964 47 755 Interest on net pension obligations (see note 11) 4 398 4 857 Other financial expenses 4 103 1 679 RECONCILIATION FROM NOMINAL TO ACTUAL TAX RATE Financial expenses 9 986 7 049 Amounts in NOK thousand (except percentages) 2015 2016 Net financial items (5 905) 1 832 Profit before income taxes 287 732 197 864 Expected income tax based on nominal tax rate in Norway (25% in 2016, 27% in 2015) 71 933 53 423 Tax effect of the following items: Non-deductible expenses 1 209 1 435 Non-taxable income (545) (367) Share of profit from associated companies (801) (5 655) Not recognised/reversal of previously not recognised deferred tax assets (363) 597 Effect of change in tax rate 558 (1 892) Excess tax provided for in prior years (489) (1 133) Net withholding tax after tax credit 3 248 1 220 Other items (including effect of deviation foreign vs. Norwegian tax rate) (785) 125 Income tax expense 73 964 47 754 Effective tax rate 25.7 % 24.1 % DEFERRED TAX IN THE BALANCE SHEET Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Deferred tax asset 25 104 66 722 Deferred tax 11 075 0 Net deferred tax asset in the balance sheet 14 029 66 722 76 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 77 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management SPECIFICATION OF THE TAX EFFECT OF TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES RECONCILIATION OF INCOME TAXES PAYABLE IN THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Amounts in NOK thousand 2015 2016 Amount in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Non-current assets 5 428 5 888 Expensed income taxes payable (39 292) (55 753) Current assets 1 519 6 Prepaid taxes 6 176 2 919 Liabilities and provisions (1 241) 17 492 Income taxes payable from acquisitions 0 (4 180) Pension obligations 1 406 40 485 Income tax on employee share programme recognised in equity 1 953 1 011 Taxable losses carried forward 8 942 5 515 SkatteFUNN (government R&D tax incentive scheme) 1 709 1 326 Deferred tax assets not recognised in the balance sheet (2 025) (2 665) Income tax payable recognised in the statement of financial position (29 454) (54 676) Net deferred tax asset in the balance sheet 14 029 66 722 Due to losses and/or the excemption method, there are no significant temporary differences resulting in deferred taxes on retained earnings in subsidiaries, associated companies or joint ventures. Deferred tax assets are recognised based on expected future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets in Multiconsult UK and LINK arkitektur Aps have not been recognised. RECONCILIATION OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS IN THE BALANCE SHEET REMEASUREMENT OF PENSIONS (DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION) AND RELATED TAX EFFECT Amount in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Amount in NOK thousand Gross Taxes Net Deferred tax assets 1 January 66 722 82 109 31 December 2013 (215 783) 58 261 (157 521) Changes in deferred taxes recognised in the statement of income (31 354) 6 193 Change 2014 (177 749) 47 992 (129 757) Deferred taxes arising from acquisitions (10 072) 3 462 31 December 2014 (393 531) 106 253 (287 278) Effects of changes in tax rate in the statement of income (558) 1 892 Change 2015 87 298 (29 695) 57 603 Deferred taxes included in other comprehensive income 1) (9 471) (29 695) 31 December 2015 (306 233) 76 558 (229 676) Reclassification 2) 0 2 135 Change 2016 37 923 (9 471) 28 452 Currency (1 237) 627 31 December 2016 (268 310) 67 087 (201 224) Deferred tax assets in the balance sheet (net) as of 31 December 14 029 66 722 Income tax benefits on employee share purchase programme has been recognised in equity with NOK 1,011 thousand in 2015 and NOK 1,953 thousand in 1) Change in deferred taxes recognised in other comprehensive income is tax on remeasurement of defined benefit obligations. The amount recognised in 2016, in total NOK 2,964 thousand. 2015 includes the effect of change in tax rate from 27% to 25% in Norway from 2016 on the accumulated remeasurements, including the amount recognised at transition to IFRS. The accumulated remasurement effect is larger than the temporary difference on defined benefit plans in the balance sheet. The difference has reduced the change in deferred tax assets recognised in the statement of income. The tax rate in Norway has been changed from 25% to 24% with effect from 1 January 2017. Deferred tax in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 has been calculated based on 24%. As the company in 2016 decided on a termination and settlement of the defined benefit plan in Norway in Multiconsult ASA, there is no remaining (significant) net pension obligation or temporary difference at 31 December 2016 related to this plan. Consequently, it is no remaining deferred tax asset in the balance sheet related to this plan. The company has evaluated that in such a situation, no effect should be recognised in profit or loss or other comprehensive income for the change in tax rate on the defined benefit obligation. 2) Reclassification in 2015, see note 4. 78 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 79 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 11 PENSIONS PENSION EXPENSES DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN The group's Norwegian companies have established pension plans LINK arkitektur AS was acquired in September 2015. The parent Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 that comply with the requirements in the Act on Mandatory Compacompany LINK arkitektur AS has a defined benefit plan that is clony Pensions. The parent company (Multiconsult ASA) had two sed, and includes 4 active members and 6 retirees as of 31 DecemPresent value of the current year service cost 26 890 31 830 company pension plans up to the end of 2016: a defined contribuber 2016. Other plans in the LINK arkitektur group are plans accotion plan and a defined benefit plan. The group's subsidiaries both unted for as contribution plans. This includes a multiemployer plan in Interest expenses on the pension obligations 23 873 21 065 in Norway and abroad have defined contribution plans, except for a LINK arkitektur AB (ITP 2 plan) which is a defined benefit plan. Interest income on the pension assets (19 348) (16 208) defined benefit plan in LINK arkitektur AS. For 86 employees (86) in Sweden the defined benefit pension Settlement gain 1) (94 044) 0 Multiconsult ASA's defined benefit plan was closed for new members commitments for retirement and family pensions are secured in the in 2006, paid-up policies on risk benefits were closed on 30 June ITP 2 plan through insurance with Alecta. The group has not had Net pension expenses before social security tax (62 630) 36 687 2013, and finally terminated in 2016 (to be paid out in 2017). All the access to information in order to report its proportional share of parent company employees are included in the defined contributithe plan's obligations, plan assets and costs, and is therefore reAccrued social security tax (9 489) 4 280 on plan after the termination. 281 employees were included in the ported as a defined contribution plan. The expected contribution to defined pension benefit plan at the time of termination. The gain on the plan (premium) in 2017 is NOK 5,300 thousand. The premium is Net pension expenses after social security tax (72 119) 40 967 settlement reduced pensions costs by NOK 107.3 million at the end calculated individually and is dependent on factors including salary, of 2016. previously earned pension and expected remaining service period. 1) Net settlement gain including social security tax is NOK 107,317 thousand. The group's share of the total contributions to the plan amounted There were 1,519 active members and 27 retirees in the defined conto 0.04% in 2016 (0.03%). The collective funding ratio is the market tribution plan at the end of 2016, excluding those that will be transvalue of Alecta's assets as a percentage of insurance commitments ferred from the defined benefit plan (2015: 1,370 and 18). Annual calculated according to Alecta's actuarial methods and assumpcontributions to the plan are 5% for contribution basis between 1G tions, which are not consistent with IAS 19. The collective funding EFFECTS FROM REMEASUREMENT OF NET PENSION OBLIGATIONS DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN and 6G, and 8% of the contribution basis between 6G and 12G (G is ratio is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 percent. If a base amount annually approved by the Norwegian parliament and Alecta's collective funding ratio is below 125 percent or exceeds 155 was NOK 92,576 per 31 December 2016). Starting from 1 January percent, action should be taken for consolidation level returning to Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 2017, annual contributions to the Multiconsult ASA plan are 5.55% the normal range. At low funding ratio, measures can be to raise the Effect from change in discount rate 16 365 (71 884) for contribution basis between 1G and 7.1G, and 17.5% of the conagreed price for new and existing contracts. At high funding ratio a tribution basis between 7.1G and 12G. The premium expense for the measure may be to reduce premiums. At the end of 2016, the colleExperience adjustments and changes in other actuarial assumptions for pension obligations (14 955) (12 233) defined contribution plan for 2016 was NOK 62,536 thousand (2015: ctive funding ratio was 148 percent (2015: 153 percent). NOK 55,709 thousand), including social security tax. Experience adjustment plan assets (39 333) (3 180) Social security tax is calculated based on the pension plan's net In addition, Multiconsult ASA has two individual defined benefit financing and included in the gross pension obligations. Pension Total effect from remeasurement of defined benefit obligations (37 923) (87 298) plans that are unfunded, with recognised liabilities of NOK 6,386 expenses include related social security tax. thousand at the end of 2016 (2015: NOK 7,562 thousand). CHANGE IN TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME DURING THE PERIOD GROSS PENSION OBLIGATIONS DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN (INCL. SOCIAL SECURITY TAX) Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Pension expenses retirement defined benefit plan (72 119) 40 967 Gross pensions obligations at the beginning of the period 894 792 925 336 Recognised as financial expenses (note 9) (4 398) (4 857) Pension obligations from acqusitions 0 15 175 Pension expenses defined contribution plan 81 250 64 197 Expenses related to the current year service cost 30 525 36 110 Pension expenses in profit before taxes (note 8) 4 733 100 307 Interest expenses 23 873 21 065 Effect of remeasurement of defined benefit obligations (37 923) (87 298) Settlement (902 852) 0 Pension expenses in total comprehensive income (33 190) 13 009 Social security tax on paid-in premiums (5 300) (525) LINK arkitektur AS was acquired in September 2015, and pension expenses for the LINK Group is included in the profit before tax in 2016 with NOK 17,493 Ordinary payments from the plans (21 134) (18 252) thousand and NOK 5,703 thousand in 2015, primarily for defined contribution plans. Remeasurement of gross pension obligations 1 410 (84 117) Gross pension obligations at the end of the period 21 314 894 792 80 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 81 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management PENSION ASSETS DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE CALCULATIONS ABOVE RELATED TO THE DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN FOR MULTICONSULT ASA: Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Pension assets at the beginning of the period 733 448 713 805 Expected return on pension assets 2.60 % 2.70 % 2.30 % Pension assets from acqusitions 0 14 542 Discount rate 2.60 % 2.70 % 2.30 % Interest income 19 348 16 209 Expected salary regulation 2.00 % 2.00 % 2.25 % Settlement (795 683) 0 Expected G regulation 2.25 % 2.25 % 2.50 % Paid-in premiums incl. social security tax 45 367 4 414 Expected pension regulation 0% 0.70% 0.70 % 0.70 % Social security tax on paid-in premiums (5 300) (525) Demographic assumptions: Ordinary payments from the plans (21 058) (18 177) disability tariff IR02 / KU IR02 / KU KU Remeasurement of pension assets 39 333 3 180 mortality table K2013BE K2013BE K2013BE Pension assets at the end of the period 15 455 733 448 At the time the company committed to the curtailment and settlement of the defined benefit plan in 2016, the net defined pension liability was remeasured using assumptions and data at 31 December 2016. The remeasurement gain recognised as part of other comprehensive income related to this plan was NOK 37.7 million before tax in 2016. The gross liability will be settled in the beginning of 2017 using the already paid in pension premiums, and no further payments to the defined benefit plan above recognised liabilities are expected subsequent FINANCIAL STATUS DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS to 31 December 2016. Amounts in NOK thousand Due to the limit amounts, no further disclosure is provided for defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2016. 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Calculated pension obligations (incl. social security tax) (21 314) (894 792) Pension assets (at market value) 15 455 733 448 Pension obligations in the financial statements (5 859) (161 344) Remaining defined benefit pension plans at 31 December 2016 are two individual unfunded agreements in Multiconsult ASA and a funded plan in LINK arkitektur AS. 82 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 83 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 12 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES AND OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES NOTE 13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand Software Goodwill Acquisition cost 1 January 2015 44 671 151 675 Accounts receivable 467 449 441 563 Additions 7 181 0 Allowance for losses on receivables (12 392) (14 115) Additions from acquisitions 0 101 596 Currency translation differences 22 0 Total accounts receivable 455 057 427 448 Acquisition cost 31 December 2015 51 874 253 271 Work in progress 270 345 192 781 Additions 5 788 0 Additions from acquisitions 225 62 775 Prepaid expenses 31 560 22 379 Currency translation differences (353) (129) Other 51 447 34 756 Disposals 8 0 Acquisition cost 31 December 2016 57 526 315 917 Total other current receivables 353 352 249 916 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 1 January 2015 37 888 80 248 Amortisation for the year 4 666 0 Currency translation differences 17 0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 31 December 2015 42 571 80 248 Amortisation for the year 5 824 0 Currency translation differences (207) (58) Disposals 7 0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 31 December 2016 48 180 80 191 Carrying amount 1 January 2015 6 783 71 427 Additions 7 181 0 Additions from acquisitions 0 101 596 Amortisation and impairment for the year 4 666 0 Currency translation differences 5 0 Carrying amount 31 December 2015 9 304 173 023 Additions 5 788 0 Additions from acquisitions 225 62 775 Amortisation and impairment for the year 5 824 0 Currency translation differences (146) (72) Disposals 0 0 Carrying amount 31 December 2016 9 346 235 727 Software is standard software and licenses that are amortised on a straight-line basis over three years. The group performs an assessment for impairment of goodwill at year end, or more often if there are indicators of impairment. The impairment test is based on identified cash generating units (CGUs) in the group. A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. CGUs are changed if businesses are integrated. CGUs are on a lower level than the segment classification and follows regions or separate companies, given that separate financial information is available. CGUs identified to assess the value of the group's goodwill in 2016 and 2015 are disclosed in the table below. The carrying amounts of these cash generating units include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and allocated goodwill. 84 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 85 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management For most cash generating units, the carrying amount of property, sed on historic achieved margin, but is adjusted for expected future plant and equipment and goodwill is low. In relation to historic and margins in the market. The largest amount of goodwill is related to expected future earnings for these cash generating units, it has LINK arkitektur. In the latest years the EBIT margin of LINK arkitektur been concluded that there is no impairment without performing a has been lower than expected, but an improvement has been made detailed impairment test. in the last part of 2016. In the calculations for LINK arkitektur it has been used different scenarios for the future EBIT margin, and in all The recoverable amount is estimated based on expected value in scenarios it is expected a growth in revenues in the strategy plan use, based on discounted future cash flows. Future cash flows incluperiod. ded in the impairment tests at the end of 2016 are based on Board GOODWILL SPECIFIED PER BUSINESS COMBINATION approved budgets for 2017 and the company's strategy plan for The discount rate in the analysis is set to 7.5% (7.2%) after tax based the subsequent periods. The growth in the forecast period of 2017 on a calculation of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The Amounts in NOK thousand – 2021 is not higher than the long-term expected growth in the same discount rate has been used for all cash generating units since economy in which the company operates. For growth in the terminal the asset beta has been deemed the same in all segments that the Acquisition value after the forecast period, a moderate growth of 1.0% (1.0%) group operates in. The only significant goodwill outside Norway is in Company year Carrying amount Cash generating unit Belongs to segment is used. Denmark following the acquisition of aarhus arkitekterne in December 2016, and in the analysis at 31 December it is not assumed any Kompas AS 2009 2 573 West Regions Norway Reinvestments in property, plant and equipment have been set equcountry specific difference. al to depreciation for the purposes of the analysis. The business is Industriplan AS 2010 0 Oslo Greater Oslo Area not investment heavy, and the basis for maintaining the capacity for The impairment tests have not resulted in any impairment needs for Stensrud AS 2010 1 728 Middle Regions Norway future cash flows mainly lies in the investment in employees, which goodwill or property, plant and equipment related to any of the cash is reflected in the annual forecasted cash flows from operations. generating units. Management has evaluated that a reasonably Hydpro AS 383 Oslo Greater Oslo Area Therefore, EBIT is used as an estimate of cash flows, adjusted for possible change in key assumptions would not give rise to impaircalculated income tax and change in working capital. ment at 31 December 2016. Barlindhaug Consult AS 2011 39 716 North Regions Norway The key assumptions are determined to be the units' ability to deThe company's strategy has been to merge Norwegian subsidiaries Multiconsult Voss AS 2012 2 400 West Regions Norway liver as expected in ongoing contracts, win new contracts and/or into the parent company whenever practically possible and approobtain extensions of existing contracts, and to obtain the billing priate. Therefore, the majority of companies mentioned above do Infratech AS 2013 5 800 Oslo Greater Oslo Area ratios. Furthermore that the prices achieved in the contracts at lenot exist as of 31 December 2016. Refer to note 15 to the parent NTE Energiutvikling 2013 2 113 Middle Regions Norway ast compensate for increased costs, especially employee expenses, company's financial statements for more information on subsidithereby achieving an expected EBIT margin. The EBIT margin is baaries. Multiconsult Stord AS 2013 11 000 West Regions Norway Multiconsult Polska 2014 978 MC Polska International Helge Lindeflaten AS 2014 2 600 West Regions Norway LINK arkitektur AS 2015 103 731 LINK arkitektur LINK arkitektur Carrying amount 31 173 023 December 2015 Akvator AS 2016 21 108 West Regions Norway aarhus arkitekterne A/S 2016 41 596 LINK arkitektur LINK arkitektur Carrying amount 31 235 727 December 2016 86 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 87 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT NOTE 15 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Buildings Other machines, Total property, and other plant, fixtures Leasehold plant and CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CONSIST PRIMARILY OF BANK DEPOSITS AND MONEY MARKET FUNDS/ INTEREST FUNDS. Amounts in NOK thousand real estate and fittings improvements equipment Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Acquisition cost 1 January 2015 5 849 274 270 50 092 330 211 Additions 0 28 443 6 215 34 659 Cash and bank deposits 86 629 145 868 Additions from acquisitions 0 6 303 0 6 303 Currency translation differences 37 782 52 871 Restricted funds 89 362 87 086 Disposals 0 1 792 1 384 3 177 Total cash and cash equivalents 175 990 232 954 Acquisition cost 31 December 2015 5 886 308 005 54 975 368 866 Restricted funds are mainly employee tax deduction funds. In addition it includes restricted funds in projects in Multiconsult Polska of NOK 14,725 thousand Additions 0 27 460 5 485 32 945 (NOK 17,389 thousand at 31 December 2015). Additions from acquisitions 0 6 730 246 6 976 Currency translation differences (48) (1 551) (76) (1 675) Disposals 0 46 485 5 106 51 590 NOTE 16 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND JOINT ARRANGEMENTS Acquisition cost 31 December 2016 5 838 294 160 55 524 355 522 Acc. depreciation and impairment 1 Jan. 2015 3 855 215 803 34 023 253 681 Refer to note 15 of the parent company for an overview of associated companies and joint ventures. Depreciation for the year 161 26 303 6 018 32 463 Impairment for the year 0 468 0 468 Currency translation differences 25 15 29 88 Concorcio Norplan LINK Amounts in NOK thousand FPS SAM SpA Newplan Tanzania Norplan arkitektur Total Disposals 0 1 792 825 2 617 Acc. depreciation and impairment Opening balance 1 January 2015 1 014 32 813 1 992 707 37 646 42 204 4 040 240 797 39 246 284 084 31 December 2015 Investments during the year 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Depreciation for the year 160 30 336 6 884 37 381 Impairment for the year 0 0 0 0 Gain increase of fair value 0 0 0 0 0 15 683 15 683 Currency translation differences (35) (788) (38) (861) Dividends paid in 2015 0 0 0 0 0 (4 690) (4 690) Disposals 0 45 959 5 106 51 065 Share of profit for the year (63) 217 1 034 1 443 70 2 561 5 262 Acc. depreciation and impairment 4 166 224 385 40 986 269 539 31 December 2016 Disposal 0 0 0 0 0 (51 200) (51 200) Carrying amount 1 January 2015 1 994 58 420 16 095 76 510 Closing balance 31 December 2015 951 249 1 847 3 435 777 0 7 258 Additions 0 28 443 6 215 34 659 Additions from acquisitions 0 6 303 0 6 303 Investments during the year 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Depreciation and impairment for the year 161 26 771 6 018 32 950 Dividends paid in 2016 0 0 0 (847) 0 0 (847) Currency translation differences 12 813 (3) 822 Disposal 0 0 560 560 Share of profit for the year 513 1 148 3 340 49 0 4 053 Carrying amount 31 December 2015 1 846 67 208 15 729 84 783 Closing balance 31 December 2016 1 464 250 1 995 5 928 826 0 10 464 Additions 0 27 460 5 485 32 945 Additions from acquisitions 0 6 730 246 6 976 Depreciation and impairment for the year 160 30 336 6 884 37 381 Project partnership joint operations red expenses (for example insurance premiums and travel expenCurrency translation differences (13) (762) (38) (814) The group has for some projects, entered into partnership agreeses). One of the parties is typically appointed project manager with Disposal 0 526 0 526 ments. Some of these have been assessed as joint operations. Parspecific responsibilities in the project group. The participants have ticipants have worked together to deliver a project in cooperation when its’ relevant agreed that they are jointly and separately liable Carrying amount 31 December 2016 1 672 69 774 14 538 85 984 through a common project group. There are no assets in these profor the project deliverables. The main projects that are organised ject groups. Each participant is responsible for delivering the serin this manner that are considered joint operations are Campus Ås Same as vices that they have agreed to deliver, as well as being responsible and Kampflybasen, all in Norway. The group is the project manager, Useful life 10 50 years 3 8 years equivalent assets, for their own expenses and having a right to agreed revenues from and there is no fixed participating share in these operations. None of max leasing period the services the participant performs. Each participant uses their these are considered material for the group. The largest is Campus Depreciation plan Straight-line Straight-line own assets, and there are only limited obligations in the operation, Ås, and contributed to less than 4 percent of the group's revenues except that parts of the fee may be held back to cover common shain 2016 and 2015. There have been no significant changes in depreciation period, depreciation method or estimated residual values in 2016 or 2015. 88 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 89 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 17 LEASING AND OTHER PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS NOTE 18 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Liabilities for operating leases of assets are not recognised in the balance sheet. Future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating lease agreements, excluding costs for services: Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Salaries payable, holiday pay, bonus etc. 207 195 186 002 As of 31 December 2016 Other accrued expenses 20 406 5 954 Property, plant Received prepayments of revenues 96 942 98 734 Amounts in NOK thousand Office premises and equipment Total Other 10 106 5 370 Due within 1 year 138 746 4 991 143 737 Total other current liabilities 334 648 296 060 Due more than 1 year, but within 5 years 449 071 737 449 808 Due more than 5 years 459 170 0 459 170 Payable to sub-contractors and fees has been reclassified to accounts payable. Total 1 046 987 5 727 1 052 714 NOTE 19 PROVISIONS, DISPUTES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The corresponding amounts as of 31 December 2015, but including costs for services: PROJECT RESPONSIBILITY As of 31 December 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Property, plant Amounts in NOK thousand Gross provisions 33 527 41 297 Office premises and equipment Total Due within 1 year 126 595 2 517 129 113 Assets for reimbursement of provisions 22 610 21 600 Due more than 1 year, but within 5 years 425 838 0 425 838 Net provisions 10 917 19 697 Due more than 5 years 543 468 0 543 468 Total 1 095 902 2 517 1 098 419 Project The amounts in the table are not discounted. Amounts in NOK thousand responsibility Other Total Net provisions 1 January 2015 28 385 8 392 36 777 See note 7 Other operating expenses for leasing expenses in 2016 and 2015. Additions 9 005 1 095 10 100 In most agreements, the annual lease payment is index regulated. Future index regulations are not included in the amounts in the tables. Reversals (18 035) 0 (18 035) Several of the agreements contain renewal options. The main part of the lease arrangements are in Norway, and primarily entered into by Utilised (900) (8 245) (9 145) Multiconsult ASA. The second largest lessee is LINK arkitektur AS. Net provisions 31 December 2015 1) 18 455 1 242 19 697 There are no significant restrictions imposed through the leasing arrangements regarding distribution of dividends, obtaining additional debt, entering into additional leasing agreements or other arrangements. Additions 4 250 0 4 250 Reversals (10 316) 0 (10 316) Other significant committed payment obligations Utilised (1 472) (1 242) (2 714) In addition to the minimum lease payments presented in the table as of 31 December 2016, the group has obligation to pay the lessors for other services related to the lease agreements. Net provisions 31 December 2016 1) 10 917 0 10 917 The group does not have any other significant committed minimum payment obligations. The agreements with sub contractors are mainly such that if an assignment is discontinued, then the obligation to purchase services from the sub contractors is also discontinued. In some 1) The date for settlement of project responsibility cases is often outside the group's control and it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of settlement dates. The processes are extensive with negotiations with many parties and often results in long legal processes. agreements, there may be a minimum period during which the group must pay sub contractors if an assignment is discontinued. 90 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 91 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 21 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The group completes a significant number of assignments during provisions should be presented as a separate asset, instead of rea year. Normally, the company enters into an agreement with the ducing the provisions in the balance sheet as previously presented. customer limiting its responsiblities. During the execution of an asThis has affected the balance sheet by increasing the provisions (liThe following shareholders owned one percent or more of the total issued shares in Multiconsult ASA as of 31 December 2016: signment, defects or damages as a result of the deliveries may be abilities) and assets, but the net amount is unchanged. Comparable identified that could lead to claims being made towards the group. figures are restated. The change had no effect on the statement of When it is probable (over 50%) that a claim will result in outflow of income. The reimbursement from the insurance company is directly Number of shares Ownership share economic resources from the group, a provision for the estimated linked to the cases and the actual additions, settlements and reverliability is recognised. The time-period from reporting a case to final sals are estimated and incurred simultaneously. Consequently, the Stiftelsen Multiconsult 4 957 628 18.9 % settlement can take several years. table above present changes in the provisions net of the assets for Obos Bbl 1 774 534 6.8 % reimbursement. The size of the settlement can vary considerably. The provision reStenshagen Invest AS 1 431 521 5.5 % lated to a claim is calculated on the basis of the expected compenClaims from customers for project responsibilities are often dispusation, own risk deductibles, claim amount. As a consequence of the ted by the group. The company performs a thorough review of each Odin Norge 1 064 380 4.1 % inherent uncertainty in both amount and timing of the settlement, claim. Project responsibility cases therefore lead to both recognised the provision is not discounted. provisions and contingent liabilities where no provision has been Swedbank Robur Småbolagsfond 1 000 000 3.8 % recognised because the group has assessed the probability of an The company's insurance coverage for project responsibilities is prioutflow of economic resources from the group to be below 50%. Protector Forsikring ASA 844 042 3.2 % marily based on a collective agreement for engineering consultants. Verdipapirfondet Alfred Berg Gamba 554 501 2.1 % The insurance coverage is standard for such agreements, with an During 2015 and 2016, several claims were resolved without the own risk deductible of NOK 300 thousand per case and normally a company being held responsible for errors and injuries. The compaVerdipapirfondet Alfred Berg Norge 525 855 2.0 % maximum coverage of up to 150 G (approximately NOK 13.9 million ny had a positive trend with a reduced number of claims. This contriat 31 December 2016), except where it is determined gross neglibuted to reversal of previously recognised provisions with a positive Holberg Norden Verdipapirfondet 502 310 1.9 % gence. effect on the statement of income in 2015 and 2016. The largest claim at 31 December 2015 was related to Grønneviksøren and was Verdipapirfondet Pareto Invest 486 187 1.9 % The group has at 31 December 2016 determined that the expected resolved with a reversal of previously recognised provisions of NOK reimbursement from the insurance company related to recognised 6.6 million during 2016. Glover Brian James 365 000 1.4 % Norron Sicav Target 281 998 1.1 % Vj Invest As 277 476 1.1 % Brekke Dan Evert 264 094 1.0 % NOTE 20 GUARANTEES Other 11 919 674 45.4 % Total number of shares 26 249 200 100 % GUARANTEE OBLIGATIONS THAT ARE NOT RECOGNISED IN THE BALANCE SHEET Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Par value is NOK 0.5 per share, subsequent to the 1:10 split resolved capital increases against contributions in cash and contributions Bank guarantee guarantees towards customers 65 366 46 225 by the Annual General Meeting held on 16 April 2015. The number of other than in cash. The authority covers the right to incur special Bank guarantee guarantees for other obligations 35 093 33 783 treasury shares (own shares) at the end of 2016 was 1,998 (2015: obligations for the Company, ref. §10-2 of the Public Limited Liabi18,067 shares). During 2016, the Company purchased 480,330 own lity Companies Act. The authority covers resolutions on mergers in Parent company guarantees for associates and joint ventures 3 600 3 600 shares (see note 22 related parties) and sold 496,399 shares to accordance with §13-5 of the Public Limited Liability Companies Act. employees. All shares that are part of the parent company's share The authority may also be used in take-over situations, ref. §6-17 Parent company guarantees for subsidiaries 24 299 27 451 capital belong to the same share class with the same rights. (2) of the Securities Trading Act. Other 383 266 The company’s articles of association sets forth that no shareholder, The Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2016 authorised the including such shareholder’s close associates, may vote for more Board of Directors pursuant to §9-4 of the Public Limited Liability Total guarantees 128 741 111 324 than 25 per cent of the shares at the general meeting. Companies Act to acquire shares in the Company ( own shares ) on behalf of the Company with an aggregate nominal value of up to 1 Bank guarantees towards customers are related to assignments where the customer demands security for contract responsibilities. The Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2016 authorised the 312 460. If the Company disposes of own shares, this amount shall Bank guarantees for other obligations are mainly guarantees for rent of premises. Board of Directors pursuant to §10-14 (1) of the Public Limited Liabibe increased by an amount equal to the nominal value of the shares lity Companies Act to increase the Company's share capital by up to disposed of. When acquiring own shares the consideration per share Parent company guarantees towards subsidiaries relates to bank loans, guarantee limit for bank overdraft and guarantee limit for Multiconsult UK. NOK 1,312,460 in one or more share issues. The authority may only may not be less than NOK 5 and not exceed NOK 250. The Board The parent company's bank facility agreements with Nordea bank Norge ASA includes a negative pledge clause. For restricted funds, refer to note 15 Cash be used to issue shares as consideration in connection with acquiof Directors determines the methods by which own shares can be and cash equivalents. sitions, to finance acquisitions or to issue shares in connection with acquired or disposed of. incentive schemes for the employees of the Multiconsult group. The shareholders' pre-emptive rights under §10-4 of the Public LimiBoth authorities describe above shall remain in force until the Annuted Liability Companies Act may be set aside. The authority covers al General Meeting in 2017, but in no event later than 30 June 2017. 92 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 93 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 22 RELATED PARTIES NOTE 23 EARNINGS PER SHARE AND DIVIDENDS The Group's related parties are: the 2016 employee share purchase program. The shares were sold In 2016 and 2015, there were no potential dilutive effects on earnings that are attributable to owners of Multiconsult ASA or on the number at NOK 104.80 per share, being equivalent to the average volume of shares. Basic and diluted earnings per share are therefore the same. The number of shares has been adjusted for treasury shares. The Key management personnel, close members of the family of a perweighted share price in the week prior to the subscription period for Annual General Meeting held on 16 April 2015 resolved a 1:10 split of the shares. The number of shares used in the per share calculations son and entities that are controlled or jointly controlled by any of the employee share purchase program. Multiconsult has recognised are retrospectively adjusted for this split. these. Key management personnel are defined as the Board of Direvenues from sales to Stiftelsen Multiconsult of NOK 2,615 thorectors and the group management. See note 8 Employee beneusand in 2016 (NOK 2,047thousand in 2015), and had receivables fits expenses for information on remuneration for key management of NOK 1,163 thousand as of 31 December 2016 (NOK 2 thousand as personnel and information on share ownership. There were no other of 31 December 2015). transactions with key management personnel in 2016 and 2015. EARNINGS PER SHARE 2016 2015 The company and its subsidiaries are also considered related parOwners with significant influence. Stiftelsen Multiconsult had an owties. Transactions and balances are eliminated in the consolidated Profit after tax attributable to owners of Multiconsult ASA (NOK thousand) 213 768 150 109 nership share of 20.5% at 31 December 2015, which was reduced to financial statements and are not disclosed in this note for the group. 18.9% at 31 December 2016. The company's assessment is that StifRefer also to note 19 for the parent company. Weighted average number of shares (excl. treasury shares) 26 241 979 26 186 588 telsen Multiconsult has significant influence. On 30 November 2016, Stiftelsen Multiconsult sold 480,330 shares in Multiconsult ASA to The group's joint ventures and associated companies. Refer to note Earnings per share 8.15 5.73 the Company in accordance with an agreement entered into on 22 16 Associated companies and joint arrangements for more informaJune 2016. The sale of shares was undertaken to provide shares for tion on these related parties. DIVIDENDS PER SHARE Dividends paid to owners of Multiconsult ASA (NOK thousand) 1) 76 123 275 617 Number of outstanding shares, including treasury shares 26 249 200 26 249 200 TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES WITH JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Dividends per share 2.90 10.50 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Dividends proposed after 31 December 2016 (NOK thousand) 2) 78 748 Revenues 26 099 25 881 Dividends proposed after 31 December 2016 (per share) 2) 3.00 Expenses 5 281 12 608 Dividends and distributions received 847 4 690 1) Dividends paid in 2015 consisted of an ordinary dividend of NOK 83,997 thousand (NOK 3.20 per share) and an extraordinary dividend prior to the listing of the shares of NOK 191,619 thousand (NOK 7.30 per share). 2) Dividends to be adopted by the Annual General Meeting in May 2017 Receivables 12 510 9 476 Liabilities 152 182 Guarantees provided 3 600 3 600 Bank guarantees 500 500 NOTE 24 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD On 7 March 2017, the company announced that it had acquired the engineering consulting company Iterio AB (Sweden), see note 4. Link arkitektur AS was an associate and included in the table for the first 8 months of 2015. In March 2017, the company increased the revolving credit facility from NOK 80 million to NOK 95 million. After the reporting period ended on 31 December 2016 and up to the date these financial statements have been approved for issue, no other events have been identified that require disclosure. 94 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 95 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management AUDITORS’ REPORT 96 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 97 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management 98 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 99 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management PHOTO: INGER HAGEBERG 100 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 101 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management ANNUAL ACCOUNTS PARENT COMPANY Statement of income 104 Statement of comprehensive income 105 Balance sheet 106 Statement of cash flows 108 Statement of changes in equity 109 Notes to the financial statements 110 Note 1 General information 110 Note 18 Non-current receivables, shares, 127 provisions and reimbursement assets Note 2 Basis for preparation 110 Note 19 Related parties 128 Note 3 Financial risk management 111 Note 20 Events after the reporting period 128 Note 4 Operating revenues for the parent 112 company Declaration in accordance with § 5-5 of the 129 securities trading act Note 5 Research and development 112 Note 6 Employee benefits expenses, number 112 of employees, remuneration, loans to employees, pensions etc. Note 7 Other operating expenses 113 Note 8 Financial items 114 Note 9 Pensions 114 Note 10 Income taxes 118 Note 11 Accounts receivable and other current 120 receivables Note 12 Intangible assets and goodwill 121 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 123 Note 14 Cash and cash equivalents and 124 guarantees Note 15 Subsidiaries, associated companies, 125 joint ventures Note 16 Leasing and other payment obligations 126 Note 17 Other current liabilities 127 102 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 103 103 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management STATEMENT OF INCOME MULTICONSULT ASA STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Amounts in NOK thousand Note 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand Note 2016 2015 Profit for the period 201 498 138 450 OPERATING REVENUES AND EXPENSES Other comprehensive income Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations 9 38 301 85 917 Operating revenues 4 2 486 731 2 336 743 Income taxes 10 (9 575) (29 350) Expenses for sub contractors and disbursements 345 370 304 677 Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 28 726 56 567 Net operating revenues 2 141 362 2 032 066 Total comprehensive income for the period 230 224 195 017 Employee benefits expenses 6, 9 1 488 807 1 473 535 Other operating expenses 7 349 716 346 442 Operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1 838 523 1 819 977 Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment (EBITDA) 302 839 212 088 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 12, 13 37 120 35 026 Operating profit (EBIT) 265 718 177 062 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Financial income 8 12 288 13 724 Financial expenses 8 7 969 6 164 Net financial items 4 320 7 560 Profit before income taxes 270 038 184 622 Income tax expenses 10 68 540 46 172 Profit for the period 201 498 138 450 104 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management BALANCE SHEET MULTICONSULT ASA Amounts in NOK thousand Note 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Amounts in NOK thousand Note 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Equity Total paid-in equity 26 444 26 436 ASSETS Other equity 380 906 231 622 Non-current assets Total equity 407 350 258 057 Deferred tax assets 10 12 041 53 182 Intangible assets 12 8 245 8 310 Non-current liabilities Goodwill 12 89 202 55 014 Property, plant and equipment 13 71 367 73 923 Pension obligations 9 6 386 161 941 Total non-current non-financial assets 180 856 190 430 Provisions 18 31 395 40 055 IInvestments in subsidiaries 15 185 799 197 318 Non-current interest bearing liabilities 50 000 0 Investments in associates and joint ventures 15 3 297 3 297 Assets for reimbursement of provisions 18 22 610 21 600 Total non-current liabilities 87 781 201 996 Other non-current financial assets 18 75 289 9 924 Current liab ilities Total non-current financial assets 286 995 232 139 Accounts payable 114 484 123 123 Total non-current assets 467 851 422 569 Current tax liabilities 10 26 877 49 659 Current assets Public duties payable 209 780 193 219 Receivables Accounts receivable 11 357 949 358 293 Dividends payable 78 748 76 123 Work in progress 11 181 220 130 028 Other current receivables 11 65 803 47 441 Other current liabilities 17 223 329 190 989 Total current liabilities 653 217 633 112 Total receivables 604 972 535 762 Total liabilities 740 997 835 108 Cash and cash equivalents 14 75 524 134 834 Total equity and liabilities 1 148 347 1 093 165 Total current assets 680 496 670 596 TOTAL ASSETS 1 148 347 1 093 165 The Board and CEO of Multiconsult ASA Oslo, 19 April 2017 Steinar Mejlænder–Larsen Nigel Wilson Göran Carlson Line Karin Haugen Chair of the board Deputy chair Director Director Arne Fosen Vibeke Strømme Kari Medby Loland Elisabeth Lokshall Director Director Director Director Christian Nørgaard Madsen Chief Executive Officer 106 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS MULTICONSULT ASA STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY MULTICONSULT ASA Amount in NOK thousand Share Treasury Share Total paidRetained RemeasureTotal Note 2016 2015 + are cash increasing and are cash reducing effects Amounts in NOK thousand capital shares premium in equity earnings ment pensions equity CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 31 December 2014 13 125 0 13 320 26 445 593 159 (287 278) 332 326 Treasury shares 0 (9) 0 (9) (1 750) 0 (1 759) Profit before income taxes 270 038 184 622 Merger reserve 0 0 0 0 1 883 0 1 883 Income taxes paid during the period (52 467) (55 091) Employee share purchase 0 0 0 0 (1 668) 0 (1 668) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 12,13 37 120 35 026 programme (net of tax) Pension expenses with no cash effect (109 678) 34 778 Dividend declared 0 0 0 0 (267 742) 0 (267 742) Changes in accounts receivable and other receivables (45 899) 10 370 Total comprehensive income 0 0 0 0 138 450 56 567 195 017 for the period Changes in accounts payable (25 328) 8 237 31 December 2015 13 125 (9) 13 320 26 436 462 332 (230 711) 258 057 Changes in provisions and current liabilities (49 661) (28 307) Treasury shares 8 8 1 542 1 550 Net cash flows from operating activities 24 125 189 635 Merger reserve 0 2 211 2 211 Employee share purchase pro0 (5 944) (5 944) CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES gramme (net of tax) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and eqiupment and shares 509 680 Dividend declared 0 (78 748) (78 748) Payments on acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (33 109) (36 585) Total comprehensive income for 0 201 498 28 726 230 224 the period Proceeds/payments related to equity accounted investments 31 December 2016 13 125 (1) 13 320 26 444 582 891 (201 985) 407 350 Cash effect of mergers 7 394 See note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for information about treasury shares and employee share purchase programme. Cash effect of acqusition of shares (24 375) (97 582) Net cash flows from investing activities (49 581) (133 487) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Purchase treasury shares (50 339) (25 797) Sale treasury shares 42 607 8 608 Dividends paid (76 123) (275 617) Proceeds from borrowings 50 000 0 Net cash flows from financing activites (33 855) (292 806) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (59 310) (236 658) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 14 134 834 371 492 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 14 75 524 134 834 108 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As of 31 December 2016, the company had drawn NOK 50 million on a credit facility of NOK 220 million (2015: undrawn NOK 120 milmillion in 2015). The company has recognised allowances for losses on accounts receivables of NOK 6.9 million as of 31 December 2016 lion credit facility) and an additional revolving credit facility of NOK and NOK 9.4 million as of 31 December 2015. This is based on in80 million for three years in Nordea Bank Norge ASA, as decribed dividual assessments of larger receivables past their due date. The in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, basis for the allowances is normally not related to the customers' 2016 and 2015 the company also had a guarantee facility of NOK ability to pay, but due to fee discussions. Accounts receivables that NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION 120 million, of which NOK 81.2 million was drawn (NOK 60 million). have been credited during the year have been recognised as revenue reductions and not as operating expenses. The carrying amount of the company's financial instruments is a The company is the parent in the Multiconsult ASA group. A large of the consolidated financial statements can be obtained from the reasonable approximation to fair value. The company's credit risk is See the note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additiopart of the activities of the group are conducted by the parent company's head office in Nedre Skøyen vei 2, 0276 Oslo. considered limited. nal information on financial risks. company. Consequently, the information provided in the consolidated financial statements covers the company to a significant These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors Realised losses on accounts receivables due to customer payment degree. Please refer to the consolidated financial statements for on 19 April 2017 for adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 11 difficulties have been limited (NOK 0.9 million in 2016 and NOK 0.7 the group for a description of the company and its activities. A copy May 2017. NOTE 2 BASIS FOR PREPARATION NOTE 4 OPERATING REVENUES FOR THE PARENT COMPANY The group prepares the consolidated financial statements in accorThis is because this is a common control transaction. Comparative dance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted figures are not restated. Disclosure requirements are in accordance Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 by the EU (IFRS) and the Norwegian Accounting Act. References to with the requirements in the Norwegian Accounting Act with additiIFRS in these financial statements mean IFRS as adopted by the ons as specified in the regulation for simplified IFRS. Presentation of PER SEGMENT EU. The company prepares the company financial statements in the primary financial statements is similar to the group. Options in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and regulation for the regulation for simplified IFRS that have not been applied are not simplified application of International Financial Reporting Stanrelevant to the company. The option in the regulation for simplified Greater Oslo area 1 479 372 1 373 947 dards (simplified IFRS). IFRS which the company has utilised in recognition and measureRegions Norway 1 013 511 953 580 ment and which differ from the consolidated financial statements The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost are: International 593 23 basis, except for derivatives and pension assets that are measured at fair value, and pension obligations that are measured at present Dividends and group contribution Not allocated/eliminations (6 745) 9 193 value. The company financial statements are presented in NorDividends and group contributions are recognised in accordance wegian kroner (NOK), which is also the functional currency of the with the Accounting Act, which entails that dividends and group Total operating revenues 2 486 731 2 336 743 company. Amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand, unless contributions are recognised in the reporting period to which they stated otherwise. As a result of such rounding differences, amounts relate. and percentages may not add up to the total. PER BUSINESS AREA Investment in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint Principles for recognition and measurement are in accordance with ventures Buildings & Properties 893 145 771 482 IFRS and the policies are applied as described in the consolidated Investment in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint venturfinancial statements, except as specified in the regulation for simes are recognised using the cost method. In accordance with the Renewable energy 415 624 419 799 plified IFRS. Furthermore, merger of subsidiaries are based on the cost method, the investment is recognised at historical cost less any Industry 214 407 146 107 carrying values of the group, and the difference between the carryimpairment. Dividends and group contributions are recognised as ing value of shares before the merger and the net assets related to financial income. Group contributions to subsidiaries are recognised Environment & Natural resources 65 318 69 380 the merged subsidiary is recognised as a merger reserve in equity. as part of cost of investment. Oil & Gas 88 744 162 559 Transportation & Infrastructure 809 49 767 417 NOTE 3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Total operating revenues 2 486 731 2 336 743 GEOGRAPHICAL PER CUSTOMER LOCATION The company's exposure to and management of financial risk is priThe company mainly holds receivables and financial liabilities memarily the same as disclosed for the group, and is not repeated in asured at amortised cost. The company also holds some currency this note. Refer to note 3 in the consolidated financial statements. derivatives that are financial liabilities at fair value through profit Norway 2 267 075 2 132 694 or loss. The derivatives are disclosed in notes to the consolidated Outside Norway 219 656 204 049 The company holds no financial assets recognised at fair value financial statements. through profit or loss or held-to-maturity investments, and very liTotal operating revenues 2 486 731 2 336 743 mited amounts for financial assets available for sale. 110 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 5 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES The Group's research and development activities are performed in the parent company, and are described in the note to the consolidated financial statements. The expected total earnings from ongoing research and development is assumed to correspond to total accrued Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 expenses. Rental expenses (operating lease) 117 822 103 629 Other real estate expenses 18 528 14 655 NOTE 6 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES, NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, REMUNERATION, LOANS TO IPO expenses related to listing on Oslo Stock Exchange 0 50 662 EMPLOYEES, PENSIONS ETC. Consultants 39 787 28 813 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES Technical equipment 42 744 36 460 Office expenses, IT 57 323 38 483 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Telecommunications services 15 223 14 228 Salaries 1 238 045 1 142 228 Travel and per diem allowance 25 269 22 784 Social security tax 173 125 159 914 Marketing 13 043 10 955 Pension expenses (14 526) 91 669 Losses on receivables (1 799) 452 Other employee benefit expenses 92 163 79 720 Other 21 776 25 321 Total employee benefit expenses 1 488 807 1 473 532 Total other operating expenses 349 716 346 442 Number of full time employees during the year 1) 1 677 1 572 Number of employees as of 31 December 2) 1 784 1 683 1) Number of full time employees is calculated as the total number of working hours (including overtime and paid sick leave) divided on normal working hours AUDITOR per full time employee for the period. Compensation to Deloitte AS 2) The number of employees as of 31 December 2015 has been increased by 44 compared to reported in the annual financial statements for 2015 as a consequence of change in definition. Refer to note 8 in the consolidated financial statements for information on remuneration and share ownership related to group management and the Board Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 of Directors, share purchase programme and loans to employees. Statutory audit services 2 032 2 346 Tax advisory services 407 632 Other assurance services 57 219 EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PROGRAMME Other non-audit services 359 246 Total 2 856 3 442 40% of the employees, who passed the criteria to participate in the program, signed up for 458,200 shares in the 2016 employee share purchase programme. The amounts above are excluding VAT. Other non-audit services includes assistance related to financial due diligence and tax advisory services includes advice related to employees located abroad. Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Employee benefit expenses 1 778 1 197 Recognised directly to equity (before tax) 1) 7 826 3 744 Total discount 9 604 4 941 1) The amount recognised directly to equity as a discount may deviate from the amount recognised in the statement of equity before tax, if the payments to acquire own shares deviates from the market price for the shares used as basis for calculating the discount. Employees have been granted loans (maximum 3/5 G, NOK 56 thousand) for the remaining payment for the shares, with outstanding balance at 31 December 2016 of NOK 18,371 thousand (NOK 11,158 thousand at 31 December 2015). 112 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 113 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 8 FINANCIAL ITEMS CHANGE IN TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME DURING THE PERIOD Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Pension expenses defined benefit plans (see below) (72 681) 40 817 FINANCIAL INCOME Recognised as financial expenses (note 8) (4 381) (4 857) Pension expenses defined contribution plans 62 536 55 709 Interest income from Group companies 236 116 Pension expenses in profit before taxes (note 6) (14 526) 91 669 Other interest income 1 269 6 132 Effect of remeasurement of defined benefit obligations (38 302) (85 917) Other financial income 586 1 102 Pension expenses in total comprehensive income (52 828) 5 752 Gains on derivatives 360 42 Dividends 9 837 6 331 Financial income 12 288 13 724 PENSION EXPENSES DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS FINANCIAL EXPENSES Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Other interest expenses 1 076 152 Present value of the current year service cost 26 405 31 680 Interest on net pension obligations 4 381 4 857 Interest expenses on pension obligations 23 525 21 065 Other financial expenses 2 511 1 155 Interest income on pension assets (19 018) (16 208) Financial expenses 7 968 6 164 Settlement gain (94 045) 0 Net financial items 4 320 7 560 Net pension expenses before social security tax (63 132) 36 537 Accrued social security tax (9 549) 4 280 Net pension expenses including social security tax (72 681) 40 817 NOTE 9 PENSIONS Multiconsult ASA has established pension plans that comply with Multiconsult ASA's defined benefit plan was settled at the end the requirements in the Act on Mandatory company pensions. Up of 2016 with paid-up policies to be issued in 2017. All the parent REMEASUREMENT EFFECTS ON NET DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS to the end of 2016, the company had primarily two pension plans, a company employees are now included in the defined contribution defined contribution plan and a defined benefit plan. plan. Before settlement of the plan in 2016, 280 employees were included in the defined pension benefit plan. The settlement resulAmounts in NOK thousand 2 016 2 015 There were 1519 active members and 27 retirees in the defined conted in a reduction to pensions costs of NOK 107.3 million at the end tribution plan at the end of 2016, excluding those that will be transof 2016. Effect from change in discount rate 16 560 (70 504) ferred from the defined benefit plan. Annual contributions to the plan are 5% for contribution basis between 1G and 6G, and 8% of the Social security tax is calculated based on the pension plan's net Experience adjustments on pension obligations (15 703) (12 233) contribution basis between 6G and 12G. G is a base amount annually financing and included in the gross pension obligations. Pension Effect on plan assets from change in actuarial assumptions (39 159) (3 180) approved by the Norwegian parliament, and was NOK 92,576 per 31 expenses include related social security tax. December 2016. Starting from 1 January 2017, annual contributions Total remeasurement effects on net defined benefit obligations (38 302) (85 917) to the plan are 5.55% for contribution basis between 1G and 7.1G, and 17.5% of the contribution basis between 7.1G and 12G. 114 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management GROSS PENSION OBLIGATIONS DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (INCL. SOCIAL SECURITY TAX) FINANCIAL STATUS DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Gross pension obligations at the beginning of the period 880 846 925 336 Calculated pension obligations (incl. social security tax) (6 386) (880 846) Expenses related to the current year service cost 30 128 35 960 Pension assets (at market value) 0 718 905 Interest expenses 23 525 21 065 Net pension obligations including social security tax (6 386) (161 941) Settlement (902 852) 0 Social security tax on paid-in premiums (5 193) (525) Ordinary payments from the plans (20 926) (18 252) Remaining defined benefit pension plans at 31 December 2016 are two individual unfunded agreements. Remeasurement of gross pension obligations 857 (82 737) See note to the consolidated financial statement for assumptions used to calculate gross pension obligations, including the effect of remeGross pension obligations at the end of the period 6 386 880 846 asurement of the pension obligations, and the pension expenses in the statement of income. At the time the company committed to the settlement of the defined benefit plan in 2016, the net defined pension liability was remeasured using assumptions and data at 31 December 2016. The remeasurement gain recognised as part of other comprehensive income related to this plan was NOK 37.6 million before tax in 2016. The gross liability will be settled in the beginning of 2017 using the already paid in pension premiums, and no further payments to the defined benefit plan above recognised liabilities are expected subsequent to 31 December 2016. PENSION ASSETS DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN Due to the limit amounts, no further disclosure is provided for defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2016. Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Pension assets at the beginning of the period 718 905 713 805 Interest income 19 018 16 209 Settlement (795 535) 0 Paid-in premiums 44 496 4 414 Social security tax on paid-in premiums (5 193) (525) Ordinary payments from the plans (20 850) (18 177) Remeasurement of pension assets 39 159 3 180 Pension assets at the end of the period 0 718 905 116 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES SPECIFICATION OF THE TAX EFFECT OF TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES: Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 THE INCOME TAX EXPENSES IN THE STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE YEAR ARE AS FOLLOWS: Non-current assets 5 814 5 732 Current assets 2 666 2 121 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Liabilities and provisions 2 107 4 845 Income taxes payable 33 270 55 714 Defined benefit obligations 1 454 40 485 Paid withholding taxes 3 168 800 Deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) in the balance sheet 12 041 53 182 Regulation of previous years' income taxes (519) (1 136) Changes in deferred taxes 32 119 (7 308) Deferred tax assets are recognised based on expectation of future taxable profit. Effects from changes in tax rate 502 (1 898) Income tax expenses 68 540 46 172 RECONCILIATION OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS IN THE BALANCE SHEET Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets 1 January 53 182 73 327 RECONCILIATION FROM NOMINAL TO ACTUAL TAX RATE: Effect of merger 1 054 0 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Change in deferred taxes recognised in the income statement (32 119) 7 308 Profit before income taxes 270 038 184 622 Effect of changes in tax rate (502) 1 898 Expected income tax expenses based on nominal tax rate in Norway (25%/27%) 67 510 49 848 Change in deferred taxes recognised in other comprehensive income 1) (9 575) (29 350) Tax effect of the following items: Deferred tax assets in the balance sheet (net) as of 31 December 12 041 53 182 Non-deductible expenses 657 622 1) Change in deferred taxes recognised in other comprehensive income is tax on remeasurement of defined benefit obligations. The amount recognised in 2015 includes the effect of change in tax rate from 27% to 25% in Norway from 2016 on the accumulated remeasurements, including the amount recognised Non-taxable income (393) (367) at transition to IFRS. The accumulated remasurement effect is larger than the temporary difference on defined benefit plans in the balance sheet. The difference has reduced the change in deferred tax assets recognised in the statement of income. Paid withholding taxes 3 168 800 The tax rate in Norway has been changed from 25% to 24% with effect from 1 January 2017. Deferred tax in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 has been Dividends received, not taxable (2 386) (1 697) calculated based on 24%. As the company in 2016 decided on a termination and settlement of the defined benefit plan in Norway in Multiconsult ASA, there is no significant remaining net pension obligation, temporary difference or deferred tax asset in the balance sheet related to this plan at 31 December 2016. The company has evaluated that in such a situation, no effect should be recognised in other comprehensive income for the change in tax rate on the defined Effect of change in tax rate 1) 502 (1 898) benefit obligation. Regulation of previous years' income taxes (519) (1 136) The accumulated deferred tax benefit recognised on remeasurement of defined benefit obligations through other comprehensive income is NOK 67,329 thousand per 31 December 2016 (NOK 76,904 thousand). Income tax expenses 68 540 46 172 Accumulated current tax benefits of NOK 2,964 thousand has recognised to equity related to the employee share purchase programme. Effective tax rate 25.4 % 25.0 % 118 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 119 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management RECONCILIATION OF INCOME TAXES PAYABLE IN THE BALANCE SHEET NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Amounts in NOK thousand Software Goodwill Expensed income taxes payable (33 270) (55 714) Acquisition cost 1 January 2015 43 884 131 962 Prepaid taxes 2 541 2 733 Additions 6 016 0 Tax on group contribution provided 327 985 Additions from mergers and acquisition 0 2 700 Income tax on employee share purchase programme recognised in equity 1 953 1 011 Acquisition cost 31 December 2015 49 900 134 662 SkatteFUNN (government R&D tax incentive scheme) 1 571 1 326 Additions 4 930 0 Income taxes payable in the balance sheet (26 877) (49 659) Additions from mergers and acquisition 225 34 188 Acquisition cost 31 December 2016 55 055 168 850 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 1 January 2015 37 406 79 648 NOTE 11 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES AND OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES Amortisation for the year 4 184 0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 31 December 2015 41 590 79 648 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Amortisation for the year 5 220 0 Accounts receivables 364 847 367 687 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 31 December 2016 46 810 79 648 Allowance for losses (6 898) (9 394) Carrying amount 1 January 2015 6 478 52 314 Total accounts receivable 357 949 358 293 Additions 6 016 0 Work in progress 181 220 130 028 Additions from mergers and acquisition 0 2 700 Prepaid expenses 21 853 17 479 Amortisation and impairment for the year 4 184 0 Other 29 962 29 962 Carrying amount 31 December 2015 8 310 55 014 Total other current receivables 269 633 177 469 Additions 4 930 0 Additions from mergers and acquisition 225 34 188 Amortisation and impairment for the year 5 220 0 Carrying amount 31 December 2016 8 245 89 202 Software is standard software and licenses that are amortised on a straight-line basis over 3 years. Goodwill is not amortised, but assessed annually for impairment, or more often if there are indicators of impairment. Refer to the note to the consolidated financial statements for more information. 120 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management GOODWILL SPECIFIED PER BUSINESS COMBINATION NOTE 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Amounts in NOK thousand Other Total Company Acquisition year Carrying amount Cash generating unit Buildings machines, Leasehold property, and other plant, fixtures improveplant and Kompas AS 2009 2 573 West Amounts in NOK thousand real estate and fittings ments equipment Industriplan AS 2010 0 Oslo Acquisition cost 1 January 2015 5 649 269 879 49 732 325 260 Additions 0 24 699 6 215 30 915 Stensrud AS 2010 1 728 Middle Additions from mergers and acquisitions 0 258 0 258 Hydpro AS 2011 383 Oslo Disposal 0 1 792 1 384 3 177 Barlindhaug Consult AS 2011 39 716 North Acquisition cost 31 December 2015 5 649 293 044 54 563 353 255 Infratech AS 2013 5 800 Oslo Additions 22 688 5 485 NTE Energiutvikling 2013 2 113 Middle Additions from mergers and acquisitions 1 429 246 Multiconsult Voss 2015 2 400 West Disposal 45 001 5 106 Acquisition cost 31 December 2016 5 649 272 159 55 188 353 255 Rambøll, Narvik 2015 300 North Acc. depreciation and impairment 1 Jan. 2015 3 855 213 324 33 930 251 109 Carrying amount 31 December 2015 55 014 Depreciation for the year 110 24 323 5 941 30 374 Akvator AS 2016 21 108 West Impairment for the year 0 468 0 468 Multiconsult Stord AS 2013 13 080 MC Stord Disposal 0 1 792 825 2 617 Carrying amount 31 December 2016 89 202 Acc. depreciation and impairment 31 December 2015 3 964 236 323 39 047 279 334 Depreciation for the year 110 24 975 6 816 31 901 The company's strategy has been to merge Norwegian subsidiaries into the parent company when practically possible and appropriate. Thus, all the companies Impairment for the year 0 mentioned above are merged into Multiconsult ASA. See note 15 for more information. Disposal 44 499 5 106 49 605 Acc. depreciation and impairment 31 December 2016 4 074 216 799 40 757 261 630 Carrying amount 1 January 2015 1 794 56 555 15 802 74 151 Additions 0 24 699 6 215 30 915 Additions from mergers and acqusitions 0 258 0 258 Depreciation and impairment for the year 110 24 791 5 941 30 842 Disposal 0 0 560 560 Carrying amount 31 December 2015 1 685 56 721 15 517 73 923 Additions 22 688 5 485 28 173 Additions from mergers and acqusitions 1 429 246 1 675 Depreciation and impairment for the year 110 24 975 6 816 31 901 Disposal 502 502 Carrying amount 31 December 2016 1 575 55 361 14 432 71 368 Same as Useful lives 10 50 years 3 8 years equivalent assets, max Depreciation plan Straight-line Straight-line leasing period There have been no significant changes in depreciation period, depreciation method or estimated residual values in 2016 or 2015. 122 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 123 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 14 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND GUARANTEES NOTE 15 SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, JOINT VENTURES SUBSIDIARIES At 31 December 2016 Carrying amount 31 December Acquisition Business Voting OwnerAmounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 date office share ship share 2016 2015 Cash and bank deposits 8 891 73 414 LINK arkitektur AS 2015 Oslo, Norway 100 % 100 % 147 645 147 645 Bank deposits employee tax deduction obligations 66 633 61 420 Multiconsult Stord AS 1) 2013 Stord, Norway N/A N/A N/A 12 500 Total cash and cash equivalents 75 524 134 834 Multiconsult UK Ltd 2) 2012 London, UK 100 % 100 % 3 937 3 937 Multiconsult Asia Pte.Ltd 2013 Singapore 100 % 100 % 933 933 Analyse & Strategi AS 2010 Oslo, Norway 100 % 100 % 4 499 3 518 Multiconsult Polska Z.O.O. 2014 Warzawa, Poland 100 % 100 % 28 641 28 641 GUARANTEE OBLIGATIONS NOT RECOGNISED IN THE BALANCE SHEET LLC Multiconsult Rus 2009 Russia 100 % 100 % 145 145 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Total subsidiaries 185 799 197 318 Bank guarantee guarantees towards customers 47 405 26 276 Bank guarantee guarantees for other obligations 33 783 33 783 SUBSIDIARIES OWNED Parent company guarantees for associates and joint ventures 3 600 3 600 BY SUBSIDIARIES Acquisition Business Voting Ownership Parent company guarantees for subsidiaries 24 299 27 451 date office share share Other 383 266 LINK arkitektur AB 3) 2008 Stockholm, Sweden 100 % 100 % Total guarantees 109 469 91 375 Copenhagen, LINK arkitektur Aps 3) 2013 100 % 100 % Denmark Bank guarantees towards customers are related to assignments where the customer demands security for contract responsibilities. Bank guarantees for aarhus arkitekterne AS 3) 2016 Aarhus, Denmark 100 % 100 % other obligations are mainly guarantees for rent of premises. Parent company guarantees for subsidiaries relates to bank loans, guarantee limit for bank overdraft and guarantee limit for Multiconsult UK Ltd. The change from 2015 to 2016 is currency effect. The company's bank facility agreements with Nordea 1) Previously Vest Consult AS and merged into Multiconsult ASA on 1 January 2016 Refer to the Group's note 4 Business combinations. Bank Norge ASA includes a negative pledge clause. 2) Previously Norplan Hydropower Ltd There are no significant restrictions on the company's ability to 3) Subsidiaries of LINK arkitektur AS gain access to or use the group's assets and settle the group's obligations ASSOCIATED COMPANIES At 31 December 2016 Carrying amount AND JOINT VENTURES 31 December Acquisition Business Voting Ownerdate office share ship share 2016 2015 Norplan AS 1) 2003 Oslo 50.0 % 50.0 % 598 598 Norplan Tanzania Ltd 2013 Tanzania 49.0 % 49.0 % 2 050 2 050 Newplan Ltd 2013 Uganda 40.0 % 40.0 % 250 250 Consorcio SAM SpA 2014 Chile 27.5 % 27.5 % 32 32 FPS AS 2013 Oslo 36.0 % 36.0 % 367 367 Total associated companies and joint ventures 3 297 3 297 1) Norplan AS is a joint venture, the others are associated companies. 124 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 125 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 16 LEASING AND OTHER PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS NOTE 17 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Liabilities for operating leases of assets are not recognised in the balance sheet. Future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating lease agreements, excluding costs for services as of 31 December 2016: Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 Salaries payable, vacation pay, bonus, earnings distribution etc. 176 546 159 778 As of 31 December 2016 Other accrued expenses 17 908 5 177 Office Property, plant Received prepayment of revenues 23 923 19 709 Amounts in NOK thousand premises and equipment Total Other 4 951 6 325 Due within 1 year 115 376 4 345 119 721 Total other current liabilities 1) 223 329 190 989 Due more than 1 year, but within 5 years 366 698 366 698 1) Owed to sub consultants has been reclassified to accounts payable. Due more than 5 years 409 468 409 468 Total 891 542 4 345 895 887 NOTE 18 NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES, SHARES, PROVISIONS AND REIMBURSEMENT ASSETS The same table as of 31 December 2015, but including costs for services: Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 As of 31 December 2015 Office Property, plant Shares 538 533 Amounts in NOK thousand premises and equipment Total Loans to subsidiaries 70 460 3 820 Due within 1 year 122 092 2 517 124 609 Other non-current receivables 4 291 5 571 Due more than 1 year, but within 5 years 412 069 0 412 069 Total other non-current receivables 75 289 9 924 Due more than 5 years 543 468 0 543 468 Total 1 077 629 2 517 1 080 146 Amounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 The amounts in the table are not discounted. Net provisions for project responsibilities 1 January 1) 18 455 28 385 See note 7 Other operating expenses for leasing expenses in 2016 and 2015. Lease of office premises mainly relates to the company's Additions during the year 1 450 9 005 premises in Norway. In most agreements, the annual lease payment is index regulated. Future index regulations are not included in the amounts in the tables. Reversal of provisions 1) (9 720) (18 035) There are no significant restrictions imposed through the leasing arrangements regarding distribution of dividends, obtaining additional Utilised provisions during the year (1 400) (900) debt, entering into additional leasing agreements or other arrangements. Net provisions for project responsibilities 31 December 8 785 18 455 Other significant committed payment obligations Assets for reimbursement of provisions 22 610 21 600 In addition to the minimum lease payments presented in the table as of 31 December 2016, the group has obligation to pay the lessors for other services related to the lease agreements. Gross provisions for project responsibilities 31 December 31 395 40 055 The company does not have any other significant committed minimum payment obligations. The agreements with sub contractors are mainly such that if an assignment is discontinued, then the obligations to purchase services from the sub contractors are also disconti1) The provision as of 1 January has been increased by NOK 6.6 million due to a reclassification. This amount was nued. In some agreements there may be a minimum period during which the Group must pay sub contractors if an assignment should be originally classified as a reduction to work in progress, and relates to a dispute and a legal process regarding discontinued. Grønneviksøren which was finalised and settled between the parties during 2016. In 2016, the NOK 6.6 million had a positive effect on the statement of income, included in the amount for reversal of provisions in the table above. Refer to note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of provisions for project responsibilities. 126 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 127 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management NOTE 19 RELATED PARTIES The Company's related parties are the same as mentioned in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, in addition to the company's subsidiaries. Refer to note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for information on transactions with and remuneration to key management personnel and note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for owners with significant influence. Refer to the note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for details on transactions with joint ventures and associated companies. TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES WITH SUBSIDIARIES DECLARATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH § 5-5 OF THE SECURITIES TRADING ACT Receivables Liabilities Purchases Sales Guarantees We confirm that the financial statements for 2016 have, to the best of our knowledge, been prepared in accordance with applicable accoAmounts in NOK thousand 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 unting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the group as a whole. The Board of Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Multiconsult Stord AS 1) N/A 1 945 N/A 86 N/A 84 N/A 467 N/A 0 company and the group as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. Multiconsult UK Ltd 2) 3 297 501 7 067 367 27 300 17 228 1 102 43 24 299 27 451 Multiconsult Asia Pte Ltd 7 731 2 115 0 2 812 2 347 5 820 0 0 0 0 The Board and CEO of Multiconsult ASA LINK arkitektur AS 3) 62 803 3 517 4 607 2 844 26 522 6 759 9 680 4 282 0 0 Oslo, 19 April 2017 Analyse & Strategi AS 12 954 2 264 4 578 5 500 5 396 1 816 1 566 0 0 Multiconsult Polska 0 71 2 227 561 5 465 1 143 0 834 0 0 Total 73 843 9 103 16 165 11 248 67 134 36 430 12 598 7 192 24 299 27 451 1) Previously Vest Consult AS, merged into Multiconsult ASA on 1 Steinar Mejlænder–Larsen Nigel Wilson Göran Carlson Line Karin Haugen January 2016. Chair of the board Deputy chair Director Director 2) Previously Norplan Hydropower Ltd. Change in guarantee amount is currency effect. 3) On 15 September 2015 Multiconsult ASA acquired the remaining 68 % of the shares in LINK arktitektur AS. Arne Fosen Vibeke Strømme Kari Medby Loland Elisabeth Lokshall Director Director Director Director Akvator AS was acquired on 1 June 2016, and merged into Multiconsult ASA with effect on 1 October 2016, and no related party transactions are presented in the table. In addition to the amounts in the table above, Multiconsult ASA received dividends of NOK 8,990 thousand from LINK arkitektur AS in 2016 Christian Nørgaard Madsen and NOK 1,641 thousand from Multiconsult Polska in 2015. Multiconsult ASA decided to distribute group contribution to Analyse & Stategi for Chief Executive Officer the accounting year 2016 of NOK 1,307 thousand (NOK 3,648 thousand). Purchases of shares in the companies from external parties are not included, since that is not considered related party transactions. NOTE 20 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD On 7 March 2017, the company announced that it had acquired the engineering consulting company Iterio AB (Sweden), see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. In March 2017, the company increased the revolving credit facility from NOK 80 million to NOK 95 million. After the reporting period ended on 31 December 2016 and to the date these financial statements have been approved for issue, no other events have been identified that require disclosure. 128 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 129 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management AUDITORS’ REPORT 130 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 131 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management 132 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 133 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management 134 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 135 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management Board and management MANAGEMENT BOARD CHRISTIAN NØRGAARD MADSEN ANNE HARRIS ØYVIND HOLTEDAHL STEINAR MEJLÆNDER-LARSEN NIGEL WILSON VIBEKE STRØMME CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EVP EVP CHAIR OF THE BOARD DEPUTY CHAIR DIRECTOR CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER MARKET, STRATEGY & INNOVATION ELISABETH M. STENE OLA DALEN LARS OPSAHL KARI MEDBY LOLAND LINE KARIN HAUGEN ARNE FOSEN EVP EVP EVP DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR HR & ORGANISATIONAL CORPORATE PROJECTS REGIONS NORWAY DEVELOPMENT GRETHE BERGLY LEIF ØIE BO GÖRAN CARLSON ELISABETH LOKSHALL EVP EVP DIRECTOR DIRECTOR GREATER OSLO AREA ARCHITECTURE 136 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 137 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management PROJECT: SÖDER HOSPITAL 138 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 139 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management PHOTO: JO GAUTE FORNES PROJECT: HÅHAMMEREN BRIDGE AND PATHWAY 140 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 141 Key events and figures Letter from CEO Directors’ report Annual Statement on Corporate governance Group accounts Notes to the group accounts Annual accounts for the parent company Notes to parent company accounts Board and management LONGYEARBYEN VADSØ KIRKENES ALTA TROMSØ SORTLAND NARVIK BODØ PROJECT: HURTIGRUTEN MUSEUM AND MO I RANA PROJECT: SKARVEN RESIDENTIAL AREA PROTECTIVE BUILDING FOR FINNMARKEN SANDNESSJØEN PHOTO: VIDAR MOLØKKEN / MULTILUX ASN INTERNATIONAL OFFICES STEINKJER SWEDEN DENMARK TRONDHEIM UNITED KINGDOM POLAND SINGAPORE ÅLESUND TANZANIA UGANDA CHILE VOSS BERGEN STORD VØYENENGA OSLO (HEAD OFFICE) DRAMMEN SKI MOSS TØNSBERG SARPSBORG STAVANGER SKIEN FREDRIKSTAD EGERSUND GRIMSTAD KRISTIANSAND PROJECT: ST. MARIE PLACE PROJECT: DEVOLL HYDROPOWER PLANT 142 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MULTICONSULT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 143 Design: www.bly.as Photo front page: PHOTO: Vidar Moløkken / Multilux ASn Project: E18 Gulli Langåker Nedre Skøyen vei 2, 0276 Oslo multiconsult@multiconsult.no P O Box 265 Skøyen, 0213 Oslo www.multiconsultgroup.com Telephone 21 58 50 00 Org no 910 253 158 Fax 21 58 50 01
