U.N. Global Compact Communication On Progress Steelcase 2017 Promise + Progress 2 016 C O R P O R AT E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Our Vision People are at the heart of everything we do and everything we create. Those same values drive our approach to sustainability. We believe we can deliver meaningful, lasting economic, environmental, and social change through the choices we make and the behaviors and actions that we demonstrate. 2 016 S T E E L C A S E C O R P O R AT E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 4 Welcome from Jim Keane 6 Our Sustainability Promise 8 Targets + Performance CUSTOMERS 12 End-of-Use Strategies 15 Sustainable Procurement Strategies 16 People + Purpose PA R T N E R S E M P L OY E E S 20 Suppliers 36 Diversity + Inclusion 22 Dealers 38 Employee Wellbeing 40 Learning + Development COMMUNITIES 42 Workplace Health + Safety 26 Social Investment 33 Employee Impacts ENVIRONMENT 50 Innovative Products + Solutions 53 Transportation + Packaging 54 Energy 57 Water Conservation 58 Waste Reduction O U R S E LV E S 60 Governance Promise + Progress Steelcase 3 4 Steelcase Promise + Progress We’ve been in business for over 100 years. A few years ago, In all instances, senior leaders were available to coach, we made a fundamental shift in the way we run Steelcase. We encourage, nurture and defend the ideas. And the ideas were realized to be resilient, to last another 100 years, we needed to certainly part of delivering on Steelcase’s strategy—but they distribute decision making more broadly. weren’t top-down initiatives. For us, leadership is about creating an organization, context Employees around the company are continuing to advance and culture that rewards people for making decisions and taking and prepare ourselves for the future. We’re pushing ourselves risks. These elements are critical to sustainability and clearing to think differently through the lens of creating a more circular the path for innovation. economy. Looking beyond operations to new ways to transform our business models will drive growth and deliver more value to One may think if not pushed from the top, sustainability our stakeholders. initiatives could lose momentum. I’m delighted we found the opposite is true, even with some of the biggest decisions Our purpose is to unlock human promise. What we learned over we’ve faced. the years is our sustainability progress accelerates when we take these words to heart. I’m proud of what we accomplished Here are few highlights of those initiatives: and, in particular, of the employees who showed us what is really possible. • Strengthened our 100% renewable energy portfolio by executing a 12-year virtual power purchase agreement When the ideas come from everywhere and everyone sees (VPPA) for 25 megawatts of wind power from Southern it as their job, we unleash the true potential of sustainable Company subsidiary Southern Power’s Grant Plains business innovation. Wind Facility Thanks for taking a look at our 2016 Corporate • Expanded our end-of-use services—helping customers with Sustainability Report. their own sustainability goals and diverting millions of tons of furniture from the landfill • Doubled volunteering to over 38,000 hours of people making a difference in their communities Jim Keane • Drove down our VOCs, water and waste, making progress President+ CEO on our ambitious 2020 goals while concurrently expanding global production Promise + Progress Steelcase 5 Our Sustainability Promise True progress takes continuous and coordinated efforts to create the economic, environmental and social conditions that allow people and communities to thrive. We have strong beliefs that guide us, and we’re putting our beliefs into action. O U R C O R P O R AT E VA L U E S O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y B E L I E F S As we work to create meaningful, lasting change, we’re We believe: putting our values to work. Every day around the globe—from Michigan to Malaysia, Dongguan to Cluj, Munich to Pune— • Businesses, communities and people are inextricably our values frame our beliefs and inform our actions: linked and more powerful when they act from a core of shared interests. • Act with integrity • Tell the truth • We have an opportunity to use our assets and influence • Keep commitments to create significant, positive change in the world. By fully • Treat people with dignity and respect leveraging our assets to this end, we will become an ever • Promote positive relationships stronger partner and an increasingly fit company. • Protect the environment • Excel • When you tell the truth, you become part of the solution. We work hard to be transparent and authentic with others and, perhaps more importantly, with ourselves. • Sustainability is a lens for innovation and economic fitness, contributing to the overall financial wellbeing of our company. • People are at the center of sustainability; we begin and end our product, service and application efforts with a commitment to human-centered design and sustainability. • There is no greater design challenge than sustainability. It demands systems-level design thinking in all aspects of our business. 6 Steelcase Promise + Progress We’ve been on a quest to understand sustainability and what it means to our stakeholders, now and in the future. E N G AG I N G W I T H S TA K E H O L D E R S AC T I N G O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y We’ve set our sights high as we think about what it means to We’re tackling the global challenges of sustainability to create holistic value as a globally integrated company operating achieve our vision of strong economic, social and in a globally connected world. We’ve been on a quest to environmental systems—through the products we create, understand the potential of sustainability through the eyes of the way we operate, and the investments we make. our stakeholders, now and in the future. • Strengthening sustainable development in our global We have: operations and those of our supplier partners, including a focus on environmental and human health, social • Embarked on a company-wide corporate, social and responsibility and economic prosperity. environmental responsibility diagnostic. • Working to ensure that our operations protect the • Surveyed our customers and studied their inquiries to environment and health of our employees, neighbors understand their corporate priorities relating to sustainability. and customers through actions that conserve resources, reduce waste and promote a closed loop system. • Identified sustainability aspects material to our business to help us advance our social and environmental performance • Investing in education to increase stakeholder and to align with the expectations of our many stakeholders, employee engagement. shareholders and partners. • Engaging with suppliers, dealers, customers, researchers • Partnered with leading organizations to understand and and environmental agencies to share and distribute best explore emerging issues and opportunities­—as broad as practices and discover new ideas. circular economy and as critical as advanced materials. • Empowered employees through education and partnerships to understand their role in advancing the mission and goals of our company—as well as those of our partners, customers and communities. Promise + Progress Steelcase 7 Targets + Performance Across our global footprint, we’re measuring our progress against our sustainability goals. We strive to enhance our reporting and refine our metrics, using our progress to inspire change and drive our performance. E M P L OY E E R E T E N T I O N VOLUNTEER HOURS 86.1% FY2016 GENDER DISTRIBUTION 38,913 32% Female Male 68% Volunteering at West Michigan Center for Arts and Technology (WMCAT) 8 Steelcase Promise + Progress P R O G R E S S T O WA R D S E N V I R O N M E N TA L G OA L S Since 2010 R E N E WA B L E E N E R GY 0% reduction G O A L 25% reduction by the end of CY2020 Energy Use Reduction 9.5% 100% VOC Emissions Reduction 75% Waste Output Reduction 44% Investment in wind and Water Use Reduction 9% hydroelectric renewable energy credits (RECs) GOAL EXCEEDED M O N E TA R Y + I N K I N D D O N AT I O N S STOCK PERFORMANCE ($ DOLL ARS) FY2016 $4.2 Million S&P 500 Stock Index Peer Group Steelcase Steelcase Foundation 250 $1.7 Million Steelcase Inc. 200 GROSS MARGIN FY2016 150 100 $3.1 Billion 31.7% margin 50 NET INCOME FY2016 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 $170.3 Million Promise + Progress Steelcase 9 Customers The more we know, the more we expect. That’s true of our company, and it’s equally true of our customers. With access to more information than ever, knowledge around opportunities and issues keeps expanding—and the criteria do, too. Our customers rely on us to provide solutions backed by innovation and research, helping them to achieve their business goals. More often than not, those goals include sustainability initiatives that are integral to their organization’s brand equity, growth and success. 10 Steelcase Promise + Progress Promise + Progress Steelcase 11 CUSTOMERS End-of-Use Strategies Performance. It’s a word we hear often from customers focused on a workplace strategy that includes end-of-use options. They realize any formula for product performance must acknowledge the importance of responsible alternatives to landfills. F E AT U R E D I M A G E S From manufacturing through end-of-use options, we help our customers meet their sustainability goals. Eco’Services assisted a multinational catering company in France as they relocated their operations, recycling over 40% of their furniture assets. 12 Steelcase Promise + Progress 30,600 m3 This year, Eco’Services alone handled 30,600 cubic meters of materials—including 8,300 work stations—which equates to enough furniture to completely fill eight Olympicsized swimming pools. Promise + Progress Steelcase 13 Over one-third of Steelcase clients now specifically request end-ofuse services to help them remain good stewards of resources. $2.3 Million That means acting purposefully to divert used materials for charitable reuse, resale and recycling. So it’s not surprising that our customers are interested in our In 2015, Performance Management options for rerouting tons of waste from landfills, and directing it toward solutions executed more than 1,300 requests that benefit them, the environment and next-generation furniture users. for decommissioning furniture, helping organizations save more A Suite of Services than $2.3 million through reuse of In addition to our existing programs and services, we’re developing strategies existing furniture assets. to support our customers’ asset redeployment needs as we explore and innovate toward a circular economy. Additionally, 6.4 million pounds of furniture was diverted from landfills ECO’SERVICES PHASE 2 through recycling, charitable reuse In France, Belgium, Switzerland and Our North American program helps and resale activities. Luxembourg, we offer complete customers assess furniture inventory end-of-use services. Providing and create redeployment plans that process management expertise and include options for resale, charitable an extensive network of providers, reuse, or recycling, depending on Eco’Services helps assess building age and condition of the assets— assets like furniture so they can be all with a “zero landfill” goal. resold, donated or transported to licensed recycling organizations that REMARKET™ manage material recovery. ReMarket gives customers who lease furniture the option of returning the items P E R F O R M A N C E M A N AG E M E N T at the end of the lease. These assets Our Performance Management team are then offered to our North American serves large organizations with multiple dealer network for resale. It allows select locations, developing a strategic customers to get high-quality furniture at approach to managing complex affordable prices and is one more way facility needs. For more than 20 years, we help give valuable assets new life. Performance Management has applied this same method to help clients with decommissioning solutions for reuse, recycling and broker options. 14 Steelcase Promise + Progress CUSTOMERS | E N D O F U S E S T R AT E G I E S CUSTOMERS Sustainable Procurement Strategies We understand that when customers Similarly, the WELL Building Standard purchase our solutions, they’re expecting has been a growing influencer in the our help in meeting their sustainability new and existing building market. Its 271 goals. That’s why we create strong focus on factors around the wellbeing of partnerships with our customers to better people aligns strongly with Steelcase’s In 2015, Steelcase generated understand their objectives, and with purpose and principles. Our furniture and 271 environmental metrics our suppliers to deliver materials that workspace design insights can contribute reports for over 130 clients support human and environmental health. in the WELL concepts of: across 18 industries. Insight and innovation springs from those relationships, creating healthier • Air work environments and delivering results • Light 225+ customers expect. • Fitness • Comfort Product Environmental Design for the Environment • Mind Profiles available. Specific Our design approach begins with closedproduct environmental profile loop thinking. We strive to measure the E N V I R O N M E N TA L M E T R I C S R E P O R T S information can be found on impacts of our options at every step— By providing customized metric reports our website in the Resource from design, manufacture, delivery, use for customers, we deliver the information Center, and by request. and reuse, recycling and end-of-use. they need to assess their past furniture Whether we’re dissecting the chemical choices and make informed decisions profiles of materials and components about future purchases. We collect, we use or offering turnkey solutions for measure and share environmental furnishings that are no longer needed, impacts, as well as provide detailed we’re making careful choices that amplify reporting on sustainability certifications, performance and extend the lifespan of recycled content, material makeup and our products. product weight. LEED® AND WELL BUILDING T H I R D PA R T Y C E R T I F I E D P R O D U C T S S TA N DA R D ™ C O N T R I B U T I O N S While we’re proud to have earned the We help customers leverage our endorsement of the world’s leading products in the certification of their product certifications, that’s not our buildings. When seeking LEED primary intent. We aim to set high certification, Steelcase products level performance criteria to deliver the contribute through: highest value and performance through sustainable design. To meet these high • Materials and resources standards, we partner with respected • Ergonomics third-party certifiers who help us give our • Social equity in the supply chain customers assurance on important issues • Innovation in design such as indoor air quality, materials • Low-emitting materials chemistry, closed-loop textiles, and sustainably harvested wood. Promise + Progress Steelcase 15 16 Steelcase Promise + Progress Findings like this are re-defining what we know CUSTOMERS People + Purpose and how we’re using fresh data to explore satisfaction in work environments It wasn’t that long ago that a business was defined simply as where workers congregated to perform a service or create a all over the world. product to turn a profit. As longtime students of the workplace, Steelcase is deeply invested in understanding how businesses can be successful and attuned to their employees’ needs. For more than a employee engagement, validating that the physical workplace century, we’ve been helping companies create workplaces that is a strategic asset to improve engagement. connect people to productive and satisfying work that supports their wellbeing. In the process, we’ve brought our insights to The report also offers a detailed analysis of the key differentiators product and applications design, sharing them with customers, between engaged and disengaged employees, and provides designers and others who are interested in knowing more strategies to help organizations create more resilient and about what we do, why we do it and how our work might engaged employees. benefit them. Among the discoveries: Thanks to these insights, we’re helping customers create spaces designed to accomplish their strategic goals. From • Employee engagement positively correlates with building culture to reinforcing corporate strategies to expressing workplace satisfaction. When workers enjoy their brand identity, intelligently designed workplaces help connect environment, they’re likely to engage in more productive ways. people with their company’s purpose. These spaces can help unleash creativity and innovation, collaboration and trust. They • Engaged employees tend to have more control over can help customers unlock the full potential of their employees their experiences at work. This includes access to privacy and create a more engaged workforce. when they need it, which helps increase empowerment. That translates to the ability to more easily concentrate, and work Steelcase Global Workplace Report individually or with teams without disruption. Just 13. That’s the percent of workers worldwide that consider themselves highly engaged. Findings like this—drawn from • Fixed technology is still king. Despite the high global a report on the global work experience commissioned by adoption of mobile devices for personal use, the vast majority Steelcase—are re-defining what we know and how we’re using of study participants said their organizations provide twice as fresh insights to explore satisfaction in work environments all much fixed technology versus mobile options. over the world. • Traditional work styles persist. Across the globe, the most The workplace report reflects not only our drive to understand common workplace design features a combination of open how to create more effective workplaces, but also our desire spaces and private offices, but more than three-quarters of to improve the work lives of people who spend time in global employees say they work in either individual or shared work environments. private offices. The study, performed in conjunction with the global research These discoveries, combined with decades of Steelcase firm Ipsos, considered responses from 12,480 workers in 17 workplace research, offer organizations specific actions they countries. It provides never-before acquired data revealing can take to create a workplace that helps boost employee that high workplace satisfaction correlates directly with high engagement and drive business performance. Promise + Progress Steelcase 17 Partners Creating lasting change takes a committed team. In today’s world, where resilience and success are closely tied to strong partnerships and networks, we’re fortunate to work with some of the best in the business. 18 Steelcase Promise + Progress Our diverse group of suppliers provide us with first-rate materials. Promise + Progress Steelcase 19 2x Steelcase nearly doubled the number of its diverse suppliers between FY15 and FY16. 20 Steelcase Promise + Progress PA R T N E R S Suppliers Our suppliers help ensure that we A Global Gathering Resilience and excellence provide inspiring and innovative solutions This past spring, more than 450 for our customers by delivering superior representatives from 20 countries met at can only happen materials, technology, expertise and Steelcase’s Global Supplier Conference, more. We depend on them to adhere to the largest gathering of Steelcase when we cultivate the highest standards for quality, safety suppliers and procurement specialists and sustainability. in the company’s history. The agenda? a diversity of Cultivating a mindset of partnership, Together, Steelcase and our supplier looking ahead at future opportunities perspectives, partners strive to meet and exceed global to stay relevant and emphasizing our standards, improve efficiencies and shared goal of doing things better— experiences effectiveness and intelligently manage together. Over the course of two days, resources and costs. Together, we participants covered a variety of topics and ideas. share knowledge and insights, discuss including risk, culture and strategy. opportunities and initiatives. We remain inspired by the collective actions of our Supplier Diversity partners who contribute to their Resiliency and success can only local communities. happen when we cultivate a diversity of perspectives, experiences and ideas. The bedrock of our relationships with For over 25 years, Steelcase’s Supplier suppliers is the Supplier Code of Diversity Program has been committed Conduct. Available in five languages to investing in minority-, womenand and implemented globally, suppliers are veteran-owned businesses in the asked to commit to Steelcase’s social United States by integrating them into responsibility standards, establishing a our procurement processes. We place universal set of expectations wherever emphasis on infrastructure and spend we do business. The Code of Conduct reporting, communication, networking, is addressed in three phases: a supplier supplier development and mentoring. questionnaire, select site visits from Steelcase, and a written contract. Our corporate goal is to increase annual 25 Years expenditures with diverse businesses, and we expect our Tier 1 suppliers to Through our Supplier do the same. In the last year, we’ve Diversity Program we nearly doubled the number of diverse have invested in minority-, suppliers we partner with. And we’re womenand veteranproud to be a member of the National owned businesses for Minority Supplier Development Council, over 25 years. which represents some 12,000 certified Minority Business Enterprises. Promise + Progress Steelcase 21 PA R T N E R S Dealers More than 750 Steelcase dealers around the world deliver our global research and innovative product solutions to local customers. These partners are experts in the Power To help dealers tackle pressing issues of Place, ready to tackle the toughest and take leadership positions aligned workplace challenges. with our corporate vision, a dedicated Steelcase team works closely with Together, we share leading insights and dealers on challenges ranging from talent support the creation of smart spaces that management to diversity and inclusion. inspire and engage employees in today’s We continue our long-term support for evolving world. dealers in the United States and Canada to build minority ownership and hiring Our dealers offer a diverse menu practices that reflect the communities of services, including consultation, where they operate. regional asset management, workplace installation, skilled labor and design Platinum + Premier Partners services, integrated technology, All of our dealer partners meet high audiovisual solutions, floor coverings, standards for quality and performance. moving services and more to support But that doesn’t mean that we stop varied workplace needs. striving to meet even higher goals. Most dealerships are independent Some dealerships stand out as businesses, owned and operated extraordinary partners—engaging with by people deeply committed to the Steelcase, customers and community communities they serve. Our role is to be to deliver exceptional value to the a close partner, providing guidance on people and places they touch. They leading workplace research, a breadth continuously strive to find new ways of quality products, attractive incentives to grow and differentiate themselves. and more. Dealers are also connected They raise the bar on creating great to the knowledge and support of other customer experiences and seek to build Steelcase dealers network wide. a unique competitive advantage. These dealerships are recognized as Steelcase Platinum and Premier Partners. 22 Steelcase Promise + Progress DEALER DIVERSIT Y IN THE U N I T E D S TAT E S 11 Minority-owned dealerships 32 Women-owned dealerships 2 Veteran-owned dealerships 6 HUBZone dealerships Promise + Progress Steelcase 23 Communities At Steelcase, we’re passionate about serving people. We realize, in addition to our customers, our employees and our partners, we can have a powerful, positive impact on the many communities we call home throughout the world. Our efforts are grounded in our culture: the belief that every human being has incredible promise, and deserves opportunities to be and do their best. 24 Steelcase Promise + Progress Promise + Progress Steelcase 25 COMMUNITIES Social Investment 26 Steelcase Promise + Progress When you’re in the people business, you seek ways to reach deep and wide to create conditions that help people succeed. LEFT Ceramics studio at West Michigan Center for Arts and Technology (WMCAT), a program for engaging teens with arts and technology RIGHT Detail of plants in the WMCAT ceramics studio Promise + Progress Steelcase 27 LEFT Music corner at HQ, a drop-in center for homeless and runaway teens TOP Library at HQ RIGHT Laundry facilities at HQ 28 Steelcase Promise + Progress For our customers, this means turning insights into BRIDGING THE GAP innovations that unlock the promise of people at work. For our communities, it means donating our time, talent and resources Jamie Rykse seemed destined for a life to help create environments where people can thrive. of pain and heartache. She was homeless at 14, twice served time behind bars, and As we see it, our legacy is as much about creating good as fought an incessant addiction to cocaine. it is about creating goods. It’s a belief that has proven resilient, guiding our company throughout the 100+ years we’ve been Today, Jamie directs “Bridging the Gap,” in business. a program in Grand Rapids, Michigan’s Heartside district that has helped dozens One of our strong channels for investing in communities is the of at-risk men and women earn their GEDs Steelcase Foundation, which focuses on the areas of human and launch new lives. For free. service, health, education, community development, the arts and the environment, giving particular concern to people With help from a Steelcase Foundation who are disadvantaged, disabled, young and elderly as they grant, she’s transformed a fledgling endeavor to improve the quality of their lives. program into a stronghold for literacy and education, and serves as an inspiration for Funds to create more accessible public education have people who are struggling through poverty, increased from 35 to 53 percent of the Foundation’s annual homelessness and lack of education. grant disbursement alongside significant investments in health and human services, economic development and the arts. Steelcase is proud to support programs like Bridging the Gap and people like Jamie. Her vision and empathy are evidence that an opportunity to learn can change lives and influence futures. COMMUNITIES | SOCIAL INVESTMENT Promise + Progress Steelcase 29 L E F T, T O P + R I G H T Screen printing at WMCAT BOTTOM Ceramics studio at WMCAT 30 Steelcase Promise + Progress As a global company we have rich capabilities to create real change. $5.9 Million Total giving in 2015 SHARING OUR RESOURCES Steelcase Inc. gave more than $1.7 million to worthy organizations and non-profits during 2015, funding projects and initiatives related to arts and culture, diversity and inclusion, economic development, and the environment. In 2015, the Steelcase Foundation approved grants totaling more than $1.6 million for education, nearly $1.52 million for human services, $362,400 for arts and culture and $70,000 toward health services. In all, the Foundation granted $3,736,323 to 47 separate organizations, and another $517,455 in matching funds. COMMUNITIES | SOCIAL INVESTMENT Promise + Progress Steelcase 31 During the past year, the Foundation provided grants to a variety of new and ongoing initiatives including: • Providing physical, emotional and informational support to women during the birthing process through a communitybased doula program. • Nurturing a literacy-rich environment for toddlers via a collaboration with libraries. • Engaging urban teens with hands-on learning opportunities at the West Michigan Center for Arts and Technology (WMCAT) where they can explore art, photography, fashion, video game design and more. • Establishing a one-of-a-kind downtown drop-in center 50 Years for homeless and runaway teens (HQ). Steelcase has partnered with • Building a culture of college readiness among high the United Way for more than schoolers and children in elementary grades through an 50 years to support and invest ambitious “Challenge Scholars” program that already in local communities. is showing signs of being a life-changer for kids who otherwise might have dropped out of school. Whether we’re investing directly or through the Steelcase Foundation, we’re deliberately choosing to apply our time, talents and resources to create conditions that empower people. We’re big believers in the principle that stronger communities and a better world happen one person at a time, and we know that as a global company we have rich capabilities to create real change. TOP HQ drop-in center BOTTOM Screen printing at WMCAT 32 Steelcase Promise + Progress COMMUNITIES | SOCIAL INVESTMENT COMMUNITIES Employee Impacts As a company, we’re more than 10,000 strong. But our OUR LITTLE BROTHERS AND SISTERS impact is exponential whenever and wherever we can work with others to advance hope and promise. Whether it’s 38,913 In 2013, Steelcase pitched in through through endeavors focused on holistic health and wellbeing, its Social Responsibility Committee in education, the arts, diversity or genuine inclusion, our intent is Total volunteer Monterrey, Mexico, to assist the longtime always to create meaningful impact. hours in 2015 effort, known locally as “Nuestro Pequeños Hermanos,” or NPH, which translates to “Our In China, our employees work to create libraries in schools Little Brothers and Sisters.” The program where there are none. In Hong Kong, we have a pilot program 220% today serves some 700 youths. to benefit single mothers in need. In India, we sponsor blood drives. Elsewhere around the globe, we’ve provided furniture Increase from 2014 In just a few years, Steelcase employees in to an orphanage, painted the dormitory of a school for Monterrey have come together to update the children with special needs, and partnered with others to quell organization’s kitchen, refurbish a crumbling the advance of cancer and other debilitating diseases. These bathroom, transform offices with Steelcase are just a few of the many ways employees have engaged furniture and serve in a variety of other their passion to make a local difference, globally. empowering ways. Despite successes, we know there’s always more to do and According to Cecilia Ruiz, a former more to achieve. So we keep working to put people first missionary who joined Steelcase in 2010 and stopping to remind ourselves that true impact grows by and directs our collaborative efforts there, helping others advance and succeed. “We have a great team that’s made this all possible, people who expect nothing in Making a Difference, Indeed return in exchange for what they’re doing. In 2015, Steelcase employees globally volunteered 38,913 We’re giving back with service, and to people hours. Our Friends InDeed program encourages employees to who never had the opportunities the rest of volunteer during the workweek for local charities. Collectively, us have. How awesome is that?” and as individuals, we continue to reach out and support economic development efforts that create and retain jobs, as well as nonprofit organizations focused on issues such as urban education, diversity, the arts and the environment. Promise + Progress Steelcase 33 Employees Energized, engaged employees drive success, especially in today’s complex and fast-changing business environment. That’s why we invest in sustaining an inclusive culture of high performance and wellbeing at Steelcase. We believe if every employee is able to accomplish meaningful work and feel a strong sense of belonging and shared purpose, individually and collectively we thrive. 34 Steelcase Promise + Progress Promise + Progress Steelcase 35 EM PLOY EES Diversity + Inclusion Being resilient and successful in today’s But diversity is just a part of the environment of change requires an equation. Where diversity encourages array of inputs, insights and ideas. representation, inclusion ensures individuals feel empowered and By weaving together the varying involved. A culture that is both threads of perspective and diverse and inclusive means that experience, we strengthen the social diversity is not only expected, but fabric that set our employees and embraced and celebrated as well. our company up for success. This year, we’ve continued to sharpen our 100 The evidence isn’t just anecdotal: focus on diversity, hosting conversations studies indicate companies that embrace with employees to truly understand what Each year, the Human Rights diversity are more likely to outperform it’s like to work at Steelcase. Thanks Campaign Foundation publishes their less diverse counterparts. To truly to these thoughtful discussions, we’re its Corporate Equality Index, harness the power of diversity and ensure encouraging questions and dialogue to benchmarking corporations an equitable working environment for build greater understanding and more on equality for gay, lesbian, all, we’re taking an intentional, strategic meaningful relationships. And we’re bisexual and transgender approach to cultural transformation focusing on building awareness, being employees. Steelcase was and employee engagement. thoughtful of local and global diversity proud to earn a perfect needs, and developing consciousness score of 100 again in all Cultivating a culture that embraces and around individual and systemic biases. categories, including equal is strengthened by diversity creates employment opportunities, an environment where employees We’re also looking outside our equivalency in spousal and are encouraged to bring their whole organization to ensure we’re surrounding partner benefits, competency selves to the workplace. By fostering ourselves with the best ideas out there. training, public engagement diversity, we ensure that we’re equipped In addition to promoting diversity among and responsible citizenship. to tackle the biggest challenges and our dealer and supplier partners, we’re opportunities facing organizations— diversifying our networks, looking in both today and in the future. new places to find partners, develop 50+ relationships and recruit talent. Focus Groups Guided by our goals and values, we’re continuing to move forward This year, we engaged with the commitment of our leaders, hundreds of employees in a the strength of our networks and, group dialogue about equity, most importantly, the attitudes diversity and inclusion in and actions of our employees. multiple global locations. 36 Steelcase Promise + Progress Companies that embrace diversity are more likely to outperform their less diverse counterparts. F E AT U R E D I M A G E S Since our company’s founding, we’ve placed a great emphasis on thinking and acting with integrity. Diversity and inclusion are timehonored values at Steelcase. Promise + Progress Steelcase 37 38 Steelcase Promise + Progress EM PLOY EES Employee Wellbeing Wellbeing is determined by much more When You Feel Well, You Work Well Welcome to the Steelcase Global than the results of a physical exam or Wellbeing at work depends on a host of Business Center in Cluj, Romania, biometric screening. It comprises physical, physical, cognitive and emotional factors. where the prescription for success cognitive and emotional factors that For businesses, it’s a bottom-line issue: relies not only on attention to work, are often interrelated, and sustaining when employees’ wellbeing needs are but also on healthy doses of positivity wellbeing over time requires a supportive met, they can perform at their peak. aimed at increasing wellbeing. physical and social environment. Steelcase research into workplace Thanks to a committee of nearly wellbeing confirms the importance two dozen employees, Steelcase of an ecosystem of diverse spaces employees in Cluj can expect an activity that allow employees to choose nearly every week that challenges the settings that meet their needs, conventional definition of a workplace. which vary throughout the day. Employees have opportunities to join a The Wellbeing Hub in our Global learning club, borrow from the Steelcase Business Center in Grand Rapids, library, weigh in on an “All Ideas Matter” Michigan, recognizes the importance of posting board, load up on popcorn for interludes of healthy rejuvenation and a movie night, or sign up for friendly respite during the workday, as well as competitions focused on everything from access to onsite health services. It’s photography to treasure hunts to board $100 a welcoming space, with settings for games to paper-plane throwing contests. exercise or yoga, screening rooms, an In the United States, all regular fullonsite nurse and classes dedicated And nobody’s birthday goes and part-time employees have a $100 to weight management, financial unnoticed, either. wellness reimbursement account to literacy, family planning and more. encourage healthy habits, whether it’s It’s all part of a plan to create buying an activity tracker, joining a Prescription for Wellbeing: and sustain a supportive social gym or trying out Tae Kwon Do. Less Stress, More Fun environment at work. What’s more, You might be greeted in the morning it’s all employee-led—a simple but by pancakes topped with mango, deliberate effort to enhance workplace More Time Together nectarine and banana bits. wellbeing by providing opportunities for socializing, relaxation and fun. Employees in North America who are Or find on your desk a framed placard expecting children, whether by birth, announcing, “Some of the most adoption, or surrogacy, can also expect wonderful people are the ones that a little extra from Steelcase. In addition don’t fit into boxes … be authentic!” to standard family medical leave and our existing maternity leave programs, moms Or receive a thank-you card from nearby and dads can take advantage of three schoolkids for the 160 books you additional weeks of paid bonding leave. helped provide on “World Book Day.” Promise + Progress Steelcase 39 EM PLOY EES Learning + Development We’re dedicated to providing work compelling reasons to bring people One of the most visible and exciting environments and opportunities that together in environments designed programs we’ve introduced to help our employees develop personally for active learning, personal interaction employees and leaders around and professionally. We focus on and human-to-human feedback. the world is the Global Awareness instilling a culture of curiosity, identifying We also recognize learning is often Workshop. Every employee also innovative approaches to education spontaneous and informal, as likely to has access 24/7 to an online tool and challenging each individual to occur over a cup of coffee or social and resource called the Culture reach their highest potential. media as in a corporate classroom. Wizard, which includes assessments, country-specific information, cultural To truly integrate learning insights Learning Globally information and online courses. We’re and develop an educated, engaged We’re focused on creating new training also expanding the language training workforce, development cannot be programs and ideas that move the accessible to our employees. relegated to a single department. Instead, company’s culture forward across learning and development must be national boundaries, building crossThese new learning opportunities aim embedded throughout an organization’s cultural capabilities and understanding to build stronger global understanding culture, its processes and its leadership. so we can achieve our strategic intent of and higher levels of collaboration being a truly integrated global company. and productivity. We strive for continuous improvement by experimenting, innovating and creating. Our employees seek new ideas, ask questions and work with an open mind. Incorporating the insights of Steelcase Education researchers, we’re focused on new ways of teaching and learning that harness the latest findings on how it’s done best in the digital age. Through new technologies, our learning is now mobile and multiplatform. Information can be accessed at our employees fingertips, anytime. At the same time, we know there are still 40 Steelcase Promise + Progress We’re dedicated to providing work environments and opportunities that help our employees develop personally and professionally. Promise + Progress Steelcase 41 42 Steelcase Promise + Progress EM PLOY EES Workplace Health + Safety Good health, quality of life, and safety practices are as important to our company as production efficiency and quality. We’re committed to a proactive health and safety culture that engages everyone in preventing injuries and enabling wellbeing. Promise + Progress Steelcase 43 Like wellbeing, health and safety are multidimensional. Efforts to protect and enhance the health and safety of our employees in meaningful ways must be multidimensional and holistic. That’s why we’re exploring and enacting a variety of measures aimed at involving employees, establishing positive behaviors and promoting clear lines of communication. A few of our recent initiatives include: AT H L E T I C T R A I N E R S ID BADGES At several production facilities, athletic In addition to standard identification trainers are available to assist employees for employees in our manufacturing who have manual jobs with body facilities, badges now contain inserts mechanics, ensuring proper form, expert with vital information such as emergency evaluation and access to resources. contacts, zone leader, insurance information and more. It ensures BLUE LIGHTS essential information is never far away. Forklifts on the manufacturing floor have a number of auditory beeps and EMERGE NCY R ESPON SE alarms to alert pedestrians when they’re AMBASSADORS on the move. Now, all of our forklifts We’ve increased the number and sport visual cues as well: blue LED accessibility of emergency response beams now precede an advancing equipment, such as Automated External forklift, creating distinctive visual cue Defibrillators (AEDs), and expanded when the machinery is approaching. the number of employees who have received training to use this technology. 44 Steelcase Promise + Progress EMPLOYEES | W O R K P L A C E H E A LT H + S A F E T Y Promise + Progress Steelcase 45 46 Steelcase Promise + Progress Identifying and understanding the root cause of near misses is essential to preventing Near Miss, New Mission accidents and injuries in the future. An integral aspect of a proactive safety culture involves partnering with employees long before unsafe situations arise. Oftentimes, accidents are preceded Recognizing that each near miss by near misses—moments where presents a learning opportunity, an incident could have occurred but, a shared document was created where thankfully, didn’t. Identifying and employees can document near misses understanding the root cause of they observe. This collective awareness near misses is essential to preventing further emphasizes that safety is not accidents and injuries in the future. the responsibility of just one team; it is inherent to and expected of every Enter the Health, Safety and Environment member of the production facility. teams in our Sarrebourg, France and Madrid, Spain production facilities. Each near miss is reviewed and Their mission? Create a culture of safety researched, leading to solutions, by engaging employees, asking them behaviors and policies that create safer to log each and every near miss they working environments. There’s some encounter, no matter how small. fun as well: workers are eligible to win a variety of prizes when they log incidents. The real prize, however, is a strong, supportive culture where employees are always on the lookout for the wellbeing of their colleagues, ensuring that health and safety are always top of mind. EMPLOYEES | W O R K P L A C E H E A LT H + S A F E T Y Promise + Progress Steelcase 47 Environment We’re working to leave a lasting legacy with lasting benefits. That’s why we’re conserving more, using less, sourcing more responsibly and finding better ways to be a leading voice. 48 Steelcase Promise + Progress Bioswale at Steelcase facility in Grand Rapids, Michigan Promise + Progress Steelcase 49 ENVIRONMENT Innovative Products + Solutions We make products built to We’re inspired by people, empowered by possibilities and fueled by a passion last, and sometimes they even for insight-led design. We rely on a human-centered approach to design, outlast our customers’ needs. uncovering insights that translate into careful attention for people, our planet and the living things it supports. We design products for circularity by avoiding and eliminating materials of concern, we’re advocating for better chemical organizations to develop guidelines optimizing performance throughout standards and partnering with academia around social LCAs, learning from the the life cycle and for remaking, and leading companies to find answers journey we’ve been on and building recovery, and end of life strategies. to complex challenges. We have also toward new opportunities for all. engaged young minds around the topic Materials Chemistry of green chemistry to spark interest and End-of-Use and Reuse When it comes to the ingredients that energize the next generation of progress. Thanks to our approach to product make up our products, we remain design, we continue to offer customers committed to leading by example. For Life Cycle Assessment more material selections, higher recycling over a decade, we’ve been digging Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) are performance and expanded end of life deep into the materials we use in our an integral aspect of our product options. We make products built to products, understanding their impacts development process, allowing last, and sometimes they even outlast and sharing what we find. We’re us to measure and analyze the our customers’ needs. That’s when we investing in material innovation, exploring environmental footprint of our can help customers make responsible opportunities to continue developing our products. As an early adopter, our choices. The End-of-Use Strategies knowledge and ensuring our products LCA practice helps us identify potential section of this report outlines some and solutions are state of the art. opportunities for improvement and of the ways we’re working to extend aids us in understanding how to best the value of assets through resale, Collaborating with those that touch apply, expand, and integrate better refurbishing, donating or recycling. product development at every level— practices and decision-making. suppliers, designers, engineers and These three pillars drive new ideas others—we’re working to increase literacy In addition to performing LCAs on and innovations that help to prepare and inspire innovation. At the same time, products, we have been conducting Steelcase and our customers for we’re assessing our current materials, life cycle research in areas to further operating in a more circular economy. processes and products to identify the practice and application of life We’re creating greater value, not just new opportunities for improvement. cycle product performance as a whole. for our customers and our company, We’re building data sets to improve but also for our suppliers, partners With an aim to drive change beyond availability of robust data for other LCA and the world community in which our own operations and industry, practitioners, researching recycled every human is a key stakeholder. materials and partnering with leading 50 Steelcase Promise + Progress 1800+ Materials assessed to the 100 parts per million level 50+ Cradle to Cradle Certified™ products 30+ Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) Promise + Progress Steelcase 51 A R E S I L I E N T, RECONFIGUR ABLE OFFICE Turnstone®, a Steelcase brand, helps entrepreneurs leverage their culture and their space to accelerate business results, focusing on insight-led simplicity and making spaces matter. Bivi™ addresses the needs of highly mobile and collaborative teams who need flexibility without fuss. With an emphasis on a lightweight, userfriendly design, Bivi allows workspaces to be reconfigured quickly and easily. A number of options allow Bivi to be personalized, such as bike racks and plant holders. And by accommodating four different working postures, employees’ High Five ergonomic and wellbeing considerations remain top priority. Steelcase, Turnstone® and Designtex® together received five This agile modularity means that one Best of NeoCon® awards at the piece of furniture can suit a variety of annual competition held during needs, adapting alongside employees and NeoCon, one if the industry’s organizations as their work evolves. largest trade shows. Innovation awards were given to Turnstone’s Bassline™ tables with reclaimed wood and Steelcase’s New Black Collection upholstery, gold awards for Steelcase’s High Density Storage and for Bespoke by Designtex, and a silver award for the Steelcase® Workplace Advisor. 52 Steelcase Promise + Progress ENVIRONMENT | I N N O VAT I V E P R O D U C T S + S O L U T I O N S ENVIRONMENT Transportation + Packaging Through research and innovation, we’re It accounts for everything from weather constantly seeking and implementing forecasts to traffic patterns, enabling new and improved transportation us to quickly adjust transport routes— methods to assure we continue to ensuring trucks spend less time idling meet world-class performance and and more time delivering orders. safety standards while minimizing our environmental footprint. Local and regional considerations 35 Million Miles are factored into transportation and While we don’t count two-wheelers part packaging solutions for products so all On average, Steelcase ships of our mainstream fleet, we’ve used shipments—whether they’re heading more than 400,000 pieces of bicycles on rare occasions to deliver to Montreal, Munich or Melbourne— furniture weekly—upwards of products where traditional means proved receive the same levels of attention and 2.8 million per year. To deliver impractical. When it comes to customers, protection. It begins with our rigorous, those products, we travel by we go the extra mile. four-level testing model for packaging air, land and sea a total of 35 methods. We measure everything from million miles annually, equal Our packaging and transportation vibrations to drops, crush tests to to 1,400 times around the initiatives are part of our holistic temperature changes, and even have a circumference of the earth. approach to optimize every phase of simulation track that allows us to mimic the product lifecycle. real road conditions. Steelcase’s packaging and transportation This same attention extends to the specialists are key partners in the product materials we use to pack and ship development process. Collaboration product. While simultaneously increasing is critical to working towards orders the recycled content of our packaging being delivered in perfect condition, on materials, we’re piloting new methods to time and with every consideration of increase material yield. environmental impact. At our Kentwood, Michigan plant, we’re We use a wide range of methods sending corrugated cardboard through to improve how we deliver on that a machine that cuts boxes to custom promise, collaborating with dealers and sizes as needed. This has reduced our transporters, and constantly refining warehouse space requirements by 35 strategies. For example, our incident percent, saves us 40 percent on material, management system allows us to stay and has resulted in yearly savings of up to date with our deliveries and road $420,000. We’re also experimenting with conditions on a minute-to-minute basis. a new, thinner stretch foil as another way to reduce our materials consumption, which can also mean less packaging to recycle post-delivery. Promise + Progress Steelcase 53 ENVIRONMENT Energy As we’ve worked to diversify our Driving Efficiency investments in renewable energy One of the many strategies we’re resources, we continue to take a hard pursuing to hit our energy goals is look at the energy used to power the installation of advanced meters to our operations and their associated track electric use in select facilities. In greenhouse gas emissions. collaboration with the U.S. Department of Energy’s “Better Plants Program,” As a global company with high we’re collecting feedback on our production levels, we know that each electrical energy use, which enables us percentage point reduced adds up to perform preventative and corrective across our global operations—and measures in real time. brings us closer to our goal of 25% energy reduction by 2020. Using the data, we’ve been able to find better ways to measure, understand, We’ve adopted the new World Resources share and report the details of our Institute guidance for greenhouse gas energy usage and impact, empower our reporting, and are expanding our data employees to work together in reduction gathering to include a selection of our strategies and help develop targeted indirect impacts. By expanding the scope future goals. Considering the success of our metrics, we can more accurately of this program, we are investigating influence, track our usage, and develop opportunities for implementing similar comprehensive strategies to pursue technologies at all of our major facilities, further reductions. which will improve overall energy data tracking. 76.8% In our Kentwood, Michigan facility we’ve recently installed a state-ofReduced lighting the-art lighting control system. This consumption, equal to system allows us to pinpoint which about 4 million kilowatt lights were activated and when. Using hours per year. insights from this technology, we were able to remove lights, install improved equipment and enhance light. This investment has reduced our lighting consumption by 76.8%, or about 4 million kilowatt hours per year. 54 Steelcase Promise + Progress 2 015 R E N E WA B L E E N E R GY U S AG E ( I N K W H ) 198,263,220 AMERICAS 151,185,235 EMEA 41,246,927 A PAC 5,831,058 Promise + Progress Steelcase 55 Investing in Renewables That’s why we continue to diversify our We are committed to investing in When it comes to our renewable energy investments. This year, we executed a renewables, locally, nationally and commitment, we’ve made great progress 12-year VPPA for 25 megawatts of wind globally. Whenever possible, we’re in a few short years. What started as power from Southern Company subsidiary purchasing renewable energy in the a collection of regional investments is Southern Power’s Grant Plains Wind regions where we operate. We look now a global, cohesive clean energy Facility. This will make up nearly half of forward to a day when all countries portfolio in the form of Renewable Steelcase’s renewable energy purchases have a thriving renewable energy Energy Credits (RECs) and a virtual and directly support the construction of infrastructure in place. power purchase agreement (VPPA). a new clean energy facility expected to come online next year. In 2014, we took an important step by investing in renewable energy equivalent And while we’re focused on diversifying to 100 percent of our global electricity our own renewable energy portfolio, the consumption. And that was big news. work doesn’t stop there. We’re engaging While we’re pleased with our progress, in conversations and sharing insights we know there’s always more to be done. from this work with our suppliers, our partners and other leading organizations. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG) Scope I (tons CO2e) Scope II (tons CO2e) In accordance with updated M A R K E TB A S E D reporting guidelines from the World Resources Institute, we 2010 56,216 74,257 130,473 total (base year) are reporting our GHG emissions using both market-based and location-based methods. 2015 58,822 58,822 total -54.92% CHANGE The market-based method reflects emissions from electricity L O C AT I O N B A S E D purchased, and includes REC purchases. The location-based 2010 56,216 93,619 149,835 total method relies on average (base year) emissions data for the local energy grids where electricity 2015 58,822 93,614 152,435 total 1.74% CHANGE consumption occurs. 56 Steelcase Promise + Progress ENVIRONMENT | ENERGY ENVIRONMENT Water Conservation Steelcase is committed to delivering the best products in the world by ensuring 9% they’re the best products for the world. In 2006, we formally pledged our first set Reduced water of environment footprint reduction goals, consumption since 2010 aiming to significantly reduce our water use on a global scale. Compared to many other industries, our operations don’t require much water, but that doesn’t mean we’re less focused 25% when it comes to conserving this vital Goal reduction in water resource. We’ve successfully reduced our consumption by 2020 water consumption by 9% since 2010, moving us closer to our long-term goal of another 25% reduction in water use by 2020. These successes don’t happen by chance. They happen thanks to the dedication of our facility teams around the world, our robust Environmental Management System and the implementation of innovative technologies and solutions. From alternative paint materials to new spray methods, we’re advancing toward even smarter 8.6 Million water practices. We reduced our global Looking ahead, we’re continuing to water use by over 8.6 examine how best to ensure that million gallons in 2015. individual facilities can more easily see, share and brainstorm successful ideas and solutions. The collective power of the knowledge and ingenuity of our employees and partners around the global will help us realize new possibilities to conserve precious water resources. Promise + Progress Steelcase 57 ENVIRONMENT Waste Reduction 58 Steelcase Promise + Progress Over the years, we’ve successfully donate materials such as wood tops, diverted thousands of tons of valuable drawer pulls, and other components to materials from landfills such as steel, organizations like Habitat for Humanity cardboard, plastic, glass, food waste so they can be put to good use. In our and more. Wood Plant in Kentwood, Michigan, excess wood is also being provided to In fact, thanks to the perseverance of local school woodworking programs, our global teams, we’ve reduced our getting a second life and supporting a waste output by 44% since 2010, far new generation of craftspeople. surpassing our current goal of reducing our waste by 25% by the year 2020. We continue to widen our lens, building While we’re celebrating our progress on past successes and asking ourselves so far, we’re still focused on the how we might continue to expand these possibilities ahead. efforts into other areas of our value chain. From our facilities to our distribution Optimizing waste can mean reducing the centers, from suppliers to partners, we’re amount of materials needed to build a using the lessons we’ve learned in our high-quality product, finding new ways own facilities to share best practices and to measure and cut fabric or simply expand successes wherever we can. adjusting our production processes so we reduce inventory through maketo-order practices. We’re constantly implementing new and improved waste reduction strategies in our facilities to ensure we’re taking advantage of every 44% option available, whether it’s reusing, recycling or composting. Reduced waste output since 2010. Additionally, we actively search for solutions when our waste might be 23,877 Tons another person’s asset. For example, if we accumulate excess inventory, we Total amount of materials recycled globally by Steelcase in 2015. 153 Tons Total food waste composted by Steelcase in 2015. Promise + Progress Steelcase 59 60 Steelcase Promise + Progress Ourselves We’re taking a close look at our business and putting economic, social and environmental sustainability at the center of our strategy. Our leadership team is committed to our The Steering Committee’s role is to mission to unlock human promise, to deliver encourage and empower employees, long-term shareholder value and drive whose efforts will continue to drive sustainable business fitness. our collective success. Our Board of Directors, a hardworking Each and every Steelcase employee is combination of proven business leaders and accountable for abiding by our social and third generation founding family members, environmental sustainability policies in set the tone for our company’s future. his or her particular role. These policies clearly express our expectations for our Our Global Sustainability Steering employees—no matter what their title or Committee, in particular, sharpened its responsibilities—to be responsible stewards focus in 2014, developing new cultural, and to contribute toward the overall safety communication and process strategies to and wellbeing of fellow workers, their better leverage our sustainability efforts communities and the natural world. and advance our value proposition, brand reputation and business fitness. Our sustainability aspirations are ambitious. Everyone must be actively The committee is exploring long-term engaged in strengthening our investments that will help fuel even deeper performance and reaching our goals. engagement through: • Broader sustainable business literacy. • Frameworks, case studies and benchmarking to make more explicit connections between sustainability, business success and corporate resilience. O U R S E LV E S | GOVERNANCE Promise + Progress Steelcase 61 T H A N K YO U Our path to sustainability is a shared endeavor, touching all levels of our organization in all corners of the globe. Our successes come from individual employees, from departments, from regions, from offices, from manufacturing lines, from customers, from our dealers, from our suppliers, and from our partners. The end of this report is not the end. We’d love to keep the conversation alive. Please reach out to us at sustainability@steelcase.com and share your sustainability dreams. ©2016 Steelcase Inc. All rights reserved. Please recycle. Trademarks used herein are the property of Steelcase Inc. or their respective owners. Cradle to Cradle Certified™ is a certification mark licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED® green building program is the preeminent program for the design, construction, maintenance and operations of high-performance green buildings. The WELL Building Standard™ is the first standard to integrate human health and wellness into the design, construction, maintenance and operations of buildings. 2 0 1 6 C O R P O R AT E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Steelcase has publicly reported our vision, goals and Sustainability Materiality Overview Existing research was used to evaluate each issue. progress related to our sustainability initiatives for over Where research needs were identified, additional surveys, a decade. As a complement to our annual Corporate In 2016, Steelcase completed our first comprehensive secondary research, interviews and workshops were Sustainability Report, the GRI Index provides stakeholders sustainability materiality assessment, covering conducted to collect information and feedback. The results with additional information related to our sustainability environmental, social and governance issues. Areas were plotted on a matrix to illustrate the relationships strategy and progress. identified as material are those which significantly impact of material issues to business impact and influence on Steelcase’s ability to meet its strategic goals and/or stakeholders’ decisions and assessments. Steelcase is continually evolving its sustainability reporting significantly influence the decisions and evaluations practices to best reflect corporate goals, standards and of stakeholders. Methods to engage with and collect input from internal and objective, as well as remain consistent with external external stakeholders will continue to evolve. As additional guidelines and expectations. We took another step in this The process for identifying material issues and defining research is conducted and new data becomes available, journey by moving to the Global Reporting Initiative G4 reporting content is outlined in the following document. these insights will be integrated into existing processes and Reporting Guidelines. It generally follows GRI guidelines and adheres to the engagement strategies. Principles for Defining Report content. S T E P 3 : V A L I D AT I O N S T E P 1 : I D E N T I F I C AT I O N Key internal senior decision makers validated the A list of potentially material sustainability issues was sustainability materiality issues included within this report. developed through internal and external research, including benchmarking and reviewing relevant reporting standards. STEP 4: REVIEW This list was refined after considering the expectations and This was Steelcase’s first sustainability materiality interests of our stakeholders. The Steelcase Sustainability assessment. A comprehensive review process will take Steering Committee validated this list taking into account place after this report is published in preparation for the next the business and sustainability strategy. reporting cycle. The findings will inform future assessments and ensure alignment with stakeholder expectations and S T E P 2 : P R I O R I T I Z AT I O N the business context. Each potentially material issue was evaluated based on the following criteria: • Influence on external stakeholders’ decisions and assessments • Impact on the business Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 1 G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Strategy + Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 5 (Welcome from Jim Keane) organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual Report pp. 6–10; Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 6–7 (Our Sustainability Promise) Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the reporting organization Steelcase Inc. G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Annual Report, pp. 1–3 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Steelcase is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A. G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, Annual Report, p. 11 and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form Steelcase Inc. (SCS) is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, Annual Report, pp. 1–4 sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Report the scale of the organization Annual Report Intro Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 2 G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER contract and gender Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle Total b. Report the total number of permanent employees by East and Africa employment type and gender Female Hourly 810 119 198 1126 c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised Female Salaried 1466 363 623 2451 workers and by gender d. Report the total workforce by region and gender Female Total 2276 482 820 3577 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as Male Hourly 3476 370 661 4506 self-employed, or by individuals other than employees Male Salaried 1918 394 1072 3384 or supervised workers, including employees and Male Total 5394 764 1733 7891 supervised employees of contractors f. Report any significant variations in employment PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle Total in the tourism or agricultural industries) East and Africa Female Dealer Employee 74 74 Female Employee 2228 470 613 3311 Female Non-Employee 48 12 133 192 Female Total 2276 482 820 3577 Male Dealer Employee 94 94 Male Employee 5259 758 1317 7335 Male Non-Employee 134 6 322 462 Male Total 5394 764 1733 7891 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION AND GENDER Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle Total East and Africa Female 2276 482 820 3577 Male 5394 764 1733 7891 Total 7669 1246 2553 11468 Self-employed workers other than employees or supervised workers do not make up a substantial portion of the organization’s work. There are no significant variations in employment numbers throughout the calendar year. Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 3 G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective Approximately 100 employees in the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining bargaining agreements agreements. Outside of the U.S., 1,900 employees are represented by workers’ councils that operate to promote the interests of workers. Americas: • Steelcase Transport: 100% • PolyVision: 65% • Designtex: 32% France, Germany, and Spain: 100% Mexico: 80% G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Annual Report, pp. 4–5 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding Steelcase changed our sales structure to be more regional in nature and better able to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain deploy resources across borders. It included several production moves, closure of a German factory, quickly ramping up production at a new plant in the Czech Republic and significant changes to our operations distribution network across Europe. Please see our Annual Report for more information. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Steelcase takes a precautionary approach toward environmental management. We is addressed by the organization follow insights gained from decades of research, leverage partnerships with leading companies and organizations, and our experiences and feedback from customers, giving us valuable guidance and perspective. It is for these and many other reasons we have taken a leading role in finding creative and responsible ways to operate and design products and applications. Please see the Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 10–17 and 48–58 (Customers and Environment). Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 4 G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, Steelcase participates in the following initiatives: principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or • AFNOR NF Environment • ISO 14001 which it endorses certification program • ISO 26000 • BIFMA level® certification program • LEED® certification program • Blue Angel certification program • OEKO-TEX® certification program • CDP • OHSAS 18001 • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Programme for the Endorsement • Civic 50 of Forest Certification • Cradle to Cradle® certification program • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • Eco-Management and Audit Scheme • SCS Indoor Advantage™ (EMAS) certification program • Forestry Stewardship Council • World 50 Chain of Custody certification • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership • Global Reporting Initiative • UN Global Compact G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and There are a number of organizations around the world that we are members and active national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: partners in. Here are a few: holds a position on the governance body, participates in projects or • Business and Industrial Furniture • National Association of World committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine membership Manufacturers Association (BIFMA) Affairs, Executive Leadership dues, views membership as strategic • Business Leaders for Michigan Council, Diversity Executive • Business Roundtable • National Civil Rights Museum • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • National Minority Supplier • Design Industry for Fighting Aids (DIFA) Development Council • Gilda’s Club, Leadership and Incubation • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • Grand Rapids Community College • Sustainable Brands Diversity Speaker Series Sponsor • Student Advancement Foundation • Greenbiz Executive Forum (GBEN) • Talent 2025 • Michigan Manufacturing Association • United Way • Michigan Minority Supplier • University Prep Academy Development Council • West Michigan Center for Arts • National Association of Manufacturers & Technology (WMCAT) • West Michigan Environmental Action Council For more information on our partnerships and commitments, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 24–33 (Communities), and the Community Relations page on our website. Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 5 G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Identified Material Aspects + Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial Please see our Annual Report; Not applicable statements or equivalent documents; Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries Please see the Sustainability Materiality Overview on page 1 of this report. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content Business Integrity, Consumer Health + Safety, Diversity, Inclusion + Equal Rights, Employee Wellbeing + Development, Energy + Emissions, Sustainable Business Integration, and Waste G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary All material aspects apply to all Steelcase operations. within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary As a part of our sustainability reporting and materiality assessment, Steelcase outside the organization considers a number of external entities, groups of entities and elements which, based on Steelcase’s operations and activities, are likely to have a significant relationship with our material aspects. These relationships are considered wherever Steelcase has significant operations. CUSTOMERS PARTNERS COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT Business Integrity x x x x x Consumer x x x x Health + Safety Employee Wellbeing x x x + Development Energy + Emissions x x x x Diversity, Inclusion x x x + Equal Rights Sustainable Business x x x x Integration Waste x x x x Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 6 G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in This is Steelcase’s first year reporting to GRI G4. Though the scope and boundaries of previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements the report have not changed, inclusion of material aspects are new. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the This is Steelcase’s first year reporting to GRI G4. Though the scope and boundaries of Scope and Aspect Boundaries the report have not changed, inclusion of material aspects are new. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization The stakeholder groups Steelcase engages with are global businesses and organizations (customers), the architectural and design community, employees, academic and research institutions, dealer partners, supplier partners, governmental agencies, industry organizations, NGOs, community partners, nonprofits, investors and media. Please see Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 6–7 (Our Sustainability Promise). G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection Stakeholder groups were defined and identified based on their connection to of stakeholders with whom to engage Steelcase’s business. The degree of engagement depends on the potential impact each group has on the business. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, Steelcase regularly conducts research to understand our stakeholder expectations including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder around sustainability. We use the results of this research to drive our business strategies group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was and engage with stakeholders on the topics that are most relevant to their priorities. undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process We continue to engage with stakeholders through informal discussions, surveys, focus groups and social media. For more information, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 6–7 (Our Sustainability Promise). G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 6–7 (Our Sustainability Promise) stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting; Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 7 G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) This report covers the calendar year 2015 (CY2015), spanning January 1, 2015, for information provided to December 31, 2015 and the company’s fiscal year 2016 (FY2016), spanning February 28, 2015 to February 26, 2016. Key environmental impact metrics (energy, GHG emissions, VOCs, water and waste) are tracked on a calendar year basis for 2015 (CY2015). G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) The previous Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report was published in November 2015 and covered calendar year 2014 (CY2014) and Steelcase’s fiscal year 2015 (FY2015), March 1, 2014 to February 27, 2015. G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Steelcase publishes a corporate sustainability report annually. G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@steelcase.com or its contents G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen Steelcase is reporting at the “Core” level for the 2016 GRI report. G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with At this time, Steelcase does not utilize an external organization to assess this report. regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees Steelcase Inc. Corporate Governance Principles of the highest governance body; Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 8 G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Ethics + Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms Steelcase has developed standards and codes that embody the fundamental principles of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics that govern our ethical and legal obligations. They pertain not only to conduct within our company, but also to conduct involving our customers, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders. They include: • Steelcase Global Business Standards • Steelcase Code of Business Conduct • Steelcase Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking Steelcase outlines the policies and resources for employees, including the global advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to numbers for our Integrity Line, in our Global Business Standards document. organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting In the Steelcase Global Business Standards, a general procedure is outlined for concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters employees to follow when they have concerns about anything that might be considered related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through unethical or unlawful. First, employees are encouraged to take their concerns to their line management, whistle-blowing mechanisms or hotlines manager or team leader. If they are unable to help, or if this is inappropriate, employees can use the Integrity Line. It ensures employees can speak out about situations that have the potential to cause legal, safety, environmental or other problems at work. The purpose of the Integrity Line is to help resolve concerns. Every effort is made to keep this service confidential. The consultant employees speak with is not a Steelcase employee, no recording devices are used and employees are not required to give their name. If an employee chooses to file a report, they will be given a tracking number to check on the status of the report without revealing their name. Consumer Health + Safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and It is a Steelcase Inc. policy to work in full cooperation with the agencies that regulate voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products our business to ensure that it is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. In the and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues occur related to non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products or services. Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 9 S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Steelcase tracks and reports according to the following categories: landfill, incineration, compost and recycle. For waste reduction initiatives, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 58–59 (Waste Reduction). For how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 12–14 (End-of-Use Strategies). TYPE DISPOSAL METHOD TONS (2015) Composting Composted 154 Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Disposal Facility 227 Incineration/Cogeneration Incinerated 9852 Coal Ash Landfilled 45 Enamel Cake Waste Landfilled 274 Landfill Waste Landfilled 3334 Non-Steel Recycling Recycled 10581 Steel Recycling Recycled 13297 Energy + Emissions G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Steelcase shares in-depth information related to our energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions in our annual CDP submission. Please see our 2016 CDP response for more information. G4-EN15 Energy intensity Steelcase shares in-depth information related to our energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions in our annual CDP submission. Please see our 2016 CDP response for more information. Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 10 S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Diversity, Inclusion + Equal Rights G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Information about Steelcase’s governing bodies can be found in our per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Annual Report, pp. 11–12. membership, and others indicators of diversity Total average age of all employees: • Global: 42 • Americas: 42 • Asia: 36 • EMEA: 41 Total gender breakdown globally: • Male: 68% • Female: 32% Estimated U.S. minority breakdown: • Salaried: 11% • Hourly: 32% • All U.S.: 21% G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective action taken Steelcase takes seriously its commitment to maintaining workplaces compliant with applicable anti-discrimination laws and free from any type of discrimination. All Steelcase employees are expected to follow the Steelcase Statement of Values and Global Business Standards which include commitments to treating all people with dignity and respect and creating a culture of inclusion and non-discrimination. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues occur related to incidents of discrimination or corrective actions taken. G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and renumeration of women to men by employee Steelcase routinely assesses discrepancies in compensation with the intent of meeting category, by significant locations of operations both legal requirements and corporate values regarding equal pay. Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 11 S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Employee Wellbeing + Development G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementNearly 15 percent of our total workforce worldwide is represented in formal joint worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on management-worker health, safety and wellness committees. These committees help occupational health and safety programs monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by Approximate total new hires worldwide: 3150 age group, gender and region Approximate turnover rates by region: • Americas: 15.5% • Asia: 17.3% • EMEA: 7.1% Approximate turnover rates by gender: • Male: 14.7% • Female: 12.6% Approximate turnover rates by generation: • Boomers: 6.3% • Gen X: 7.4% • Gen Y: 27.8% G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Steelcase offers a variety of learning experiences across the enterprise, enabling the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing employees around the world to engage in formal and informal learning for their personal career endings and professional development. Steelcase also provides a career development tutorial to guide employees through the process of identifying their career ambitions, strengths, and networks and develop action plans to achieve their goals. Additionally, Steelcase offers a retirement program to help employees think through their transition, financial planning and tools. U.S.-based employees have access to a phased retirement program. For those who exited the company due to position elimination and plant closings, we offer services from a professional outplacement company, including career counseling, tools and techniques for job searching and courses to update skill sets. Furthermore, we support the French requirement to provide learning for employability outside Steelcase. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 40–41 (Learning + Development) for more information. Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 12 S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Business Integrity G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary As a 100+ year old industry-leading company with global operations, Steelcase Inc. sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations gets involved in periodic legal proceedings including contract disputes and other claims arising from time to time in the normal course of business. Steelcase business practices have been sound throughout our existence, and we believe there is no past, current, or contemplated future situation that would have any material adverse effect on Steelcase’s integrity, financial stability or reputation, or that should cause our customers concern regarding Steelcase’s overall business practices or continuing ability to serve them. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and During the fiscal year there were no instances identified of non-compliance with voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Globally, all salaried and hourly employees are required to take policy and compliance training regarding our Global Business Standards. We have updated the GBS course materials and plan to roll out training during FY2018. In addition, Foreign Corrupt Practices training is required for sales and other employees where applicable. Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 13 S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Sustainable Business Innovation G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Some of the key materials Steelcase uses in products include steel, petroleum-based products, aluminum, other metals, wood, particleboard and other materials and components. Due to the complexity of manufacturing Steelcase products, material weight and volume vary significantly by product type and options selected. Steelcase calculates materials used by products on an individual basis. A significant element of Steelcase’s product strategy includes evaluating the materials that make up our products. For over a decade, our materials chemistry practice has been evaluating the ingredients we use for our products. Our life cycle assessment practice has produced over 30 Environmental Product Declarations, helping us identify and optimize areas of our product lifecycle to create more value and minimize impact. And with product circularity in mind, many products benefit from easy disassembly for recycling. We also offer programs to help customers find non-landfill solutions for products they no longer need. For more information on how Steelcase incorporates sustainability in our materials, products and services, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 12–14 and 50–52 (End-of-Use Strategies and Innovative Products + Solutions). G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Steelcase uses a broad range of materials in its products—many of which contain recycled materials. Percentages of recycled content in products are reported in Product Environmental Profiles (PEPs). The primary materials used that contain recycled content are steel, aluminum, composite wood and select textiles. For information on products in the Americas, see PEPs. PEPs are available by request in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia Pacific) regions. Where available, Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) can be provided upon request. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 50–52 (Innovative Products + Solutions) for more information. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environment impacts of Steelcase’s approach to embedding sustainability into its business systems is holistic, products and services research-based and measurable. Every step of the way—from design, manufacture, delivery and product life cycle—Steelcase considers the impact of its products and processes on human and environmental health. The company’s product development process is based on three foundational platforms for sustainable design: materials chemistry, life cycle assessment and end-of-use. For our operational initiatives and progress, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 12–14 and 50–52 (Endof-Use Strategies and Innovative Products + Solutions). Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 14 S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Designing products for disassembly and recyclability is an embedded approach that are reclaimed by category in Steelcase’s product development process. It ensures that Steelcase products, packaging and components can be recycled or repurposed at the end-of-useful life. To explore our sustainability product design platforms, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 50–52 (Innovative Products + Solutions). Steelcase offers a convenient way for businesses to responsibly dispose of furniture and equipment. With options ranging from refurbishing and resale, to donation or recycling, Steelcase has helped extend the useful life of thousands of furniture products and millions of pounds of materials, dramatically reducing the amount of product waste dumped into landfills. For details on how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 12–14 (End-of-Use Strategies). Steelcase has a comprehensive packaging strategy that focuses on a number of different tactics to reduce, reuse and recycle packaging. This strategy begins with eliminating or minimizing packaging wherever possible, utilizing materials such as blanket wraps or approaches like palletizing. The types of packaging used are also examined, with an aim to use materials that contain recycled content and are recyclable. When packaging is used, Steelcase partners with independent local dealers to assist customers in recycling materials. Some materials such as blanket wraps are returned, while other materials are recycled in local markets. For packaging initiatives, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 53 (Transportation + Packaging). At present, Steelcase does not have a global system that can track the total percentage of products or packaging that have been reclaimed. Steelcase Promise + Progress 2016 GRI Index 15 2 0 1 6 C O R P O R AT E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Sustainable Development Goals Index Sustainable Development Goal Corporate Sustainability Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 1 NO POVERTY Employee Impacts, p. 33 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 2 ZERO HUNGER Employee Impacts, p. 33 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 3 GOOD HEALTH + WELL-BEING Employee Impacts, p. 33 G4-EN15, p. 10 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 G4-EN23, p. 10 Workplace Health + Safety, pp. 42–47 Innovative Products + Solutions, pp. 50–52 4 QUALITY EDUCATION Employee Impacts, p. 33 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 5 GENDER EQUALITY Employee Impacts, p. 33 G4-LA1, p. 12 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 G4-LA12, p. 11 Diversity + Inclusion, pp. 36–37 G4-LA13, p. 11 Learning + Development, pp. 40–41 G4-HR3, p. 11 People + Purpose, pp. 16–17 6 CLEAN WATER + SANITATION Water Conservation, p. 57 G4-EN23, p. 10 Employee Impacts, p. 33 G4-EN27, p. 14 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 Steelcase Promise + Progress Sustainable Development Goals Index 1 7 AFFORDABLE + CLEAN ENERGY Energy, pp. 54–56 G4-EN3, p. 10 8 DECENT WORK + ECONOMIC GROWTH Sustainability Promise, pp. 6–7 G4-10, p. 3 G4-LA1, p. 12 Innovative Products + Solutions, pp. 50–52 G4-11, p. 4 G4-LA5, p. 12 Governance, pp. 60–61 G4-EN1, p. 14 G4-LA10, p. 12 Learning + Development, pp. 40–41 G4-EN2, p. 14 G4-LA12, p. 11 Employee Wellbeing, pp. 38–39 G4-EN3, p. 10 G4-LA13, p. 11 G4-EN27, p. 14 G4-HR3, p. 11 G4-EN28, p. 15 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION, + INFRASTRUCTURE Employee Impacts, p. 33 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 Governance, pp. 60–61 Sustainability Promise, pp. 6–7 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES Sustainability Promise, pp. 6–7 G4-LA13, p. 11 Governance, pp. 60–61 Learning + Development, pp. 40–41 Diversity + Inclusion, pp. 36–37 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES + COMMUNITIES Sustainability Promise, pp. 6–7 Governance, pp. 60–61 Employee Impacts, p. 33 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 Waste Reduction, pp. 58–59 Water Conservation, p. 57 Energy, pp. 54–56 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, p. 15 Steelcase Promise + Progress Sustainable Development Goals Index 2 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION + PRODUCTION End-of-Use Strategies, pp. 12–14 G4-EN1, p. 14 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, p. 15 G4-EN2, p. 14 Innovative Products + Solutions, pp. 50–52 G4-EN3, p. 10 Water Conservation, p. 57 G4-EN15, p. 10 Waste Reduction, pp. 58–59 G4-EN23, p. 10 Energy, pp. 54–56 G4-EN27, p. 14 Suppliers, pp. 20–21 G4-EN28, p. 15 Learning + Development, pp. 40–41 13 CLIMATE ACTION Energy, pp. 54–56 G4-EN3, p. 10 Learning + Development, pp. 40–41 G4-EN15, p. 10 G4-EN27, p. 14 14 LIFE BELOW WATER Water Conservation, p. 57 G4-EN15, p. 10 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 G4-EN27, p. 14 15 LIFE ON LAND Suppliers, pp. 20–21 G4-EN15, p. 10 Water Conservation, p. 57 G4-EN27, p. 14 Waste Reduction, pp. 58–59 Innovative Products + Solutions, pp. 50–52 16 PEACE, JUSTICE, + STRONG INSTITUTIONS Suppliers, pp. 20–21 G4-56, p. 9 G4-HR3, p. 11 Dealers, pp. 22–23 G4-57, p. 9 G4-SO4, p. 13 Governance, pp. 60–61 G4-58, p. 9 G4-SO8, p. 13 Workplace Health + Safety, pp. 42–47 G4-PR2, p. 9 Learning + Development, pp. 40–41 G4-PR7, p. 13 Social Investment, pp. 26–32 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR GOALS Sustainability Promise, pp. 6–7 Governance, pp. 60–61 Learning + Development, pp. 40–41 Steelcase Promise + Progress Sustainable Development Goals Index 3
