Global Compact Communication on Progress, Vasakronan 2017 About Vasakronan This is why our sustainability efforts are strategically critical to meeting the targeted return. Vasakronan is the leading property company in Sweden. Our sustainability work consists of financial and environmental efforts, along with responsibility for We own and manage 179 office and retail properties humans that are affected by us. All of these efforts with a total area of around 2,400,000 sqm (as of are based on the ten principals outlined in the UN March 31, 2017). The portfolio is valued at SEK 117 Global Compact, internal policies/guidelines and Vabillion (as of March 31, 2017). The organization has sakronan’s Code of Conduct. The work is goal-orienoperations in four regions of Sweden – Stockholm, ted and long-term. It also requires commitment from Uppsala, Gothenburg and Öresund. The number of all employees in the organization. employees is approximately 330. Environmental efforts are based on the PrecautioVasakronan is jointly owned by the First, Second, nary Principle and they are carried out within the Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds. scope of the company’s environmental management system, which has been certified by the ISO 14001 In order to achieve our vision of future-proof cities, standard. We were Sweden’s first property company where all individuals can thrive and companies are to offer green leases and green offices. In November developing, we must contribute to a sustainable de2013 Vasakronan was proud to be the first company velopment of society – financially, environmentally in the world to issue a corporate green bond. and socially. Together with our employees, tenants and other stakeholders, we strive to ensure that our We discourage all forms of corruption and all of cities will be good societies over time. Vasakronan’s employees and suppliers are expected to comply with existing laws. There is a ComplianOur mandate from the company’s owners is to ce Officer to ensure that there is correct behavior generate a high, risk-balanced, long-term return throughout the company and its business. Along from property investments in Sweden. At the same with that we have also established an external time, we must run our business both ethically and Whistle blower Mechanism which is accessible from with consideration for the environment and society. our company web site. CEO-statement Reporting documents “ We support the Global Compact because we want to run and operate our business in a Annual report 2016 (only available in Swedish) Summary of Vasakronan’s sustainability data 2016 sustainable way and accordingly, all discussions Both the Annual report and the sustainability data summary have and decisions must consider sustainability been reviewd by PwC. aspects. We also support the UN Global Compact initiative because we are committed to taking responsibility in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. With those principles as our starting point, we continually develop our way of working to ensure that we run a responsible business. I am personally very interested in sustainability issues and it is very evident to me that employees working in all parts of Vasakronan’s organization feel the same way. ” June 2017 Fredrik Wirdenius, CEO of Vasakronan
