2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T PFIZER AUSTRIA Pfizer Austria at a glance Business location Contribution to healthcare Manufacturing at Sales in Warehouse in Leopoldsdorf, 12,383,744 packages of pharmaceuticals sold in Austria Orth an der Donau Vienna partner: Kwizda Research in Austria Greater transparency In 2016, 165 patients took part in Pfizer clinical trials. Pfizer disclosed benefits-in-kind granted to members and institutions of the medical profession in 2016. Twenty clinical and non-interventional 12% Physicians and other members studies with a total of 165 patients 81 of the medical profession 21 (MMP; around €1 million) 46 Total approx. 7 5 58% €8.4 30% 0 million 2 Research and Institutions of the 3 development medical profession 0 (R&D; €4.7 million) (IMP; around €2.7 million) 2016 donations of medicines worth at 2016 investments in research and development €107,238 €4.7 million Workforce in 2016 Attractive employer 538 48.8% 4,408 employees of management posihome-office days in 2016 tions held by women Volunteer program: Pfizer Corporate Family-friendly employer Volunteering Days (since 2008) 312 95 2,082 hours of volunteer berufundfamilie Diversity Member of Unterparticipants CV Days [work and family] Charter nehmen für Familien work* audit [companies for families] * as at January 2017 Economic footprint Value multiplier 2.367 Pfizer generated, directly or indirectly, Pfizer Corporation Austria generated more than €1.3 of added value for every euro earned. one out of every €625 in Lower Austria. Annual GDP contribution: 0.03 % (direct) €37 million and 0.05 % (total) in annual wage-related taxes and duties Superior employment multiplier 3.45 1 >2 Around 1,600 jobs in Austria depend Pfizer-Job more jobs in Austria directly or indirectly on Pfizer. Gross value-added effect of Pfizer Austria in million € 11.7 144.2 49.1 83.4 Direct GVA Indirect GVA Induced GVA Total GVA GVA = Gross value-added Direct GVA: Generated directly by Pfizer Indirect GVA: Generated by Pfizer‘s intermediate consumption in other sectors (e. g. electricity) Induced GVA: Jobs created or secured by Pfizer generate income that is spent by employees (especially for consumption purposes) Ecological footprint Total CO2e emissions 3,679 t 1,744 t 520 t 3 t 1,391 t 21 t Electricity Fleet Paper Air travel Shipments to wholesalers CO2-e figures partly based on estimates 2016: 60th anniversary of Pfizer Austria Facts and figures 1 1956 Drugs & vaccines 2016 131 41 1959 Employees 2016 538 1.8 1959 Revenue in million € 2016 187 81.30 78.12 73.84 67.69 69.92 1956 1970 1985 2000 2014 Life expectancy in years (at birth in Austria) Letter to our stakeholders [G4-1] Dear Reader, Of course, the overarching priority of all our activities is, as always, to live up to our promise to patients, customers and I am delighted that you are now shareholders. In particular, we are redoubling our focus on holding in your hands Pfizer transparency within the company and engaging all those Austria‘s Sustainability Report, involved in healthcare decisions. This is why, as a responsialready the fifth of its kind. ble-minded enterprise, we reached out to our stakeholders in Following up on our last report 2016 to discuss activities and future challenges as well as to for 2014/15, this report is an identify common actionable issues. update on an eventful 2016, during which we continued to The following pages present a transparent view of our contribustrive towards improving health tion to responsible corporate governance, fair business pracand value creation in our country. tices, labor practices, product stewardship, the environment, Much has happened in the past and the community in fiscal 2016. It also provides an outlook year, and there was much to celeon the goals we will be striving for in the future, often in collabbrate as 2016 was a year for big oration with our stakeholders. anniversaries. I am proud of our employees, our company‘s 60-year history, Pfizer‘s Austrian branch opened and 40 years of TBE vaccine manufacturing in Austria. Read on in Vienna 60 years ago, bringing to discover what we have since been doing in Austria, what kind to our country a company with a of environment our employees work in, and how we live by the fascinating history replete with innovative and bold decisions. principles of diversity at our company. The TBE virus was detected in Austria 40 years ago. A TBE vaccine has since been manufactured here to meet global Yours sincerely, demand. The trajectory of this development is a uniquely Austrian success story. We also examined Pfizer‘s economic footprint in Austria for the first time in 2016. You will find the results hot off the press in this report. With this account, we want to highlight all the many Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler aspects of Pfizer‘s overall economic impact and our contribuGeschäftsführer Pfizer Austria tion to value creation in Austria. Wien 2017 1 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T About this report This is Pfizer’s fifth Sustainability Report in Austria. It contains information about the fiscal year 2016 of two companies, Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH and Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH.* [G4-17] Pfizer Austria had published a Sustainability Report every two years and is now planning to publish it annually. [G4-30] The next report is slated for 2018; it will contain information on fiscal 2017. The previous Sustainability Report was published in 2016; it covers the fiscal years 2014/15. [G4-29] The Pfizer Austria Sustainability Report 2014/15 won the Austrian Sustainability Reporting Award (ASRA), taking third place in the category of Large Enterprises, in October 2016. Pfizer is the first pharmaceutical company in Austria to be awarded an ASRA. In this report, we wish to highlight our activities, progress and goals related to sustainability, and discuss areas where we see room for improvement and are planning to take action. We aim to afford you and all our stakeholders deeper insight into Pfizer’s business activities in Austria. What follows is a transparent account of where we stand, what we are working on, and what we have already achieved in joint efforts with our partners. This report was prepared using the internationally recognized guidelines for sustainability reporting as set in out the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), ‘In Accordance – Core’ with G4 criteria (see page 60). [G4-32] External auditors verified compliance with these guidelines. Denkstatt was tasked to perform the audit. [G4-33] Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler approved the report for publication. [G4-48] You will find the full GRI Content Index starting on page 60. This report also contains on page 64 the Communication on Progress published by the UN Global Compact, which Pfizer Austria joined in 2009. Pfizer Austria’s contribution to the 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is presented on pages 57 and 58. This report primarily covers Pfizer’s activities in Austria. To learn more about Pfizer Inc.’s international activities and global sustainability policy, read the Pfizer Annual Review, an integrated annual report provided online at www.Pfizer.com/annual. We have dispensed with gender-specific differentiations for the sake of readability. Words in the masculine form should, of course, be taken to include the feminine form. Please feel free to address any questions, suggestions or feedback to me, your Sustainability Officer at Pfizer Austria. Mag. Elisabeth Dal-Bianco, MSc Senior Manager, Sustainability & Internal Communication, Corporate Affairs Contact: verantwortung.austria@Pfizer.com, phone # +43 1 521 15-0 [G4-31] *Pfizer’s fiscal year runs from December to November of the following year. [G4-28] 2 Table of contents 1 Responsible corporate governance 5 2 Fair business practices 19 3 Labor practices 25 4 Product stewardship 35 5 Environment 43 6 Community 49 Sustainable Development Goals 57 GRI Index 60 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 64 3 Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler, Country Manager Pfizer Austria & Martin Dallinger, OUR COMMITMENT: Site Leader Orth an der Donau RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE R E S P O N S I B L E C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E Our priority SDGs Who we are and what we do In the mid-19th century, the German cousins Karl Pfizer and Karl Erhart laid the foundation for a successful future in New York. Today Pfizer is one of the world’s premier pharmaceutical companies. The company researches and develops pharmaceuticals and health products that make an impact across all stages of life. With an annual research budget of around seven billion dollars—one of the industry’s highest— Pfizer sets new standards in the treatment of various disorders such as inflammatory diseases, cancer, pain and vaccines. Today Pfizer subsidiaries serve customers in more than 80 countries, including Austria. [G4-4, G4-6] Pfizer: 60 years in Austria The Vienna subsidiary opened its doors 60 years ago on May 29, 1956. Pfizer has since been furnishing medicines to the Austrian market and serving patients, doctors, pharmacists and the healthcare system as a reliable partner. The company has operated as two entities in Austria since December 1, 2014: • Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH is headquartered in Vienna’s Floridotower. An important partner to Austria’s medical research and development community, the company markets prescription drugs and over-the-counter products. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer Deutschland GmbH. Pfizer Austria has no subsidiaries or stakes in any joint ventures. [G4-3, G4-5, G4-7] • Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH is our production site at Orth an der Donau, a plant that meets global demand for vaccines to protect against meningitis (NeisVac-C®) and tickborne encephalitis (FSME-Immun®) caused by serogroup C meningococci. Pfizer Manufacturing Austria was founded in 2014 with the acquisition of Baxter’s approved vaccines. The shareholder is Pfizer Luxembourg SARL. [G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-7] Pfizer Corporation Austria’s core business is providing state-of-the-art medicines and therapies to Austrian patients. In Austria, the company offers 131 medicinal products in various dosage forms, package sizes and potency levels (for a total of 606 articles). Most are prescription drugs. Generics have also been part of the portfolio since 2011. Pfizer Austria also sells over-the-counter (OTC) health products. Our direct customers are primarily wholesalers and hospitals. Pfizer Austria’s activities are not limited to sales; we are also an important partner to the country’s medical research and development community. [G4-8] 5 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Business units [G4-4] Pfizer was set up as two business units in 2016.  Pfizer Innovative Health Business (PIH) The Pfizer Innovative Health Business offers innovative medicines for the general practitioner and hospitals to treat the following indications: immune, inflammatory, cardiovascular, metabolic, cancerous and rare diseases. It also includes vaccines and consumer products. Inflammation Internal Oncology Rare Diseases Vaccines Consumer & Immunology Medicine Healthcare As at December 1, 2016 Pfizer Essential Health Business (PEH) The Pfizer Essential Health business unit in Austria manages an extensive portfolio of proven medicinal products. It encompasses more than 100 products used for various therapeutic areas, including cardiology, gynecology, urology, neurology, ophthalmology, and pain management. Pfizer Essential Health also focuses on researching, developing and marketing innovative hospital antibiotics and biosimilars. Biosimilars are very similar versions of biological medicines that are approved after the patent on the original active ingredient expires. With the benefit of many years experience in researching, manufacturing and marketing biological drugs, Pfizer is able to play a leading role in the field of biosimilars. As at December 1, 2016 To learn more about the therapeutic areas and indications, visit www.Pfizer.at/unternehmen/rezeptpﬂichtigemedikamente or www.Pfizer.at/unternehmen/rezeptfreie-produkte. 6 R E S P O N S I B L E C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E Our management in Austria Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler has been Country Manager Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH since January 2009 and Country Manager Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH since 2014. He also heads up Internal Medicine as Business Unit Director and reports globally to the Internal Medicine Western EU Cluster Lead. [G4-34] Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler Martin Dallinger Martin Dallinger has headed up Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH, Pfizer’s vaccines manufacturing plant at Orth an der Donau in Lower Austria, as Site Leader since 2014. Anchor points for sustainability in the Pfizer organization: Sustainability Officer Mag. Elisabeth Dal-Bianco manages and coordinates the sustainability agenda, which is under the auspices of the Corporate Affairs department. The Country Manager is involved in all decisions and part of the Sustainability workgroup consisting of representatives from all relevant departments and employee resource groups such as Medical, Quality, Compliance, HR, Works Council, Environment, Health & Safety (EHS), Lesbian/Gay/Bisexual/Transsexual (LGBT), Health & Value, and Procurement. Meetings are held regularly in a coordinated effort to analyze the sustainability agenda, develop it strategically, and put those strategies into action. [G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-42, G4-49] The Pfizer value chain Pfizer researches, develops, produces and distributes modern drugs and vaccines to treat and prevent diseases. The Pfizer value chain is illustrated below. Note that many of these processes are actually concurrent: Approval Approval Receit Approval ReimburseMarketing Research and development Approval Production Medical & sales Distribution Application Disposal ment The Economica Institute of Economic Research calculated our economic footprint in Austria for the first time in 2016. These figures serve to highlight all the many aspects of Pfizer’s overall economic impact and our contribution to value creation in Austria. And Pfizer indeed contributes greatly to value creation in Austria with its two locations in Vienna and Orth an der Donau. The most important finding is that Pfizer achieved €144 million in gross value added (GVA) and secured 1,600 jobs. GVA is the total value of all goods and services produced, less intermediate consumption. To learn more, visit: www.pfizer.at/economica 7 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Research and development We research new drugs to find even better ways to treat and prevent diseases from occurring in the first place. Pfizer does not maintain research facilities of its own in Austria, but the business location is nonetheless important to the clinical development of Pfizer products. Around 20 clinical trials and non-interventional studies involving 165 patients were completed in 2016 in collaboration with medical university clinics, hospitals and specialized practices. Pfizer’s research in Austria focuses on inflammatory diseases, oncology and neurological diseases. Pharmaceuticals research and development is time-consuming and costly. It takes ten to twelve years on average to develop a drug, with costs running as high as around €1.5 billion. Only one of up to 10,000 investigated candidates actually gains approval as a new medicine. Phases of a drug’s development Approval Research Preclinical Phase I Phase II Phase III applied for Approved ≈ 5,000 to 6,7 4,7 3,3 1,5 1,2 1,0 10,000 substances 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Years Indicated data = number of substances/phase in absolute figures, source: VFA e.V. For more on this, see the section entitled: [„Community“] Approval An application for the drug’s approval may be submitted to the licensing authority once phase III of the clinical trial has been successfully completed. The Medicinal Products Act (AMG) governs approvals in Austria. To gain approval, the applicant has to substantiate that a medicinal product’s expected benefit outweighs the expected side effects. Evidence is provided by submitting pharmaceutical, preclinical and clinical data. These days, most products are approved centrally for use throughout Europe. To learn more, visit http://bit.ly/29kxZ0b Reimbursement Once the EU approves a drug, it is added to the Austrian Pharmacists Publishing House’s product list. Pfizer can then apply for reimbursement from the Main Association so that the individual social security institutions can cover the costs of the medication. Its inclusion in the Reimbursement Code (EKO) is subject to an assessment based on pharmacological, medical-therapeutic and health economics criteria. The EKO has three categories, or boxes. Two (the red & yellow boxes) require the head physician’s approval; one (the green box) permits prescription by any physician. Health insurance funds may pay for medications that are not included in the Reimbursement Code, but only in exceptional, duly substantiated cases. Certain groups of medicinal products— contraceptives, for example—are not reimbursable and must be paid for by the patient. 8 R E S P O N S I B L E C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E Entry in the product Application for reimbursement (Main Association – 180-day evaluation window) list (Pharmacists Publishing House’s) RED BOX From application to listing: preliminarily approval Yes NO Reimbursable medicines YELLOW BOX NO BOX Drug subject to defined rules for reimbursement GREEN BOX NO BOX Negative list Not listed, Freely Not listed, but Cannot be listed, but reimbursable DARK YELLOW LIGHT YELLOW prescribable drug reimbursable in reimbursement in certain excepti(partly indica­tioncertain exceptioonal cases Prior approval Subsequent review extremely limited related) nal cases Manufacturing Our products are manufactured worldwide in more than 63 Pfizer plants, including the Austrian plant at Orth an der Donau, and in around 450 contract manufacturing facilities. Our Orth an der Donau production site makes the NeisVac-C® and FSME-Immun® vaccines for use worldwide. All other products distributed by Pfizer Austria are made abroad and bought primarily from plants in Germany, Italy, France, Belgium and the USA. Pfizer facilities operate according to the principles of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). Geared specifically to pharmaceuticals, these quality standards are internationally valid and rank among the strictest in manufacturing. And the technologies used are among the most advanced and safest available today. A 40-year success story in red, white and red Industrial manufacturing of the first TBE (tick-borne encephalitis) vaccine commenced in Austria in 1976. In 2014, Pfizer took over the plant at Orth an der Donau, Lower Austria, and took on its 230 employees. The facility now makes the TBE vaccine for use worldwide. This outstanding 40-year success story was celebrated in early March 2016 with a ceremony at Orth an der Donau. More than 100 guests from home and abroad accepted Pfizer’s invitation to join us for the festivities. How the TBE vaccine is made Grow the viruses Infect the cell Harvest the Viruses do not have a culture viruses metabolism. They This cell culture is The viruses are then need living host cells infected behind harvested by centrifuto reproduce, so a 1 2 3 hermetically sealed gation and chemically primary cell culture is doors. The active virus inactivated in special derived from hens’ is conveyed from a tanks. The vaccine eggs. It is then supplied with a liquid nutrient biosafety cabinet through stainless steel thus contains the entire virus, but it is no medium, mainly amino acids and glucose. piping into eight 100-liter bioreactors for cells longer active. This means viruses can no to grow and viruses to multiply upstream. longer replicate and cause infections, but they can stimulate the immune system to respond to the pathogen. Purify the vaccine Store the Fill it into syringes This chemical suspension The viral suspension is compound is purified The liquid is stored at diluted and filled in downstream along minus 30°C until it syringes at Vienna. with the other goes to the bottling Then the vaccine is 4 byproducts of the biotechnological 5 line in Vienna. 6 shipped out in strict compliance with cold process in an ultracentrifuge that spins at chain standards. 110,000 times the standard acceleration of gravity. This produces a highly purified, highly concentrated viral suspension. 9 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Stepping up Pfizer vaccine production with a new warehouse in Orth an der Donau Pfizer Manufacturing Austria’s plant expanded its capacities and opened the doors of a state-of-the-art warehouse with a sampling room in early December 2016. This addition has enhanced local logistics and takes the plant further down the road on its journey to becoming a self-sufficient production site. As the three-million-euro investment would attest, Orth an der Donau and Austria are important locations for Pfizer. Marketing, Medical & Sales Medicines have to be promoted and marketed if they are to reach patients. The cornerstone of our marketing efforts is to provide scientifically sound, accurate and balanced information about our products to doctors. We are committed to marketing our products in responsible, transparent ways. Pfizer complies with all applicable laws and regulations such as the Austrian Medicinal Products Act and the Pharmig Code of Conduct. Distribution Pfizer operates its own warehouses and distribution centers and works closely with external partners. Kwizda Pharmadistribution GmbH, a competent partner for the Austrian market since October 2014, is a pre-wholesaler tasked with the responsibility for storage and distribution. Timely access to our medicinal products is imperative, as some of these products support, sustain and save lives. As a rule, medicinal products are usually available at hospitals within 24 hours and in pharmacies within 36 hours—and even sooner in emergencies. Pfizer Austria Supply Chain [G4-12] Hospitals Patients Pfizer & Contract Manufacturing Logistics Service (global) Provider (LSP) Wholesalers Pharmacies Patients To learn more about distribution in the pharmaceutical industry, visit http://bit.ly/29pGBDu. Application Once our products ship out to hospitals and wholesalers, they are then distributed to pharmacies and patients. When drugs are administered to patients, they may cause adverse drug reactions during clinical trials and after approval. Pfizer takes all reports of adverse reactions and complaints about product quality very seriously. These reports are documented for experts to review and evaluate. This helps us meet the highest possible standards of safety for our medicinal products to benefit and protect patients. Disposal Proper disposal at the Orth an der Donau plant, in hospitals and by patients is the final stage of our products’ lifecycle. Impact on various core processes We are aware that our actions have an effect on society and the environment. This is why we have set ourselves the goal of analyzing our value chain‘s impact and identifying opportunities for improvement in Austria. 10 R E S P O N S I B L E C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E Our corporate philosophy [G4-56, UNGC 10] Our business activities are guided by our vision, mission and goals. And our actions are guided by our imperatives and values, which contribute materially to the company’s success and further development. Our vision: Working together for a healthier world TM Our guiding principle—Working together for a healthier world—epitomizes Pfizer’s goal. We want to drive innovation to provide patients with therapies that improve their quality of life. Our products are designed to help all members of society live healthier and longer, with a better quality of life at every stage. We rise to this challenge by engaging in intensive research, taking innovative approaches, and assuring high quality standards in every issue. Our mission We aim to be the premier, innovative biopharmaceutical company. Our strategic imperatives 1 2 3 4 Innovate & lead Maximize value Earn greater respect Own our culture Improve Pfizer’s ability Invest and allocate Earn society’s respect by Build and sustain a culture where to innovate in bio­med­ our resources in generating breakthrough colleagues view themselves as owners, ical R&D and develop a ways that create the therapies, improving generating new ideas, dealing with new generation of high greatest long-term access, expanding the problems in a straightforward way, value, highly differenti­ returns for our dialogue on health care investing in open and candid conver­ ated medicines and shareholders. and acting as a respon­ sations and working as teammates on vaccines. sible corporate citizen. challenges and opportunities. Our sustainability strategy We want to be a responsible company in all areas. Our sustainability strategy is based on our corporate strategy and the ten internationally recognized principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The core tenets of our sustainability strategy also build on the principles of ISO 26000, an international guideline for corporate social responsibility. [G4-15] The United Nations adopted 17 global goals and 169 targets for sustainable development (Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)) in September 2015. Its 193 member states, including Austria, committed to implementing the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. Business enterprises play a key role in achieving these sustainability goals. At Pfizer, we believe that good health is fundamental to advancing all 17 goals. Having met with internal and external stakeholders to analyze the Sustainable Develop­ ment Goals in October 2016, we aim to focus on the following objectives: [G4-15] More details on page 57. 11 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Materiality analysis [G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-27] Identifying and responding to our stakeholders’ changing needs is important to us. This insight provides the underpinning for our responsible business practices and efforts to develop our practices to further the cause of sustainability. We assessed internal and external issues of future strategic importance in a materiality analysis conducted in fall of 2015. With the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) serving as our compass, we set out to accomplish the following: 1. Identify issues of relevance 3. Prepare a materiality matrix Representatives of various departments convened in June With the results of the online survey in hand, we drew up a 2015 for a sustainability workshop to identify key topics materiality matrix to illustrate the relevance of issues by asking the following questions: according as rated by internal and external stakeholders • What major challenges await Pfizer in Austria? of Pfizer in Austria. • What are the biggest threats, bottlenecks, risks, and opportunities? 4. Prioritize issues The selection of issues was based on core subjects and At another in-house workshop with the Sustainability issues set out by ISO 26000. workgroup, the participants reviewed key issues on the materiality matrix to identify and prioritize issues requiring 2. Review & assess further action. An online survey of internal and external stakeholders followed. For one, we asked our employees to assess the 5. Take action issues; for the other, we invited external stakeholders to The survey’s results help us identify future opportunities identify topics of relevance to them as the stakeholders of and challenges for Pfizer Austria and will be subsumed Pfizer Austria. Relevance was rated on a scale of 1 to 4, into the sustainability strategy. with a total of 505 employees and 572 external stakeholders being surveyed. Response rate: 203 internal participants (40%), 103 external participants (18%). Pfizer Austria Materiality Matrix Extremely important In accordance with the GRI materiality analysis, we designated 1 Protecting consumers’ health and safety topics that respondents deemed “extremely important” and “very 2 Ethical behavior 3 Responsible organizational governance important” as material issues. 4 Transparency 5 Avoidance of complicity 6 Protecting human rights 7 Health and safety at work 1 8 Human development and training in the workplace 2 9 Employment creation and skills development 10 Conditions of work and social protection 5 3 4 11 6 Very important 11 Research and development in Austria 12 Education and awareness 7 13 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 12 8 14 Consumer data protection and privacy 13 15 Employment and employment relationships 19 9 16 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 21 10 17 Community involvement 14 20 18 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 22 19 Access to essential medicines 16 15 20 Compliance and anticorruption 27 23 28 17 21 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 24 18 22 Creating benefits for the surrounding region 25 23 Protection of the environment 29 24 Respect for property rights Internal stakeholders – employees  25 Sustainable resource use 30 26 Social dialog and co-determination 26 27 Stakeholder engagement 32 31 33 Important 28 Prevention of pollution 34 29 Health initiatives 30 Fair competition 31 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 35 32 Education and knowledge exchange 33 Responsible political participation 34 Social investments External stakeholders  35 Partnership with charitable organizations 12 R E S P O N S I B L E C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E The following aspects are not applicable to Pfizer Austria’s business model and are therefore not considered material: biodiversity, child labor, forced and bonded labor, indigenous peoples’ rights, security practices, audits and investments (as they pertain to human rights). Pfizer Austria has no locations that are at risk of human rights violations, forced or bonded labor, or child labor. Prioritized material issues: [G4-27] Ranking Issue ISO 1* 2** GRI G4 aspect 26000 1 Protecting consumers' health and safety CC Customer health and safety, product and service labeling 2 Ethical behavior OG 3 Responsible organizational governance OG Economic performance, indirect economic impacts, market presence 4 Transparency OG 5 Avoidance of complicity HR Supplier human rights assessment 6 Protecting human rights HR Non-discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining, supplier human rights assessment 7 Health and safety at work LP Occupational health and safety 8 Human development and training in the LP Training and education workplace 9 Employment creation and skills development CI Employment, Labor/management relations 10 Conditions of work and social protection LP Labor/management relations 11 Research and development in Austria CI Indirect economic impacts 12 Education and awareness CC 13 Promoting social responsibility in the value FB Supplier assessment for impacts on the environchain ment and society 14 Consumer data protection and privacy CC Customer privacy 15 Employment and employment relationships LP 16 Discrimination and vulnerable groups HR Diversity and equal opportunity, equal remuneration for women and men, non-discrimination 17 Community involvement OG 18 Consumer service, support, and complaint and CC dispute resolution 19 Access to essential medicines CC 20 Compliance and anticorruption FB Compliance, anticorruption 21 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased informaCC Marketing tion and fair contractual practices 22 Creating benefits for the surrounding region CI Local community 23 Protection of the environment E All environmental aspects 24 Respect for property rights FB 25 Sustainable resource use E Materials, energy, water, biodiversity, emissions, effluents and waste 26 Social dialog and co-determination LP Freedom of association and collective bargaining, labor practices and human rights grievance mechanisms 27 Stakeholder engagement OG 28 Prevention of pollution E Emissions, transport 29 Health initiatives CI Local community 30 Fair competition FB Anti-competitive behavior 31 Climate change mitigation and adaptation E Emissions, energy 32 Education and knowledge exchange CI 33 Responsible political participation FB Public policy 34 Social investments CI Local community 35 Partnership with charitable organizations CI *1: to be optimized further, **2: high level to be maintained; CC: consumer concerns, OG: organizational governance, HR: human rights, LP: labor practices, CI: community involvement, FB: fair business practices, E: environment 13 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Stakeholder engagement Who are our stakeholders? Our stakeholders are individuals or groups that are affected by Pfizer Austria’s actions or can have an impact on our company. This includes actors who have an interest in Pfizer’s development as a company in Austria. Because our society’s healthcare is such a complex matter, Pfizer has many heterogeneous stakeholders. Pfizer defines its stakeholders in an annual stakeholder analysis. We first did this in a structured, formal way in late 2015, and aim to validate this assessment at regular intervals. Several workshops were held with members of the Sustainability workgroup taking part. The participants defined, grouped and analyzed all Pfizer stakeholders. This insight served to develop measures and objectives aimed to step up and branch out our dialog with stakeholders. [G4-25] Pfizer’s key stakeholders in Austria are: [G4-24] Advocacy groups Pharmig NGOs IV Charitable organizations EFPIA Animal and environmental protection organizations Internal stakeholders IGEPHA Transparency International Management & shareholders FOPI Local management ÖVIH Employees & contractors PMCA Media Partner organizations Specialized media Works Council & Fair Play Network Austrian Biosafety Network Research institutes Pfizer branches IBM Consumer media Employees‘ family members Orth an der Donau factory premises Chambers* Patient organizations GPMed Medical societies Insurance organizations Policymakers & legislators Main Association of Austrian Social Security Institutions Federal government Private insurance companies State government Municipal government EU Federal ministries Auditors Customers Federal Ministry of Health Suppliers Physicians Pharmacies Schools & universities BASG Manufacturing materials Hospitals AGES Equipment Patients & relatives GÖG Consultants Wholesalers ÖBIG Office & training Municipality & neighbors Competitors FGÖ Disposal companies BIQG Vienna & Orth an der Donau Pharmaceutical companies Staffing Donau-Auen National Park / viadonau Fleet management Event & convention management BASG Federal Office for Safety in ÖBIG Austrian Federal Institute for Pharmig Association of the Austrian PharFOPI Forum of the Research-Based Healthcare Health maceutical Industry Pharmaceutical Industry AGES Austrian Agency for Health and FGÖ Fonds Gesundes Österreich [Fund IV Federation of Austrian Industries ÖVIH Austrian Association of Vaccine Food Safety for a Healthy Austria] EFPIA European Federation of PharmaManufacturers GÖG Gesundheit Österreich [Austrian BIQG Federal Institute for Quality ceutical Industries and PMCA Pharma Marketing Club Austria Health Institute] Assurance in Healthcare Associations GPMed Austrian Society for PharmaceuIGEPHA Austrian Self Care Association tical Medicine *Chamber of Pharmacists, Medical Chamber, Chamber of Labor, Economic Chamber 14 R E S P O N S I B L E C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E The concerns of our stakeholders Our business activities have an impact on many people’s interests and lives. We take this responsibility seriously and attach great importance to maintaining a dialog and a strong relationship with our stakeholders. We use a wide range of communication tools and channels to systematically engage with our stakeholders. This ongoing dialog provides the underpinning for our responsible business practices and efforts to develop these practices in ways that advance the cause of sustainability. After setting the process in motion with the materiality analysis conducted in fall of 2016, we took the next step towards direct involvement by inviting relevant stakeholders to join the discussion. Representatives of the following stakeholders took up our invitation to share their thoughts: • Physicians • Journalists • Patient organizations • Suppliers • Advocacy groups • Wholesalers • NGOs • Employees • Public policymakers • Management We sought to engage directly with stakeholders to learn their views on the following topics: 1. What, alongside providing medicines, are the future challenges for Pfizer in Austria? 2. What issues will have the greatest impact and should therefore be put on Pfizer’s sustainability agenda? 3. What does this mean for our stakeholders and where could they bring their expertise to bear? 4. How do we go about jointly achieving positive change? A thematic map developed by Hauska & Partner provided reference points to help answer these questions. The information presented on this map was gleaned from the corporate strategy, the previous materiality analysis, sustainability reports, the Sustainable Development Goals, and many more documents. With this big-picture overview of Pfizer’s sustainability agendas, participants were able to jointly determine and prioritize current key issues. We also asked stakeholders which talking points they would like to pursue with Pfizer and in what way they wish to be involved in this pursuit. The themed map was updated with stakeholders’ input. However, a written description of this imagery would not make for easy reading. Please find instead the following list of issues participants deemed to be pertinent to Pfizer: [G4-27] • Guarantee the availability of medicines • Offer information on diseases and support • Use/administer medication correctly • Reduce CO2/greenhouse gas emissions • Participate responsibly in public policymaking • Drive innovations • Make (product insert) information useful for everyone • Support employees’ professional development • Promote education & awareness • Provide information about studies • Create benefits for the surrounding region The CSR workgroup hosted an internal workshop in December 2016 to determine which of the aforementioned issues are actionable and are to be dealt with first. We then sent an email to participants in the dialog, advising them of the workshop’s outcome and the next steps we plan to take in 2017. 15 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T A look at the most important ways Pfizer engages in Austria follows: [G4-26] Dialog type Goal Action Examples Information Create transparency Keep stakeholders up to Pfizer apprises its stakeholders of current corporate affairs date on topics of interest via these channels: Sustainability reports, Pfizer.at, Twitter, to the company Pfizer Austria News (a stakeholder newsletter), employee newsletter, annual report, the PfizerMed.at service portal, educational materials, other newsletters, apps, YouTube videos, events Consultation Listen and learn Ask stakeholders for Surveys target specific small and large groups, as do feedback on decisions, online surveys such as the annual Pfizer Voice employee issues and activities survey. All stakeholders were surveyed on future issues in 2015 Conversation Share information openly Bring stakeholders on Person-to-person conversations are a key channel. We board to have a say in regularly share information with our stakeholders during decision-making visits and meetings, and at events such as the Pfizer Reception stakeholder event and the Pfizer Stakeholder Dialog in October 2016, lectures and training courses Collaboration Encourage active Implement solutions and This includes collaborative efforts such as the Pfizer Kids participation projects jointly with initiative, the tenth of which took place in 2014 stakeholders Economic performance and key figures GRI Key figures PCA 20141 PCA 20151 PCA 20161* PMA 20152 PMA 20162* G4-EC1 Sales revenues / net revenue [€] 199,095,755.31 201,785,372.40 186,630,794.39 17,017,975.13 55,755,724.96 Profit from ordinary activities [€] 4,992,961.84 10,417,860.12 6,596,968.61** 3,481,985.47 31,027,544.57 Taxes on income [€] 771,813.10 2,834,164.00 1,223,471.82** 222,124.50 7,863,368.91 Net profit [€] 4,221,148.74 7,583,696.12 5,373,496.79** 3,259,860.97 23,164,175.66 Total assets [€] 142,810,955.84 115,653,191.28 165,424,227.16 98,357,090.32 155,285,729.18 Personnel expenses [€] 23,630,059.06 24,115,949.67 28,397,747.68 16,506,366.95 17,370,241.88 G4-EC3 Expenses for social benefits [€] 648,549.03 537,169.58 726,531.56 177,118.47 137,645.47 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government [€] 0 0 0 0 0 G4-EC8 Research expenditure [€] NS*** 26,7 million 4,684,479.87 0 0 G4-9 Number of packages sold [units] 11,626,018 11,804,285 12,383,744 ≈ 10 million ≈ 10 million 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria’s fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria’s fiscal year * Preliminary figures ** The 2016 income statement reported €24.3 million POA. This included €18 million in non-recurring extraordinary income, which for reason of better comparability was not taken into account in the POA and net income stated here. *** NS = not specified: Research expenditure was not published prior to 2015. 16 R E S P O N S I B L E C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E “Pfizer has been a key partner in the Austrian national economy and healthcare industry for 60 years. In addition to the jobs of our 500 employees, we secure another 1,100 jobs and are a research-promoting company— in Austria as well. We are proud of that.” Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler Country Manager Pfizer Austria Goals Goals Actions taken in 2016 Actions we have Actions we intend to take in 2017/18 to achieve goals yet to take Foster dialog/ • Engaged in a dialog with all – • Dialog with patient organizations about patients’ exchange with stakeholders (Stakeholder rights and patient-centric information internal and Dialog, October 2016) external stakeholders Manage the • Gauged impact in the • Evaluate and expand • Continue to analyze and take measures to company Economica Institute’s 2016 external certificaachieve Sustainable Development Goals responsibly value-add analysis tions/management • Increase employees’ awareness of healthcare systems such as ISO policymaking and EMAS Take responsibility – • Evaluate and define • Amend contractual clauses in supplier agreein the value chain measures to promote ments to stipulate respect for human rights, etc. sustainable • Host stakeholder roundtable on sustainable purchasing supply chains: Come up with ideas to make our supply chain in Austria more sustainable and identify issues • Improve and standardize terms of payment for Pfizer’s suppliers 17 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR RESPONSIBILITY: ACT WITH INTEGRITY 18 FA I R B U S I N E S S P R A C T I C E S Our priority SDG How we go about our business At Pfizer, we have an obligation to understand the legal and ethical aspects that affect our business practices. It is up to all of us to act and do business in accordance with the principles of integrity. Integrity means more than just compliance with laws and regulations. It is one of Pfizer’s core values. Integrity reflects who we are as a company and as individuals. If we conduct ourselves with integrity, the people we serve will trust and respect us. [G4-DMA] The Pfizer compliance system: [G4-SO4, G4-41, G4-57, G4-58, UNGC 10] Know and uphold standards. If we know, understand and abide by Pfizer’s values, statutory laws and corporate guidelines, we can all be role models. Upon joining our company, every employee must attend training to learn about key local laws, regulations and company guidelines. All employees take part in regular training and refresher courses with updates on the latest changes. Compliance training takes place online, face-to-face, and in workshops. Be aware of the laws and ask questions. We are expected to know the laws and guidelines of relevance to our job areas and to immediately ask questions if anything is unclear. Pfizer employees who need answers to questions may at any time ask their supervisor or get in touch with the local or international Legal/Compliance department. Raise concerns. Compliance violations can pose serious risks for Pfizer and its customers, patients, investors and employees. Employees can report their concerns to the Pfizer Compliance Helpline, anonymously if they prefer. This enables management to identify potential problems and protect the company. Conduct ourselves with integrity. Pfizer complies with laws and abides by internal and external codes of conduct. And with our OWN IT! campaign, we are cultivating a corporate culture that advocates responsible behavior. Compliance & anticorruption The Medicinal Products Act (AMG), the Medicinal Products Import Act (AWEG) and the Arzneimittelbetriebsordnung (Medicinal Product Plant Regulations; AMBO) provide the legal underpinning for Pfizer’s activities in Austria as a pharmaceutical company. As a subsidiary of an US corporation, we also comply with the Federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Dr. Arno Illievich, General Practitioner & Isabella Rosenkranz, Product Specialist 19 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Our actions at Pfizer Austria are also guided by the Code of Conduct (VHC) of the Association of the Austrian Pharmaceutical Industry (Pharmig). This code reflects the legal developments and industry-specific compliance requirements for the pharmaceutical industry. It sets out anticorruption rules and competition and advertising constraints. There were no violations of the VHC in 2016. The Blue Book, our corporate code of conduct for business activities, provides the underpinning for our principled behavior (http://www.Pfizer.com/purpose/transparency/code-of-conduct). Serving as a guide and reference for all employees, the Blue Book goes to ensure compliance in all business activities. Drafted by Pfizer for global use at all subsidiaries, it sets out corporate guidelines and binding codes of conduct. These surpass industry standards in many areas. The Blue Book was last updated and adapted to new guidelines in 2015. [G4-15, G4-56, UNGC 10] Responsible political participation [G4-DMA] Pfizer is a nonpartisan actor unaffiliated with any political party in Austria. We provide neither financial nor material support to Austrian parties. Pfizer’s interests are represented by way of informational activities and membership in various organizations. They aim to create a supportive environment, gain public acceptance and underscore the legitimacy of our business activities. The names of Pfizer Austria’s corporate lobbyists are published in the Austrian Lobbying and Interest Representation registry. Mag. Dieter Hackl, Director Health & Value, is listed at the time of writing. Pfizer Austria bases its lobbying activities on the Pfizer Blue Book, the Pharmig Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct of the Austrian Public Affairs Association. In addition to his function as Country Manager Pfizer Austria, Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler was also President of Pharmig from 2010 forward. His duties as Pharmig’s president included weighing in on healthcare policy decisions and promoting quality assurance and transparency in the healthcare system. Prof. Dr. Rumler’s second term of office ended in late April 2016; he has since served Pharmig as Vice President. Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler was also appointed President of the Pharmig Academy in October 2016. The Pharmig Academy is an integral component of the continuing education landscape in the Austrian healthcare system. It offers high-quality seminars, training and discussion events centered on current topics. In 2016, the following colleagues were actively involved in the institutions and workgroups indicated below: [G4-16, G4-41] Dr. Sylvia Nanz Mag. Dieter Hackl • Pharmig Rare Diseases workgroup • GPMed Board Member, Communication • Pharmig workgroup Mag. Claudia Handl • Chamber of Commerce (WKÖ) Health Economics and Reimbursement • Pharmig Communication • FOPI General Meeting • FOPI workgroup on Responsibility • Federation of Austrian Industries (IV) • PMCA Board Member • Austrian Public Affairs Association (ÖPAV) • Austrian Public Affairs Association (ÖPAV) Dr. Elisa Schornsteiner • Pharmig workgroup on Austria as a Pharmaceutical Location Mag. Renée Gallo-Daniel • FOPI workgroup on Innovation • President of the Austrian Association of Vaccine Manufacturers (ÖVIH) Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler • Pharmig Vice President DI Alexander Preuss • Pharmig Academy President • FOPI Eco-political Environment workgroup Mag. Elisabeth Dal-Bianco, MSc • AmCham Vice President • FOPI Newsletter • Chamber of Commerce (WKÖ) • RESPACT workgroups on Sustainability Reporting, Refugees, Sustainable Development Goals • UN Global Compact Network Austria Dr. Alexander Celedin • Pharmig Clinical Research workgroup DI Martin Außerleitner • Austrian Pharma Cercle Mag. (FH) Markus Edelbacher • Pharmig workgroup on Manufacturing & Quality Assurance and Distribution Dr. Boris Wilke • Transparency International workgroup Compliance – Risk Assessment • Pharmig Code of Conduct/Compliance workgroup 20 FA I R B U S I N E S S P R A C T I C E S Transparency & fair competition [G4-DMA] We routinely work with physicians and other medical professionals, healthcare organizations and patient organizations. This collaboration of research-based pharmaceutical companies and physicians, scientists and patient associations is important to achieving advances in medicine—for example, to develop drugs that improve clinical treatment procedures and to support the care and information provided to patients. Transparency is essential to earning the public’s trust in our company. This is why we support the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and Pharmig’s efforts to increase transparency in the pharmaceutical industry. We disclose benefits-in-kind granted to medical professionals and healthcare organizations at www.Pfizer.at. This serves the purposes of voluntary self-regulation and transparency in our business activities. In what areas does Pfizer work with doctors and institutions? All benefits-in-kind related to prescription drugs are documented and disclosed. This includes benefits granted for Functions and events Research and development Service and consulting (e. g. participation fees, Donations and (e. g. clinical or non-interven(e. g. lectures, medical/science travel expenses for grants tional studies) advisory) advanced training) Disclosure of benefits-in-kind to physicians and other medical professionals In 2014, the Austrian Pharmaceutical Industry Association (Pharmig) and the Austrian Medical Association (ÖÄK) adopted new rules in their codes of conduct governing cooperation between physicians and pharmaceutical companies. The new regulations stipulate that benefits-in-kind granted to physicians and other members of the medical profession as well as to organizations in the healthcare system are to be documented as of January 1, 2015, and published for the first time as of June 2016. Rooted in a European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations initiative, this requirement is now being implemented throughout Europe As a member of Pharmig, Pfizer Austria is beholden to the Pharmig Code of Conduct. Pfizer disclosed benefits-in-kind granted to members and institutions of the medical community for the second time in a comprehensive transparency report. This encompasses expenses for research and development, donations, sponsorships and other financial support, invitations to training events, services and consulting fees. The purpose of this reporting is to create transparency, thereby helping the public gain a better understanding of the collaboration between the medical community and the industry, and building trust in our company. This disclosure shows all benefits granted in the previous year, either individualized by name or aggregated. Data privacy laws require the given person or institution’s consent to individualized disclosure. Who benefits from the collaboration between Pfizer and medical professionals? benefit from jointly have opportunities to can draw on the pracachieved advances. This research, take part in tical experience gained can range from newly clinical trials, and apply with their innovations Patients developed drugs to Medical Our new therapies at an and then leverage this better ways of using doctors and researchers early turn. They can experience to drive legacy medicines— scientists also take advantage of efforts to enhance anything to ensure a wide range of legacy medicinal prodevery patient gets the advanced training and ucts and develop new best possible treatment education offerings. drugs. for that individual. 21 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Benefits-in-kind granted to members of the medical profession in 2016 Since late June 2016, Pfizer has disclosed benefits-in-kind granted to physicians and other medical professionals as well as to healthcare organizations in Austria at www.Pfizer.at/verantwortung/transparenz.html. 12 % 58 % Physicians and other members of the Total approx. Research and development 8.4 medical profession (MMP; ≈ 1 million €) (R&D; 4.7 million €) million € 30 % Institutions of the medical profession (IMP; ≈ 2.7 million €) Payments/benefits granted to patient organizations Since 2009, Pfizer Austria has disclosed biannually all monetary donations and other benefits (donations in kind, sponsorship and training) granted to patient organizations. For more on this, see the section entitled “Community” on page 49 and visit www.Pfizer.at/patienten/patientenorganisationen.html. Drug donations In Austria, Pfizer donates medicines exclusively to registered domestic institutes and associations, in line with local needs. The guidance for drug donations is sourced from the Drug Donation Guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO Drug Donation Guidelines 2010), the Pharmig Code of Conduct, and the nation’s laws. To learn more, see the section entitled “Community” on page 53 and visit www.Pfizer.at/patienten/patientenorganisationen.html. Framework Pharmaceutical Contract Unique in Europe, the Framework Pharmaceutical Contract has been in effect since 2008. The pharmaceutical industry and social health insurance organizations work together on a contractual basis to underpin statutory health insurance funds’ ability to provide services, particularly to patients. With the Framework Pharmaceutical Contract, pharmaceutical companies and wholesalers pay millions of euros in solidarity contributions to local health insurance funds. This contract also serves to pursue the common health objectives. Around €2 million a year are earmarked for projects aimed to improve children’s health. To learn more about preventative healthcare projects for children, visit http://bit.ly/1PQsROd. Facts and figures GRI Key figures PCA 20141 PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 G4-SO3 Locations investigated for corruption 0 0 0 0 0 G4-SO5 Corruption cases and action taken 0 0 0 0 0 G4-SO6 Total value of political donations [€] 0 0 0 0 0 G4-SO7 Total number proceedings because of anti-competitive practices 0 0 0 0 0 G4-SO8 Fines [€] 0 0 0 0 0 Solidarity payments, Framework Pharmaceutical Contract [€] 1,047,978 1,005,568 ≈ 6 million** 0 0 Benefits-in-kind granted to members of the medical profession (MMP) for training and fees [€] NS* 900,000 1,049,072 0 0 Benefits-in-kind granted to institutions of the medical profession (MMP) for events, training and scientific activities [€] NS* 1.5 million 2,694,033 0 0 Research and development (R&D) [€] NS* 26.7 million 4,684,480 0 0 G4-SO3 Number of audits focused on corruption: The results of Pfizer’s last internal audit were so compelling that in future we will only be audited globally by Pfizer every three years. The next internal audit is scheduled for 2017. G4-SO8 Information and training on measures and identified significant risks: Mandatory training and communication for all employees. Every employee was trained within a year. 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria’s fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria’s fiscal year * NS = not specified: Figures were not published prior to 2015. ** Preliminary figures 22 FA I R B U S I N E S S P R A C T I C E S “Europe’s pharmaceutical industry has disclosed on the Internet payments and benefits-in-kind to physicians and institutions of the medical profession since 2016. In a few years’ time, this new disclosure will be a matter of course. Then we won’t even remember that things were ever any different.” Mag. Edda Wengler-Stachel Clinical Officer Pfizer Oncology Goals Ziele Actions taken in 2016 to achieve goals Actions we have Actions we intend to take in 2017/18 yet to take Promote • 100% of employees in relevant business – • Train 100% of employees in relevant busicompliance units trained on Pfizer’s Blue Book anticorness units on Pfizer’s Blue Book anticorrupwithin the ruption guidelines tion guidelines company • Whistle-blowing compliance helpline set up • Audit the archive service provider for all stakeholders to convey any concerns, • Implement the suggestions for improvement problems and suggestions of any type gleaned from the audit to continue devel• ‘My Anticorruption Policy and Procedures’ oping the company rolled out throughout the company Create trans• Disclosed benefits granted to members of – • Have Compliance Officers collaborate and parency in the medical profession (MMP) and to institunetwork internationally across the group the company tions of the medical profession (IMP) • Regularly disclose benefits granted to (EFPIA Disclosure Initiative) members of the medical profession (MMP) • Disclosed all benefits and donations granted and to institutions of the medical profession to patient organizations and self-help groups (IMP) (EFPIA Disclosure Initiative) • Regularly disclose all benefits and donations granted to patient organizations and selfhelp groups 23 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR RESPONSIBILITY: FOR AND WITH ONE ANOTHER 24 LABOR PRACTICES Our priority SDGs: We work together Pfizer is an attractive employer offering diverse opportunities for advancement in an international organization. Our colleagues can make the most of their ideas and initiative to drive the company. Yet Pfizer also supports efforts to strike the right work/ life balance with flex time and the possibility of working in a home office. In keeping with the spirit of its modern corporate culture, Pfizer also champions internal and external projects and initiatives that fly the banner of diversity and inclusion. Pfizer’s focal points are: Conditions of work Pfizer’s open, accountability-minded culture offers plenty of room for personal and professional growth. Our employees also appreciate the opportunity to work flexibly. Family-friendly employer Awarded the full berufundfamilie [work and family] audit certificate in 2011, Pfizer Austria continues to pursue many initiatives aimed to strike a better work/family balance. Health and safety at work Pfizer attaches great importance to the health and safety of its employees. The Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management system at our site in Orth an der Donau serves to ensure health and safety throughout the facility. Company health promotion programs are underway at Vienna and Orth an der Donau. Human development and training in the workplace Pfizer employees can bring their talents to bear and seize opportunities for personal and professional growth offered by international secondments and mentoring. Social dialog and co-determination Regular performance reviews, the open-door policy, employee surveys, the Works Council and the Fair Play Team contribute towards our efforts to support co-determination and nurture the dialog within our company. Diversity and equal opportunity We see diversity in our company as an enrichment. Pfizer is committed to diversity and a signatory to the Diversity Charter, a voluntary pledge endorsed by the Chamber of Commerce. Mag. Valerie Gall, MSc, Senior Commercial Strategy Manager 25 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Conditions of work OWN IT! – Fostering a culture of accountability Our OWN IT! culture enables our colleagues to try out new ideas, engage in open discussions, build cooperative relationships, and reinforce positive behaviors. OWN IT! means we want to develop a culture that positions Pfizer for long-term success. Employees are motivated to take on more personal responsibility for their job’s purview, their career, the quality of internal and external working relationships, and the success of the company as a whole. This includes standing behind decisions and being bold enough to embrace new ways of thinking and take acceptable risks. It goes to encourage open, constructive straight-talk between employees and mutual support in the event of setbacks. OWN IT! is Pfizer’s way of driving the development of a culture in which employees act on their own initiative and seek constructive dialog. OWN IT! also means fostering a culture in which employees can take thoughtful risks and pursue new ideas. This, after all, is the bedrock of our company’s success. Another campaign called Dare to Try is underway at Pfizer to encourage employees to explore innovative new possibilities and ideas beyond the confines of conventional thinking in order to drive the business forward. Pfizer Austria Leadership Charter Pfizer Austria’s Country Management and all supervisory personnel developed the Pfizer Austria Leadership Charter in a joint effort. This charter sets out actionand communication-related guidelines, and everyone at Pfizer Austria with the responsibility for leading people has committed to it. The key points are: 1. ONE Pfizer 5. Expectation management 2. Leadership by example 6. Internal presence / code of 3. Family-friendly behavior conduct 4. Transparency 7. Diversity & inclusion The aim is to promote a uniform style of leadership and hone all managers’ leadership skills. ONE Pfizer esprit de corps Although we are organized in two companies with two locations in Austria, we all work together across both locations and companies under the credo of ONE Pfizer. We operate as one management unit, support decisions collectively, act as a coordinated whole, and communicate with ONE Voice. Information sharing and knowledge transfer are second nature to us. Family-friendly employer berufundfamilie audit certificate Pfizer Austria has been entitled to the full berufundfamilie [work and family] audit certificate since 2011. Awarded by the Federal Ministry for Families and Youth, it signifies an organization’s dedication to promoting and systematically implementing family-friendly measures. Pfizer Corporation Austria was awarded the berufundfamilie government seal of quality for the second time in 2014. www.familieundberuf.at When an employee wishes to request progressive retirement or take parental leave, we strive to find a mutually satisfactory arrangement for both the company and the employee. We offer a wide variety of working time models, including a combination with a home office. 26 LABOR PRACTICES Unternehmen für Familien Pfizer Austria joined the Unternehmen für Familien [companies for families] network in November 2016. Set up by the Federal Ministry for Families and Youth, it goes to connect companies and communities that are interested in and committed to family-minded HR and community policies. The aim is to steadily improve the family/work balance and to help ensure Austrian communities are family-friendly places to live. For more on this, visit: www.unternehmen-fuer-familien.at/netzwerk/partner/Pfizer-Austria.html Home Office Employees in positions suitable for working in a home office can do so with the benefit of modern information and communication technologies. The added flexibility of working from home not only supports efforts to reconcile a career with family life, it also boosts our staff’s productivity. Our workplace is a segmented open-plan office, but there are times when it is beneficial to work in a quiet environment. The home office option gives staff greater leeway in determining how the work gets done, which has a positive impact on job satisfaction and performance. The home office is appreciated and embraced at Pfizer. Flexible working hours: The Zeit+ time tracking system In Austria, Pfizer uses Zeit+ time tracking, a system that enables flexible working hours to be captured independently. • Flex time: Monday to Friday from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. (no core hours) is indeed more flexible. • If an employee accumulates credit hours, up to 1/12th of the normal weekly working hours per month is deposited in a separate comp-time account with the option of taking up to five days of comp time per year. This also applies to all-in contracts. • The guidance for weekend and holiday work and comp time is clearly defined. Support to help employees with a variety of life’s challenges One service merits special mention: A helpline is available to our employees at Orth an der Donau to address a wide range of life’s challenges (financial issues, family matters, bereavement, burnout prevention and counseling, childcare matters, etc.). It is anonymous and free of charge. There are plans to offer this service to staff at the Vienna location (from July 2017). For more on this, visit: www.consentiv.com Health and safety at work [G4-LA8] Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management system At our site in Orth an der Donau, we manufacture vaccines that improve people’s health and well-being worldwide. It is management’s responsibility to ensure a safe working environment for our employees. Seventy people work under Biosafety Level 2 or Biosafety Level 3 conditions (see the table on page 28). We support our colleagues’ efforts towards workplace safety and positive attitudes to safe labor practices. Our safety-first culture calls for high standards above and beyond the minimum required by law. Our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management system serves to ensure health and safety throughout the facility. To this end, we set specific goals and define indicators, and measure our performance against these indicators. We also look to global EHS standards and objectives to provide us with guidelines for safe practices. These are incorporated into the local EHS management system. We develop and plan safe procedures in our facilities. And we assess our processes, products, equipment and facilities with EHS in mind. Every effort is made to report and evaluate all near-miss incidents, to take action to prevent their recurrence, and to improve our EHS system. The insight gained in risk assessments enables us to prioritize measures according to importance. One of our greatest priorities is safety, which is why we are committed to making our plant an accident-free facility. We support each other’s efforts to this end. Pfizer uses Leading Safety Indicators to make EHS measurable. The Good Saves program serves as one of our key indicators. It is comparable to Austria’s statutory provisions for near-miss incidents, but this program’s reports far exceed the legal requirements. Good Saves aims to motivate all employees in the facility to adopt a safety-first mindset. Every employee develops safety awareness of his or her job—for that individual’s benefit and for the benefit of the team. The workforce is encouraged to report observations and prevent recurrences. Pfizer Manufacturing Austria launched this program in 2015, tallying 505 reports in 2016 with 79.55% of the workforce taking part. 27 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Declaration of biosafety level areas pursuant to the Biological Agents Ordinance: Biological agents by risk/ Infection risk Risk of spreading to the Effective prophylaxis or hazard group community treatment 1 Unlikely to cause human disease Not applicable Not applicable 2 Can cause human disease and Unlikely Usually available might be a hazard to employees 3 Can cause severe human disease Likely Usually available and present a serious hazard to employees 4 Cause severe human disease and May be great Usually not available are a serious hazard to employees Preventive health measures Physical health and mental well-being are fundamental prerequisites for our employees’ motivation and performance. Pfizer cares very much about its employees’ health, and is keen to actively promote it. The workforce is welcome to take advantage of preventive health services such as free vaccinations, checkups, voluntary eye exams, hearing tests and vascular screening, smoking cessation counseling, health education and informational offerings. An occupational health physician and a specialist in workplace ergonomics support us to this end. The occupational health physician is available to employees once a week for one-on-one consultations and care. A workplace ergonomics expert is available to employees on demand to assess the individual’s workspace and formulate suggestions for improvement. Employees may also opt for in-house massages and take part in a regular ‘healthy back’ workshop offering tips and exercises for working hours spent at the computer. Continuing education and knowledge transfer [G4-LA10] Access to modern technological resources and exposure to a wide range of functions, cultures and countries are all part of working at Pfizer. All employees can bring their talents to bear and seize opportunities for personal and professional growth. Personal development and career planning Managers conduct annual appraisals with their staff to assess performance and plan careers. The supervisor and staffer jointly define personal goals based on the given potential, tasks, needs and development perspectives. This management by objectives goes to tap the full potential and promote talent. Trainings and seminars Our employees can take advantage of training and education opportunities, including a range of online training courses (Power 2 Learn, Discover Talent). Internal one-on-one knowledge transfer is encouraged. Regular events such as the Pfizer Information Circle and Lunch & Learn facilitate knowledge sharing among the workforce and with experts. International career opportunities As a multinational group of companies, we offer our employees career and development opportunities in Austria and beyond. Employees may take on international tasks (virtual positions) while based in Austria, be seconded or assigned abroad for a limited time, or work for Pfizer in another country for the long term. These exciting career opportunities offer our staff chances to grow professionally and personally while mastering another language. Mentoring All of Pfizer Austria’s employees are welcome to take part in a mentoring program launched in October 2015. Mentoring is a shareand-care program aimed to develop mentees’ personalities by supporting their professional and personal growth. Mentors serve as advisors, sharing their experience and knowledge to benefit mentees’ development. A mentor is never the mentee’s line manager. The mentee-mentor relationship is confidential, as is all the information imparted. The usual period for a mentorship is 12 to 18 months. The Fair Play Network Austria coordinates the mentoring program at Pfizer Austria in collaboration with the local 28 LABOR PRACTICES HR department. Employees have taken a great interest in this program. More than 20 mentoring relationships have been initiated with more to come. Business-Intelligence-Projekt Comprised of a series of lectures, trainings and excursions for employees, the Business Intelligence project aspires to facilitate continuous learning within the organization. These events go to broaden our horizon by exploring vistas beyond the boundaries of our business, and challenge us to look further afield in search of inspiration. Employment and employment relationships Pfizer also employs temps/contractors. In 2016, the Fair Play Network team evaluated potential differences between Pfizer employees and contractors’ access to certain benefits, redressing the differences that can be redressed. The next step is to inform employees in order to clarify any residual ambiguities about this matter. At the time of writing, 26.5% of our colleagues are over 50 years of age. The issue of age-appropriate work will be of increasing concern to us in the future, particularly what options, apart from progressive retirement, do we have to prolong colleagues’ productive role and tap their valuable experience to enrich our teams and our company. For employees that the company is compelled to part with, Pfizer provides outplacement counseling. Social dialog and co-determination [G4-49] We endorse employee participation/co-determination and dialog in our company. Our interaction is respectful; open communication is encouraged. Colleagues regularly have the opportunity to offer feedback at internal events, during employee appraisals, and in surveys. Personnel are free to contact their immediate supervisor (open-door policy) or the Works Council at any time. Employee surveys Pfizer conducts an annual global employee survey called Pfizer Voice. Its questions address matters of leadership, employee satisfaction and motivation, training, professional development, information policies and communication. The feedback tells us what we are doing well and where there is room to improve. In recent years, we developed an action plan after each survey to work towards improving areas in which we could do better. In 2016, Pfizer Austria was in the green zone for all survey categories. Employees at the Orth an der Donau site were able to participate for the first time in 2016. Dimensions/Indices 2014 2015 2016 Strategy – Pfizer strategy 85 % 89 % 94 % Strategy – department 78 % 86 % 92 % Strategy – business unit 78 % 95 % 92 % Organizational system and structure 65 % 74 % 82 % Management – CEO and Executive Leadership Team 82 % 88 % 91 % Management – department 78 % 84 % 92 % Management – business unit 74 % 91 % 90 % Management – immediate supervisor 91 % 92 % 93 % Employees 80 % 85 % 90 % Work climate/engagement 76 % 82 % 87 % Loyalty index 82 % 87 % 92 % Inclusion index 83 % 88 % 91 % Culture index 76 % 83 % 88 % Lower than 65%: negative, 65-74%: neutral, higher than 74%: positive Works Council Works Councils are in place at both Vienna and Orth an der Donau to represent our employees’ interests. These councils have participation possibilities and rights to be informed by management. Suggestions and criticism may be submitted to the Works Councils at any time, which meet regularly with management to address colleagues’ concerns. Pfizer Austria is bound by the provisions of the Labor Constitution Act with regard to its duties to furnish information to the Works Council. Chair of the Vienna Works Council: Susanne Lind, Chair of the Orth an der Donau Works Council: Monika Kies 29 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Diversity and equal opportunity We see diversity in our company as an enrichment. The diversity of our colleagues, the different perspectives, experiences and life stories are part of our strong and innovative corporate culture. Pfizer’s diversity strategy is to develop and implement programs that • help employees value diversity and perceive Pfizer as a fair and supportive environment in which to pursue a career • charge managers and executives with the responsibility for creating inclusive, equal-opportunity jobs • afford patients, shareholders and other stakeholders the opportunity to see the value of diversity reflected in innovative product development and good corporate governance Pfizer’s Diversity & Inclusion team focuses on activities and initiatives that • cultivate the OWN IT! culture in which employees and executives demonstrate inclusive behaviors and show respect for others • draw attention to and eradicate unconscious and conscious bias • select, train and engage employees with different backgrounds to give us a leading position in the market • contribute to measures and spark efforts to drive our company forward by making the most of diversity People from 27 countries work at Pfizer in Austria: Belgium, Bosnia, China, Croatia, Croatia, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Iraq, Iran, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Slovenia, Turkey, UK, Ukraine, United Kingdom, USA, Uzbekistan and Austria (2016). Pfizer signed the Diversity Charter, a voluntary public pledge made by Austrian companies, institutions and organizations, in fall of 2015. It was launched in fall of 2010 as an initiative of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber and the Vienna Economic Chamber. The Fair Play Team at Pfizer Austria took the 4th International Diversity Day 2016 as an occasion to make a statement about diversity at our company. As part of the Proud of Our Diversity campaign, employees showed what makes them special as people. An exhibition at both locations in Vienna and Orth an der Donau celebrated role models and pioneers of the LGBT (Lesbian/Gay/ Bisexual/Transsexual) movement such as Frida Kahlo and Oscar Wilde. Fair Play Network Set up in 2008, the Fair Play Network’s mission is to improve equal opportunity and the work/family-life balance at our company. This workgroup draws up proposals to this end, regularly touching bases with Pfizer Austria’s management. Part of the global Diversity & Inclusion Group, the Fair Play Network is composed of colleagues from various departments. They are striving to • create conditions within our company that assure equal opportunities for all in-house and Sales force personnel (professional development, promotion, leave management, re-entry, work/life balance) • eliminate gender-specific, geographical and other internal barriers • nurture talent 30 LABOR PRACTICES Facts and figures GRI Key figures PCA 20141 PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 G4-9, G4-10, G4-LA12 Total workforce 249 260 281 261 257 Men 72 73 84 151 117 Women 177 187 197 145 140 Contractors 43 43 58 16 9 Men 10 10 17 6 5 Women 33 33 41 10 4 Headcounts 206 217 223 245 248 Men 62 63 67 110 112 Women 144 154 156 135 136 Full-time 163 169 173 205 208 Part-time 43 48 50 40 40 Maternity leave 12 14 9 18 15 Paternity leave – – 1 – 0 Released 3 6 7 1 1 On Sabbatical 1 0 1 0 0 Age (Pfizer only; contractor ages not on file) Under 30 11 13 11 40 31 30–49 141 136 145 164 153 50 and over 54 68 67 41 56 Average age 43.3 44.6 44.35 39.05 40.18 Citizenship Austrian 178 188 NS* NS* NS* Other nationality 28 29 NS* NS* NS* Born in Austria 166 173 NS* NS* NS* Born outside of Austria 40 44 NS* NS* NS* Persons with disabilities 6 7 2 2 4 Persons with supervisory responsibility 32 40 43 35 39 Men 20 22 22 22 21 Men in % 62.5 55 51.2 62.9 53.8 Women 12 18 21 13 18 Women in % 37.5 45 48.8 37.1 46.2 G4-EC6 Percentage of locally recruited leaders in the management team (%) 63.63 72.72 100 90.9 100 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover (exits) 24 18 – 12 7 Employee turnover (terminations by employees) 14 10 – 8 0 Employee turnover (terminations by employer + by employees) – – 14 – 14 Employee turnover (in %) – – 6.26 – 5.67 New hires 22 13 30 31 14 G4-LA3 Returned and retained after parental leave 5 8 12 6 3 Termination by mutual agreement 1 0 0 1 1 G4-LA6 Accident types and rates, organization overall 1 1 0 6 1 Commuting accident 1 1 0 0 0 Work accident 0 0 0 6 1 On long-term sick leave (>6 months) 0 1 0 NS* 0 Cases of occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 0 Days of sick leave (calendar year) 1,459 1,549 1,471 NS* 3,511 Days of sick leave, men – – 405 – 1,366 Days of sick leave, women – – 1,066 – 2,145 Days of sick leave per employee 6 6 5 – 14 Home office days 2,207 2,096 4,705 * 1,792 Home office days, employees – – 4,408 – 1,792 Home office days, contractors – – 297 – 0 G4-LA7 Workers at risk of occupation-related diseases 0 0 0 75** 70** 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria’s fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria’s fiscal year * NS = not specified: Figures were not documented at this time. ** Persons working under Biosafety Level 2 or Biosafety Level 3 conditions 31 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Facts and figures GRI Key figures PCA 20141 PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered 100% (all except Country Manager) NS by collective bargaining agreements G4-LA2 Benefits which are standard for fullContractors are admitted to the Pfizer pension None time employees only fund only after four years of service. Most contractors also receive a bonus G4-LA5 Joint management–worker health and Safety specialist, occupational physician, safety EHS, safety officers, safety safety committees officers, Works Council, first responders specialist, Works Council, first responders G4-LA9 Average hours of training employees At the time of writing, it is not possible to At the time of writing, it is not have undertaken during the year by retrieve data on training hours from the system. possible to retrieve data on training category and gender The next report is to present data on external hours from the system. The next training hours report is to present data on external training hours G4-LA11 Percentage of employees who receive a 100% 100% regular performance and career (Global Performance Management [GPM], (of employees with an active develop­ment review Individual Development Plan [IDP] or employment contract) Sales force duty roster) G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration No data on wages/salaries No data on wages/salaries of women to men G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations Supplementary pension fund, yearly Vienna Meal allowance in the company public transport pass, travel allowance, vouchers restaurant, free plant shuttle bus, (anniversary and Christmas), gifts for special Consentiv Employee Assistance private occasions (birth & marriage bonuses), Services, gifts for special occasions meal allowance in the company cafeteria, (birth & marriage bonuses), private accident insurance, preventive healthvouchers care, referral rewards, progressive retirement Audits November Feb. 2015: EHS Sept. 2016: 2015: Global Baseline Audit Fire safety audit Asset Protec(Pfizer global), by XL Gaps and tion Security next audit audit by animal Assessment. scheduled for research Result: Very 2017 authority positive Nov. 2015: Fire safety audit by XL Gaps 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria’s fiscal year. 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria’s fiscal year. Goals Goals Actions taken in 2016 to achieve goals Actions we Actions we intend to take in have yet to 2017/18 take Maintain and • Conducted regular Pfizer Voice employee survey – – promote employee to analyze opportunities for improvement satisfaction • Drove on with the OWN IT! initiative for cultural change at Pfizer Support • Liberal use made of home offices • Harmonize • Use the Consentiv service offering for employees' work/ the Sales Vienna: Counseling for employees life balance force’s days (anonymous) for burnout prevention, off financial woes, family problems, bereavement, childcare 32 LABOR PRACTICES “Despite the demanding jobs, Pfizer enables me to reconcile work and family life. Not only that: As Chair of the Pfizer Austria Fair Play Team, I can even help shape the conditions myself, for example, by developing rules for home office use or a maternity/ paternity guide for mothers and fathers at Pfizer.” Mag. Nicole Zahradnicek Senior Commercial Strategy Manager, Pfizer Oncology, Chair Pfizer Austria Fair Play Team Goals Goals Actions taken in 2016 to achieve goals Actions we Actions we intend to take in have yet to 2017/18 take Be a family• Buddy system kept people on parental leave – • Repeat berufundfamilie audit friendly employer connected to the company • Set up a parent-and-child room in the by offering support • Revised Step-by-Step Guide to facilitate Vienna office on-boarding after a hiatus (planned for 2016) • Organize a Family Day at Pfizer • Took part in the Unternehmen für Familien network Train and educate • Persisted with mentoring and development • Step up • Drive the FOPI campaign to raise employees well programs (job rotation, secondments) talent employees’ awareness • Pressed on with the Business Intelligence project acquisi­tion • Stage Digital Health employee event to grow our general knowledge of the pharmaprograms • Take part in Rare Disease Day – ceutical industry jointly increase awareness of rare diseases with patient organizations Assure equal • Raised diversity & inclusion awareness (Rainbow – • Host a diversity workshop to develop opportunity and Honor Walk, Diversity Day poster campaign) ideas for improvement prevent discrimina• Continued to assess and, when feasible, harmotion at the nize differences between contractors and Pfizer workplace employees (Corporation) Promote • Took measures to prevent all types of accidents – • Use the Consentiv service offering for employees' health and boost employees’ awareness on the job Vienna: Counseling for employees • Continued to develop measures to promote (anonymous) for burnout prevention, occupational health based on a 2013 survey to financial woes, family problems, assess work-related physical and psychological bereavement, childcare burdens • Step up the ‘Fit and Healthy’ work• Used the Consentiv service offering at Orth an place health campaign der Donau: Counseling for employees (anony• Focus on addiction in the workplace mous) for burnout prevention, financial woes, family problems, bereavement, childcare 33 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR RESPONSIBILITY: PATIENT SAFETY Alex Scheithauer, 34 Operator FSME P RO D U C T S T E WA R D S H I P Our priority SDG How we assure quality At Pfizer, our task is to develop innovative drugs and make them available to patients—this is our core competence. And this is how we contribute towards a healthier world and achieve business success. We manufacture and market our products in a responsible way, and inform both patients and physicians about benefits and risks. The Medicinal Products Act (AMG), the Medicinal Products Import Act (AWEG) and the Arzneimittelbetriebsordnung (Medicinal Product Plant Regulations; AMBO) provide the legal underpinning for Pfizer’s activities in Austria as a pharmaceutical company. In addition, Pfizer Austria adheres to the Code of Conduct (VHC) of the Austrian Pharmaceutical Industry Association (Pharmig). Our commitment to patient safety: Clinical trials All clinical trials comply with international standards as well as with national and industry regulations. A clinical study is terminated immediately in the event of any concrete safety concerns. Science and medical experts Pfizer’s science and medical experts weigh the risk and benefit throughout a drug’s lifecycle to ensure that it is well tolerated and effective. Manufacturing Our production facilities operate according to the rules of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). Geared specifically to pharmaceuticals, these quality standards are internationally valid and rank among the strictest in manufacturing. And the technologies used are among the most advanced and safest available today. Distribution In the area of transport, Pfizer works exclusively with suppliers whose vehicles are equipped with suitable temperature recording devices and who comply with local (AMBO, Transport Code) and international (Good Distribution Practice) statutory requirements. Compliance with these guidelines is monitored on an ongoing basis. Product quality We develop and maintain a quality management system that complies with the regulations and meets the expectations of health authorities, our customers and patients. Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) and product quality complaints Pfizer takes all reports of adverse reactions and quality defects very seriously. These reports are documented, assessed by experts, and appropriate actions are taken. Security Pfizer researches and employs new technologies to combat theft in the supply chain and counterfeit products, thereby contributing to public health security. 35 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Protecting patients‘ health and safety [G4-PR1] It is our ethical and legal responsibility to assure the quality of our products and thus the safety of patients—especially in an area as sensitive as health. Pfizer collects and continually assesses safety-relevant information, from researching the active ingredient in the lab to the product’s approval and market launch. We work with experts such as researchers, physicians, pharmacists and authorities all over the world. For example, we obtain information relevant to product safety in clinical trials and from reports on adverse drug reactions or quality complaints. Pfizer’s quality management system is central to our work. It steers processes, tracks their progress and monitors outcomes. The idea of continuous improvement plays an important role; employees vigorously pursue its principles. Our ongoing quality surveillance ensures Pfizer’s medicinal products always meet the requisite standards. Education & awareness [G4-PR3] All products approved in Austria are subject to strict statutory informational requirements. The Austrian Medicinal Products Act stipulates the type, scope and contents of the summaries of product characteristics and package inserts for physicians, pharmacists and patients. The currently valid package inserts for all Pfizer products as well as information on therapeutic areas may be viewed on the company’s website at www.Pfizer.at. Current information about Pfizer products can thus be obtained directly from the manufacturer, regardless of time or place. This service is also accessible to people with impaired vision or hearing. Pfizer is keen to furnish easily understood product information, and we also use additional informational channels and contact options to this end: • Service portal for physicians, pharmacists and other medical professionals • Product information in different languages • Assistance via mobile applications Service for medical professionals: www.Pfizermed.at A special service portal has been available to Austrian physicians, pharmacists and other members of the medical community since 2014. They can get a quick overview of all Pfizer Austria products, therapeutic areas and services simply by visiting www.Pfizermed.at. The website also serves our customers and employees as a communication interface. A tool to order samples for healthcare professionals has been available since September 2016. This portal pools all of Pfizer’s product information, web pages and online services at one address. Designed to provide a userfriendly experience, the site is easy to navigate and the desired information is quickly found. Its contents may also be viewed on mobile devices (smartphones and tablets) so are always accessible to members of the medical profession with the requisite passwords. Patient service: Pfizer helps doctors treat migrants Flexibility is very much in demand in Austria’s multicultural society. Physicians are increasingly confronted with language barriers that are difficult to overcome. Education is an essential part of treatment and therapy management. However, the linguistic divide often makes doctor/patient communication very difficult. To remedy this problem, Pfizer started offering bilingual sheets providing directions for the use of medicinal products in 2016. They help the doctor and patient communicate. Clearly structured and illustrated, the sheets are easy to understand, with pictograms to visually underscore the directions for use. They are available in English, Kurdish, Russian, Serbian, Turkish, Urdu, Vietnamese, Arabic and Farsi. To learn more, visit: www.pfizer.at/bilingual 36 P RO D U C T S T E WA R D S H I P Compliance/Adherence Medication must be taken as directed for it to be effective. Each package contains extensive information on effects, side effects and proper use. For more complex applications in some therapeutic areas such as rheumatology, endocrinology and oncology, Pfizer supports patients with other guidance and videos to ensure medicine is taken properly and regularly as prescribed. Mobile applications (apps) Pfizer also provides digital support such as mobile applications (apps) to help patients throughout the day and with therapy. Pfizer has offered iMonitor, a user-friendly web-based software application, since 2016. It is available free of charge to physicians and their patients with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis or ankylosing spondylitis (Bekhterev’s disease). With this tool, patients can record information about the state of their health on the fly for their doctor to view at any time between regular checkups. iMonitor thus enables patients to play an active role in therapy management. The Mein Kopfschmerz app [My Headache] enables patients to readily track headaches, capturing details such as the duration and severity of pain and the accompanying symptoms. The patient can specify exactly when and under what circumstances the pain occurs, how it affects day-to-day activities, and how they are affected by the current treatment. This serves to accurately document the headache’s progression. The app stores information entered by the patient. A report can be generated based on this data, and then furnished to the doctor at the next consultation for detailed analysis and treatment. Patients can download Mein Kopfschmerz free of charge from the App Store and Google Play Store. More patient apps are available at www.pfizer.at/patienten-apps. Data protection and privacy Pfizer believes that access to information from clinical trials is important to scientists, physicians, the studies’ participants, and regulatory bodies to help advance the state of medical knowledge. It is also crucial to strictly control access to data from studies in order to maintain regulatory bodies’ authority and foster new research. With all this in mind, we provide unrestricted access to the data from our studies, regardless of whether the results are neutral, negative or positive. Since 2007, the USA has required all clinical trials submitted to the FDA to be registered in a public database and the results to be published upon the trials’ completion. The results of recent studies are posted at www.clinicaltrials.gov. Studies carried out in Europe are published in the database of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) at www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu Europe has, since 2014, also required reports on the results of all studies in this registry to be published. In addition, all our customer databases are registered with the Austrian Data Protection Authority and comply with all applicable regulations and guidelines. Pfizer currently has 24 data applications registered at the Data Protection Authority. Access to essential medicines Pfizer sells 131 medicinal products in various dosage forms, package sizes and potency levels on the Austrian market (for a total of 606 articles). This product range includes prescription drugs (original products, biologics and biosimilars) as well as over-thecounter products. Accurate demand planning and responsible supply chain management are at the core of Pfizer Austria’s business activities. Timely access to our medicinal products is imperative, as some of these products support, sustain and save lives. 37 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Our products must be available immediately when they are needed. Although we analyze market demand in great depth and plan accordingly, there may be situations where medicines are not available. Pfizer works proactively with all departments involved in the management of supply bottlenecks to prevent such critical situations. Our delivery capacity in 2016 was 98.8% (based on days on which a product was available in the warehouse), indicating a high level of product availability. The Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) President’s Award is presented to Pfizer sites and countries that have made remarkable progress in their areas of responsibility and therefore a key contribution to implementing the PGS strategy. Austria garnered two PGS President’s Awards in 2016: • Pfizer Manufacturing Austria – Gold President’s Award • Pfizer Corporation Austria Supply Team – Silver President’s Award Safety-relevant information and complaints [G4-PR5] We can all help make medicines even safer by reporting information about the safety, quality and side effects of our products. At Pfizer in Austria, patients, doctors, pharmacists and the general public have the following options: • Adverse event reports • Product complaints • Medical information service for doctors When Pfizer employees worldwide learn of adverse events, they must notify the company within 24 hours at the latest. This is rigorously monitored. Regular training courses are held to inform and train all employees accordingly. Safety-rele­ vant information is forwarded to the regulatory authorities and, if necessary, included in the product information. Adverse event reports We need to know and understand the safety and quality profile of all Pfizer products in order to provide physicians, patients, pharmacists and users with the best possible information. The safety profile of a drug is not yet fully clear at the time of its market launch, as some adverse events may only be detected after it is used by many patients. It is therefore our ethical duty and legal obligation to collect and evaluate safety-relevant information, to pass it on to regulatory authorities worldwide, and to notify prescribing physicians accordingly. Safety-relevant reports for Pfizer products address the following issues: • Tolerance or (lack of) efficacy • Misapplication • Authenticity • Use during pregnancy or while • Quality and appearance breastfeeding • Functionality • Dependency and misuse Adverse events may be reported by physicians, patients and users to Pfizer Austria directly by calling +43 1 521 15-0 or sending an email to AUT.AEReporting@Pfizer.com. To learn more about suspected adverse reaction reports, visit www.adrreports.eu/. Complaints Product defects may occur despite our rigorous quality and safety controls. Dissatisfaction with a product may be reported by anyone who learns of it—in person, to Sales force staff, or by phone, email or mail to Pfizer Austria. All Pfizer employees are trained to recognize product complaints and are required to pass them on immediately. 38 P RO D U C T S T E WA R D S H I P The Quality department investigates every complaint jointly with the manufacturing facility. This effort goes to determine causes and corrective measures. All this is done in accordance with the applicable statutory provisions and, if necessary, in close cooperation with the authorities. The Quality Department constantly strives to improve product safety and customer satisfaction. Every year, it conducts training for all employees on good sales practices, safe handling of samples for medical professionals and reporting product defects. The Quality department is responsible for handling all reports about quality defects. There were 425 complaints in 2016, which amounts to 0.0034% of the total number of packages sold. The company inspects every submitted package, and, if necessary, notifies the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety. This was not necessary in 2016. Several changes triggered by customer complaints were made to product packaging and patient information in 2016, for example, changes to packaging to make it easier to differentiate Temesta®, Epanutin®/Ketanest® and Vibramycin®. A report on the TBE vaccine merits special mention: The vaccine’s blister packs are glued together in a U-shape. This goes to prevent condensation and allow for visual inspection before the vaccine is administered. The blister packs are partially open by design, but after receiving feedback from doctors about this, we added a note explaining the reason for it. This is just one example of how innovative product features, paired with appropriate labels, assure patient safety Patients, doctors and pharmacists may report a Pfizer product’s quality defects directly by calling +43 1 521 15-0 or sending an email to reklamation.austria@Pfizer.com. Pfizer Medical Information In addition, the Pfizer Medical Information service is available to doctors, pharmacists and patients. It is a global team of employees tasked to provide up-to-date, scientifically sound and balanced answers to medical questions about our products. It responded to more than 1.4 million customer inquiries worldwide in 2015. Physicians, pharmacists and patients in Austria also like to use the service. Customers can call or email us with their medical questions or send us messages around the clock via an online form. The Medical Information department can be reached by calling +43 1 52115-0, sending an email to www.Pfizer.at/medinfo, using our online form at medicalinformation.austria@Pfizer.com (for medical professionals only) or by contacting our Sales representatives. To learn more about our service, visit www.pfizer.com/medinfo. Responsible claims handling There was one claim during the reporting period: In July 2015, Pfizer Austria was subject to a claim for damages in connection with an antibiotic. The plaintiff, a patient who had used the antibiotic off-label to treat a rare disease, alleged that she had been treated with a faulty batch of the product since spring of 2011, causing her health to deteriorate. Pfizer had recalled a batch of the product in October 2011, a move that had been coordinated with the local Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety (AGES). This batch was first delivered in summer 2011. As the color did not meet the approved specification, it was decided, as is customary in such cases, to issue a stop-sale and initiate a recall of remaining products. Thorough analyses of the batch and an evaluation of the adverse events database showed that there was no safety risk for patients. Pfizer was able to substantiate in court that it had not brought to market a harmful batch, nor engaged in any other misconduct. At the request of the plaintiff, a permanent stay of proceedings was agreed in February 2016. Responsible marketing [G4-PR7] We are committed to marketing our products responsibly and transparently. Pfizer complies with all applicable laws and regulations such as the Austrian Medicinal Products Act and the Pharmig Code of Conduct, as well as with the provisions of the Pfizer Blue Book. Awareness campaigns play an important role in prevention. They educate the public and raise awareness of certain diseases. 39 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Best consumer information: Pfizer wins 2016 Quality Award IMS Health and the Austrian Pharmacists’ Association confer the Quality Award Once a year. The jury’s decision is based a survey that asks around 500 pharmacists about the OTC (over-the-counter or non-prescription drugs) industry. It is carried out jointly with the Austrian Pharmacists’ Association. The 2016 Quality Award for the best consumer information went to Pfizer Austria for its outstanding efforts to provide information to patients interested in non-prescription Pfizer products such as ThermaCare® and Vitasprint®. Quality, information and promotional measures are three parameters that pharmacists in Austria acknowledge with this award. Immunization awareness Initiated in the 1980s, an annual Austria-wide TBE (tick-borne encephalitis) awareness campaign has since been alerting the public to diseases transmitted by ticks. It explains their consequences, describes vaccination options, and is accompanied by an immunization campaign during which TBE vaccines are discounted. This regular education drive has helped reduce the number of cases by some 90% in Austria. There were around 700 cases a year before immunizations began in 1981; in 2016, there were 96 cases (“Virus-epidemiological Information 4/2017,” Department of Virology, MedUni Vienna). This campaign focuses on dispelling widely held misconceptions about how the TBE virus is transmitted. Smallpox is a disease that has afflicted humankind for a very long time. Archduchess of Austria Maria Theresa, for example, lost three of her 16 children to the disease. Today smallpox is largely unknown; the WHO declared the world to be free of smallpox in 1979. Similar success has been achieved with polio, tetanus and diphtheria. These accomplishments are attributable to national immunization programs that help prevent disability and death. Despite the encouraging developments, though, vaccination coverage in Austria is declining and the incidence of pertussis (whooping cough) and measles is increasing. Many diseases have been kept at bay, and are now so rare that people are no longer mindful of them. The risk of contracting measles is underestimated; it is dismissed as a harmless childhood illness. Unfortunately, the misconception that immunization is no longer necessary for such rare diseases lingers. However, facts show that vaccinations not only contribute to the health of the vaccinated individual, they also prevent the infection of others. Facts and figures GRI Key figures PCA 20141 PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Delivery capacity 98.3 % 97 % 98.8 % 97 % 98.8 % G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their lifecycle, by type of outcomes 0 0 0 0 0 G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 0 0 0 0 0 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 0 0 0 0 0 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes 0 0 0 0 0 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 0 0 0 0 0 G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 0 0 0 0 0 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria’s fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria’s fiscal year 40 P RO D U C T S T E WA R D S H I P “A TBE vaccine production run takes about nine months; the vaccine produced in this way can protect around 50,000 people. We make an important contribution to prevention with our vaccines.” DI Martin Außerleitner Production Manager Pfizer Manufacturing Austria Goals Goals Actions taken in 2016 to achieve goals Actions we have Actions we intend to take in 2017/18 yet to take Assure • Product and drug safety: Introduced packaging – • Equip all packaging with a 2D security patient with seals that cannot be restored to their original code by 2019 allowing every Pfizer health and condition after opening. Aim: Rule out the possimedicinal product to be identified and safety bility of manipulated content. Packaging to be traced individually and to keep counimplemented step by step, with plans to go live in terfeit drugs out of the legal supply 2017 chain. To be implemented step by step • Steadily improved storage and transport security • Raise awareness and educate on the subject of antibiotic resistance Increase • Stepped up rapid response to customer – – customer complaints (425 complaints in 2016 = 0.0034%) satisfaction • Updated Pfizermed.at; introduced an ordering tool for physicians Protect • All our databases are registered with the Austrian – • Introduce new data privacy rules in the customer Data Protection Authority. There were no data company privacy privacy-related complaints in 2016 Inform and • Extended digital product information channels – • Offer more digital information chanraise alongside established channels (relaunched www. nels to customers, for example, innovaawareness Pfizer.at with a new design, value-adding content tive virtual reality apps and a new concept for addressing patients to • Raise public awareness of counterfeit raise awareness & educate) medicines Ensure • Ensured Pfizer medicines were available to – • Ensure Pfizer medicines are available to access to patients (98.8% delivery capability in 2016) patients essential medicines 41 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR RESPONSIBILITY: IN HARMONY WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 42 ENVIRONMENT Our priority SDGs: What we do for the environment Our environment and its resources are valuable assets to us and to future generations. This is why Pfizer is planning measures to reduce CO2 emissions. Beyond that, we are committed to managing all resources in a careful, considerate way. The Pfizer Johannes Schreiner, Engineering Technician, Robert Schmid, Supervisor Research, offices in Vienna’s Floridotower have been powered by 100% Dr. Helga Savidis-Dacho, Supervisor Animal hydroelectricity since October 2016. We assure you, our internal Housing and external customers and stakeholders, that we are serious about protecting the environment and are taking action to advance the cause. This effort is ongoing, and we are pursuing it jointly with all our contractual partners and suppliers. The Pfizer Environmental Program encompasses the following areas: Energy & climate change Pfizer is working globally to reduce its CO2 emissions and ecological footprint. Greener processes & decreasing waste Pfizer aims to minimize the environmental impact of its products and processes. To this end, we are developing eco-friendly packaging and increasingly using renewable energy in manufacturing. The Pfizer distribution network is working towards sustainable processes and a greener supply chain. Another goal is to decrease the amount of waste and recycle in the best ways possible. Reducing water consumption Pfizer is committed to minimizing water consumption. We recycle and reuse water when possible. The needs of local people are very much taken into account in areas where water supplies are scarce. Raising awareness Pfizer is taking action to promote responsible natural resource and environmental management. These initiatives address employees as well as customers and suppliers. Fundamental principles of Pfizer‘s environmental policy Pfizer has made a global commitment to the principle of sustainable management, including its core area of ecology. We seek to promote practices that reduce the negative impact on our environment. We are committed to preventive environmental protection. Our Green Journey sustainability program (http://on.Pfizer.com/29jB3Np) and our environmental sustainability goals focus on three key areas: [G4-14] 43 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T • Combat climate change and its effects • Minimize our products’ environmental impact • Manage water resources with care Pfizer has set itself the following global goals and intends to achieve them by the end of 2020 (targets based on 2010 data): • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% • Decrease waste by 15% • Reduce water withdrawal by 5% Austria has adopted these goals and plans to implement them in the next few years. Prevention of pollution Promote green commuting Pfizer motivates its employees to leave the car behind when they travel to the office. Those who opt for public transport receive a monthly allowance. Bicycle parking and showers are available for cyclists. The company also provides a factory shuttle bus at the Orth an der Donau site to reduce commuter car use. It runs to and from Vienna on weekdays. Every year, Pfizer also takes part in the Austria Cycles to Work campaign. Our employees cycled 10,763.4 kilometers from February to July 2016. Deploy innovative technologies Pfizer has increasingly relied on video and phone conferences for many years now. Fewer journeys by car and air reduce our ecological footprint at home and abroad. Shorten transport routes Pfizer does not operate trucking fleets or logistics facilities of its own; we have outsourced these activities to external partners. Nonetheless, we continue to work with our partners towards eco-friendly improvements in this area. Pfizer had operated two pharmaceutical warehouses, delivering supplies to its customers from Karlsruhe, Germany, and from a smaller warehouse for specialty products in Vienna. In a bid to make the logistics chain more flexible, eco-friendly, customer-centric and better prepared for the future, the two warehouses were consolidated in one central warehouse in Austria in September 2014. Kwizda Pharmadistribution GmbH in Leopoldsdorf near Vienna took over both warehousing and distribution. This shortened our transport routes. Partners and customers joined in to better coordinate ordering, delivery and pick-up so that wholesalers now stop by just once a week to collect one major order. These measures optimize supply chain processes and handling, reduce CO2emissions, and protect the environment. Pfizer and Herba Chemosan are planning a pilot project for 2017 where returned medicinal products are to be destroyed directly by the wholesaler. Fewer trips to and from the plant means lower CO2 emissions. Sustainable use of resources Energy efficiency The results of energy efficiency audits conducted in March and August 2015 at the Vienna offices and in November 2015 at the Orth an der Donau plant helped us identify measures to improve energy efficiency and optimize energy use. These actions include reducing heating and electricity consumption, switching to 100% hydropower-generated electricity at the Vienna site, and raising awareness of employees with placards that read ‘We’re conserving.’ Placed around the office, these remind everyone to do their part to help conserve electricity, water and paper. 44 ENVIRONMENT We’re conserving! Help make a difference. We’re conserving We’re conserving water! We’re conserving paper! electricity! Please consider the environment Please consider the environment Please consider the environment and do not leave the water running and print documents only when and switch off the lights when you unnecessarily. absolutely necessary. leave the bathroom. The journey to a paperless office continues: We have been billing wholesalers electronically since March 2016. Treatment of animals Pfizer’s research is dedicated to the discovery and development of breakthrough drugs and therapies that will help prolong and improve people’s lives. Pfizer has an ethical and legal obligation to evaluate the efficacy of medicines and therapies. Animal-based biomedical research in the pharmaceutical industry remains a vital component of discovery, evaluation and regulatory processes that lead to the development of products that save or improve human lives. New technologies make it possible in many cases to dispense with animal experiments. However, animal studies are frequently critical to their evaluation, and are required by regulatory authorities worldwide to ensure the quality, efficacy and safety of the medicines we discover. Pfizer endeavors to carry out as few animal experiments as possible and complies with all applicable statutory requirements. Pfizer has developed a model to enable AGES, the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, to dispense with animal experiments and test our vaccines on cell cultures. We are striving to introduce this model step by step at the Orth an der Donau facility so that, in the future, we can dispense with animal experiments altogether. Pharmaceuticals in the environment We are aware of the potential impact that the manufacture, use and disposal of our medicines can have on human health and the environment, and we are committed to minimizing this impact throughout our supply chain and our products’ lifecycles. The disposal of our medicines is an important issue. An informational event held in 2016 highlighted its importance by increasing our employees’ awareness of the proper procedures for disposing of medicines. We plan to set up a depot service at the Floridotower offices in 2017 for employees to drop off expired or unused medication during working hours for proper disposal. In addition, we intend to educate other stakeholder groups about the proper disposal of medicines. Requirements for suppliers Pfizer rigorously screens candidates when selecting partner companies to transport and distribute our medicinal product. Compliance with local and international legal requirements is a prerequisite for collaboration. Occupational safety and environmental protection as well as health and safety management certifications play a weighty role in our deliberations. Pfizer regularly monitors compliance with stipulated quality criteria and standards. In 2015, Pfizer developed the following supply chain goals aimed to achieved improvements benefiting the environment, to be achieved by the end of 2020. Austria has adopted these goals and plans to implement them in the next few years: • 100% of key suppliers support Pfizer’s Supplier Code of Conduct and are aligned with the Principles of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative • 100% of key suppliers manage greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste generation responsibly • 90% of key suppliers establish reduction goals for greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste generation 45 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Facts and figures* GRI Key figures PCA 20141 PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 Scope 1-3 Total CO2 emissions [t] 571.56 598.80 1,765.64 1,595.65 1,913.66 G4-EN15 CO2e emissions of the overall fleet in 511.70 518.78 520.14 0 0 (Scope 1) accordance with actual mileage [t] G4-EN16 CO2e emissions, electricity [t] 54.80 54.23 44.86 1,595.65 1,698.84 (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Total CO2e emissions [t] 5.06 25.78 1,200.64 0 214.82 (Scope 3) CO2e consumption, paper [t] 5.06 2.82 3.42 0 0 CO2e emissions, deliveries to wholesalers [t] NS* 22.96 21.36 0 0 CO2e emissions, air travel [t] NS* NS* 1,175.86 NS* 214.82 Energy G4-EN 3 Electricity [kWh] 394,685 397,451 332,328 5,719,176 6,089,020 Steam [kg] – – – 12,470,625 9,036,796 Compressed air [m³] 0 0 0 77,354 34,648 Heating [kWh] 167,256 153,468 189,517 0 0 Cooling [kWh] 146,366 142,705 169,059 0 0 Materials and water G4-EN17 Paper consumption [sheets] 957,500 534,000 647,500 0 0 Paper consumption [per employee ] 3,845.38 2,053.85 2,304.27 0 0 G4-EN8 Water consumption [m³] 1,617.45 1,119.67 1,361.55 41,551 333,396.27 Waste water [m³] 0 0 0 39,347 33,763.05 Mobility G4-EN15 Gasoline [l] 6,553.03 4,248.32 2,507.32 0 0 Diesel [l] 188,042.24 192,759.05 190,138.24 0 0 Total fuel consumption [l] 194,595.27 197,007.37 192,645.56 0 0 Total fuel costs [€] 262,832.94 227,518.71 204,457.44 0 0 G4-EN17 Packages (2–8°C) to wholesalers [no.] NS* 5,204 6,334 0 0 Packages (15–25°C) to wholesalers [no.] NS* 22,458 19,096 0 0 Intercontinental air travel [passenger km] NS* NS* 1,159,015.12 NS* 202,909.38 Inter-European air travel [passenger km] NS* NS* 1,723,513.98 NS* 334,400.27 G4-EN19 Public transport allowance [no. of people] 37 10 18 0 0 Job tickets [no. of people] 41 43 54 0 0 Pfizer Cycles to Work [participants] 9 11 13 8 9 Nonhazardous & hazardous waste G4-EN23 Waste paper [t] 1.20 1.02 3.40 9.90 10.80 Residual waste [t] 7.24 7.24 7.24 0 0 Colored glass [t] 0.59 0.59 0.59 0 0 White glass [t] 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.42 0 Plastics [t] 0.58 0.58 0.58 0 0 Metal [t] 0.07 0.07 0.07 0 0 Medical waste 0 0 0 31.08 46.64 (nonhazardous/ incinerated) [t] Carcass waste 0 0 0 0.30 0.30 (nonhazardous/ incinerated) [t] Egg waste (nonhazardous/recycled) [t] 0 0 0 30.67 28.42 Laboratory chemicals (hazardous/recycled) [t] 0 0 0 1.76 0.82 Small electronic devices 0 0 0.54 1.59 0.36 (hazardous/recycled) [t] G4-EN25 Pharmaceutical waste 0 0 0 1.76 0.33 (hazardous/ incinerated) [t] Compliance & investments G4-EN29 Fines and total number of non-monetary 0 0 0 0 0 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-EN31 Environmental protection investments [€] 0 8,700 0 15,000 10,890 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental 0 0 0 0 0 impacts Sale of compressed air to third parties [m³] 0 0 0 162,834.9 198,036.93 * This marks the first time Pfizer Austria is reporting on its ecological footprint. The CO2e figures are partly based on estimates. We aim to further develop and continuously expand on footprint reporting over the years ahead. 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria’s fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria’s fiscal year * NS = not specified: Figures were not published prior to 2016 46 ENVIRONMENT “Cycling to work is the link between work and leisure time. It offers many benefits—it lets you exercise, clear your mind, come up with ideas, and experience exciting and beautiful moments.” Dr. Helga Savidis-Dacho Supervisor Animal Housing Goals Goals Actions taken in 2016 to achieve Actions we have Actions we intend to take in 2017/18 goals yet to take Reduce • Powered the Vienna office with 100% • Conduct fuel • Source green electricity / increase clean energy resource hydroelectricity conservation share at Orth an der Donau consumption training for the and emissions Sales force Promote • Raised awareness and highlighted the – • Set up expired/unused medicine drop-off point responsible topic of medicines disposal for for employees at the Vienna office waste employees at Vienna • AfB social & green IT – donate used IT hardhandling (Lunch & Learn event with ARA) ware to charity Promote • Offered incentives for eco-friendly – • Launch pilot project where the wholesaler green commuting, public transportation destroys returned medicines directly to reduce commuting allowance/job tickets, and supported trips to the plant and transport ‘Pfizer Cycles to Work’ • Evaluated wholesalers/order processes and reduced order /pickup frequency Raise aware– • Designate local • Engage in a stakeholder dialog to educate ness of en­viEHS coordinator suppliers ronmental for the Vienna protection offices Ensure • Green printing – Complied with the – • Give preference to local suppliers sustainable ‘Print products’ guideline, used procurement eco-friendly, materials for printed products, with onshore production in Austria 47 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO SOCIETY 48 COMMUNITY Our priority SDG Achieving more together At Pfizer, we firmly believe that a community needs two things to be sustainable—an innovative, entrepreneurial spirit and Dr. Petra Kühhaas, Oncology Senior social conscience. With this in mind, we provide not only stateMedical Manager EU-AfME, in action of-the-art medicinal products to society; we also play an active in the Caritas Louise Bus role in designing, implementing and supporting health initiatives and social projects. We believe that corporate social responsibility creates a win-win situation for all stakeholders— our partners, society as a whole, our colleagues and the company itself. [G4-SO1, G4-SO2, UNGC 1] Our contribution to the community: Creating jobs Pfizer employs more than 500 people at two locations. Every summer, we also hire temporary student interns. Each job at Pfizer secures more jobs in Austria. Altogether, around 1,600 jobs in Austria depend directly or indirectly on Pfizer (Economica study). Research in Austria Clinical research is carried out together with partners in Austria, thereby contributing significantly to medical advances in Austria. In 2016, Pfizer invested €4.7 million in research and development in Austria. Creating benefits for the region We pitch in, for example, by assisting with refugee relief drives. We also engage with the community during our Corporate Volunteering Days. Our health initiatives Pfizer does its part for preventative healthcare with programs such as the Pfizer Kids initiative for children and adolescents. Access to innovative medicines Pfizer is committed to ensuring that all patients have access to innovative, high-quality medicines. We provide therapy options to physicians and patients and offer a broad portfolio of original and generic products as well as biologics and biosimilars. Solidarity Pfizer is a signatory to the Austrian Framework Pharmaceutical Contract. It documents a commitment made by the Austrian pharmaceutical industry to provide millions of euros in solidarity funding for the Association of Austrian Social Insurance Institutions and to support the Health Goals Committee, which pursues preventative healthcare projects for children and youth. 49 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Creating jobs Pfizer employs more than 500 people at two locations in Austria, making it one of the country’s largest pharmaceutical companies. Pfizer Austria not only invests in its employees’ continuing education. We also afford pupils, school-leavers and university students insights into the day-to-day work at Pfizer and the opportunity to explore what working in the pharmaceutical industry is all about. (To learn more about employee training, see the section entitled “Labor practices” starting on page 25). According to the Economica study, Pfizer is a powerful job engine. More than 1,100 ancillary jobs depend on the jobs at Pfizer throughout Austria. Pfizer thus secures around 1,600 jobs in Austria, and they contribute €37 million a year in wage-based tax and social security revenue. Summer Student Program Students with various majors have enrolled in the Pfizer Summer Student Program every summer since 2008. With this initiative, Pfizer enables students to test the waters and gain some practical experience to prepare them for their future careers. They are familiarized with the company’s business processes, and gain insight into finance, materials management, clinical research, pharmaceuticals marketing, and other topics in presentations given by the various departments. In 2016, five summer students were employed in Vienna and eight in Orth an der Donau. ‘School Does Business’—start-up mentoring on the schoolyard JA Austria is a non-profit organization founded and supported by Austria’s Economic Societies. It launched an initiative supported by the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber, companies such as Pfizer, and the economic magazine trend as the media partner. This initiative challenges 13-to-19-year-old students to set up real enterprises and compete with the best junior companies in Austria. Business professionals provide the technical expertise. Pfizer’s Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler and Mag. Claudia Handl were the experts on hand to help with GymBar, a fitness and cereal bar manufacturer, and Suave, a vendor with a wide range of bath beads and body scrubs. They assisted the students of BHAK Baden, sharing advice and practical knowledge. In November 2016, a resident of a Caritas communal home for unaccompanied minor refugees spent his Berufspraktischen Tage—a brief internship for school-age children—with us in the Floridotower. During a Pfizer Corporate Volunteering Day, this youngster had expressed his interest in the pharmaceutical industry and wish to someday perhaps become a pharmacist. Pfizer colleagues also address a wide range of audiences as guest lecturers and talk to visiting students and schoolchildren to afford insight into our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Research at Pfizer in Austria Austria is an important location for Pfizer’s efforts to develop medicines. Pfizer tasks clinical research organizations to carry out this work. They do so in compliance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standards, and are audited accordingly. GCP sets out internationally recognized rules for clinical trials, drawn up in accordance with ethical and scientific criteria. They focus on protecting subjects, gaining their informed consent, and ensuring the quality of outcomes. GCP is part of the GxP set of good practice guidelines for pharmaceuticals development and manufacturing. During the 2016 reporting period, 20 clinical and non-interventional studies were conducted with a total of 165 patients. Pfizer’s core areas of drug development in Austria are inflammatory diseases, oncology and neurology/pain. Our key R&D partners are university medical clinics, hospitals and specialized practices in all federal states. Clinical trials play an important role in pharmaceuticals R&D. A drug may only be brought to market after all phases of clinical research have been successfully completed. Pharmig has posted a video clip and further information to illustrate the phases of a clinical trial and explain why trials are so important to the development of a drug: https://goo.gl/VZm23Q Pfizer has supported an international breast cancer study called the PALLAS Trial since 2015. The Austrian Breast & Colorectal Cancer Study Group leads this trial globally, apart from efforts in the USA. This academic study group’s mission here is to test a new strategy in therapy. 50 COMMUNITY Number of patients who took part in Pfizer clinical trials in the 2016 reporting period (by state) Numbers in 2016 (cut-off date December 1, 2016): 81 • 20 studies (clinical and non-interventional trials) 21 • 50 centers, 30 of which actively recruit subjects • Total of 165 patients (active/completed in 2016) 46 5 0 7 2 3 0 Pfizer & IBM’s joint research Pfizer and the IT company IBM announced two joint global research projects in 2016. One is an unprecedented project to develop innovative monitoring solutions for Parkinson’s patients. A system consisting of sensors, mobile devices and machine learning, it collects real-time data around the clock on the disease’s symptoms and relays this information to physicians and researchers. The project deploys state-of-the-art IoT (Internet of Things) and cognitive computing technologies to better understand the course of the disease and patients’ response to therapies. It could also hasten the development of new therapeutic options. Watson for Drug Discovery is a cloud-based cognitive program designed to accelerate immunoncology research at Pfizer. Immunoncology is an emerging therapeutic approach in cancer medicine that uses the human immune system to fight cancer. Pfizer is among the first companies to use Watson for Drug Discovery, and the first to have the program tailored to its needs. Watson’s machine learning, natural language processing, and other cognitive skills are to help researchers discover new approaches to immunoncological drugs, explore combination therapies, and identify patients who can benefit from immunoncological treatment. Pfizer Pediatric Center of Excellence (PedCoE) and OKIDS partner Clinical trials for pediatric medicinal products are costlier and take longer. It is also more difficult to find the right infrastructure and research staff. Pfizer has established its own department, the Pfizer Pediatric Center of Excellence (PedCoE), to this end. Austria is currently taking part in three of the 86 international pediatric trials, including trials addressing thrombosis and epilepsy in children. PedCoE employs 160 people worldwide; they are tasked to find partners to conduct research and clinical trials, and initiate and support studies. Pfizer has also joined the OKIDS (Organization for Pediatric Medicine Research) network, alongside other pharmaceutical companies in Austria. This alliance strives to pursue pediatric trials at the national level so that new and better medicines can be made available to children in Austria. Beyond that, Pfizer is also committed to promoting medical research in Austria, for example, by supporting science awards. Pfizer Austria has supported the Austrian Society for Rheumatology and Rehabilitation’s ÖGR Science Award since 2005. The €10,000 prize money goes to honor outstanding scientific achievements in the field of rheumatology. The Heinrich-Auspitz Award, which acknowledges excellent scientific work in the field of dermatosis / inflammatory immunodermatology, was sponsored by Pfizer Austria in 2014. To learn more about Pfizer’s current product pipeline, visit www.Pfizer.com/research/science_and_technology/product_pipeline. Creating benefits for the region The Economica Institute of Economic Research calculated our economic footprint in Austria for the first time in 2016. These figures serve to highlight all the many aspects of Pfizer’s overall economic impact and our contribution to value creation in Austria. To learn more, visit: www.Pfizer.at/economica 51 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T The following illustrations briefly recap the key figures: Around 1,600 Pfizer generated, directly or jobs in Austria depend indirectly, one out of every directly or indirectly on Pfizer. €625 in Lower Austria. Annual GDP contribution: Gross value added (total) of around 0.03 % (direct) €144 million and 0.05 % (total) €37 million Superior employment multiplier of 3.45 1 >2 in annual wage-related taxes and duties Pfizer job more jobs in Austria Get Active for Hemophilia Pfizer has, for many years, supported efforts to raise awareness of the rare hereditary disease hemophilia, and to improve treatment methods. As the name suggests, the ‘Get Active for Hemophilia’ campaign is all about getting active. The aim is to log as many kilometers as possible in various activities. Cycling, jogging, swimming, dancing, etc.—it all contributes to the kilometer count. Our employees logged a total of 4,094 kilometers in 2016, raising €4,094 for the Austrian Hemophilia Society. The 2017 campaign will also reach out to people from outside the company who would like to take part alongside the workforce. Pfizer Corporate Volunteering Days This corporate volunteer program takes place around once a month or so, affording two to four colleagues the opportunity to perform a voluntary community service. Corporate volunteering has a threefold effect benefiting non-profit organizations, employees and the company. In Austria, like elsewhere, nearly all social and welfare organizations’ services depend on volunteers and unpaid work to furnish the services a community needs. With this corporate volunteering initiative, Pfizer encourages people directly to lend a helping hand, while the multiplier and role-model effect promotes the general idea of volunteering. This ultimately benefits Austrian society. What is more, the employee can provide new impetus, knowledge, contacts or skills to the NGO. Launched in May of 2008, the Pfizer Corporate Volunteering Days have been a company staple for eight years running. Pfizer colleagues have since devoted 2,082 hours to community service. We regularly partner with Caritas institutions and the Austrian Youth Red Cross. In 2016, colleagues were also able to contribute to the Austrian Children’s Cancer Foundation’s efforts to support families with cases of cancer. Two colleagues also helped out with the Vienna Economic Chamber’s ‘Mentoring for Migrants’ campaign. Medicine has accomplished great things Drugs have eradicated or arrested dangerous infectious diseases. They have cured some conditions and contributed to far better treatment of others. Life expectancy has increased by decades and the quality of life has improved significantly thanks to modern medicine. People spend less time in hospitals and on sick leave, with productivity increasing accordingly. 52 COMMUNITY • As reported by the WHO, immunization saves around 2.5 million lives every year. Before the advent of vaccines, infectious diseases were the number one cause of death in childhood. It is estimated that vaccinations have prevented around 103 million cases of childhood diseases—that amounts to 95% of infections that would otherwise have occurred. • National immunization programs in many countries, including Austria, have banished serious illnesses such as tetanus, diphtheria and polio altogether. Dangerous infectious diseases such as measles, rubella, Haemophilus influenzae type B, hepatitis and pertussis (whooping cough) have been pushed to the margins. Improvements in other areas have also advanced the cause of health: • Cancer patients can now live far longer with the disease managed or in remission. Some cancers have gone from an acute life-threatening condition to a chronic disease. • In Austria, the mortality rate for cardiovascular diseases declined by more than 27% in the past ten years, partly thanks to drug therapies. • Before the discovery of insulin, children with diabetes often had less than a year to live, 5% of adults died within two years, and less than 20% survived for more than ten years after diagnosis. Modern medicines and targeted patient education efforts have significantly improved life expectancy in recent decades. • Advances have also improved the situation with rare diseases: A century ago, patients with hemophilia, a bleeding disorder, usually died young. Life expectancy was just 16 years. Very few attained the age of 30. With the benefit of modern therapy and preventative measures, patients today can look forward a near-normal life expectancy of around 70 years, and with a good quality of life at that. The prevailing consensus is that more than 70% of this increase in life expectancy is attributable to the availability of innovative drugs. Medicines are thus of great value to every individual, and a boon to the whole of society, the healthcare system, and the economy. Pfizer’s Value of Medicines initiative highlights the sweeping benefits of drugs and modern therapies. Data and facts from published studies on selected therapeutic areas are posted at www.Pfizer.at/value-of-medicines and published in brief factsheets. Our health initiatives Prevention and therapy support Pfizer is committed to preventive healthcare and therapy support programs. We also try to help where help is urgently needed by donating medicines. Drug donations Pfizer donates medicines to registered institutions and associations in Austria. To this end, we are guided by the Drug Donation Guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO Drug Donation Guidelines 2010), the Pharmig Code of Conduct, the nation’s laws, and corporate rules. The value of our drug donations is calculated according to their market value. In 2016, Pfizer furnished 615 free FSME vaccine doses to SOS Children’s Village. Children, adolescents and adult caregivers living in Austrian SOS Children’s Village facilities can thus be protected against tick-borne encephalitis (TBE). A list of drug donations made in the last three years is posted at www.Pfizer.at/verantwortung/engagement/transparenz. For more information on preventative measures and awareness campaigns, see the section entitled “Product stewardship” on page 35. 53 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Child and adolescent advocacy Pfizer Kids Giving hope to children in need Many families in Austria are affected by poverty, homelessness and disadvantaged life situations. However, social services are primarily specialized on the problems of adults, and not children. Joining forces with the Caritas organization of the Archdiocese of Vienna, Pfizer Austria launched the Pfizer Kids project in 2004 to close this gap in the social service system. Caritas’s professionals have since devoted their efforts to children who are growing up under adverse conditions and have experienced childhood trauma. These specialists offer individual and group therapies as well as accompanying support for parents. In keeping with the credo “Hope for tomorrow – bringing a future back to life,” the focus of their efforts is on helping children come to terms with their experiences by imparting coping strategies, restoring their self-confidence, and promoting their development. The duration of therapy depends on the diagnosis, available resources and the progress made. The average is 2.5 years. Pfizer provided €45,000 funding for the 2016 project. Some 12,552 hours of counseling have helped 224 boys and girls cope with their trauma, heal emotional wounds, and emerge from therapy with a renewed lease on life. Rheumacamp the holiday camp for children suffering from rheumatism Around 2,000 children and adolescents in Austria suffer from juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, a disease that poses great challenges for sufferers and their families. Pfizer has supported the annual summer holiday camp in Warmbad Villach, Carinthia, since 2007. This therapeutic and recreational stay is organized by the Austrian Youth Red Cross in cooperation with the Vienna University Orthopedic Clinic, the Vienna University Children’s Hospital, the Preyer’sche Children’s Hospital Vienna, and Linz General Hospital’s Orthopedic Department. Specialists such as pediatricians, orthopedists, occupational therapists, physiotherapists and a team of teachers are on site to offer children between the ages of six and 18 numerous exercises to strengthen their muscles and improve joint mobility. Pfizer’s support for the Rheumacamp is not just financial; we also provide peoplepower. A Pfizer Day is staged every year under a special motto, providing entertaining diversions for the kids to enjoy. The 2016 motto was ‘Fairytale Forest.’ Two of our employees spent an exciting day with children and adolescents. Styling and make-up sessions, a photo shoot, and games again figured prominently on the day’s agenda. To learn more about donations and payments to patient organizations, please visit www.Pfizer.at/patienten/patientenorganisationen.html. Facts and figures GRI Key figures PCA 20141 PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 G4-SO1 Drug donations [€] 11,251.00 119,930.00 107,238.,44 0 0 Social Sponsoring [€] 15,062.44 6,298.90 6,031.82 0 0 Donations [€] 103,450.00 125,794.00 129,000.00 0 0 to patient organizations [€] 51,350.00 36,294.00 31,000.00 0 0 in donated time [h] 141 135* 294.20 –** –** 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria’s fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria’s fiscal year * Includes time donated by PMA ** Time donations factored into PCA 2015 54 COMMUNITY “Clinical studies are the basis for drug development. When clinical studies are conducted in Austria, doctors can gain experience in the application of new therapies at an early stage. For patients, this is an opportunity to access new therapy options that can be a significant advance in the treatment of diseases.” Dr. Sylvia Nanz Medical Director Pfizer Austria Goals Goals Actions taken in 2016 to achieve goals Actions we have Actions we intend to take in yet to take 2017/18 Creating • Rolled out tools to measure the impact of our social – • Organize a blood donation benefits for the activities on the community campaign for employees at the region • Brought more facilities on board the Corporate Vienna & Orth an der Donau Volunteering Program and offered opportunities for locations secondments • Give preference to local suppliers • Drove the development towards skills-based • Survey employees on the current volunteering status and expansion of Corporate Volunteering Days Social • Pfizer invests in R&D for the benefit of patients— • Raise aware– investments around €4.7 million in 2016 ness of R&D in Austria Partnership with • Nurtured long-term relationships and collaborated – • Continue to nurture long-term charitable with social services such as Caritas and the Austrian relationships and collaborate organizations Youth Red Cross with social services such as Caritas and the Austrian Youth Red Cross 55 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Pfizer Corporation Austria Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1 denkstatt GmbH 1210 Wien Hietzinger Hauptstraße 28 Austria 1130 Wien office@denkstatt.at www.denkstatt.at Telefon: +43 1 7868900 Independent Audit Unabhängiger Report Bestätigungsbericht Pfizer Die Corporation denkstatt GmbH, Austria and Pfizer Hietzinger Hauptstraße 28, 1130 Austria, Manufacturing Wien, wurdeheadquartered in Vienna als unabhängiges 1210 and Orth an der Beratungsunternehmen Donau von Pfizer2304, tasked Denkstatt Corporation AustriaGmbH, Hietzinger und Pfizer Hauptstraße Manufacturing Austria 1130 28, mit Vienna, Sitz in Wien assess theden 2304tobeauftragt, der Donau firm und Orth an consulting an independent as1210 Sustainability Report 2016’s Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2016 inconformity Hinblick auf with theÜbereinstimmung seine International Guidelines of the Global Reporting mit den Internationalen Initiative Richtlinien (GRI). der Global An Reporting assessment of the formal report criteria was conducted in keeping with GRI-G4’s Initiative (GRI) zu beurteilen. Es wurde eine Bewertung der formalen Berichtskriterien im Sinne GRI-G4 „In “In accordance–Core” option, as was a review of data and the Übereinstimmung“Kernqualitative vorgenommen sowieofeine anchoring sustainability Daten als in Prüfung derprocesses thedie auch company. qualitative Verankerung von Nachhaltigkeitsprozessen im Unternehmen berücksichtigt. This Sustainability Report is Pfizer Corporation Austria’s fifth report and the second joint report with Pfizer Der vorliegende Austria. Manufacturing This audit gaveist Nachhaltigkeitsbericht particular der fünfte attention Bericht derto compliance with the Pfizer Corporation general Austria derspecific undand zweite indicators gemeinsame of the GRI Directive, Bericht mit deras Pfizer as an analysis of wellManufacturing the qualitative Austria. Besonderes anchoring Augenmerk of sustainability bei der Prüfung lag auf derwithin procedures the company. Einhaltung der Statements and allgemeinen und data have been spezifischen spot-checked Indikatoren der GRI by conducting accuracysowie forRichtlinie interviews auf der Analyse with the responsible der Verankerung des parties at Pfizer. During the two-day auditing Nachhaltigkeitsmanagements auditors und process, theAussagen im Unternehmen. wereDaten comprehensive givenwurden and unrestricted stichprobenartig hinsichtlichinsight into all ihrer Richtigkeit required documents. The audit was carried out at the Vienna and Orth an der Donau durch Interviews mit verantwortlichen Personen bei Pfizer geprüft. Während des zweitägigen Auditprozesses wurde sites. Data sourced from external den studies were not reviewed; only the proper transfer of these data from the external AuditorInnen ein umfassender und uneingeschränkter Einblick in alle geforderten Unterlagen gewährt. Die Prüfung studies to this report was evaluated. erfolgte Keyden an figures from beiden the annual Standorten financial Wien und Orth statements were beyond an der Donau. Daten aus this audit, scope ofStudien theexternen wurden fromgeprüft, apartnicht their GRI-compliant lediglich die presentation. korrekte Übertragung aus denorexternen investigation The detection Studienof incriminal offences was den vorliegenden beyond Bericht wurde scope of thisKennzahlen the kontrolliert. audit. aus dem Jahresabschluss waren nicht Gegenstand der Prüfung, abgesehen von deren GRI-konformen Darstellung. Die Aufdeckung denkstatt oder GmbHstrafrechtlicher Aufklärung hereby confirms that the joint Tatbestände warSustainability nicht Gegenstand derof Report Pfizer Corporation Austria, headquartered in Prüfung. 1210 Vienna, and Pfizer Manufacturing Austria, headquartered in 2304 Orth an der Donau, meet all the requirements of Die GRI Directive the denkstatt GmbH in the “Core” bestätigt area ofdass hiermit, application. der gemeinsame our audit, nothing has Based onNachhaltigkeitsbericht come der Pfizer our attention toCorporation mit Sitzus that causes Austria to believe that information and key figures in the report do not conform with the defined in 1210 Wien und der Pfizer Manufacturing Austria mit Sitz in 2304 Orth an der Donau, sämtlichen Anforderungen der GRI criteria. Pfizer Corporation Austria is responsible Richtlinie, for all figures Anwendungsbereich „Kern“ published entspricht. Auf report. in the Grundlage unserer Prüfung sind keine Sachverhalte bekannt geworden, die uns zu der Annahme veranlassen, dass die Informationen und Kennzahlen in der Berichterstattung nicht in Without qualifyingmit Übereinstimmung theden aforementioned result sind. definierten Kriterien of ourFüraudit, weBericht alle im propose the following recommendation veröffentlichten Zahlen zeichnet die the further forPfizer development of sustainability Corporation Austria verantwortlich. management and reporting: 1. A materiality analysis should be carried out with regard to the impact of Pfizer on the environment and society Ohne das oben dargestellte Ergebnis unserer Prüfung einzuschränken, sprechen wir folgende Empfehlung zur (Impact). Weiterentwicklung des Nachhaltigkeitsmanagements und der Nachhaltigkeitsberichterstattung aus: 2. A stronger connection to Pfizer’s International Sustainability Goals should be made and presented. 3. Eine 1. DataWesentlichkeitsanalyse on the carbon footprint sollte reported for werehinsichtlich the first time, Auswirkungen Pfizerlargely vonbased on estimates. auf Umwelt These estimates should be und Gesellschaft gradually converted into (Impact)durchgeführt precise calculations. werden. 2. Eine stärkere Anbindung an die Internationalen Sustainability Ziele von Pfizer sollte vorgenommen und dargestellt werden. 3. Erstmal wurden Daten zum Carbon Footprint berichtet wo weitgehend mit Schätzungen gearbeitet wurde. Diese Schätzungen sollten schrittweise in exakte Berechnungen überführt werden. Denkstatt GmbH Denkstatt GmbH Mag. KarlKarl Resel Resel Lead Auditor Leitender Auditor denkstatt GmbH Hietzinger Hauptstraße 28, A-1130 Wien T (+43)1 786 89 00 F (+43)1 786 89 00 15 E office@denkstatt.at W www.denkstatt.at Unicredit Bank Austria IBAN AT191200024011542500 BIC BKAUATWW │ Raiffeisenlandesbank NÖ-Wien AG IBAN AT443200000000661413 BIC RLNWATWW │ UID Nummer ATU 63506833 Firmenbuchnr. FN294077t, Handelsgericht Wien 56 Pfizer’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals At Pfizer, we believe that good health is fundamental to advancing all 17 goals. As part of a stakeholder dialog in October 2016, we jointly analyzed the Sustainable Development Goals with internal and external stakeholders, and now aim to focus on the objectives stated below. The following table lists the targets of these global goals alongside current and projected activities: Many things can change for people when they get sick; it is the start of an often difficult journey. Our employees around the world are working to help people on this journey. They research, develop and distribute innovative medicines and vaccines to treat or prevent diseases such as cancer, rheumatism and pain. Target Details Examples of our activities 3.5 Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including Action plan targeting Ensure healthy narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol addictive diseases lives and (workplace health promote wellpromotion) being for all at 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to Drug / vaccine all ages quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and donations affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. 3.a Strengthen the implementation of the WHO Framework Convention on Continuous awareness Tobacco Control in all countries, as appropriate / information campaigns revolving around the World No Tobacco Day We see diversity in our company as an enrichment. The diversity of our colleagues, the different perspectives, experiences and life stories are part of our strong and innovative corporate culture. The Fair Play Network workgroup is in place to improve equal opportunity and the work/family life balance at our company. Target Details Examples of our activities 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere Fair Play Team/DiverAchieve gender sity & Inclusion equality and program empower all 5.4 Recognize and value unpaid care and domestic work through the provision of Part-time work option women and girls public services, infrastructure and social protection policies, and the promotion for caregivers of shared responsibility within the household and the family as nationally appropriate 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for Fair Play Team/Diverleadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic, and public life sity & Inclusion program With its two locations in Vienna and Orth an der Donau, Pfizer Austria wants to create benefits for the surrounding region and contribute to value creation in Austria. In particular, this includes securing jobs. Target Details Examples of our activities 8.2 Achieve higher levels of productivity of economies through diversification, Investments in Orth an technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high der Donau Promote incluvalue added and labor-intensive sectors sive and sustain8.4 Improve progressively through 2030 global resource efficiency in consumption Measures to enhance able economic and production, and endeavor to decouple economic growth from manufacturing growth, employenvironmental degradation in accordance with the 10-year framework of efficiency ment and decent programs on sustainable consumption and production with developed work for all countries taking the lead 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all Pfizer as an employer women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and and job driver for equal pay for work of equal value Austria as a business location (Economica study) 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, School Does Business education or training (Schule macht Wirtschaft), Summer Student Program 57 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Pfizer wants to minimize the environmental impact of its products and processes. We are working to reduce our ecological footprint and increase our energy efficiency in order to decrease the dependence on limited resources. Target Details Examples of our activities 12.2 By 2030, achieve sustainable management and efficient use of natural Responsible manufacresources turing at Orth an der Ensure sustainDonau able consump12.4 By 2020, achieve environmentally sound management of chemicals and all Responsible manufaction and producwastes throughout their lifecycle in accordance with agreed international turing at Orth an der tion patterns frameworks and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil to Donau minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, Responsible manufacrecycling, and reuse turing at Orth an der Donau 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt Responsible manufacsustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their turing at Orth an der reporting cycle Donau 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and Awareness programs awareness of sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature focused on the ‘We’re conserving’ and drug disposal initiatives Our environment and its resources are valuable assets to us and to future generations. This is why Pfizer is planning measures to combat climate change. Beyond that, we are committed to managing all resources in a careful, considerate way to reduce C02. Pfizer pursues initiatives jointly with employees, customers and suppliers to ensure natural resources are used responsibly so as to mitigate the impact on the climate. Target Details Examples of our activities Take urgent 13.3 Improve education, awareness raising and human and institutional capacity on SH dialog to discuss action to combat climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction, and early warning sustainability in the climate change supply chain and its impacts 58 As a responsible company, we value transparency, co-determination and open exchange of information. Adherence to laws, compliance regulations and codes of conduct is one of the guiding principles for all our actions. Target Details Examples of our activities 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms Compliance training for all employees, whisPromote peaceful tle-blowing hotline and inclusive 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making Pfizer Voice employee societies for at all levels survey, open-door sustainable policy, OWN-IT! culture development, provide access to 16.10 Ensure public access to information and protect fundamental freedoms, in Bilingual info sheets justice for all and accordance with national legislation and international agreements providing directions for build effective, use, leaflets in various accountable and languages, transparent inclusive institudisclosure of all benetions at all levels fits granted We engage in innovative partnerships with NGOs and other organizations to work together towards an even healthier world. Target Details Examples of our activities 17.17 Encourage and promote effective public, public-private, and civil society Pfizer Kids, ÖRK, ÖJRK, partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of Caritas, Corporate Strengthen the partnerships Volunteering means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 59 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 GRI G4 INDEX, ‘In Accordance – Core’ GRI Description Reference Page External UNGC Audit Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Foreword 1 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization RCG, Who we are and what we do 5 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services RCG, Who we are and what we do 5, 6 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters RCG, Who we are and what we do 5 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries RCG, Who we are and what we do 5 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form RCG, Who we are and what we do 5 G4-8 Markets served RCG, Who we are and what we do 5 G4-9 Scale of the organization RCG, Who we are and what we do, Key 16, 31 figures; LP, Key figures G4-10 Total number of employees LP, Key figures 31 Principle 6 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LP, Key figures 32 Principle 3 G4-12 Lieferkette der Organisation RCG, Supply chain 10 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, No material changes – structure, ownership, or its supply G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the E, Fundamental principles 43 organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or FGP, Compliance & anticorruption, RCG, 11, 20 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Sustainability strategy G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations FGP, Responsible political participation 20 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivaRCG, Who we are and what we do 2 lent documents G4-18 Process for defining the report content RCG, Materiality analysis 12 G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content RCG, Materiality analysis 12 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization (material aspects) RCG, Materiality analysis 12 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization (material aspects) RCG, Materiality analysis 12 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the No material changes – reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect No material changes 5, 11 Boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization RCG, Stakeholder engagement 14 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage RCG, Stakeholder engagement 14 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement RCG, Concerns of our stakeholders 16 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement RCG, Materiality matrix 13, 15 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period About this report 2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this report 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report 2 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About this report 2 G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI Index 2, 60 G4-33 External assurance for the report About this report 2 Legend: RCG = Responsible corporate governance, LP = Labor practices, FGP = Fair business practices, PS = Product stewardship, E = Environment, C = Community, UNGC = UN Global Compact 60 2016 GRI G4 INDEX, ‘In Accordance – Core’ GRI Description Reference Page External UNGC Audit Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization RCG, Our management 7 G4-35 Delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics RCG, Anchor points for sustainability 7 G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics RCG, Anchor points for sustainability 7 G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance RCG, Stakeholder engagement 7 body on economic, environmental and social topics G4-41 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed FGP, Compliance & anticorruption, 19, 20 Responsible political participation G4-42 Highest governance body’s role in the development of sustainability strategies RCG, Anchor points for sustainability 7 and goals G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organizaAbout this report 2 tion’s sustainability report G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body LP, Social dialog and co-determination; 7, 29 RCG, Stakeholder Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of RCG, Our corporate philosophy, 11, 20 Principle 10 FGP, Compliance & anticorruption G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful FGP, Compliance & anticorruption 19 Principle 10 behavior and matters related to organizational integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or FGP, Compliance & anticorruption 19 Principle 10 unlawful behavior and matters related to organizational integrity Management approach DMA G4Management approach FGP, Our responsibility: Act with integrity, 20, 21 DMA Responsible political participation, Transparency & fair competition Category: Economic Aspect: Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed RCG, Key figures 16 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations RCG, Key figures; LP, Key figures 16, 32 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government RCG, Key figures 16 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant RCG, Key figures 31 Principle 6 locations of operation Aspect: Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts RCG, Key figures 16 Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization E, Key figures 46 Principle 7 Water consumption G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source E, Key figures 46 Principle 7 Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions E, Key figures 46 Principle 7 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions E, Key figures 46 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions E, Key figures 46 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions E, Key figures 46 Principle 8 Legend: RCG = Responsible corporate governance, LP = Labor practices, FGP = Fair business practices, PS = Product stewardship, E = Environment, C = Community, UNGC = UN Global Compact 61 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2016 GRI G4 INDEX, ‘In Accordance – Core’ GRI Description Reference Page External UNGC Audit Aspect: Effluents and waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method E, Key figures 46 Principle 8 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous E, Key figures 44, 46 Principle 8 and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Aspect: Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions E, Key figures 46 Principle 8 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type E, Key figures 46 Principle 7 Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and E, Key figures 46 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Category: Social Sub-category: Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age LP, Key figures 31 Principle 6 group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or LP, Key figures 32 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender LP, Key figures 31 Principle 6 (not yet reported in full) Aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker LP, Key figures 32 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenLP, Key figures 31 teeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation LP, Key figures 31 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions LP, Health and safety at work, Key figures 27 Aspect: Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee (not yet reported) 32 Principle 6 category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LP, Continuing education and knowledge 28 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings transfer, Key figures G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LP, Key figures 32 Principle 6 reviews, by gender and by employee category Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee LP, Key figures 31 Principle 6 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, (not yet reported) 32 Principle 6 by significant locations of operation Legend: RCG = Responsible corporate governance, LP = Labor practices, FGP = Fair business practices, PS = Product stewardship, E = Environment, C = Community, UNGC = UN Global Compact 62 2016 GRI G4 INDEX, ‘In Accordance – Core’ GRI Description Reference Page Exernal UNGC Audit Sub-category: Society Aspect: Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact GS, Our responsibility to society 49, 54 Principle 1 assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local GS, Our responsibility to society 49 Principle 1 communities Aspect: Anticorruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption FGP, Key figures 22 Principle 10 and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anticorruption policies and procedures GP, Key figures 19 Principle 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GP, Key figures 22 Principle 10 Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary FGP, Key figures 22 Principle 10 Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and FGP, Key figures 22 monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for FGP, Key figures 22 non-compliance with laws and regulations Sub-category: Product stewardship Aspect: Customer health and safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety PS, Protecting patients’ health and 36, 40 impacts are assessed for improvement safety , Key figures G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PS, Key figures 40 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their lifecycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and service labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures PS, Education & awareness 36 for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PS, Key figures 40 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction PS, Complaints 38 Aspect: Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products PS, Key figures 40 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PS, Responsible marketing; 39, 40 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponPS, Key figures sorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy PS, data protection and privacy; 40 and losses of customer data PS, data protection and privacy PS, Key figures Aspect: Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations PS, Key figures 40 concerning the provision and use of products and services Legend: RCG = Responsible corporate governance, LP = Labor practices, FGP = Fair business practices, PS = Product stewardship, E = Environment, C = Community, UNGC = UN Global Compact 63 P F I Z E R A U S T R I A 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T UN Global Compact Communication on Progress The UN Global Compact was agreed in 2000 and obliges its member organizations to act in a socially responsible way within their area of influence. It is based on ten ethical principles that deal with the topics of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anticorruption. Members are obliged to publish an annual report (Communication on Progress – COP) documenting their progress in implementing ethical principles. To learn more about the UN Global Compact, visit www.unglobalcompact.org. Pfizer Austria signed the UN Global Compact in April 2009. The following ‘Communication on Progress’ table illustrates the systems and measures used at Pfizer Austria to integrate the ten principles into its business activity. Principles Commitment Systems Measures and actions in 2016 Principle 1 Protecting human rights and other values of • Our corporate philosophy • Works Council ensured and verified there were no human rights Support and respect human respectful human interaction have been inte• Code of Business Conduct violations Human rights rights grated into all business activities at Pfizer (Pfizer Blue Book) • Part of the global Diversity & Inclusion Group, the Fair Play Austria. Pfizer Austria also requires its business • UN Global Compact Principles Network is composed of colleagues from various departments partners to observe human rights. who strive to assure equal opportunities for all qualified in-house Principle 2 and Sales force personnel, and are promoting efforts to reconExcluding human rights cile family life and careers violations • Activities to raise awareness of diversity & inclusion (e. g. Diversity Day, Rainbow Honor Walk) Principle 3 Pfizer is an attractive employer offering • Company guidelines and • Pressed on with the OWN IT! initiative to drive cultural change Uphold the freedom of diverse opportunities for advancement in an Pfizer Imperatives at Pfizer association and recognize international organization. Our colleagues • Code of Business Conduct • Joined the Unternehmen für Familien [companies for families] the right of collective can make the most of their ideas and initia(Pfizer Blue Book) network bargaining tive to drive the company. Yet Pfizer also • Pfizer Austria Leadership • Surveyed employees on home office use and satisfaction supports efforts to strike the right work/life Charter • Made home office rules more transparent Principle 4 balance with flex time and the possibility of • Pfizer OWN IT! initiative • Added more virtual jobs Engage in the abolition of working in a home office. In keeping with the • Buddy system kept people on parental leave connected to the Labor any kind of forced labor spirit of its modern corporate culture, Pfizer company also champions internal and external projects • Embedded family-minded leadership in the management objecPrinciple 5 and initiatives that fly the banner of diversity tives and qualitative target assessments for the year-end perforEngage in the abolition of and inclusion. (p. 25) mance appraisal any kind of child labor Principle 6 Engage in the elimination of any kind of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 Our environment and its resources are valu• UN Global Compact Principles • Labeled outgoing products at the central Austrian warehouse Support a precautionary able assets to us and to future generations. • Pfizer’s Green Journey with heads-up warnings (e. g. CAUTION, CYTOSTATIC DRUGS!, approach to environmental This is why Pfizer is planning measures to program CAUTION, GLASS!) protection reduce CO2 emissions. Beyond that, we are • Optimized e-billing for the public sector committed to managing all resources in a • Introduced packaging with seals that cannot be restored to their Environment Principle 8 careful, considerate way. We plan to source original condition after opening Undertake initiatives to electricity exclusively from 100% domestic • Promoted eco-friendly commuting (Pfizer Cycles to Work) promote greater environhydropower. We assure you, our internal and • Continued to offer public transportation allowance / job tickets mental responsibility external customers and stakeholders, that we • Launched awareness-raising informational campaign for are serious about protecting the environment employees: ‘We’re conserving!’ Principle 9 and are taking action to advance the cause. • Changeover to 100% hydroelectricity (Vienna offices) Encourage the development This effort is ongoing, and we are pursuing it and diffusion of environjointly with all our contractual partners and mentally friendly suppliers. (p. 43) technologies Principle 10 At Pfizer, we have an obligation to understand • Pfizer Compliance System • Implemented the EFPIA Disclosure Initiative: In June 2016, Measures against corrupthe legal and ethical aspects that affect our • Code of Business Conduct began disclosing benefits granted to members of the medical Anti-corruption tion, including extortion and business practices. It is up to all of us to act (Pfizer Blue Book) profession (MMP) and to institutions of the medical profession bribery and do business in accordance with the princi• Pharmig Code of Conduct (IMP) such as lecture fees and support for conferences ples of integrity. Integrity means more than • Published names of Pfizer Austria’s corporate lobbyists in the just compliance with laws and regulations. It Austrian Lobbying and Interest Representation registry is one of Pfizer’s core values. Integrity reflects • Regularly disclosed all benefits and donations granted to who we are as a company and as individuals. patient organizations and self-help groups If we conduct ourselves with integrity, the • Updated and amended Pfizer’s Blue Book people we serve will trust and respect us. (p. 19) 64 Imprint Publisher: Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH Concept and text: Mag. Elisabeth Dal-Bianco, MSc, Senior Manager Sustainability & Internal Communication, and Agnes Kaspar, MSc, Corporate Affairs Creative Directors: Klemens Fischer Kommunikationsdesign & Chris Saupper/maupi Design: Klemens Fischer Photos: © maupi/Chris Saupper, Niko Havranek, Pfizer Technical Consulting: CSR Vienna, Mag. Maria-Domenica Tscherne, MSc Cover photo: ONE Pfizer company outing, June 2017 Translation: Thomas Green, TD Green Translation Service Print production: Adare International Ltd Leipziger Platz 15, D-10117 Berlin, 2017, printed in Austria by Buchdruckerei Lustenau Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1 1210 Vienna, Austria www.pfizer.at © 2017 Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbHprinted on RecyStar Polar PP-PFE-AUT-0349/10.2017
