10 PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Greetings. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Since formalizing our commitment to the achievement of Sustainable FACTS & Development Goals( SDGs) through a declaration of our commitment of FIGURES support of the UN Global Compact initiative on 12th July 2016, we are pleased to lend our support to the UN Global Compact initiative Joining Date: for the period 12th July 2017-11th July 2018. 2016-07-12 In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions No of seconded to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Comapct and Employees: its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. No of Permanent We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders Employees: using our primary channels of communication Contact Persons: Sincerely yours,  Mary O. Anduuru Director Essential Management AGGREY ANDUURU Consultancy DIRECTOR Services Ltd  Aggrey AnduuruDirector Essential Management Consultancy EMCSL DIRECTORS C.O.O C.E.O AGGREY ANDUURU MARY O.B. “Your positive action combined with positive ANDUURU thinking results in success. “ Shiv Khera 37 C.I.O AVERAGE JACKSON M. ANDUURU LEADERSHIP AGE “’Educating the mind LABOUR RIGHTS 1. Fair treatment of workers in ANTI-CORRUPTION 1. Became a signatory to the ENVIRONMENT 1. Initiated a program to Essential Management Consultancy OUR PRODUCTS & SERVICES without educating the heart line with the employment Act, Labour Relations Act,, Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya on 20th June 2017. recycle and donate e-waste to charitable organizations Services Limited (EmcsL) is a private Limited Liability company  Human Capital Development is no education at all” Labour Institions Act, and 2. Enactment and enforcement 2. Avoid environmental damage  Human Capital Management Constitution of Kenya. of policies to discourage through regular and found by a group of Kenyans of varied professional qualifications  OSHA Services Aristotle 2. Promotion of safe and secure bribery, nepotism, cronyism, systematic maintenance of workplaces and any othe form of processes and systems( IT and extensive hands on  Asset Tagging Services 3. Equipping of workers with corruption in the workplace systems, waste recycling) experiences. EmcsL was founded in necessary knowledge and in recruitment and selection 3. Energy conservation through 1993 and officially registered in skills in Occupational Health processes; and in the effective use of electric power January 1994. Chief Executive and Safety to create safe and procurement and supply of via use of energy saving healthy working environment services lamps, and switching of lights EmcsL was registered as a trainer 4. Enactment and enforcement and machinery when not in by the Directorate of Industrial of Anti-Sexual Harassment use Training in 1996. In 2004 EmcsL Policy on all our work sites was incorporated as Limited Chief Operations Officer Finance & Administration Chief Information Officer 5. Kitting of our employees with Liability Company. the requisite Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) OUR VISION The premier institution in Africa Support Personnel for Business Process Outsourcing, Human Capital Development, Business Advisory and ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Development, Corporate Recovery and Structuring, OUR FOOTPRINTS OUR MISSION Drawing from our vast experiences TOTAL WORKFORCE 1522 and research, provide innovative GENDER DISTRIBUTION and quality services to our customers/clients recognizing our obligations to the society, enhancing employee welfare while GENDER DIVERSITY MALE:965 FEMALE:557 delivering ever improving value to our stakeholders. 37% OUR CORE VALUES MALE 63% 1  Measurement based INCIDENCE RATE FOR 2.10% 2 performance SAFETY MANAGEMENT FEMALE  Commitment to common purpose  Effective communication IR=Incidence Rate= Injuries( Per Year)/Employmentx 100  Provision of quality service  Professionalism 32/1522x100=2.10%  Appreciation of performance excellence  Respect for all persons
