CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN PFA Investing in a sustainable society – Efforts, results and new focus areas 2016 PFA · CR repor t 2016 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN PFA Investing in a sustainable society – Efforts, results and new focus areas 2016 CONTENTS PFA is well on its way to celebrating its 100 anniversary 5 Selected key figures and overview 2016 6 Policy and strategy direct PFA’s corporate responsibility 8 Responsible value creation 10 Society 18 Customers 22 Employees 28 About this report 30 CR key figures and facts 34 Implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact an overview 38 Responsible value creation 40 Society 42 Customers 47 Employees 48 The photos in this report The photos in this report show organisations and projects that have been elected as the 2016 causes and have received financial support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden. Photos by photographer Jakob Dall. Front page: Julemærkefonden One of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes julemaerket.dk TRANSLATION: This is a translation of PFA Holding’s Corporate Responsibility report 2016 in Danish. In case of any discrepancy between the Danish text and the English translation, the Danish text shall prevail. 4 PFA · CR repor t 2016 PFA IS WELL ON ITS WAY TO CELEBRATING ITS 100 ANNIVERSARY SAME PURPOSE AND WITH INCREASED FOCUS ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY This report provides a status of PFA’s work on corporate responsibility in 2016. It has been an eventful year during which we have maintained our focus on responsibility. In particular, we focused on our investments being made in a responsible manner and drew on knowledge about how our actions affect the climate. In 2016, we also worked to make it easier for the customers and society in general to understand the pension area, and retained our focus on health and stress management, which has led to a number of interesting results. To us, corporate responsibility is about being acconsisting of 15 specific initiatives. Our new CR tively involved in making the world a better place strategy is named: Investing in a sustainable sofor future generations. We believe that it is imporciety 2017-2020. tant to let our voice be heard in the public debate, and our ambition is to contribute where our effort Looking forward to a 100 anniversary is also an makes the biggest difference. Responsibility is occasion for looking back on 1917 when PFA was about assuming responsibility through the way we founded by employers and employees. Then as invest the customers’ money, advising the customnow, PFA’s purpose is to ensure mobility on the ers the best possible way based on their present Danish labour market and provide the people in life situation and PFA, as a company, taking action. Denmark with freedom to live the life that they want. Today, we are facing a future with greater Our work on corporate responsibility is based on life expectancy than ever before. This makes dethe explicit wish to comply with and implement mands on the flexibility in society and on PFA. international UN conventions, including the Ten Imagine that you attain 100 years of age. There Principles of the UN Global Compact and the is actually some probability that you will. This is a COP21 agreement on reduction of greenhouse fact which PFA as well as all individuals and socigases. We do so because, as part of the interety need to be prepared for. What should be our national community, we want to back the internext step in this process? And which conditions nationally recognised principles, and because need to change if we are to stay longer at work? our activities also influence the world outside of And what about the world’s climate and the CO2 Denmark’s borders, in particular when we make emissions? These questions and many others investments. This is a fact we are aware of. were the subject of our attention in 2016, and we will, in cooperation with others, continue with In 2017, PFA celebrates its 100 anniversary. Such this focus in the year to come. a grand event has motivated us to identify the competencies and focus areas we want to conThank you for reading our 2016 Corporate centrate on in order to contribute to the positive Responsibility report. developments in society in future. PFA’s strategic corporate responsibility framework was extendYours sincerely ed in 2016 which implied that we gathered the future initiatives in a new three-year strategy Allan Polack, Group CEO PFA · CR repor t 2016 5 SELECTED KEY FIGURES AND OVERVIEW 2016 70,000 Pension consultations (face-to-face, by phone, online & seminar) 63 Down by 5,000 1.1 MILLION Visitors at My PFA (mitpfa.dk) Customers returned to work with our help Up by 36 Up by DKK 300,000. APPROXIMATELY § 1.2 MILLION Individual customers Up by DKK 100,000 118 Cases handled by the Customer 485,194 Calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Representative incl. proactive cases Centre and Health Centre Up by 5 Up by 18,391 calls 8.9 Customer satisfaction Measured on the basis of 208,618 calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre 6 PFA · CR repor t 2016 CO2 80 Employee satisfaction 1,605 TONS Reduced by 399 tons Up by 4 according to the index 41 PER CENT 281 TONS Total waste increases by 57 tons Women in management Digitised letters and policies led Up by 3 per cent to a reduction of 4 tons of paper 1,276 Number of employees 31.8 BILLION 172 MILLION Down by 23 DKK DKK Contributions Total tax payments Up by DKK 3.1 billion Down by DKK 67 million DKK 17.2 BILLION Payouts DKK 8,408 MILLION Total tax collections Down by DKK 2.9 billion Down by DKK 399 million PFA · CR repor t 2016 7 POLICY AND STRATEGY DIRECT PFA'S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The objective of PFA’s new CR strategy ‘Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020’ is to unite the focus areas and prioritise the corporate responsibility efforts. It translates the objectives of the new policies into a number of focus areas and initiatives and is thus the framework that PFA bases its future work on. 'Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020' calls attention to matters, which fit in with PFA’s core business, where PFA can contribute to the development in society with maximum effect. NEW POLICIES AND A NEW THREE-YEAR STRATEGY GIVE THE DIRECTION AND OBJECTIVE OF PFA'S * CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY AND UNITE PFA’S CONTRIBUITONS IN RESPECT TO UN’S GLOBAL GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT New policy with new focus CR strategy outlines direction, initiatives In 2016, PFA's Board of Directors adopted a corand benchmark porate responsibility policy for the PFA Group In 2016, PFA created a three-year strategy for which lays down the guidelines for the work on the corporate responsibility work, which builds corporate responsibility based on PFA’s business on PFA's existing work and policy on corpostrategy and the company values: Professionrate responsibility. The strategy 'Investing in al, Fair and Accountable. The policy uses PFA’s a sustainable society 2017-2020' gives a clear role as a company, investor and employer as a indication of PFA’s work in future, collects new starting point together with PFA’s approach to and existing efforts and identifies ambitions and its work on corporate responsibility. The policy is goals for how PFA can contribute to creating a based on four central elements: Responsible valsustainable society. ue creation, Society, Customers and the Employees. The society is a new overall focus area. This The strategy is prioritised relative to the areas is to show that PFA wants to take a more active in which PFA's business activities can have the role in contributing to the future developments greatest possible influence and can have a maxin society. imum effect on society as well as where we can put our knowledge and competencies into play. With this policy, PFA commits itself to focus on: The strategy is based on three focus areas which • contributing to the development in society have the corporate responsibility policy and PFA's • systematising its work on respect for human core business as the underlying basis. rights and implementing due diligence in the processes The three areas are: • targeting its efforts to reduce global climate • Responsible investments, respect for human effects by focusing on compliance with the rights and sustainable business models COP21 agreement on reduction of greenhouse • Health, well-being and the third age gases. • Partnerships and knowledge sharing. PFA replaces CSR with CR PFA has decided to replace the term Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) with Corporate Responsibility (CR). The new term reflects a broader definition of the work on responsibility and thus creates a better understanding of PFA’s corporate responsibility, which also includes green transition, climate challenges etc. 8 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Based on the three focus areas, 15 specific activiPFA’s corporate responsibility policy and CR stratties have been defined for 2017. The activities are egy 'Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020' stated on this page. As part of the strategy work, are available at pfa.dk. PFA has also assessed the focus areas relative to UN’s 17 global goals for sustainable development. PFA will in 2017 begin the process of benchAgainst this background, we have identified five marking PFA’s initiatives against the five sustainable development goals, and we have integlobal goals that PFA has given priority: grated our focus on working on respect for human • Climate action rights into the investment process. In 2017, we • Affordable and clean energy will review the efforts and develop new efforts • Good health and well-being for 2018 as well as report on the progress of the • Responsible consumption and production work on implementing the strategy. • Partnerships for the goals. CR strategy – Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020, Specific key areas for 2017 Responsible value creation Customers 1. Developing investment processes that focus on 8. Increasing knowledge about pension, target ensuring that the CO2 emission complies with communication to specific groups and revitalthe Paris Agreement. Including preparation of ising the Pension Estimator. a method to identify companies which work 9. Mapping out the options of cooperation with against the Paris Agreement, and initiating a diexternal experts and suppliers to ensure alogue with selected CO2 intensive sectors. better expertise and more options when it 2. Publishing a plan of action and method of comes to helping the individual in a safe and application of the UN Guiding Principles on secure manner to return to work after an Business and Human Rights in the investment illness or accident. process, beginning the implementation in selected sectors and communicating about the Employees progress of the work. 10. Involving employees in specific projects 3. Integrating policy and principles of responsithrough after-work meetings, mentor sysble investments in property investments and tems etc. alternative investments and ensuring that 11. Revitalising PFA’s own health strategy. ‘responsible tax’ is integrated into screening of and active ownership dialogue with comContinuation of existing initiatives panies in our company portfolio. 12. Responsible investments: Minimum 10 Re4. The planning of the renovation of Marina Park sponsible Investment Board meetings per will in particular concentrate on ensuring a year with focus on screening of investments, healthy working environment for the employactive ownership dialogue with companies ees and reuse of the existing building stock. and communication about the progress of the work. Society 13. Working on Code of Conduct during the clos5. Creation of a think tank on the third age in ing of contract process as part of responsible order to contribute to the public debate with procurement. options to deal with increased life expectancy. 14. Supporting and cooperating with associations 6. Mapping out potential use of properties and and projects which are elected by PFA Brug material in a more energy and resource effiLivet Fonden. cient way. 15. Organised NGO and customer dialogue 7. Benchmarking PFA’s efforts against the five about efforts of priority within corporate global goals that PFA gives priority to. responsibility. PFA · CR repor t 2016 9 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION Customer assets under management DKK 439 billion Return on investments DKK 26.5 billion Excluded countries / Excluded companies 3 / 33 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS It is key to PFA to act responsibly throughout the value creation process. We do so by creating long-term and robust business processes in order to secure a responsible management of the customers’ savings with, among other things, respect for the climate and human rights. The same applies when PFA concludes contracts with business partners, where accountability and corporate responsibility form an integral part of the process. As a responsible investor, PFA has a considerable Principles of the UN Global Compact. A novelty responsibility to ensure not just that the customis PFA’s commitment to refrain from investing in ers’ savings are invested wisely and with care, companies which obstruct the COP21 agreement which makes their value increase, but also that on global reduction of greenhouse gases. In addiPFA’s investments are carried out in a way which tion, PFA works determinedly towards complying underpins a positive development of society. PFA with the methodology of the UN Guiding Principles has revised its policy on responsible investments, on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). The purstrengthened the integration of international prinpose is, among other things, to strengthen the ciples into PFA’s processes and given priority to the risk assessment during the entire investment prodialogue with various stakeholders in this area. cess, and when the new goals are implemented, the tools that PFA develops will help focus on the Policy on responsible investments fact that management systems for environment PFA completed an update of its policy in 2016, and human rights form an integral part of the which implies that it now includes a number of entire investment process. The implementation of new goals for the work with responsible investthe policy and the guidelines are concentrated on ments. The policy continues to be based on comturning the international conventions into actions pliance with international UN conventions and in PFA, retrieving the necessary data and integratprinciples, including the six UN-backed principles ing them into the investment and screening profor responsible investments, the PRI, and the Ten cesses prevailing in the investment area. PFA resumed membership of the PRI Following a dialogue process of three years with the PRI’s board of directors on the organisations own governance, PFA decided to resume its membership of the PRI in 2016. The resumption of membership took place along with three other pension companies (Sampension, PKA and ATP), which, like PFA, also withdrew their memberships of the PRI in 2013. The companies have monitored the development and have registered that the PRI’s board of directors has responded to the criticism which led to the exit of the companies. It is PFA’s interpretation that the PRI has taken important corrective precautions to improve its regulations and management structures. Even though not all concerns regarding the management have been accommodated, it is PFA’s assessment that there will be better room for further advancement towards a solid and reliable management in the PRI when re-entering the organisation rather than remaining outside the organisation. During the period when PFA was not part of the organisation, PFA still supported and complied with the six PRI principles and included reporting on the principles in the annual CSR report and at pfa.dk. 10 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Julemærkefonden Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. julemaerket.dk PFA · CR repor t 2016 11 Responsible Investment Board was specified in this area, so that it is clear that In 2016, PFA updated the terms of reference for Danish sanctions against purchase of national PFA’s Responsible Investment Board (RI Board). debt will lead to a systematic exclusion of the The purpose of the RI Board is to monitor and country in question. In connection with the prioritise the implementation of PFA’s responsimerger between PFA and Bankpension, PFA took ble investment policy and it meets minimum 10 over, for instance, government bonds issued by times a year. In 2016, the RI Board assessed the Rwanda, Belarus and the Republic of the Congo. progress of cases where PFA and the screening Therefore, these countries are included in the list and engagement company GES had entered into of countries in which PFA holds investments by dialogue with a number of companies. In addithe end of 2016. All three countries are listed on tion, the board prepared guidelines for excluPFA’s exclusion list, and the portfolios were sold sion, which describe the process and PFA’s focus after the statement was concluded for 2016. In areas. The purpose was to clarify PFA’s process addition to this, PFA has continued to monitor and criteria. The RI Board has continued to give the situation in Ukraine and Russia, in particular priority to transparency, and PFA has particiwith regard to the international sanctions in the pated in debates and dialogues on the subject area. At the end of 2016, PFA invested in govto call attention to the importance of increased ernment bonds in 96 countries. The exclusion list transparency in matters of exclusion. Towards and the list of countries are both accessible at the end of 2016, the RI Board reviewed the new pfa.dk. recommendations of active ownership from the Danish Committee on Corporate Governance. The Company screening purpose is to form a general view of whether The purpose of the screening process that evaluthe new guidelines will prompt any additions to ates the equity and bond investments is to idenPFA’s policy. The recommendations apply from tify whether the companies in which PFA makes 2017, and the RI Board will finalise a total analysis investments comply with PFA’s policy on responnext year to ensure that PFA complies with the sible investments. The screening is carried out by recommendations. GES, which evaluates the activities of companies on a current basis. As part of the screening proCountry screenings cess, GES evaluates whether a company’s actions PFA screens and analyses countries in accordance and behaviour conflict with the international with PFA’s guidelines for responsible investments conventions on which PFA's policy is based. Some in government bonds and procedure for country cases may require a clarifying dialogue with the screening. PFA does not enter into engagement company to assess whether it complies with the dialogues with countries as this is considered policy. In 2016, 235 cases from PFA’s portfolio to be a foreign policy issue. In 2016, the policy were evaluated against 181 cases in 2015. PFA’s process of screening, analysis and active ownership dialogue with companies Adviser confirms Analysis & non-compliance recommendations The company changes its practice Screening & Engagement PFA dialogue dialogue RI Board Exclusion Continued confidence in the dialogue 12 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Active ownership dialogue with companies has entered into active ownership dialogue with As a rule, active ownership dialogue with compa13 companies. PFA finalised one case in 2016. nies is initiated when a violation of PFA’s policy The case was a dialogue with Cement Roadstone has been identified or in situations when PFA or Holding (CRH) about conditions concerning the GES assumes that the company has been acting company’s involvement in activities on the ocin conflict with PFA’s policy on responsible incupied West Bank through an owner’s share in vestments. The purpose is to enter into dialogue an Israeli company. PFA finalised the dialogue in order to find out, together with the compawhen CRH divested its owner’s share in the Isny, how the company can change its common raeli company, and thus the involvement ended. practice and introduce policies and actions to Furthermore, PFA continued its dialogue with prevent a similar situation from recurring. Both external managers in 2016 to ensure that they GES and PFA enter into dialogue with companies are also familiar with PFA's work and priorities in on matters within the company. When PFA gives this area. priority to enter into dialogue with a company, it is a result of the RI Board assessing that it will be relevant to monitor the company closely and Summary of the subjects of PFA’s thus be able to better understand and assess engagement dialogue with companies in 2016* the company’s actions. PFA logs its active ownHuman rights 4 ership dialogue, which is published at pfa.dk and updated as the cases progress. During 2016, GES Environment 7 entered into dialogue with 91 companies in PFA’s Labour rights 3 portfolio. Seven cases were resolved during the year by the companies altering their practice to comply with the international conventions. PFA Summary of the subjects of engagement dialogue through GES with companies in PFA’s portfolio in 2016* Environment 12 CASE Human rights Labour rights 40 31 Corruption 8 Controversial weapons 3 * Please note that PFA and GES have been in dialogue with a The Volkswagen dialogue is number of companies about a number of different subjects documented on PFA’s log which implies that the number of cases per subject and the total PFA has been focusing on Volkswagen in number of cases are inconsistent. 2016 and has tried to enter into a dialogue with the company about the initiatives it Exclusion of companies is planning to ensure its compliance with Exclusion is by no means a target in itself. PFA international environmental standards. strives to be an active owner which, through diThe company has expressed that it takes alogue, attempts to nudge a company to change no interest in entering into dialogue based its practices. The exclusion list is revised minon PFA’s participation in a group action imum every six months in order to consider against Volkswagen. PFA will continue exwhether exclusion is still relevant. PFA did not examining the possibilities of entering into clude any companies in 2016. PFA revoked its a dialogue with the company both directly exclusion of Singapore Technologies as the comand in cooperation with other investors. If pany has informed that it is no longer involved in a dialogue is not opened, PFA will reconthe production of anti-personnel landmines, and sider the situation and update the log at through GES PFA received confirmation hereof. pfa.dk. PFA · CR repor t 2016 13 FOCUS ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND CLIMATE In 2016, PFA devoted special attention to the Paris Agreement and the reduction of CO2 emissions as well as respect for human rights through the classification under UNGP. The work was performed in constant dialogue with stakeholders from a number of organisations, for instance, ActionAid Denmark (Mellemfolkeligt Samvirke) and WWF, both with an extensive knowledge about these areas. HUMAN RIGHTS CLIMATE The work on integrating the UN Guiding Principles One of the goals for 2016 was to prepare a solid on Business and Human Rights is continuing from method for defining and assessing a green and a 2015. In 2016, PFA extended its log on dialogue fossil energy company in PFA’s portfolio of comwith companies with seven new companies. At the panies. The work has commenced, and focus is same time, PFA has focused on how to improve the on identifying the companies that obstruct the integration of the guidelines into the investment obligations laid down in the Paris Agreement to and screening process. Through dialogue with the reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. PFA companies, PFA, among other things, called attenhas also cooperated with the Carbon Disclosure tion to the companies' work on due diligence in Project (CDP) on mapping CO2 emissions in PFA’s connection with their possible influence on human share portfolio. The purpose was to create an rights. The purpose was to collect experience and overview of PFA’s carbon footprint and to identistrengthen PFA’s work on integration of due dilify data for the future setting of priorities. Many gence as part of the risk management in relation activities for the year are included in the creation to investment decisions. It is part of an ongoing of a general methodology to comply with the obprocess to incorporate the classifications of the jective not to invest in companies that obstruct guidelines. Action plan preparations have been COP21 and the Paris Agreement. initiated, and, throughout 2016, PFA has been engaged in dialogue with selected NGOs and other In 2017, it is expected that PFA will be able stakeholders. The experience and the feedback to present an overall action plan for how the PFA gains from this are incorporated into the efmost greenhouse gas-intensive sectors will be forts. PFA is expecting to present the action plan brought into focus and how data from company in 2017 together with a methodology of how to specific CO2 analyses can be integrated into the prioritise the work on the UN guidelines in future. processes. CASE Dialogue which illustrates due diligence During recent years, PFA has cooperated with GES on sustainability and handling of child labour in the cocoa sector and on the sector cooperation that addresses these challenges. Together with GES and other investors, PFA participated in a conference in the Ivory Coast in 2016 and paid visits to cocoa cooperatives to gain insight into the local challenges and initiatives concerning cocoa farming and production. PFA holds heavy investments in Nestlé and has given priority to enter into dialogue with the company directly. As buyer of cocoa, Nestlé has a potential exposure to child labour in their chain of suppliers, and, as part of the work on integrating due diligence, PFA has addressed the issues concerning child labour and drawn attention to how the company works with mapping and preventing risks by introducing a monitoring system that helps identify child labour. PFA has noted that when Nestlé identifies child labour, the company seeks to rectify the situation through various initiatives, such as providing the children with access to schooling. Moreover, PFA focused on the company's initiatives which, in the long term, are to increase the cocoa farmers' earnings. PFA will continue the dialogue with Nestlé in 2017. 14 PFA · CR repor t 2016 PFA’s CO2 mapping of the equity portfolio at year-end 2015 The purpose of the mapping was to create an overview of total CO2 emissions (scope 1+2) in the share portfolio at both industry and company levels. This means the exposure which is part of PFA’s footprint and forms the basis of PFA’s ability to handle its influence on the CO2 emissions. PFA holds data that cover almost 3/4 of the portfolio, which have provided a useful preliminary overview. Based on the mapping, an analysis was prepared to identify the industries with the largest impact on PFA's total CO2 emissions. The analysis showed that 88 per cent of the portfolio’s carbon footprint is released by four sectors: Raw Material & Materials, Utility Companies, Industry and Energy. At the same time, the analysis showed which companies within the various sectors that stood out in particular compared to the rest of the companies within the same sector. Carbon footprint 12% All other sectors 30% Raw material & materials 17% Utility companies Industry 24% 17% Energy Mapping of energy consumption in PFA’s In 2016, PFA continued its climate partnership Danish property portfolio with DONG Energy, which has primarily been PFA has decided to map the energy consumption engaged with mapping the energy consumption in the Danish property portfolio. This is done in in PFA's largest group of buildings with a floor order to later be able to estimate the possibilities space of more than 45,000 m2. PFA expects to of PFA, together with the leaseholders, being implement specific initiatives during 2017 for able to reduce the energy consumption. In 2016, the property together with the leaseholder of PFA established an energy management system the property. PFA decided in 2016 to renovate for the mapping of the total energy consumpPFA’s domicile, Marina Park. The renovation will tion in the Danish property portfolio. The conbe projected during 2017 and consequently, ensumption of electricity is the first element to be ergy-saving initiatives have not been initiated in mapped, and in 2016, PFA collected data on the 2016 in Marina Park. The planning of the renototal consumption for the common areas of propvation will in particular concentrate on ensuring erties in the entire portfolio. This corresponds a healthy working environment for the employto approximately 11 per cent of the expected ees and reuse of the existing building stock. total consumption of electricity in the property Furthermore, PFA will look into the possibilities portfolio. PFA will continue the collection of data of establishing sustainable energy sources in regarding the total energy consumption in the owner-occupied properties in the portfolio, priDanish property portfolio in 2017, including data marily by establishing solar panels for production on electricity, heating and water. of electricity. The first solar panel installation is expected to be established mid-2017. PFA · CR repor t 2016 15 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT AN IMPORTANT PART OF THE CONCLUSION OF CONTRACTS PFA’s basic attitude and policy are that any suppliers cooperating with PFA are to act responsibly. Since 2013, PFA has had a Code of Conduct, which is based on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and which comes into play when PFA concludes contracts with external business partners. In 2014 and 2015, a segmentation of external business partners into two categories critical and less critical suppliers was put on the agenda, and gradually the procedures were made more stringent so that PFA’s Code of Conduct must be signed when agreements are concluded on services and deliveries with business partners. PFA amended its Code of Conduct in 2016 so that During the year, all vice presidents who are authe contents put the supplier's work on responthorised to conclude contracts with external sibility into focus. This includes the management business partners have received an introduction systems and due diligence when it comes to how to PFA’s policy on conclusion of contracts and they have a negative impact on human rights and process, called Responsible Procurement, which the environment. Also the self-evaluation form complies with PFA’s Code of Conduct. The policy for suppliers was amended. PFA has adopted a is meant to ensure that the persons authorised new policy on conclusion of contracts and has to conclude contracts in PFA are familiar with thus focused on strengthening the procurement their role in relation to the Code of Conduct process and, at the same time, securing that the and how they stand in the relation to external efforts on the Code of Conduct were fully intebusiness partners that fail to comply with the grated. Finally, PFA made an evaluation of which Code of Conduct. PFA expects to continue the procurement categories represented the highest implementation of the policy on conclusion of risk from a CR perspective and which procurecontracts in 2017 to ensure that new contracts ment categories had the highest impact should comply with PFA’s Code of Conduct, and we will the risk be materialised. assess the CR risks and CR consequences again in 2017 across PFA’s procurement categories. Illustration of how the Code of Conduct and the CR work is integrated into the procurement process STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 Mobilisation of Research Evaluation of bids Implementation the sourcing project requirements etc. from suppliers, plan negotiations and contract PFA Code of Conduct Evaluation of responses Implementation by and self-assessment from suppliers. If it is assigning Code of Conis forwarded with a sessed that a supplier with duct and respondstandard contract a high CR risk does not ing satisfactorily in have adequate CR processthe self-assessment es in place, a mutual plan or agreement on a CR will be made to reach the action plan in cooperresponsibility goals during ation with a supplier. the contract period. 16 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Foreningen for Børn med Handicap – og deres Familier Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. fbhf.dk PFA · CR repor t 2016 17 SOCIETY PFA wants to contribute to society in a manner that enables our customers to live life – all their life. We live longer than ever before, and we change jobs more often. This puts a strain on the flexibility in our society, and, at the same time, it provides new opportunities for PFA. Both PFA’s present and future role towards our customers and the development of society. AS THE LARGEST COMMERCIAL PENSION COMPANY IN DENMARK, PFA KEEPS PACE WITH THE DEVELOPMENT * OF SOCIETY. SIZE MATTERS WHEN IT COMES TO THE POSSIBILITY AND OBLIGATION TO CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF SOCIETY – WHICH, FOR PFA, MEANS TO CONTRIBUTE WITH MORE THAN GENERAL KNOWLEDGE ABOUT SAVINGS AND INSURANCE. Pension is put higher on the agenda submitted its view in response to a consultation In 2016, PFA continued its work on ensuring that document in connection with the European Compension subjects were brought up for discussion mission’s drafted Pan-European pension product; in Denmark. Pension helps secure that you will a work which will last for the years to come. be able to realise the dreams you have when you reach the third age. This is why PFA need to bring The Folkemødet in Bornholm the customers’ attention to pension and the posPFA participated in the Folkemødet in Bornholm sibilities of saving for retirement. One of the chan– The Peoples Political Festival, which provides a nels to deal with the subject is through the media, platform for open debates involving politicians, in which PFA had a total media coverage counting citizens, NGOs and the corporate sector to meet 3,885 mentions and articles. This corresponds to under informal circumstances. The purpose was 51 per cent of the coverage for the four largest to participate in the debate on pension issues pension companies in Denmark. In addition, PFA and the challenges and possibilities we find exist has contributed with knowledge and data for rein the Danish pension system. PFA decided to be vision of the pension legislation and assisted in gold sponsor in order to contribute to the unique connection with the EU planning of a new Pan-Euevent where politicians meet informally with the ropean pension product as well as communicated people and other participants who have an influabout the subject to the surrounding world. ence on the development in society. This fits well with PFA’s DNA. PFA’s own tent at the Folkemødet Contributions to law-making hosted more than 30 events during the four days In 2016, PFA took its work to a more systematic of the political festival. Other subjects on PFA’s level when it came to taking care of the customagenda were: The increasing number of customers ers’, and thus the people in Denmark’s, interwho suffer from stress, how can we contribute ests in relation to politicians and legislators. We towards meeting the climate change targets of have given priority to offering our professional COP21 through responsible investments, how can competence and communicate with politicians we future-proof the Danish pension system, etc. and legislators about how new bills may affect the individual pension saver in practice. PFA has Future initiatives proposed changes to the pension reform which PFA was founded by labour and management in the Danish Government presented as part of its 1917 in order to ensure mobility on the Danish 2025 plan. PFA proposed specific changes to the labour market and create a financial safety net for Government’s reform with a view to ensuring that its customers; and today the portfolio of individthe pension reform will become more efficient ual customers counts more than 1.2 million. The for Danish pension savers in practice. The reform longstanding experience and professional experwas, however, not adopted, and therefore PFA tise will be brought to light by PFA even more in will continue the dialogue on the development of the future. In 2017, PFA will be celebrating its 100 a pension system in 2017. Furthermore, PFA has anniversary, and PFA will take the opportunity 18 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Sølund Musik-Festival Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. solundfestivalen.dk in connection with its 100 anniversary to focus you Through a number of initiatives, PFA will conon the changes in living conditions which the intribute to the public debate about how to improve creasing life expectancy is likely to entail for the the settings for the transition into the third age, individual insured and for society, all boiled down including the transition from being part of the lato the title: PFA is turning 100 years – and so will bour market to a life in retirement. PFA · CR repor t 2016 19 Causes of the year 6 Information videos 3 Causes present at the Folkemødet 13 Number of votes casted for the 2016 causes 61,226 Followers on the foundation’s Facebook page 36,565 For PFA Brug Livet Fonden it is about focusing on Lone E. Engberg Thomsen, President, Teknisk the many dedicated individuals who make a great Landsforbund (The Danish Association of Profeseffort and offer their voluntary work to help sional Technicians) vulnerable or marginalised groups live life. Each Bjørn Nørgaard, Professor and sculptor year, the foundation elects the causes of the Allan Polack, Group CEO, PFA year, and in cooperation with PFA the foundation brings attention to the causes during the year 13 causes participated in events at the and offers them the opportunity to participate at Folkemødet the Folkemødet in Bornholm. 13 causes chose to participate in the foundation’s programme at the Folkemødet. Like preClose cooperation on information videos vious years, the foundation formed an integral In close cooperation with PFA, the foundation part of PFA's tent at the Folkemødet. The foundrew further attention to the causes when it prodation had, together with the causes, prepared duced and released information videos featuring a number of thematical debates which, among three of the five causes that accepted the oppor­other things, dealt with the homeless, young tunity to produce a video. The videos were readults with real-life problems, and how you, as a leased during spring 2016 and received broad dedicated individual, get started when you want exposure. They were uploaded on the foundato establish a charity. tion’s homepage, on Facebook and on the various platforms belonging to the individual causes. On Increased visibility and employee engagement the foundation's and PFA's Facebook page, the At the Folkemødet, PFA Brug Livet Fonden atorganic views reached a total of 119,354, they tracted attention to its causes through PFA’s emreceived 643 likes and the posts were shared 403 ployees who, together with representatives from times in total. the various causes, handed out heart-shaped flyers among the participants at the political festiIn 2016, PFA Pension’s Board of Directors apval. Each heart-shaped flyer which found its way pointed a partially new board of directors for the back to PFA’s tent, PFA converted into a DKK 200 PFA Brug Livet Fonden, which now consists of: donation to the foundation. A lot of visitors at the Torben Dalby Larsen (Chairman), Chief Editor Folkemødet backed the initiative, and PFA countand Managing Director, Sjællandske Medier A/S ed 740 returned heart-shaped flyers at an event The videos can be viewed at the foundation’s website and at the websites of the respective associations. Please note that the videos are in Danish only. Videos were created for the following causes in 2016: Morgencafé for Hjemløse Projekt Husvild SMILfonden 20 PFA · CR repor t 2016 on Saturday evening. This resulted in a donation to the foundation amounting to DKK 148,000. Later in 2016, PFA’s employees participated in the DHL race with 62 teams who were either walking or running. This event resulted in an employee donation of DKK 31,000 to the foundation. Causes of the year In 2016, six new cases were selected out of 80 cases that were nominated at the foundation’s homepage pfabruglivetfonden.dk, which, during the two voting weeks, could count a total of 51,547 unique users. Votes totalled 61,226, and the 16 cases that received most votes were recommended to the Board of Directors of the foundation. When selecting the causes of the year, the Board of Directors took into account their wish to support dedicated individuals who go the extra mile to give children and young people with different challenges a better and more secure childhood. The support was distributed to a range of causes and will both benefit children who live with a disability or an illness and children who are fighting against, among other things, bullying, loneliness and low self-esteem, so that they hopefully can look forward to a brighter future. Meet the six causes here: Julemærkefonden received DKK 50,000 The Julemærkefonden helps vulnerable children to get a new start. At four temporary homes, the children get lots of exercise and healthy food, and they receive training and tools to combat bullying. Sølund Musik-Festival received DKK 50,000 Sølund Musik-Festival is the world’s largest music festival for people with mental deficiencies and their personal assistants. Each year, 20,000 people visit the festival which is known for its vision: music and love for all. Danish Cystic Fibrosis Association received DKK 25,000 Danish Cystic Fibrosis Association offers activities, support and advice to children and adults who suffer from disease and their relatives. The association provides information about the disease and supports research so that those who have been diagnosed with the disease can have the same life expectancy and quality of life as others. Børns Voksenvenner received DKK 25,000 Børns Voksenvenner is based on local ambassadors and voluntary adults who are dedicated to a friendship with a child. Friendships between lonely, vulnerable or grieving children and voluntary adults make a positive lifelong difference in the lives of these children. Foreningen for Børn med Handicap – og deres Familier received DKK 25,000 The association Børn med Handicap og deres Familier is a patients’ association which not just focuses on the child or the young adult with a disability but on the family as a whole. The association organises events and activities which put children and young adults with disabilities and their families in focus. Immun Defekt Foreningen received help for setting up a new website The association Immun Defekt Foreningen focuses on providing a gathering point for all patients with immunodeficiency and their relatives in order to accommodate the patients’ interests and ensure exchange of knowledge. Every year, a number of events take place, for instance, family days and weekends for young adults. PFA · CR repor t 2016 21 CUSTOMERS Pension should be easy to understand for the customers and be seen in relation to individual customer’s life situation considering the customer’s age and needs. Information must be simple, easily accessible and underpin the selections made by the customer. The customer experience is a priority, and PFA works on dealing with feedback and complaints in a constructive and professional manner so that unfortunate experiences are avoided in future. FOR PFA IT IS ABOUT FOCUSING ON THE INDIVIDUAL CUSTOMER’S NEEDS. THIS APPLIES IN ALL RESPECTS * AND FORMS A SUBSTANTIAL PART OF PFA’S CULTURE THAT IS, WHETHER THE CUSTOMER MEETS WITH ADVISERS, CONTACTS THE HEALTH & ADVISORY SERVICES CENTRE OR ENTERS INTO DIALOGUE WITH THE CUSTOMER REPRESENTATIVE. More customers return to work Increased efforts in connection with PFA Active Claims Handling has helped more emstress handling ployees return to work in 2016. This was achieved To many people and companies, stress has bethrough a preventive and solid effort with the obcome an object of intensive focus. According to jective of avoiding long-term and fatiguing illness PFA, stress should never develop into a situation during which the person risks leaving the labour where the employees drop out of the labour marmarket completely. This possibility and the specific ket. Therefore, PFA decided in 2016 to step up its process create a genuine value for the employee, stress prevention efforts through a cross-profesthe company and society. The help is individualsional project which ensures that employees who ised and depends on the situation of the individucontact PFA about stress will be referred to Active al person. Thus, PFA grants a course of treatment Claims Handling at the same time as their case is which is adjusted to the customer's needs. Active being considered. This action is taken to assess Claims Handling covers both customers who are whether the individual employee needs additional already receiving payouts from PFA Occupational help. This way, 30 employees have received asCapacity and employees for whom it is estimated sistance that was tailor-made to their individual that extra efforts can have a preventive effect. needs. In 2016, PFA Active Claims Handling finalised 202 cases, of which 63 employees were helped return PFA cooperated with the Municipality of Holto work. In 2017, PFA will draw further attention to stebro and Quickcare, among others, to draw the close cooperation with corporate customers attention to a preventive and coordinated efregarding the importance of early intervention. fort targeted citizens with the Municipality of CASE Example from a participant in the Holstebro project A 52-year old woman, who participated in the project in the Municipality of Holstebro, began training with focus on back problems. The primary problem was, however, stress, and she needed treatment by a psychologist specialising in work issues. In this case, it was a question of working with the proper approach to work/the workplace and introducing coping strategies. She participated in work-related training, mindfulness training and sessions with a psychologist who is connected with the project. PFA supplemented the help from the project with mindfulness training and additional sessions by a psychologist. The woman stayed connected to the labour market throughout the duration of the programme and recovered sufficiently to apply for a job elsewhere, which she then got. 22 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Corporate customers 5,200 Customers 1.2 million Advisory services face-to-face, online, by phone & seminars 69,737 E-mails to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre 68,121 Calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre 208,616 Calls to PFA’s Health Centre 276,576 Customers who were helped return to work 63 Number of complaints 297 Cases handled by the Customer Representative 118 Holstebro who suffered from stress. This is a a generally increased interest in organisational two-year project which reinforces the interface stress preventive measures, PFA has primarily between the municipality, the doctor, the emfocused on developing organisational solutions ployer and the citizen and which ensures that the within mental health, stress and sleep. citizens of the Municipality of Holstebro get the relevant help in connection with stress disorders. New digital solutions create overview The programme is a voluntary offer available in To PFA it is a matter of letting the customer expethe municipality and it is tailor-made to the indirience a pension company which is dedicated to vidual citizen. the private customer’s present life situation. In order to provide competent, trustworthy and relNew focus areas resulting from PFA’s health evant advice, it requires that we have access to screenings information about other savings, other pension In 2016, PFA continued offering health screenings plans, home equity etc. Therefore, PFA expandwhich focused on the individual employee with a ed My PFA in 2016 to make it easy for the customcompany and his or her lifestyle (diet, sleep, exerers to transfer information from SKAT on available cise habits) and work-life balance. As part of the funds, property, debt etc. to ensure a true and screenings, which are made online, the employees fair view – and thus relevant recommendations estimate their own level of productivity and abilthrough the holistic advisory services. Holistic adity to perform their job. The extent of completed visory services are based on the entire financial health screenings during the last three years has situation of the private customer as well as his/her provided PFA with unique and relevant data and wishes and dreams in order to be in the best poan insight into the challenges that our customers sition to help make the right choices for the penhave when it comes to the various health paramsion plan. eters and the areas in which an additional effort will have the greatest impact on the individual Based on feedback from the customers, PFA has employee and the company. During the year, made it easier to navigate and get a complete more than 150 initiatives were completed, which overview at My PFA. It has also become possitogether provide documentation of an average ble to make online adjustments of one’s insurenergy level improvement of 38 per cent, a proance cover and collect and approve all changes in ductivity increase of 22 per cent and an increase one process (shopping cart). In connection with in engagement of 36 per cent. online consultations, the adviser reviews the private customer’s pension matters at My PFA while In 2016, PFA joined efforts with its corporate and the customer follows the review on his or her own organisational customers in handling challenges computer screen. The adviser then adds all sewithin new areas of healthcare. Based on data lections to the cart, which the individual custommade available through the health screenings, er can then approve from home in one process by the challenges that the customers are facing and using NemID. PFA · CR repor t 2016 23 The customers have adopted the new solutions. considerable changes throughout the almost 100 In 2016, My PFA experienced more than 1.1 million years of PFA’s history. The life as a senior is not a logins against approximately 790,000 the year bequestion of getting through and getting older but, fore, and customer satisfaction increased to 7.6 to large extent, also of progress, possibilities and on a 1-10 scale against 7.5 in 2015. Throughout freedom to enjoy new experiences. In future, PFA 2017, PFA will strive to improve when it comes to will contribute by assuming an even larger responbringing into play our knowledge about the cussibility for supporting an easy transition to life in tomers, following the development and ensuring retirement by focusing on the needs of the third that the customer experience with PFA will create age through research and public debate as well as financial security and value for the customer. customer dialogue, by developing measures that contribute to a secure senior life on the customGreater value during your senior life ers’ own terms. PFA has decided to focus on ensuring that the dialogue and financial security which the customers The Customer Representative sees case have with PFA while they are an active part of the administration through the eyes of the labour market will continue when the individual customer customer retires. For this purpose, PFA established The customers’ trust in PFA is paramount. If a custhe department Senior Services in 2016. The new tomer is not completely comfortable with his or department in particular deals with the group of her situation, it is important that PFA can offer customers who are approaching retirement or him/her a place to turn to. The Customer Reprewho have already left the labour market. As a resentative is the customer’s representative in PFA, sult of the demographic development, the senior whose purpose is to review the case based on the employees will constitute an increasing part of the material and information which the customer has Danish society – and thus of PFA’s portfolio. At received from PFA. the same time, the life as a senior has undergone CASE Reduction of stress by 20 per cent In cooperation with our major corporate and organisational customers, we have developed a business-oriented method for preparation and implementation of an efficient health strategy, which is based on PFA’s experience, involving initiation of evidence-based measures that work with the health behaviour of the individual. Example of one of the strategic partnerships on health & preventive measures that PFA has had with a customer during the period 2015-2016: • Together with PFA, the customer has prepared a long-term health strategy which is embedded in the company’s overall strategy. • PFA has assisted with strategic expertise on health and run the change process that was required in order for the strategy to become an integral part of the customer's corporate culture and values. • The company has implemented mental health and resilience as an element in its management training. • The company has optimised its internal processes in connection with coping with stress. • In 2015, the company had a strong focus on sleep, among other things, through workshops/presentations. Approximately 10 per cent of their employees participated in a sleep study and all employees had access to a sleep app. • The improvement during year 1 on the basis of a focused effort regarding mental health resulted, among other things, in a reduction of stress of 20 per cent in 2016. 24 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Børns Voksenvenner Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. voksenven.dk The Customer Representative hears the customRepresentative, on his own initiative, iner’s experience and helps navigate the pension vestigated a case or an issue, for examenvironment, while guiding the customer throughple due to a request from an adviser. out the complaint process. The Customer Representative cannot reverse cases or complaints from Of the 118 cases, 62 were finalised with the Complaints & Customer Satisfaction Departa, considering the circumstances, satisment, but may contribute to the reopening of a factory result for the customer. Typically, case, or a transfer to have the case treated under the customer received more information the Complaints & Customer Satisfaction Departabout his or her pension plan, the cusment. The Customer Representative conveys the tomer's pending case was settled or the customers’ experience to PFA, so that processes customer got the opportunity to provide and products will become increasingly customerPFA with a description of his or her customoriented on an ongoing basis. er experience. In 15 cases, PFA changed the settlement so that the customer was accomIn 2016, the Customer Representative reviewed modated completely or partially. 27 cases were 118 cases. This is the same level as the year closed, in which the customer wanted to be acbefore when 113 cases were reviewed. Of commodated, but was not. And 14 cases are still this, 21 were proactive, where the Customer pending or have lapsed unaided. PFA · CR repor t 2016 25 Overview of the subjects of Customer Representative cases in 2016 Subjects of Customer Customer Representative The benefits for the Representative cases contributing knowledge to customers PFA Processing time Customers expect more Help with navigating the Expectation of faster communication, more pension environment processing time transparent communication and more digital self-service solutions Changing jobs Try to accommodate that A proper process in Missed deadline in connection some customers miss that connection with job changes with change of jobs results in they actively need to make a that creates security loss of insurance cover decision Contact with PFA Customers need more PFA focuses on increased Lack of contact frequent dialogue with PFA, regular contact with the including advice on whether individual customers their pension plan is still “on track” Basis for calculation of Transparency on guaranteed Insight into how guaranteed benefits pension is important as this is benefits operate and that Insecurity regarding the underlying a very complex matter everything is done exactly basis of guaranteed benefits right Efficient complaints handling ing the digital options for the customers, which The Complaints & Customer Satisfaction Departamong other things has resulted in an increasment handles and settles complaints in PFA. The ing number of customers’ gaining access to their department is also engaged in increasing custompension plans at My PFA. At this portal, the cuser satisfaction in general, and the objective is to tomers can quickly retrieve information about identify, and, through a proactive effort, change their plans at any time. the conditions that are a source of discontent. Fewer cases presented to the Danish InsurThe department registers, analyses and handles ance Complaints Board the complaints that PFA receive, and it deals with In 2016, 44 complaints about PFA were presented the customer inquiries that concerns issues afto the Danish Insurance Complaints Board. This is fecting not just one customer but a number of 12 cases fewer than in 2015. This is a relatively customers. This gives a much more accurate piclow number considering PFA’s 1.2 million customture of which trends and general possibilities of ers, and that PFA had more than 600,000 interimprovement that exist when it comes to PFA’s actions with customers during 2016. The decline services, customer approach and products. in number of complaints is among other factors due to efficient case administration. PFA’s efforts to increase customer satisfaction have resulted in a continuous decline in the numIn 2016, the Danish Insurance Complaints Board ber of complaints. This resulted in a decrease heard and completed 42 complaints about PFA. of 16 per cent in the number of complaints as Overall, the board found in favour of PFA in apPFA received 297 complaints in 2016 against 354 proximately 3/4 completed cases. PFA always complaints in 2015. One of the reasons is PFA’s makes considerable effort to be professional and ongoing and targeted effort towards expandaccountable when making decisions. 26 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Foreningen for Børn med Handicap – og deres Familier Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. fbhf.dk PFA · CR repor t 2016 27 EMPLOYEES PFA seeks to provide the framework for management as a driver for PFA's identity and coherence. PFA emphasises creating changes, a high level of engagement and an attractive, healthy workplace. Therefore, all initiatives in 2016 have had Strategy2020 as their focal point and will continue to have in all employee and management activities in 2017. * PFA’S EMPLOYEES ARE KEY TO PFA SUCCEEDING WITH THE AMBITIOUS STRATEGY2020. EMPLOYEE AND MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES FORM THE BASIS OF THE SUPPORT FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGY. Increasing employee engagement employee satisfaction survey, the employees ratIn 2016, PFA developed a new question frame ed the question about how they see their tasks for the employee satisfaction survey. The purcontribute to PFA’s overall goals at 6.0 of 7.0. The pose was to illustrate and measure the linkage implementation of Strategy2020 proceeded acbetween employee satisfaction and job satiscording to plan, and across the organisation, PFA faction, engagement, performance and results, achieved the intermediate milestones that had which are all preconditions for PFA having sucbeen set for 2016. cess with achieving its ambitious strategic goals. 93 per cent of the employees chose to respond, In the communication to managers as well as which in itself shows that the employees engage employees, special focus was on communicating in the workplace and their work. PFA’s target about targets, progressing on the implemenfor employee satisfaction and engagement was tation of the strategy and on unfolding central fixed at 78.5 in 2016 and was split up into three projects in the organisation. Management comquestions: How high do you score the engagemunication was organised with the purpose of ment in your team, the ability of your manager to informing and facilitating a local dialogue begive you regular constructive feedback regarding tween managers and employees in the individual performance, and the ability to achieve your departments. The management meetings were team’s work targets. This goal was achieved with completed in the same way. At these meetings the index score 80.3 as an overall average of the the managers were urged to and had the opresponses to the three questions. The calculation portunity to comment and give input on how of the employee satisfaction, pride in work and PFA is to succeed with the strategy. PFA has 130 to which extent colleagues and teams are appreemployees at management level, and altogether ciated obtained a score between 6.0 and 6.4. The they made 199 comments. Overall, more than lowest scores concerned the cooperation across 600 PFA employees have passed on their input to PFA which rated 5.2 out of 7. As the lowest score, the executive management. The input was prothis is still considered relatively high. cessed and summed up in categories and recommendations to future activities. Communication and involvement of employees in the implementation of Strategy2020 Management Throughout 2016, PFA focused on implemenPFA has developed a management model which tation of the strategy in the organisation. This is based on PFA’s identity and values. The manwas done through management communication, agement model provides PFA’s management involvement of managers and employees in level with a common frame of reference when it meetings, workshops and dialogue meetings, comes to PFA’s expectations of its managers. PFA as well as through mass communication at PFA’s is making a targeted effort to strengthen manintranet. The purpose was to ensure a common agement even further through relevant manageunderstanding of PFA’s future direction and to ment development programmes. have the strategy translated into a local context so that all PFA's business areas can relate Change has constituted a key element in the their work to the strategic goals. In the annual management role in PFA through recent years, 28 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Number of employees (average number of full-time employees) 1,276 Employee engagement (converted into index score) 80.3 Sickness absence 3% Women in management 41 % and will continue to do so in future. Therefore, 2016 was 48, 37 and 22 per cent, respectively. PFA has decided to work actively with change It is in particular the number of managers and management as an essential skill for all managers directors/vice presidents that has increased sigirrespective of management level. nificantly. However, despite the increase, the representation of female directors/vice presidents A healthy PFA still does not live up to the target. In 2016, PFA continued its efforts towards a healthy PFA. The idea behind the concept is In 2016, PFA updated the target figures for the to support the individual employee's health, Board of Directors and the policy regarding the well-being and energy level. Health in PFA is gender distribution in management. This is in about creating a framework for each individual line with new guidelines from the Danish Busiemployee’s engagement at work, with a high ness Authority so that the gender distribution energy level and still with a reserve of energy for board of directors with three members is when it is closing time and the family is waiting 33.33/66.67 per cent, for four board members at home; and friends and recreation takes energy the target distribution is 25/75 per cent, and as well. Exercise during the working day was put boards with more members must have a share on the agenda as it stimulates the engagement of the underrepresented gender which is to be and affects the physical as well as the mental imincreased gradually from 30 to minimum 40 per mune defence system. cent. All targets must be realised in 2017. The target figure for PFA Holding and PFA Pension’s PFA also experimented with activity trackers, board of directors was retained at the previouswhich measure the employee’s pulse and activily fixed 25 per cent, in that the increase of the ty level as well as the quality of the employee’s target to an equal distribution (40/60 per cent sleep. The conclusion of this experiment and a cf. the Danish Business Authority’s guidance) is new health screening across PFA will be reached anticipated to be discussed by the Board of Diat the beginning of 2017. The screening is the rector's structure committee during 2017. same that PFA offers its customers and is based on analysis, effort and effect. The experiment The figure for board of directors with three and the result of the health screening will form members was on target at the end of 2016 when the basis of PFA’s two-year health strategy and the gender distribution for the Group property related activities. companies reached 33.33/66.67 per cent in these companies, whereas the target figure was not 41 per cent women in PFA’s management met for PFA Soraarneq, in which the gender disPFA’s target for the female representation among tribution was 0/100 per cent. For board of direcmanagers is 40 per cent, and at year-end 2016, tors with four members, applicable to the Board PFA is just above the target with 41 per cent of Directors of PFA Bank, the target figure was female managers. The female gender representamet at year-end 2016, when the gender distribution has been stable throughout the last few tion was 25/75 per cent. For board of directors years and was 41 per cent in 2014, 38 per cent in with more members, applicable to the Board of 2015 and reached 41 per cent in 2016. Therefore, Directors of PFA Asset Management, the target no special initiatives have been commenced to figure was not met at year-end 2016, as the genincrease the total female representation among der distribution was 20/80 per cent. The target managers. figure for the Boards of Directors of PFA Holding and PFA Pension was met at year-end 2016, as 27 When looking at the distribution of women at per cent of the Board of Directors was representmanager level, senior manager level and director/ ed by female board members, including board vice president level, the distribution at year-end members elected by the employees. PFA · CR repor t 2016 29 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report describes the PFA Group’s policy, goals and results in its work with Corporate Responsibility (CR) and social responsibility in 2016. The activities of the year cover adoption of new policies, a three-year CR strategy, specific activities and planning of a number of major initiatives which are to be launched in 2017. This way, the report follows up on the overall goals described in the 2015 report on revision of policies and preparation of a strategy for this area. In its work with a new strategy, PFA also decided to apply the term Corporate Responsibility (CR) instead of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The background for the decision is elaborated on page 8. The report covers the PFA Group. PFA Holding’s with solutions. With regard to specific ideas to annual report, this CR report with appendices PFA efforts, in particular five topics were deemed and the CR pages at pfa.dk all comply with the highly important by the employees. Danish Financial Statements Act regarding the reporting of the company’s corporate responTop 5 topics deemed important by PFA’s emsibility. The mentioned reports also represent ployees for the priority of the CR efforts: PFA’s Communication on Progress report (COP) • Prevent and contribute to sickness-absent emto the UN regarding PFA’s implementation of the ployees’ returning to work Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Page 38 • Increase the understanding of private finances provides an overview which explains how PFA has and pension matters – various initiatives in been working during the year to comply with the public schools, for women, for the elderly also various human rights, labour rights, climate, envioutside PFA's general customer segments ronment and anti-corruption principles. • Contribute with knowledge in the public debate • Invest in the green transition Materiality assessment and prioritisation • Improve the health of the population in of the CR efforts Denmark. During the year, PFA has given priority to the dialogue with a number of stakeholders and has In total, 14 topics were assessed in relation to in this way received input and feedback, in parimportance and influence. Some of the 14 topics ticular regarding responsible investments. The already formed part of existing initiatives, which relevant topics and points have been integrated were in this way reviewed. The materiality asinto PFA’s new corporate responsibility policy and sessment has been turned into a strategy includthe policy on responsible investments. ing three focus areas and 15 specific key action areas for 2017 which are described in detail on One of the 2016 goals were to collect PFA’s CR page 9. efforts into a strategy. The purpose was to show the way to how PFA can contribute to the develRisk assessment of special initiatives opment in society in relation to the areas in which In addition to the work on materiality assessment PFA’s business may have the greatest possible imof the CR efforts, PFA has initiated its work on pact and can contribute with knowledge and comrisk assessment of the CR efforts. This is made petencies. The employees were involved in the as part of the work on ensuring that the prowork with the CR strategy through a questionnaire cesses applied are solid, and on hedging the risks and individual interviews. Approximately 10 per that may exist in the different areas. PFA is in its cent of the employees contributed and were enpreparatory phase of this work, which is going gaged in the entire process. The overall feedback to be expanded through 2017 concurrently with from the employees was that PFA, by virtue of its the work on due diligence being integrated even size, should contribute with initiatives in society, better in PFA. The number of subjects, which are turn the spotlight on challenges and contribute identified for risk assessment, is 10. 30 PFA · CR repor t 2016 In 2016, the assessment was prepared as an internal was updated in accordance with the new corporate document in cooperation with the persons responsible responsibility policy. The model is described on page for their specific business areas as part of the work on 36 and helps ensure that the reader can easily navithe priority of the strategy. gate in the data division of the report. PFA’s green accounts form part of this section in which waste, paper Report structure and CO2 consumption are accounted for. The figures Firstly, the report describes the new framework for CR stated in the data division of the report are 2016 figin PFA. Secondly, the report is structured around the ures which are compared with figures from the two four core elements in the new corporate responsibility preceding years. The text part of the report primarily policy: Responsible value creation, Customer, Society includes figures from 2016 which are compared to the and the Employees. In the final part of the report, the previous year. The figures will be included wherever CR key figures and data are outlined. It is described relevant in the report. how the figures in the section have been collected and calculated and how the figures are representing Contact for the current CR report and PFA’s work with data which describe PFA’s work with corporate recorporate responsibility is: sponsibility, status of the year and momentum comMette Vadstrup, CR Manager, Corporate Communicapared to previous years. PFA’s responsibility model tions & External Relations, mev@pfa.dk Cystisk Fibrose Foreningen Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. cff.dk PFA · CR repor t 2016 31 Immun Defekt Foreningen Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. idf.dk 32 PFA · CR repor t 2016 PFA · CR repor t 2016 33 CR KEY FIGURES AND FACTS This part of the report comprises PFA’s key figures and results on CR. The figures are presented in accordance with the structure of PFA’s policy on corporate responsibility with the figures from previous years. The purpose is to provide an overview of how the policy is complied with and place the results of the year in a context. The objective is to provide the reader with an opportunity to read this appendix as an independent part without having to consult the report for a description of specific activities. To the extent that the figures have changed considerably compared to previous years, or where a new calculation method has been introduced, a short description is provided below the individual diagram. Behind the figures in the report The figures in this report and the appendices are based on the figures that are collected, calculated and applied for the activities in the PFA Group. The selection of data has been prioritised in order to provide a general picture and to quantity, wherever possible, the activities and goals that have been set for the CR area in PFA. Figures collected and registered with PFA The figures which are collected and registered in PFA concern the total number of customers, customer inquiries and complaints as well as the application of products in PFA. The calculation of the various categories is based on the method applied within the individual areas for calculating figures when it comes to number of consultations, e-mails, calls and cases attended to. In addition to this, data regarding employees and employee conditions are also collected and calculated internally in PFA. All figures are collected after the statement of the year and apply to the year 2016. CO2 and resource consumption in PFA Regarding the figures on CO2 and resource consumption in PFA, a wide range of suppliers of electricity, heating, paper and transportation, who have all supplied figures after the statement of 2016, are involved. The calculation method used for determining CO2 consumption is still the Climate Compass’ Carbon Calculator, which PFA implemented in 2015. This means that the figures are still comparable. The total figure has been stated at the beginning of the report, whereas the other figures are only stated in PFA’s green accounts in the data section below. CO2 mapping of the equity and property portfolio PFA has been working with mapping the CO2 consumption in the equity portfolio based on figures from suppliers providing an overview of the companies’ CO2 emissions. The figures published by PFA are only stated in a section in the report on page 15, which is due to the amount exclusively covering a limited part of the portfolio and that no comparable figures exist from previous years. The same applies to the work on mapping the CO2 consumption for the property portfolio. It applies to both areas that robust data, comparable from one year to the other, are not yet available. It was not possible to collect data for 2016 either. This is the reason why these areas are not included in PFA’s overall green accounts. The work with responsible investments The figures on company screenings and dialogues with companies are based on cooperation with an external supplier and log of the companies that PFA entered into dialogue with during the year. The voting data is based on PFA’s own log, and the number of companies about which PFA’s business partners have provided analyses and evaluations. 34 PFA · CR repor t 2016 The PFA Group PFA Brug Livet Fonden PFA-Fonden 49 % Other shareholders 51 % PFA Holding A/S PFA Asset PFA Pension, PFA Bank A/S Management A/S forsikringsaktieselskab 76 % PFA Ejendomme A/S PFA PFA Investment Mølholm PFA Soraarneq, PFA Infrastruktur (incl. 6 subsidiaries) Kapitalforening1 Fund Forsikring A/S forsikringsaktieselskab Holding ApS PFA Property Investeringsforeningen Investment A/S PFA Invest2 Letpension3 (incl. 2 subsidiaries) PFA CPH Properties I P/S (incl. 1 subsidiary and 2 general partner companies) PFA CC Properties ApS (incl. 16 subsidiaries) 1) PFA Pension is not the sole investor in PFA Kapitalforening. Ejendomsaktie2) The mutual fund Investeringsforeningen PFA Invest is not included in the PFA Group. PFA has established the mutual fund. selskab BP 3) Letpension is not consolidated into the PFA Group's accounts. PFA Pension owns 49 % of the shares in Letpension. PFA and its business model PFA's history dates back to 1917. The share capital of the parent company PFA Holding amounts to DKK 1 million and the dividend distributable by the company is a maximum of 5 per cent of the share capital, corresponding to DKK 50,000. This way, the ownership structure supports PFA’s objective to create the greatest possible value for its customers. The shareholders of PFA Holding are PFA-Fonden and other shareholders, which primarily comprise the founding organisations from 1917, whose members and employees for the most part are customers in PFA. In 2016, the PFA Group was adjusted as follows: PFA Pension established a new subsidiary, PFA Infrastruktur Holding ApS, in connection with investments in infrastructure. The Midgard Fixed Income Fund Limited changed its name to PFA Investment Fund and is managed by PFA Asset Management A/S. The number of property companies in the PFA Group was increased by 24 companies and now comprises 32 companies at the end of the year, including 4 general partner companies. The significant increase is a result of a continued increase in the number of property investments by way of corporate transactions. On 30 September 2016, Bankpension Pensionskasse for Finansansatte, a pension fund for employees in the financial sector, was merged with PFA Pension, with PFA Pension as the continuing company. In connection with the merger, PFA Pension took over the subsidiary Ejendomsselskabet BP. This CR Report concerns the PFA Group and comprises the following companies/legal entities: • PFA Holding A/S (parent company) • PFA CC Properties ApS and subsidiaries • PFA Pension, forsikringsaktieselskab • Ejendomsaktieselskabet BP (properties) • PFA Asset Management A/S • PFA Kapitalforening • PFA Bank A/S • PFA Investment Fund • PFA Ejendomme A/S (properties) and • Mølholm Forsikring A/S subsidiaries • PFA Soraarneq, forsikringsaktieselskab • PFA Property Investment A/S and subsidiaries • PFA Infrastruktur Holding ApS • PFA CPH Properties I P/S with subsidiaries and associated general partner companies PFA · CR repor t 2016 35 Embedding CR efforts in PFA The framework of PFA’s work with responsibility is the CR strategy ‘Investing in a sustainable society 2017-2020’ which points the direction of and indicates the priorities of PFA’s contribution to society. Add to this, the compliance with PFA’s CR policies. The strategy, policies and guidelines can be found at pfa.dk. The overall responsibility for CR at PFA lies with PFA’s Executive Management. The CR Department performs the daily work with CR as well as coordination of activities and efforts in collaboration with other departments and companies within the PFA Group. The CR Department is a part of Corporate Affairs & Compliance. Responsibility for complying with the policy on responsible investments and the work with active ownership lies with PFA’s Responsible Investment Board (RI Board). As a minimum, the RI Board meets 10 times a year, and its members are management and employees of PFA Asset Management, the Vice President of Corporate Affairs & Compliance, the Vice President of Corporate Communications and the CR Manager. PFA's Group CFO is chairman of the RI Board. The terms of reference for the RI Board can be found at pfa.dk. PFA’s responsibility model PFA’s responsibility model has been updated to the effect that it is based on the four key elements that constitute PFA’s new policy on corporate responsibility: Responsible value creation, Society, Customers and Employees. The themes stated in the outer part of the wheel in the below figure are the themes of 2016 and this report. The model can also be used to navigate throughout the entire report. Human rights & environment Risk Responsible management, investments suppliers Responsible Customer Engagement value creation trust Corporate Health Employees Customers Digitisation responsibility Stress Management Society handling PFA Pension on Brug Livet Fonden the agenda Social engagement 36 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Cystisk Fibrose Foreningen Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. cff.dk PFA · CR repor t 2016 37 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT – AN OVERVIEW PFA's framework for the work on corporate responsibility is based on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, including the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Consequently, the activities and results described in the report also include the 10 principles. The table below describes on which pages in the report the various principles are dealt with and to which extent PFA has been engaged in the subjects under each principle. UN Global Compact Principle PFA activity Page in the CR report Corporate responsibility policy, Policy for responsible investments and CR strategy 2017-2020 6-8 Screening of PFA’s portfolio 10 1 -10 Engagement dialogue with companies that violate international standards 11 RI Board meetings, assessments and decisions 10-11 Code of Conduct and risk assessment of suppliers 14 PFA has given priority to concentrating its efforts Principle 1-2 with translating the methods of the UNGP on the inHuman rights vestment area and the procurement process. Hereafter follows other business areas in PFA. 6,7,12,28 Principle 3-6 Employee satisfaction, health initiatives and Labour rights competency development 26-27 PFA has focused on mapping the CO2 consumption in the equity and property portfolio. Moreover, PFA Principle 79 has continued to account for the company’s own Climate and environment environment and energy impact on the company’s office premises. 12-13 One of PFA’s focus areas in connection with Principle 10 screening and dialogue with companies which PFA is Anti-corruption going to devote particular attention to in 2017. 11,39 WE SUPPORT 38 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Sølund Musik-Festival Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. solundfestivalen PFA · CR repor t 2016 39 Human rights & environment Risk Responsible management, investments suppliers RESPONSIBLE Responsible VALUE CREATION value creation Corporate responsibility Company screenings The screening of investments and engagement dialogues are undertaken on behalf of PFA by GES, which screens and evaluates PFA’s portfolio of corporate shares and bonds. PFA itself also undertakes engagement dialogues with a number of companies and is involved in ongoing dialogues with external managers on PFA’s policy on responsible investments. In 2016, 235 cases from PFA’s portfolio were evaluated against 181 cases in 2015. Dialogue has been engaged with 91 companies which have either committed an offence against international conventions or which showed indications that a company had committed an offence against international conventions. This is 35 cases more than in 2015. 2016 overview of engagement dialogues through GES with companies in PFA’s portfolio Engagement dialogue with companies in which non-compliance with PFA's RI policy has been established 31 (2015:21) Engagement dialogue with companies in which indications show non-compliance with PFA's RI policy 60 (2015:35) Total number of GES engagement dialogues with companies 91 (2015:56) GES has closed seven engagement cases with companies that fulfilled the audit criteria. However, in some cases GES is still in dialogue with the company on another case. 2016 overview of PFA’s direct dialogue with companies Engagement dialogue with companies in which non-compliance with PFA's RI policy has been established 5 (2015 NA) Engagement dialogue with companies in which indications show non-compliance with PFA's RI policy 8 (2015 NA) Total number of PFA’s direct engagement dialogues with companies 13 (2015 NA) PFA in particular focused on Syngenta, Chevron, Freeport-McMoRan, GlencoreXstrata, Rio Tinto, Volkswagen, ExxonMobil, Mærsk, Nestlé, Barry Callebaut and Cement Roadstone Holding. Moreover, PFA contacted Siemens and Allegion and consequently assessed that the need for initiating a dialogue was unnecessary. PFA closed the dialogue with the company Cement Roadstone Holding. The status of the dialogue with companies is accessible at PFA’s log under active ownership at pfa.dk Together with a number of other investors, PFA has summoned the management of OW Bunker and Altor regarding prospectus responsibility and non-compliance with stock exchange legislative information liabilities. It is important to PFA that the case becomes fully illuminated and that the customers’ losses are recovered best possible. Country screenings The number of countries in which PFA has made investments has increased after PFA took over some reserves as a result of the merger with Bankpension. The number of countries with investment opportunities has also increased during the year, which means that countries which did not previously issue government bonds in accordance with PFA's criteria have been included. There was a clarifying follow-up on the situation in Ukraine and Russia in 2016. At the end of 2016, PFA invested in government 40 PFA · CR repor t 2016 bonds in 96 countries. Three of the investments were disposed of immediately after the annual statement in order to comply with PFA’s exclusion list. Exclusion PFA did not exclude any new companies during 2016. PFA revoked its exclusion of Singapore Technologies. The company has informed that it is no longer involved in production of anti-personnel landmines, and through GES, PFA received a confirmation about this. At pfa.dk, PFA publishes both investment lists of the companies and countries in which it invests and a total exclusion list. Voting at companies’ annual general meetings In compliance with PFA’s guidelines for voting at companies’ general meetings, PFA gives priority to vote at Danish companies’ general meetings. PFA cooperates with an external supplier, Manifest, that delivers analyses and recommendations on votes regarding annual general meetings in foreign companies. In 2016, PFA voted at 57 Danish companies’ annual general meetings at which PFA voted by proxy to support the executive management’s recommendations at the annual general meeting. It is always PFA’s decision what to vote for at a foreign company’s general meeting. This should primarily be seen as a part of the active ownership dialogue which PFA is engaged in with the company and in particular concerning the cases that violate PFA’s policy on responsible investments. Manifest and PFA will assess the agenda and in cases where decisions have to be made that concern the particular case, which PFA is in dialogue with the company about, PFA will decide whether to support the motion in question. In 2016, this occasioned PFA to assess the agendas and material related to the agendas with 34 foreign companies and to vote at three general meetings. Dialogue and transparency on the work with responsible investments In 2016, PFA gave priority to the stakeholder dialogue within the work on responsible investments. This contributed considerably to ensuring feedback and contributions regarding the improvement of the processes and the focus areas of responsible investments. PFA participated in constructive dialogue on the following activities in 2016: 8 bilateral meetings with NGO representatives 4 debates on responsible investments at the Folkemødet 1 industry dialogue meeting between pension companies and Danish NGOs. RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE PRACTICE Whistle-blower scheme in PFA In 2016, PFA made it easier to report illegal or irresponsible actions using the whistle-blower portal. This was made as part of the work with transparency, to ensure responsible business practices and to ensure that value creation is conducted in a proper manner. In 2016, the whistle-blowing policy was subject to revision in PFA and a new procedure was introduced which describes how cases are to be reported and which types of cases that are eligible for reporting. Furthermore, PFA has made it possible for business partners and suppliers to report cases on PFA’s whistle-blower portal through pfa.dk. No reports were filed through the portal in 2016. Money laundering and prevention of corruption In 2016, PFA continued its focus on preventing that the PFA Group companies are used for money laundering or terrorist financing. There were no reports to the Danish authorities on any suspicions of money laundering. Another key issue is the work on preventing corruption. This is an area on which PFA has been focusing, in particular regarding the companies in which investments are made; please read more about this subject on page 13. In 2017, PFA will assess whether it will make sense to introduce further measures in connection with the anti-corruption efforts. PFA · CR repor t 2016 41 Corporate responsibility SOCIETY Society PFA Pension on Brug Livet the agenda Fonden Social engagement Councils and network to promote corporate responsibility • PFA gives priority to participating in councils and network for the purpose of exchanging knowledge and step up the work on corporate responsibility. Besides an informal dialogue with a number of different players and stakeholders in 2016, PFA is a: • Member of the UN Global Compact • Member of Dansif and Dansif’s working group for events • Member of the UN Global Compact Nordic Network • Re-entered member of the organisation PRI at the end of the year • Member of the SRI task force under the Danish Insurance Association (Forsikring & Pension) • Member of the CSR network under the Confederation of Danish Enterprise (Dansk Erhverv) • Member of BlackRock Retirement Institute Advisory Council Tax accounts for the PFA Group PFA contributes towards increased transparency in the tax area and has developed a total statement of the taxes that PFA pays and collects each year. The statement forms part of the compliance with the PFA Group’s tax policy and describes a part of PFA’s contribution to society. Paid by PFA 2016 2015 2014 Corporation tax 0 0 18 Payroll tax 126 110 99 Property tax 27 89 81 Non-life insurance tax 10 9 6 Other 9 8 4 Total 172 216 208 42 PFA · CR repor t 2016 PFA has collected 2016 2015 2014 Pension yield tax 3,359 2,444 5,326 Taxes according to the Danish Pension Taxation Act 607 2,045 5,595 A-tax and labour market contribution (pensions) 4,052 3,898 3,649 A-tax and labour market contribution (employees) 360 352 336 VAT 30 68 31 Total 8,408 8,807 14,937 The figures are calculated as at 31 December 2016. Changes to the figures will occur in connection with the final statement prior to the final report in June 2017. Consequently, the 2014 and 2015 figures have later been corrected in accordance with previous announcement. Support for associations and voluntary work Throughout the year, PFA has cooperated with PFA Brug Livet Fonden's causes to create visibility for the causes and their activities. Furthermore, PFA had engaged the employees who contributed by raising money to the foundation and increasing transparency about the foundation. PFA enters into mentorship for veterans In 2016, PFA entered into the mentorship programme “Velkommen Hjem” (Welcome Home) as a result of PFA’s corporate wish to contribute to society by paving the way for war veterans when they are to enter the civilian trade and industry. PFA’s support consists in providing access to four vice presidents or senior managers as mentors for selected veterans. Besides supporting the individual veteran with identification of competences and networking options, this opportunity will also provide the mentors with the possibility of self-development as managers by meeting someone with a different work profile than the traditional PFA employee. At the same time, the cooperation with “Velkommen Hjem” may attract some competencies to PFA which PFA would not have found elsewhere, and thus lead to a corporate skills upgrade in PFA. The first mentorships will be initiated at the beginning of 2017. Partnerships regarding Critical Illness PFA cooperates with the Danish Cancer Society, the Danish heart foundation (Hjerteforeningen), the Danish stroke association (Hjernesagen), and the Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society. The partnerships consist in PFA offering a one-year membership with one of the four organisations to customers who receive payouts from their critical illness insurance within one of the areas covered by the organisations. The purpose is to ensure that the customers are offered support and guidance from experts and patients’ associations. In 2016, 1,294 customers were offered a membership with one of the four organisations, and almost 20 per cent accepted. This is a drop compared to the previous year, when about 40 per cent accepted. The decline may be due to PFA’s new procedure which implies that letters regarding rulings and settlements are now forwarded to e-Boks rather than by ordinary mail as was the previous custom. Gold sponsor at the Folkemødet PFA participated in the Folkemødet in Bornholm – The Peoples Political Festival, which provides a platform for open debates involving politicians, citizens, NGOs and the corporate sector to meet under informal circumstances. The purpose was to participate in the debate on pension issues and the challenges and possibilities that PFA finds exist in the Danish pension system. PFA decided to be gold sponsor in order to contribute to the unique event, at which politicians meet informally with the people and other participants who have an influence on the development in society. PFA’s own tent at the Folkemødet hosted more than 30 arrangements during the four days of the political festival. PFA · CR repor t 2016 43 Reputation PFA’s publicity counted for a large amount of the total publicity among the major Danish pension companies. PFA’s media coverage corresponds to 51 per cent of the coverage for the four largest pension companies in Denmark. Infomedia had registrered a publicity score of 34 with a majority of positive articles. PFA’s reputation among the people in Denmark was also stable. In 2016, PFA Pension had the best reputation among the commercial pension companies say figures from Infomedia. This is the second best reputation among all pension companies in Denmark. 2016 2015 2014 Number of mentions in the press 3,8851 5,100 6,166 1) Of this PFA had 125 CR mentions in 2016, among other matters regarding PFA’s general work when it comes to responsible investments and companies from which PFA has withdrawn investments because they were in non-compliance with PFA’s policy. Prizes and awards PFA was rewarded by the Danish newspaper Berlingske Business for being the pension company with the best image. This happened in the study 'Berlingske Guld Image' under the institute for opinion analyses IFO (Instituttet for Opinionsanalyse). In 2016, My PFA received an award for best digital pension company of the year. The price is awarded by the Danish news media Finanswatch and the consultancy and analytics firm Wilke. PFA Advisory Services Centre was voted best customer service in the pension and insurance industry, a prize which is awarded by DI Service (Dansk Industri Service) and the consultancy and analytics firm Wilke. PFA is represented in the ‘Hall of Fame’, an acknowledgement awarded by the Dutch peace organisation PAX. The organisation has evaluated PFA’s policy and practice for exclusion of companies that produce nuclear weapons. PFA’S GREEN ACCOUNTS FOR PFA’S OFFICE PREMISES IN DENMARK CO2 emissions in PFA 2016 2015 2014 Total CO2 emissions (t) 1,605 2,004 1,971 CO2 emissions (t) per employee 1.26 1.54 1.53 CO2 emissions from electricity 2016 2015 2014 Electricity consumption kWh 2,040,301 1,939,603 1,958,322 CO2 consumption from electricity (t) 3861 552 558 1) CO2 emissions decline in spite of a minor increase in the electricity consumption. This is due to a positive development in the fuel combination for one produced kWh of average electricity in Denmark. The number is published by Energinet and is included in the Carbon Calculator which can be accessed on the Climate Compass’ homepage klimakompasset.dk. CO2 emissions from district heating 2016 2015 2014 District heating consumption kWh 2,756,570 2,556,990 2,193,130 CO2 consumption from district heating 374 339 290 44 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Diesel and petrol consumption Number of cars Consumption in litres Petrol-driven cars 2016 1 4,452 2015 4 7,687 2014 4 7,590 Diesel-driven cars 2016 130 179,803 2015 138 260,506 2014 143 276,229 Year Cars in total CO2 (t) 2016 131 487 2015 142 710 2014* 147 752 Air travel Year Air travel Kilometres flown 2016 993 567,293 2015 833 637,637 2014 501 545,043 Paper consumption Paper (t) 2016 64 2015 85 2014 80 CO2 consumption (t)1 2016 2015 2014 Electricity 386 552 558 District heating 374 339 290 Air travel 62 70 59 PFA · CR repor t 2016 45 2016 2015 2014 Taxi rides2 1 NA NA Petrol-driven cars 10 18 18 Diesel-driven cars 477 692 734 Paper and derivative effects 295 330 311 Total 1,605 2,004 1,970 1) The figures have been calculated using the Climate Compass’ Carbon Calculator. 2) The total number of taxi rides in kilometres for 2014 and 2015 is not available. CO2 reduction in scope overview (t) 2016 Scope 1 223 Scope 2 131 Scope 3 45 I alt 399 PFA leans against Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s method in which CO2 reductions are calculated in scopes. Scope 1 = petrol and diesel consumption, Scope 2 = electricity and district heating consumption, Scope 3 = air travels, taxi rides, waste disposal and values deriving from Scope 1 and 2. Reduction in paper consumption (in kilos paper)* 2016 2015 2014 Reduction of letters sent through e-Boks 8,810 10,257 16,057 Reduction of letters available at the portal 403,980 425,764 401,980 Total reduction in kilos paper 412,790 436,021 418,037 Converted into CO21 426 450 432 1) The calculation of CO2 is based on a model developed by the Danish Energy Agency for the Climate Compass’ Carbon Calculator. Online advisory services reduce CO2 consumption In 2016, 8,839 online pension consultations were carried out. This type of advisory service is ranked in the same category as the face to face advisory services with the customer. When PFA's advisory service is rendered online instead of the advisers driving to the customer, it is possible to calculate the advisers’ reduced CO2 emissions from transport. In 2016, the number of online consultations increased by 1,070, compared to the year before. This indicates that PFA reduced its CO2 emissions by 1.9 tons in 2016, and by 7.1 tons in total for the years 2015 and 2016. Waste (t) 2016 2015 2014 Total waste1 2812 224 252 1) W  aste includes the following types of waste: Waste deemed suitable for incineration, cardboard, paper, confidential paper, plastic wrap, iron and metal, food waste, glass, waste electronic equipment and mixed waste to be sorted. 2) The increase is primarily due to an increase in the amount of building waste from major renovations. 46 PFA · CR repor t 2016 CUSTOMERS Customer trust Corporate Customers Digitisation responsibility Stress handling PFA’s employees engage in daily dialogue with many different customers within a large variety of subjects. The listing below is based on the dialogue and contact on specific subjects that are recorded by PFA. Customer enquiries and contact Advisory Advisory Advisory Services Centre Services Centre Health Centre services1 Calls E-mails Calls2 Total3 2016 69,7374 208,618 68,121 276,576 623,052 2015 74,817 210,469 68,209 256,334 609,829 2014 68,600 249,731 71,074 208,000 597,405 1) The figures include customers who have received advisory services at a seminar, by phone, online and face-to-face consultations. 2) T  he figures include all calls from PFA’s customers to PFA Health Centre and through Falck HealthCare. The 2014 figure has been adjusted according to this definition. 3) The figure for 2014 has been adjusted so that e-mail inquiries to PFA Health Centre are omitted due to incalculability. 4) T  he number of advisory activities is somewhat below the budgeted level, which is primarily due to a staff shortage of 6 FTE compared to the staffing. Settled complaints in the Complaints & Customer Satisfaction Department broken down by outcome Partially in favour Rejected Accommodated Found in favour (per cent) (per cent) (per cent) (per cent) 2016 3 60 12 25 2015 10 43 28 19 2014 6 31 37 26 Inquiries and proactive Customer Representative issues Referred Total to Comnumber of Accommo­ Found in Partially plaints complaints dated favour in favour Rejected Pending Dept. Lapsed2 2016 1181 62 14 1 27 4 3 7 2015 1131 57 4 2 30 11 2 7 2014 1431 77 12 6 38 1 7 2 1) T  hese specifications also include that the Customer Representative from 2014 initiated to proactively handle issues. To provide an overview of the total amount of issues, these have been included in the specification. 2) T  he category is not registered until 2014. It comprises issues where the problem is solved during the normal process, and the customer therefore informs that no further action should be taken. PFA · CR repor t 2016 47 Engagement EMPLOYEES Health Employees Corporate responsibility AND WORKING CONDITIONS Management Number of employees 2016 2015 2014 Number of employees (average number of 1,276 1,299 1,277 full-time employees) Staff turnover in per cent 14.6 11.6 11.8 Seniority and age 2016 Seniority Age Men 7.9 44.6 Women 9.3 43.4 Employees (m/f) 8.6 44.5 Employees in flex jobs 2016 2015 2014 Number of employees in flex jobs 9 10 10 PFA satisfaction survey 20161 2015 2014 Satisfaction 802 76 77 Image NA 80 83 Would recommend others to apply for a job with PFA NA 75 77 1) T  he 2016 employee satisfaction survey differs considerably from the survey of previous years and is therefore not comparable with the surveys of the previous years. In 2016, we decided to build up a new question frame based on research-validated questions regarding employee engagement and to include questions which can be benchmarked against the Danish financial and insurance sector. 2) P  FA’s total score for the employee satisfaction survey was 5.8 on a scale of 1 to 7. Translated into an index score (Index score = ( 7-stage score -1)*(100/(7-1))) the result is 80. The employee satisfaction survey of the year shows that the engagement in PFA is very high and generally significantly above benchmark in the sector. The parameters that are particularly high are engagement, pride in work as well as how much colleagues and teams are valued. Here, all results are between 6.0 and 6.4 out of a maximum score of 7. 48 PFA · CR repor t 2016 Sickness absence 2016 2015 2014 Sickness absence (in per cent) 3.0 3.0 3.3 The short-term sickness absence declined during 2014. The increase in 2014 was due to an increased number of employees absent due to long-term illness. Occupational injuries 2016 2015 2014 Number of occupational injuries 6 3 1 PFA has a working environment organisation, the purpose of which is to create a safe and healthy working environment at PFA. The figures are based on PFA's reports to the Danish Working Environment Authority. Number of women in management, on boards and on PFA's Customer Board 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 PercenPercenPercentage tage tage Men Women Men Women Men Women share of share of share of women women women Level 1 14 4 22 13 2 13 12 2 14 Vice President Level 2 31 18 37 24 14 38 26 16 38 Senior Manager Level 3 37 34 48 40 31 44 35 33 49 Manager Total 82 56 41 77 47 38 73 51 41 Level 1 consists of the directors/vice presidents, level 2 comprises the senior managers and level 3 covers the managers at PFA. • By the year-end 2016, PFA’s Executive Management consists of four men. • PFA's Board of Directors consists of 15 ordinary members, of which 4 are women, corresponding to 27 %. • At year-end 2016, PFA’s Customer Board comprised 69 members, of which 4 seats were vacant and 21 were occupied by women, corresponding to 32 %. Learn more about PFA's key figures and initiatives to increase the proportion of the under-represented gender on boards and in managerial positions in PFA at pfa.dk. PFA · CR repor t 2016 49 Børns Voksenvenner Selected as one of PFA Brug Livet Fonden’s 2016 causes. voksenven.dk BN6132 UK 05.2017 PFA Pension Sundkrogsgade 4 2100 Copenhagen Denmark Tel. (+45) 39 17 50 00 pfa.dk CVR No.: 22 43 80 18
