Shaping a more secure future De La Rue plc Annual Report 2017 Inside this report 2 4 Strategic report Our business at a glance 2 Financial highlights 3 Introduction from the Chairman Currency 4 Our business at a glance £350.6m Revenue £50.3m Adjusted operating profit* 6 Our global footprint 7 Securing the future 14 Our markets Identity Solutions 18 Our business model £80.6m Revenue £11.4m Adjusted operating profit* 20 Our fundamental plan 22 Chief Executive Officer’s review 30 How we performed Product Authentication & Traceability 32 Risk and risk management 38 Financial review £34.6m Revenue £9.0m Adjusted operating profit* 42 A responsible business 18 50 Our business model Corporate Governance 50 Chairman’s introduction 52 Leadership What we have to deliver What value we create 61 Effectiveness our business model –– Nomination Committee report 65 Accountability –– Audit Committee report –– Risk Committee report 22 CEO’s review –– Ethics Committee report 73 Relations with shareholders 74 Director’s remuneration report 93 Report of Directors We delivered a good performance and strategic progress 97 in the year. Accounts 97 Independent auditor’s report 102 Group income statement 103 Group statement of comprehensive income 104 Group balance sheet 30 105 Group statement of changes in equity Visit us online 106 Group cash flow statement www.delarue.com 107 Accounting policies 110 Notes to the accounts How we performed 148 Company balance sheet 149 Company statement of changes in equity Revenue1 £m 150 Accounting policies – Company 2017 461.7 151 Notes to the accounts – Company 2016 454.5 2015 422.8 153 Non-IFRS measures 2014 460.1 2013 422.5 155 Five year record 156 Shareholders’ information * This is a non-IFRS measure. See further explanations and £461.7m reconciliation to the comparable IFRS measure on pages 153 to 154. 1 Continuing operations only. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 1 Strategic report Our purpose To enable every citizen to participate securely in the global economy. Corporate governance As a trusted partner of governments, central banks and commercial organisations, we provide Accounts a fully integrated range of security products, software solutions and specialist services that underpin the integrity of trade, personal identity and the movement of goods. The world’s largest commercial producer of currency, we design and manufacture banknotes, banknote substrates, security features and the associated technology platforms for over 140 countries. We produce more passports than anybody else, providing identity documents and software solutions for governments worldwide. We are also one of the leading product authentication specialists. Our secure labels and track and trace software solutions help governments and businesses tackle the challenge of illicit trade and counterfeit goods. 2 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 A solid performance Transforming the business Financial highlights Introduction from the Chairman Revenue Dividend per share £461.7m 25.0p 2016: £454.5m 2016: 25.0p Adjusted EBITDA*1 Reported EBITDA4 £97.4m £96.0m 2016: £96.4m 2016: £92.8m Philip Rogerson Adjusted operating profit*2 Reported operating profit Chairman £70.7m £70.2m 2016: £70.4m 2016: £66.8m The Group delivered good results in 2016/17. The strategic plan set out Adjusted basic earnings Reported basic earnings per share by the management team per share*3 from continuing operations in May 2015 is progressing 47.1p 47.2p well. Identity Solutions and Product Authentication 2016: 48.1p 2016: 46.8p businesses delivered strong revenue and operating profit growth, further improving and diversifying our business mix. * This is an non-IFRS measure. See further explanations and reconciliations to the comparable IFRS measures on pages 153 to 154. ‘Reported’ measures are on an IFRS basis. 1 Adjusted EBITDA represents earnings from continuing operations before the deduction of interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items. 2 Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit from continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets. 3 Adjusted earnings per share are the earnings attributable to equity shareholders, excluding exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and discontinued operations divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year excluding those held in the employee share trust. 4 Continuing operations only. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 3 I am delighted to report that the Group Dividend Our people are committed to serving Strategic report has delivered good results in 2016/17. In order to deliver long term shareholder our customers and are often the value and maintain financial flexibility difference between De La Rue and our to sustain future growth, the Board competitors. In 2016/17, they managed Strategic progress to deliver high volumes in both print proposes to leave the dividend The strategic plan set out by the and paper despite the disruptions from unchanged and is recommending management team in May 2015 is the footprint restructuring programme. a final dividend of 16.7p per share progressing well. Identity Solutions and On behalf of the Board, I would like (2015/16: 16.7p per share). This, together Product Authentication businesses Corporate governance with the 8.3p paid in January 2017, to thank them for their continued delivered strong revenue and operating commitment and dedication. will make a full year dividend of 25.0p profit growth, further improving and per share. diversifying our business mix, while the currency business performed Corporate responsibility with resilience. The Board I am proud that we have signed the UN The Board and I feel that we have the Global Compact, aligning our strategy In January 2017, we completed our first and operations with the principles Accounts acquisition in 14 years, adding DuPont right balance of skills and experience to support the management team. on human rights, labour, environment Authentication to the De La Rue family. The appointment on 21 July 2016 of and anti-corruption. In line with our With a strong intellectual property Nick Bray, Chief Financial Officer of core values, we are committed to the portfolio, global blue-chip customers and Sophos Group plc, as a Non‑executive integration of broader social, ethical, a committed and experienced workforce, Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, and sustainable practices across our it is an excellent strategic fit and will has further strengthened the Board. day‑to‑day business. Further information be a great addition to the Group. Nick brings extensive experience in can be found in our corporate responsibility The banknote manufacturing footprint the technology and information security section on pages 42 to 49. restructuring programme is progressing industries and we welcome him on board. to plan. Our continuous focus on improving Rupert Middleton, Chief Operating Officer Outlook efficiency and careful allocation of capital has provided a solid platform to support and Executive Director, has informed the We started the year with good momentum further growth. Board of his intention to step down from and a strong order book of £387m. the Board after the AGM on 20 July 2017. While the sustained weakness of sterling We completed the sale of the We are grateful for his contribution and gives us a competitive advantage in the underperforming Cash Processing wish him well for his future. The position export market, most of our sales are Solutions business in May 2016. will be replaced by the newly created role invoiced in sterling and therefore do not of Chief Operations Director which will automatically result in higher margins. Financial performance not be a Board position. A search has We will continue to increase investments commenced to identify suitable internal in R&D, product management and sales Revenue grew 2% overall, reflecting and external candidates. capability. Taking this into account, the strong volumes from the Currency as well as the increased costs of segment and the good progress made raw materials, the Board is confident in the Identity Solutions and Product Culture and people of continued progression and its Authentication businesses during the We are committed to fostering a expectations for the financial year year. Adjusted operating profit* was dynamic, agile and high performing of 2017/18 remain unchanged. similar to last year at £70.7m despite culture that drives the growth of the the conclusion of a material security business. Our people are critical to the Philip Rogerson features contract last year. On an IFRS successful execution of our strategy and Chairman basis operating profit was £70.2m, up to fulfilling our purpose. We continue to from £66.8m last year, reflecting lower engage with and invest in our people exceptional charges in the current year. through training and development. Adjusted basic earnings per share* In December 2016, we undertook an decreased by 2% due to the benefit of a employee survey and were delighted non-recurring tax benefit in the prior year. that 85% of our colleagues participated Cash generated from operating and provided us with their feedback. activities, which includes the impact While the results of the survey were of discontinued operations, was up 9% highly encouraging, we recognise at £64.3m. The benefit of higher profits we have more to do in a number of in the year was offset by adverse working areas and the survey provides us with capital movements due to the timing of invaluable insights to act upon. 142 shipments and a reduction in advanced payments. Following the $25m acquisition of DuPont Authentication, which was funded from the existing credit facility, Countries exported to in the last three years. net debt as at 25 March 2017 increased by £14.8m to £120.9m. 3,150 We employ around 3,150 people worldwide. 4 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Our business at a glance We provide governments, central banks and businesses with a range of security products, software solutions and specialist services that underpin the integrity of trade, personal identity and the movement of people and goods. What we do Innovate Grow We offer our customers cutting edge technology and Our Innovation capabilities means we can reliably solve our products and best in class design. We plan to double customers’ unique challenges through tailored products and our R&D investment in the years to 2020 and focus services. It will enable us to extend the range of services on technology-led product and service development. to existing customers and to attract new customers. Research and development Central and Enhancing our capability in commercial banks high growth areas such as need a supplier they can trust security features, polymer to design and manufacture and digital solutions. secure currency. Design Centre WORKING IN Governments An essential part of product PARTNERSHIP increasingly need to monitor development, we work closely WITH OUR and control identity to improve to match our customers’ CUSTOMERS security, social inclusion and individual needs. global trade. Software development Brand owners/governments/ Improving our digital offering tax authorities through partnerships need to protect tax revenues and acquisitions. and brand equities from illicit trade and counterfeit goods. How our business is managed Currency £350.6m Revenue £50.3m Adjusted operating profit* Banknote Print Banknote Paper Polymer Security Features We design, manufacture We manufacture banknote We are the only vertically We create features that are and deliver banknotes to paper for use by commercial integrated producer combined with banknotes customers around the world. and state manufacturers. of polymer substrate to make them secure and banknotes. from counterfeits. 7.1bn 11.8k 380 1.3m Banknotes produced Paper produced Polymer substrate produced Security threads produced in 2016/17 – notes in 2016/17 – tonnes in 2016/17 – tonnes in 2016/17 – kms Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 5 Strategic report Corporate governance Deliver Our world class manufacturing capability, Accounts together with outstanding operational expertise, strong supply chain and secure logistics network, offer our customers cost effective quality and reliability. Enable secure Help people and goods authentication and move freely and securely tracing of currency, around the world people and products TO SOLVE THEIR Help governments identify Help organisations fight UNIQUE their citizens and protect counterfeiting and protect CHALLENGES tax revenues brand and reputation Provide tailored solutions Help countries form and trade Product blueprint Identity Solutions Product Authentication £80.6m Revenue £11.4m Adjusted operating profit* £34.6m Revenue £9.0m Adjusted operating profit* Identity Solutions Product Authentication We create and deliver We create and deliver secure passports and identity labels and track and trace solutions for governments. solutions for governments and commercial customers. 13.7m 1.7bn Passports printed Security labels in 2016/17 printed in 2016/17 * This is a non-IFRS measure. See further explanations and reconciliation to the comparable IFRS measure on pages 153 to 154. 6 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Our global footprint We have a global footprint and work with governments, central banks and commercial organisations in over 140 counties. Gateshead, UK – Banknote and security printing Westhoughton, UK – Polymer substrate and security features Debden, UK – Banknote printing managed service Overton, UK – Banknote paper and Technology Centre Basingstoke, UK – Head offices and Design Centre Malta – Banknote and security printing Wilmington, Delaware, US – Research and development centre Malwana, Sri Lanka – Banknote printing Logan, Utah, US – DLR Authentication Solutions Nairobi, Kenya – Banknote and security printing No. 1 Revenue by region* Employee by region % % UK 21% UK 65% Rest of Europe 6% Rest of Europe 14% In banknote and passport markets by volume. Americas 16% Americas 1% Middle East & Africa 35% Middle East & Africa 9% 157 years Asia 20% Asia 10% Rest of world 1% Rest of world 1% Longest customer relationship (with Mauritius) dating back to 1860. 40% Of the world’s total banknote denominations in circulation in 2016 were designed by De La Rue. * Numbers do not add up to 100% due to rounding. 40 countries For whom we produce passports. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 7 Strategic report Corporate governance Accounts Securing the future 08 10 12 A CASHLESS SOCIETY? REALITY CHECK? IDENTITY CRISIS? The role of cash. The challenge of Towards a digital ID. A less-cash society, but product authentication. Who are you? not a cashless society. Protecting revenues, brands and people. 8 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Securing the future A cashless society? THE ROLE OF CASH A LESS CASH SOCIETY, BUT NOT A CASHLESS SOCIETY Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 9 Strategic report Reports of the death of cash have been that while the proportion of transactions registered – no birth certificate, no greatly exaggerated. With qualities carried out in cash will decline, the total proof of identity, no bank account or that include portability, divisibility and volume of cash in circulation globally access to financial tools. With 1.8 billion durability, cash is forecast to grow and will rise by 3–4% a year over the next people without bank accounts, cash remain central to the world’s economy. 10 years5. (see chart on correlation is the world’s most socially inclusive A cashless society is about as likely as between cash in circulation and GDP). payment method – and will remain the paperless office that some insisted so for the foreseeable future. So what’s behind our planet’s enduring Corporate governance was within touching distance a decade or more ago. Just as new technologies preference for cash? Changing demographics further complicate the issue. such as email and cloud computing The world’s most socially inclusive Ageing populations are less digitally came to co-exist alongside paper, payment method savvy than younger generations – and innovations including credit cards, Access to financial services is one even in Western Europe there’s a real digital wallets and crypto currencies are of the UN’s principal Sustainable risk that any pronounced shift to a complementing – not replacing – cash. Development Goals for 2030. Due to cashless society would further highlight Accounts Although the world is absolutely right cost, the technology infrastructure to the differences between the haves and to welcome any technology that has support cashless transactions simply the have-nots. the potential to drive choice and social doesn’t exist across vast tracts of the world. And where it does exist, even It may come as a surprise to those inclusion, we should not lose sight of a temporary glitch in availability can of us who think nothing of tapping in the facts: 38% of the world’s population cause major problems. In October and out of the public transport network don’t have bank accounts1; the demand 2016, one of the UK supermarket or buying groceries online, but cash for ATMs continues to grow worldwide2, chains, for example, incurred the is here to stay. Cash will continue to with numbers set to increase by c5% wrath of its customers when the co-exist alongside the digital economy. a year; December 2016 saw more cash loss of internet connection meant And in the absence of infrastructure withdrawn from ATMs in the UK than that electronic payments could not that is both 100% available and reliable, any month in history 3; and even Sweden, be processed. it will remain the foundation for the probably the most cashless society in the majority of the world’s transactions. world, has had to backtrack on its policy Added to this, the UNHCR6 reports of removing ATMs4, due to public outcry. that one million children per week All of which support our own analysis are born without their births being Paper production continues to rise Cash means growth Whatever happened to the paperless office There is a strong correlation between cash in circulation and GDP growth. While Norway, and the paper-free world? Global paper Sweden and Japan have particular circumstances that have led to them bucking the trend, production7 still shows positive growth, almost every major economy follows this rule. despite the impact of email and other technologies – a clear indication that the The value of money circulating has increased at a rate higher than GDP growth in 70% digital and the physical can and do co-exist. of countries since December 2012. Source: RISI 2016 Global paper and pulp production. 60 Currency Value in Circulation CAGR (%) 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 -20 -30 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 GDP CAGR (%) CIC CAGR less than economic growth CIC CAGR greater than economic growth Source: IFS series, IMF Data API and IMF World Economic Outlook database October 2016 1 World Bank Global Findex database. 3 LINK press release. 2 The ATM market expected to grow at a CAGR of 5.49% 4 The World Bank, Data Bank (2004–2015). in the period 2016–2021 according to Research and 5 De La Rue estimates, excluding overspill orders. Watch more online at Markets report: Global ATM Market – Insights and Analysis: Growth, Penetration and Demand Forecast 6 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. www.delarue.com/about-us/our-strategy to 2021. 10 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Securing the future continued Reality check? THE CHALLENGE OF PRODUCT AUTHENTICATION PROTECTING REVENUES, BRANDS AND PEOPLE Counterfeiting, smuggling and tax in fake tobacco funds human and arms to enable a business to track and evasion currently cost the world trafficking as well as supporting armed trace a product anywhere in the world. US$1.8 trillion1 – enough to lift around insurgent groups. Printed features, holograms and uniquely 1.4 billion people out of poverty for six encoded materials known as taggants For brands, the dangers are two-fold. years. If this was a country, it would all have a part to play. Counterfeiting not only reduces the sales have the tenth largest economy in the of legitimate goods – at the same time, it However, technology alone cannot world by GDP – and it’s growing fast, can also undermine a brand’s reputation combat counterfeiting. The political and driven by globalisation and increases by undermining hard-won customer regulatory environments must now get to in consumer spending. It’s common relationships. Estimates suggest that grips with the challenges of globalisation to find counterfeit goods produced 10% of cigarettes2 and 25% of alcohol and e-commerce. on one continent, trafficked across another and sold on a third. drinks are fake3, and that at least 24% To succeed, governments must deploy of consumers have unwittingly bought the same three-pronged approach that Let’s examine what this means for counterfeit goods online4. In October led to cash counterfeiting becoming economies and citizens, as well as 2016 Apple reported that up to 90% of a relatively minor issue – for example, for the brands being counterfeited. its products purchased via a well-known the Bank of England reports fewer online marketplace are counterfeit. Firstly, it reduces government than 0.006% of the UK banknotes revenue. Illicit trade perpetuates Staying one step ahead in circulation today are fakes. the grey and black economies, Effective product authentication, from That means combining technology and reduces the amount of tax available source to consumption, can combat law enforcement with public education, to governments and corrodes a this surge in illicit trade. In fact this is ensuring that people can recognise country’s ability to drive economic the most effective way to ensure that fakes and understand the threat they and social wellbeing. Potentially, this governments can collect tax revenue, pose to lives and economies. is a huge global trade issue. It’s not consumers can make safe purchasing Counterfeiting will not go away. But the far-fetched to imagine governments choices and businesses can protect right joined-up approach, with multiple using tariffs against countries that fail their brands. stakeholders working together to to combat counterfeiting. Overt and covert product authentication address issues such as cross border Secondly, counterfeiting supports technology can take many forms, pricing and complex supply chains, crime and terrorism. According to including secure features that can be will go a long way to ensuring that the World Health Organisation, trade embedded in a document or packaging governments, brands and consumers stay one step ahead of the criminals. Illicit trade increases access to often cheaper tobacco products, which in turn fuels the tobacco epidemic and undermines existing tobacco control policies. In fact, eliminating illicit trade in tobacco is estimated to generate an annual tax windfall of US$ 31bn for governments. Dr Vera da Costa e Silva Head of the Convention Secretariat, The WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control Watch more online at www.delarue.com/about-us/our-strategy Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 11 Strategic report Consumers in danger Illicit trade is far from a mere inconvenience for consumers. It places them in genuine danger – from poisonous baby powder and cyanide in make-up to fake malaria tablets that are estimated to have caused the deaths of half a million people. Analysis by the World Health Organisation Corporate governance suggests that 30% of medicines on sale in some parts of Africa, Asia and Latin America are counterfeit. Accounts Self-funding tax stamps Tax stamps such as those often found on cigarettes provide strong physical tokens that help consumers choose authenticated products and governments to collect revenue. Such schemes can quickly become self-funding – in the Philippines, for example, the ‘sin tax’ has been very successful in raising tax revenue from tobacco and alcohol to fund the health service. 1 OECD/EUIPO (2016) Trade in Counterfeiting and Pirated Goods, Mapping the Economic Impact. 2 World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. 3 World Health Organisation, Global status report on alcohol and health 2014. 4 MarkMonitor, Thomson Reuters – The Global Consumer Shopping Habits Survey (2015). 12 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Securing the future continued Identity It’s well known that investment in health, Similarly, using iris recognition to verify ID education and infrastructure will lead in a refugee camp is rendered impractical to an increase in GDP and the growth once somebody leaves the camp and to which all countries aspire. But rarely the technology is no longer available crisis? governments can realistically make – no technology can quickly equate to such investments without a reliable, no ID. So although the world is certainly demonstrable understanding of its on the path to a digital ID it will have to population base. How many people... wait until the infrastructure is in place where do they live... what do they to support it. WHO ARE YOU? need in terms of healthcare, education TOWARDS A DIGITAL ID Co-existence of the physical and infrastructure? and the digital Civil registration is the anchor of an In the meantime, governments effective global ID system – the starting and citizens will continue to rely point that can build valuable, practical extensively on physical documentation knowledge around the who, where, how for ID purposes. For example, the and what. Yet, despite the best efforts of comprehensive and innovative security the World Bank and others, the UNHCR measures within physical passports reports that one million births per week cannot be replicated electronically – are not being registered. The task of and this is unlikely to change in the ensuring that everybody on the planet near or mid term. has a legal and secure ID by 2030 – one of the UN Sustainable Development However, discussions around the future Goals – looks a distant goal. of ID remain focused almost exclusively on digital solutions. Yes, these will It’s natural to think that as we move undoubtedly have a key part to play – towards a digital world, technology for example, capturing birth data offline will step in to enable births to be in remote areas and then uploading once recorded and citizens validated with connection is available can potentially ease. Unfortunately, the infrastructure transform civil registration. that drives internet communication is simply not up to the task – even in But we know from the growth in coins developed countries, system resilience and banknotes that new technologies is not sufficient to deliver total reliability. complement rather than replace the For example, the International Civil demand for physical items. What the Aviation Organisation (ICAO), which sets world needs is a balanced debate on the standards for the ID documentation the physical and the digital, between required for air travel, recognises that policymakers and solution providers even if a mobile network is running at as well as between public bodies and 99.95% availability, it’s likely to be down private organisations. The solution is for over four hours per year. It’s not going to require a mix of innovation, trust hard to imagine the chaos if immigration and partnership, combining the best of control was closed for several hours the physical and digital worlds to create because digital passports couldn’t an effective ID system – and therefore be checked. drive growth and prosperity. Data allow your political judgements to be based on fact, to the extent that numbers describe realities. Hans Rosling Statistician and Public Educator © Wingspan Productions Ltd 2013 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 13 Strategic report Corporate governance Accounts The changing nature of tokens The challenge of sharing data No address, no inclusion We’re all accustomed to using physical Significant barriers remain before we can An address enables people to exercise their items (known in our industry as tokens) welcome an era characterised by a single rights and responsibilities. Governments can to prove we are who we say we are, customer-centric view underpinned by data provide services and infrastructure investment whether in the form of a passport, ID card captured digitally. In the UK, for example, when they know where their citizens or birth certificate. However, the use of ID data is owned by the organisation – live. However, around 75% of the world digital tokens can transform the customer from the NHS to the DVLA and HMRC has an inadequate addressing system. experience and reduce costs – supporting – not the individual. Encouraging and New technologies and systems might help online applications, accelerating verification enabling these organisations to share governments achieve UN SDG 16, building and even enabling emergency replacement data will be a major challenge. strong institutions. For instance, the locationdocuments following loss or theft. based service what3words has divided the world into a grid of 3m x 3m squares and assigned each one a unique three word address. This means that everyone, everywhere, can now have an address and therefore play their full part in society. Watch more online at www.delarue.com/about-us/our-strategy 14 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Our markets We operate in three main markets – currency, identity and product authentication, all of which have strong prospects for long term sustainable growth. The total amount of cash Currency market Global banknote issuance in circulation has been The total amount of cash in circulation Billions of notes 2020E 209 growing at c4% a year has been growing at c4% a year1 globally over the past decade and is expected to 2019E 201 globally over the past continue to increase at a similar rate in 2018E 2017E 192 184 CAGR 4% future years. GDP and population growth decade and is expected are the main drivers for cash growth. 2016E 176 to continue to increase at Most banknotes and the substrates on 2015 2014 172 162 a similar rate in future years. which they are printed are produced by 2013 159 CAGR 4% state print works (SPWs) and state paper 2012 154 mills (SPMs) of the respective issuing 2011 148 countries. The rest of the demand is Source: De La Rue estimates met by commercial banknote printers and paper makers. This situation has remained relatively stable over the Commercially available markets past decade. % While many customers buy finished Commercial print 11% banknotes from one supplier, some Commercial paper follow a multi-supplier model which 41% involves disaggregating their note buying Print overspill 3% into individual components: substrate, c172bn notes security features and printing. Commercial security features Around 11% of the c172bn banknotes 69% issued globally2 in 2016 were printed by a handful of commercial printers. Commercial De La Rue is the clear market leader, Paper polymer 3% with 27% market share. overspill 2% State print works 86% While the increase of cash in circulation State paper mills 54% drives growth in the commercial ZSST (China) 31% banknote printing market, the timing of orders can be unpredictable. The degree Source: De La Rue estimates of uncertainty is exacerbated by overspill caused by the SPWs being unable to meet internal demand. Overspill orders Commercial print market typically account for 1% to 3% of the by volume % total banknote market and therefore have De La Rue – 27% a noticeable effect on the commercial Peer 1 – 21% Peer 2 – 14% print and paper markets. Peer 3 – 7% Of the banknotes in circulation, 97% are Peer 4 – 7% Other – 24% printed on cotton-based paper with the remainder on next generation substrates such as polymer. Including overspill orders, around 45–50% of the substrate market is supplied by commercial paper or polymer manufacturers. The commercial paper market is highly competitive, with more than a dozen 1 De La Rue estimate. Source: De La Rue estimates. Excluding overspill orders 2 De La Rue estimate. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 15 Strategic report Corporate governance well-established suppliers. De La Rue Accounts Commercial substrate market* is one of the top three commercial Polymer market share by volume % paper makers with market share ranging by volume % De La Rue – 16% between 12% and 15%. In recent years, De La Rue – 10% Peer 1 – 24% Competitor – 90% there has been a persistent overcapacity Peer 2 – 13% Peer 3 – 9% in the market due to some countries Peer 4 – 9% switching to insourcing. Although the Peer 5 – 7% gap between supply and demand has Other – 21% narrowed in the last 12 months, we expect oversupply to remain a feature of the market in the long run. Polymer currently accounts for 3% of the substrate market. As central banks seek to reduce the ‘cost of cash’, polymer is becoming more popular due Source: De La Rue estimates to its durability and greater security3. More economies are switching or considering switching paper banknotes to polymer notes, and we expect the Source: De La Rue estimates market to double in size in the next five * Numbers do not add up to 100% due to rounding. years4. We entered the market in 2012, with our polymer substrate Safeguard®. This has allowed us access to the entire Commercial security features market substrate market, including the part of by volume % state manufacturing sector that was De La Rue – 8% previously unavailable. ZSST (China) – 31% While pricing in print and paper remains Peer 1 – 15% Peer 2 – 12% stable, customers are increasingly Peer 3 – 5% seeking to access the benefits of Peer 4 – 4% added‑value security features such Generic/Other – 25% as threads and holograms and this is making the ownership of such innovations an attractive opportunity. Almost all countries buy security features or IP licences on the commercial market. Some 90% of the c172bn banknotes issued in 2016 incorporated security threads, while only 13% included features such as holographic patches and stripes. However, we believe growth in holographic features will accelerate as the polymer market expands. De La Rue Source: De La Rue estimates is the third largest commercial supplier for security threads and the fourth largest for holographic features. 3 According to the Bank of England’s study in 2013, polymer notes are more secure and last 2.5 times longer than cotton-based banknotes. 16 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Our markets continued The global identity market Identity market Global identity market is valued at around £3.7bn Against a background of increasing £bn 2020E 4.7 today and expected to grow population and greater globalisation, demand for identity products 2019E 4.4 at c6% a year. and services continues to rise as 2018E 2017E 3.9 4.1 governments increasingly focus 2016 3.7 on improving border security and Passport National ID their citizens’ access to services. Passport: 8% CAGR National ID: 5% CAGR While physical tokens such as passports and ID cards are important, there is Source: De La Rue estimates a growing emphasis on end-to-end solutions that combine secure tokens with systems and services. Commercial passport market by volume % The global identity market, including De La Rue – 32% passports, ID cards, and the associated Peer 1 – 12% digital solutions, is valued at around Peer 2 – 12% £3.7bn today and expected to grow at Peer 3 – 9% c6% a year1. Although many countries Peer 4 – 8% have in-house security print capabilities, Other – 27% many still choose to source printing or individual components from the commercial market. More than half of the identity market is available to commercial manufacturers. With an annual growth of c8%, the passport market remains attractive, although market drivers and customer preferences are changing. Customers increasingly value security Source: De La Rue estimates features and the systems and services surrounding the physical product. While we believe demand for physical passports will remain for the long term, the market is transitioning from Machine Readable Passports to chip‑based ePassports. This further drives demand for full integration of end‑to‑end solutions. Globally, around 100 countries have compulsory identity card schemes. The national ID market is expected to grow at 5%. Today, over 70% of the national IDs in circulation globally are chip-based. Technological advances in recent years have enabled new types of ID schemes, combining traditional ID functionality with payment methods. 1 De La Rue estimate. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 17 Strategic report Corporate governance Globally, the significant Accounts Product authentication market Global brand protection market increase in counterfeit Globally, the significant increase in $bn 2020E 4.2 goods and illicit trade counterfeit goods and illicit trade means that governments are losing billions of 2017E 2.7 CAGR 16% means that governments dollars in tax revenues. At the same time, 2010 2.1 CAGR 9% legitimate businesses and brand owners are losing billions of dollars are being undermined and consumer Source: The Future of Anti-Counterfeiting, Brand Protection and Security Packaging to 2020, Smithers Pira in tax revenues. confidence is being eroded. Excisable fast moving consumer goods such as tobacco and alcohol are widely recognised to be among the most illegally traded products in the world. The UK Government estimated that £3.6bn was lost to illicit trade in alcohol and tobacco in 2014–151. The need for protecting tax revenue, together with continuing changes to government policy worldwide, remain the key drivers for growth in the tax stamp market. The rise of counterfeit goods, unauthorised production and sales channel diversion also means that businesses and brand owners are losing revenue and brand equity. The rapid growth of eCommerce and easy global shipping have exacerbated the problem, with 90% of online retailers having experienced up to a 10% loss of revenue due to online counterfeit sales2. In 2015, the total recorded loss due to fake goods amounted to $1.2bn. The global market for brand protection is forecast to grow at c9% a year, rising to $4.2bn in 20203. Both the tax stamp and brand protection markets are highly fragmented, with most operators offering only partial solutions such as serialised labels and tamperevident packaging. However, there is a growing trend towards integrated, end-to-end solutions that provide a combination of highly secure labels and unique ID together with systems that can track, trace and authenticate products throughout the supply chain. As technologies advance and costs reduce, features such as printed electronics and RFID4 tags in packaging and labels are gaining popularity. Online shopping is also driving 1 Measuring tax gaps 2016 edition. authentication through a touchpoint 2 Global Online Shopping Report. of consumer smartphones. 3 The future of anti-counterfeiting, brand protection and security packaging to 2020, Smithers Pira. 4 Radio Frequency Identification. 18 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Our business model How we create value We support governments and businesses by providing them with products and services that underpin the integrity of trade, personal identity and the movement of people and goods. WHAT WE HAVE TO DELIVER WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS OUR BUSINESS MODEL BUY FROM US Intellectual Digital 7 centres of excellence property We have invented solutions Our end-to-end Manufacturing excellence over 100 security digital solutions for Our seven centres of excellence give us a global features for currency identity management presence with consistent operating experience and register around and product track at the highest standards. 30 patents per year. and trace give our Our security features customers easy are embedded in access to information more than 25% of and peace of mind. 1,000+ patents the world’s circulating denominations. Shared knowledge Our knowledge of anti-counterfeiting measures is applied across brand and tax revenue protection, identity solutions and currency. Innovate 3,150 employees Currency Our people We have 3,150 dedicated and passionate employees across four continents. And we are moving to be closer to our customers. Identity Solutions 100% increase Customers Research and development investment Product Authentication Our leading position in defeating counterfeiting is underpinned by 200 years of innovation. Solutions We plan to double our investment in research and development in the five years to 2020. Innovate 1 global supply chain Data Design Suppliers and partners analytics We work with suppliers and partners all over the world to ensure sustainability and reliable delivery We use analytics and Our 50 strong design to our customers. And we hold these suppliers intelligence derived team is recognised and partners to the same high ethical standards from our database as the best in class. that we adopt ourselves. to support customers’ Its banknote and decision-making. passport designs have won 14 international awards since 2007. £64.3m cash flow1 Financial strength The values We generated cash flows from operating which underpin activities of £64.3m in 2016/17. This allows our business us to invest in new technology and machines, drive change drive change act with act integrity drive change act withwith integritytake responsibility take respo fund potential strategic acquisitions and support and and innovate innovate and innovate integrity business operations to secure long term value for shareholders. See our fundamental plan on page 20 1 Includes continuing and discontinued operations. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 19 Strategic report Corporate governance WHAT VALUE WE CREATE FOR Partnerships The world around us We work with an Accounts extensive group of trusted partners to provide our Enabling citizens’ secure participation customers with in the economy advanced technology, greater flexibility and better services. Helping deliver confidence in the economy by ensuring a secure cash cycle Grow Deliver Banknote printing Paper and polymer substrate Supporting social and financial Security features Read more on pages 25 to 27 inclusion by securing citizen identity Cash cycle analytics and providing currency Physical identity documents Read more on page 27 Software systems Contributing to economic growth by protecting tax revenues and tackling Tax revenue protection illicit trade Read more Brand protection on page 29 Software systems Our business Grow Deliver £70.7m Adjusted operating profit* Global expertise We work with Scale manufacturing We are the world’s 47.1p Adjusted basic earnings per share* over 150 countries largest integrated 25.0p on designing and commercial banknotes producing banknotes and security printer and passports, more and the only one that than any competitor. produces and prints polymer and paper Dividend banknotes. Our people Engaging and developing a world class workforce Building local skills and integrity act withact integrity take integrity withtake responsibilitytake responsibility take responsibility excel in what excel excel weindo inwewhat what in excel do work work work together do work together wetogether responsibility what we do together capabilities with strong partnerships in key countries * This is a non-IFRS measure. See further explanations and reconciliation to the comparable IFRS measure on pages 153 to 154. 20 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Our fundamental plan We set a clear plan to grow the business in May 2015. We have completed the first two years of the five year journey. Optimise and Flex Invest and Build Improve efficiency and drive Invest in the business lines that are exposed flexibility in the business lines that to high growth markets, specifically Polymer, face unpredictable markets or Security Features, Identity Solutions and slow growth prospects, specifically Product Authentication Banknote Print and Banknote Paper Currency Identity Solutions Banknote Print Polymer Product Banknote Paper Security Features Authentication Business focus Innovate Grow Deliver Strategic priorities 1 2 3 4 5 6 Address Drive Diversify Invest in Strengthen Drive culture key issues efficiency revenues innovation financial position change Values Demonstrate our five key values drive changeand drive change innovate andinnovate act withintegrity integrity actwith takeresponsibility take responsibility excel do what we do excelininwhat worktogether work together Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 21 Strategic report A five year journey 2015–17 2017–19 2019–20 Set foundations Accelerate transformation Establish leading positions • Address key issues • Accelerate product development • Balanced business portfolio Corporate governance • Optimise banknote manufacturing • Continue to invest • Sustainable financial returns footprint and create in new capabilities operational flexibility • Dynamic and high performing culture • Broaden customer base • Reduce costs • Cash positive • Digital strategy • Increase R&D investment and • Cement #1 position in Currency • Strengthen partnerships introduce product management • Become one of the major players Accounts • Continue culture change in our chosen markets in Identity • Focus on cash management Solutions and Product Authentication • Improve cash flow • Reorganise and drive culture change Strategic priorities Strategic focus see pages 22 to 24 Principal risks see pages 32 to 37 Strategic measures see pages 30 to 31 1 Address key issues • Volatility in Banknotes • Failure to secure strategic partnerships • Return on capital employed (ROCE) • Overcapacity in Banknote Paper to address key issues • Percentage of revenue from long term • Failure to win or renew a material contract agreements (LTA) • Unpredictability in the timing and size of substantial contract awards 2 Drive efficiency • Operational Excellence programme • Loss of a key site • Adjusted EBITDA margin • Manufacturing restructuring programme • Failure in health and safety • Adjusted operating profit • Systems upgrade and process improvement • Quality management failure 3 Diversify revenues • Grow polymer • Unpredictability in the timing and size • Identity Solutions revenue growth • Grow recurring revenues of substantial contract awards • Product Authentication revenue growth • Grow non-Currency revenues • Failure to win or renew a material contract • Grow wholesale market • Supply chain failure • Maximise internal synergies 4 Invest in innovation • Technology platforms • Failure to maintain and exploit competitive • Revenue growth • Digital strategy and technologically advanced products • Total number of patents granted • Services for state print works and services 5 Strengthen financial position • Disciplined capital investment • Pension fund deficit • Cash conversion ratio • Proactive working capital management • Unpredictability in the timing and size • Net debt/EBITDA ratio • Proactive pension management of substantial contract awards 6 Drive culture change • Upgrade sales skills • Breach of legal and regulatory requirements • Adjusted basic earnings per share • Leadership and succession • Failure to adopt performance driven culture • Group 12 month order book planning programme • Inculcate high ethical standards 22 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Chief Executive Officer’s review Martin Sutherland Chief Executive Officer In May 2015, we announced a five year 1 Address key issues strategic plan to transform De La Rue from In a constantly changing market, we must be more flexible and agile in a banknote and passport manufacturer managing our customer relationships, into a technology-led security product and product pipelines and delivery. We face a number of risks that could have service provider. The plan aims to deliver: material impacts to the business. These include volatility of earnings which • Better business mix is caused by unpredictable demand in the banknote print and paper markets. • Higher quality earnings Working with third party partners gives us added flexibility, helping reduce • Improved profitability risk and manage surge in demand. At the same time, we use the insights • Improved cash flow and analytics we have gathered over decades to help our customers improve • Better return on capital their forecasting. • High performing culture The banknote paper market has been oversupplied for a number of years and we expect this to continue. In the short term, cutting production costs and driving efficiency will help to maintain profitability. For the longer term, we continue to explore our strategic options. We completed the sale of the underperforming Cash Processing Solutions business on 22 May 2016. 2 Driving efficiency Driving down costs enables us to remain price competitive while protecting margins. We are working hard to improve manufacturing efficiency. In 2012, we launched our Operational Excellence programme to modernise banknote production and deliver continuous improvement through best practice. We successfully completed Level 2 of the programme during the year. To optimise our cost base, we are restructuring our manufacturing footprint to ensure it is aligned with long term average demand, while also benefiting from the greater flexibility delivered by changes in working practices. 1 to 6 Strategic priorities, see page 20 Launched in December 2015, this UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), programme will complete in 2018/19 1 to 17 see  page 43 and is expected to generate c£13m cash savings per year. Watch the interview with CEO Martin Sutherland www.delarue.com/about-us/our-strategy Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 23 We are also creating a leaner and To grow our sales pipeline, we are Innovation drives Strategic report more agile organisation. We began targeting direct sales of product changing our systems and processes components to state print works product differentiation in 2015/16 and are now upgrading our (SPWs), system integrators and other finance and management information commercial printers. Our renewed focus and is therefore the systems to increase efficiency and on direct sales will not only increase engine for our growth. improve decision‑making. We have our addressable market, but also even also significantly improved a number out the peaks and troughs we experience Corporate governance of commercial processes which have in orders for finished products. shortened our timescales to submit We aim to maximise internal synergies bids and win new business. by leveraging our existing products. In addition, we also aim to build stronger 3 Diversifying revenues customer relationships via a network More than half of the Group’s revenue is of new regional offices and a direct sales generated from Banknote Print and Paper. force, reducing reliance on third party Accounts In order to diversify our revenue streams partners. During the year, we set up sales and benefit from a more balanced product hubs in Dubai and Miami and relocated mix, we have increased investment in sales staff to be closer to our customers areas with potential for high growth – such in Africa and Asia. These changes will as Polymer and Identity Solutions – or high help us better understand customer profitability, including Security Features needs, ensuring we offer the right and Product Authentication & Traceability products and services. (PA&T). We also aim to increase recurring revenues from software solutions and 4 Investing in innovation services. In addition, our focus on long term agreements will help to reduce Innovation drives product differentiation volatility in banknote earnings caused and is therefore the engine for our primarily by unpredictable demand. growth. We plan to double our investment in R&D in the years to 2020, prioritising product development in high growth and high margin businesses. Our product development programme is based on a number of technology platforms we have developed in material science. This approach allows us to maximise our technology know-how and create various platform-based applications for different products. Cash Supply Chain 1 3 4 10 16 DLR Analytics™ Although some industries have been using big data for many years, the central banking sector is just beginning to realise its power. Based on our know-how and vast database of cash cycle management, our DLR Analytics tool is a proprietary software solution that enables central banks to monitor the movement, utilisation rate and inventory of cash. The data generated helps central banks better manage their cash cycle at lower cost, guides their decision-making and shapes policies, while also reducing the risk of running out of cash. Find out more about our innovations www.delarue.com 24 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Chief Executive Officer’s review continued We aim to accelerate technology 5  trengthening our S We continue to invest in extensive development through partnerships and financial position training, development and recognition acquisitions – and in December 2016 we programmes. In June 2016 we launched One of our key objectives is to focus acquired the US-based brand protection the second phase of the Leadership on strengthening our financial position company, DuPont Authentication, Development Programme. This focuses by increasing profit and prudent cash for $25m. Not only does DuPont on developing the agility and capability management. In April 2017, we extended Authentication develop and own the to lead and inspire colleagues in a matrix the maturity date of our existing £250m highly specialised Lippmann holographic organisation, and is helping to build a committed revolving credit facility by technology1, but it is one of the very strong pipeline for succession planning. two years to December 2021. few companies worldwide that can Being ethical and always acting with mass-produce 3D Lippmann holograms. We have also created a joint working integrity is at the heart of our ability group with the pension trustees to In addition to our ongoing work to to work with more than 140 countries, explore ways to proactively improve the enhance our two proprietary software and we use regular ethics training and management of our pension obligations. solutions – DLR Identify™ and DLR assessment to reinforce this approach Certify™ – we have initiated a digital across the company. strategy with a number of initiatives, with 6 Driving culture change We are proud to join the 12,000+ the objective of modernising the business We continue to foster a dynamic, agile participants of the United Nations Global and improving competitiveness. and results-focused culture that will drive Compact (UNGC), a voluntary initiative The fact that around 40% of denominations business growth in the years to 2020 based on the principles of human in circulation globally and 60% of and beyond. rights, labour rights, the environment denominations issued in 2016/17 were To encourage a high performing culture, and anti-corruption. These principles designed by De La Rue endorses our we have implemented performance will guide how we function across our design capability as one of our core management and all employees now business and how we engage with our strengths and differentiators. During the have a set of individual objectives aligned local communities. De La Rue has been year, we have changed our approach to Group strategy. helping to create inclusive, sustainable to increase interaction between the design societies for 200 years and we will team and customers. To ensure that we have the right skills continue to do so. UNGC will provide and capabilities to take our business us a framework to report our progress. forward, we have changed 50% of the Read more about our progress on pages senior leadership team over the last two 42 to 49. years and continue to upgrade the skill set of our sales force. Cash Supply Chain 2 4 9 Bank of England £5 note design We were exceptionally proud to work in partnership with the Bank of England on the ground-breaking new £5 note. We collaborated with the Bank and its other suppliers to create the highly secure and iconic new design, which we are now printing. We are also working closely with the Bank on the designs for the new £10 and £20 notes and look forward to their issue in the near future. Find out more about our innovations www.delarue.com 1 Lippmann holographic technology, also called 3D holographic, is a type of hologram that projects volume or a 3D image of the object. Compared with the conventional embossed holograms which produce colourful 2D images, it requires advanced replication technology. Only a handful of companies worldwide are capable of producing 3D holograms. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 25 Product Authentication 4 9 DuPont Authentication In line with our 2020 Strategic Plan, our acquisition of DuPont Authentication for $25m in January 2017 has given us access to new capabilities. DuPont Authentication produces photopolymer Strategic report holographic films and 3D holograms based on the highly specialised Lippmann technology. Headquartered in Utah, USA and with operations in Delaware, the business has a well-established global customer base in brand protection and identity authentication. Its flagship product, Izon®, Corporate governance is used on a number of globally recognised brands, such as Lenovo and Brother, as well as on one of the world’s most secure passports. Find out more about our innovations www.delarue.com Accounts Reclassification of results between Currency Operational review Product Authentication & Traceability Currency comprises Banknote Print, Our 2020 Strategic Plan has a dual and Identity Solutions Banknote Paper, Polymer, and focus. Based on the market dynamics Historically the results of one of the Security Features. Each business line of each business line, we have identified Group’s manufacturing sites have been faces different market dynamics and two different strategic priorities: included in the PA&T segment as this growth prospects. segment represented the majority of its Invest and Build business. However, due to growth in Banknote Print IDS business within this site, we have Invest in the business lines that are While overall volumes of cash are started reviewing information including exposed to higher growth markets and growing globally at c4% a year, the results of this site split between enhance our capabilities in order to deliver issuances and orders of cash remain IDS and PA&T. In order to align the sustainable growth, specifically Polymer, lumpy. This creates unpredictability in Group’s external reporting segments Security Features, Identity Solutions (IDS), our production schedule and, in turn, to the information reviewed internally, and Product Authentication & Traceability profitability. We aim to reduce this the results of this site have been split in (PA&T). unpredictability by optimising production the current year between the IDS and capacity and by using outsourcing to PA&T segment. The 2015/16 figures have create extra flexibility to deal with surge Optimise and Flex also been adjusted for comparability. in demand. Drive efficiency and flexibility in the See note 1 in the accounts for business lines that are facing markets further details. Our manufacturing footprint restructuring with unpredictability or slower growth, programme, designed to optimise specifically Banknote Print and our capacity, has now completed its Banknote Paper. first phase. Two print lines have been decommissioned in Malta and machine upgrades in other sites are going to plan. In November 2016, we refined the plan to improve our blend of outsourcing and in-house production, and this led to a decision to retain the remaining banknote print line in Malta. The plan to deliver c£13m annual cost savings from FY18/19 remains unchanged, although some of these savings are expected to be reinvested in the business. 26 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Chief Executive Officer’s review continued In August, we agreed to enter into a joint We are focusing on driving direct The number of Safeguard® customers venture that would see the Government sales to SPWs in order to increase reached 15, representing c40% of total of Kenya acquire a 40% interest in our machine utilisation. polymer banknote issuers. We also won wholly-owned Kenyan subsidiary for our first coin-to-note customer. £5.0m. This will further strengthen our During the year, we launched a cost ties with the country and secure our reduction programme which aims to We continue to invest in developing position as a supply hub of currency reduce the spoilage rate and improve security features suitable for both and security solutions in East Africa. throughput. While total volume grew by polymer and paper substrates to We expect this to complete in the current 18%, unit production cost also increased increase differentiation. For customers financial year. due to the increased cost of imported who issue both polymer and paper notes raw materials such as cotton. in different denominations, substrate We seek to build outsourcing partnerships agnostic features provide a degree in banknote print to provide added In the meantime, we continue to engage of consistency which helps to build flexibility, reduce risk and manage surge in complex and constructive dialogue public confidence. demand. At the same time, we aim to with a number of paper-makers in increase earnings visibility through LTAs order to identify a long term solution We are also working closely with with customers. We also look to smooth for the business. suppliers to reduce production demand by helping our customers improve costs, an initiative that will combine their cash requirement forecasting. In May with our increased scale to further Polymer 2017, we launched DLR Analytics™ – a improve profitability. This business has gained significant software solution that helps central banks traction since the launch of our polymer manage their cash cycle by drawing on substrate, Safeguard®, in 2012. Today, Security Features insights and intelligence from the collected as the only integrated polymer provider, As security features tend to last the data and our database. It is currently we are well positioned to achieve lifetime of the banknote design, they piloted with 26 customers. further growth. provide a reliable revenue stream. The most versatile product in our We aim to grow our market share by Banknote Paper portfolio, security features can be applied targeting existing polymer customers across all other product lines. Although demand for banknote paper as well as paper and coin customers has increased in recent months, looking to switch to polymer. In 2016/17, We aim to grow revenue by cross-selling we believe that the long term market we increased our production volumes banknote features to IDS and PA&T dynamics remain unchanged. from 100 tonnes to 380 tonnes. customers. At the same time, our 50%+ Cash Supply Chain 4 9 Seychelles new currency We worked closely with the Central Bank of Seychelles to produce fully integrated designs for a new four-note series that explores the unique bio-diversity of the Seychelles. The new notes incorporate a suite of world class security features, including Depth™ image holograms, Kinetic StarChrome® and Optiks® security threads. Find out more about our innovations www.delarue.com Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 27 Strategic report Identity Solutions 3 16 9 Kenya ePassport Building on a long term partnership, we have recently delivered a new ePassport solution and document with polycarbonate bio-data page for the Republic of Kenya. Part of the Government’s Corporate governance Vision 2030 programme, this complete solution means that Kenya is the first member of the East African Community to launch a fully compliant ePassport that meets both international and regional specifications. Find out more about our innovations Accounts www.delarue.com market share in commercial banknote We achieved good volumes in Banknote Identity Systems design provides an ideal platform to Print of 7.1bn notes (2015/16: 7.1bn) in We are the world’s largest commercial increase direct sales of security features the year despite the decommissioning passport producer, with 32% market to SPWs. of two print lines as part of the share by volume. At the same time, footprint restructuring programme. we are looking to grow digital and A rolling programme of investments This demonstrated not only our sales in R&D maintains our competitiveness service revenues via two separate capability, but also the flexibility of initiatives: firstly, by selling more to and creates high barriers to market our manufacturing capacity following entry. In September 2016, we launched existing customers, using our end-tothe restructuring. end identity management solution, DLR holographic foil on polymer with the issue of the Gibraltar £100 note – and Banknote Paper volumes increased by Identify™, to help them migrate from holographic technology is also being 18% to 11,800 tonnes (2015/16: 10,000 MRP to ePassport; and secondly, by applied to laminate features for the ID tonnes), primarily driven by stronger offering full eBorder solutions including market. We launched six new products external sales. Prices of raw materials biometrics verification and border in May 2017, including four security such as cotton and ink have increased control via partnerships. In addition, features that were developed using substantially in recent months and are we plan to re‑enter the national ID market our existing technologies. expected to remain high throughout the by leveraging our relationships with coming year. existing customers. We aim to accelerate technology development through partnerships Polymer almost quadrupled in volume to In 2016/17, we won a new multi-year and bolt-on acquisitions, such as the 380 tonnes in the year, demonstrating contract, renewed three service contracts purchase of the Lippmann technology. continuing good momentum. Margins are and gained three new customers for While its main applications are expected to improve over time as we passport books. We also continued to authentication labels and anti-tampering continue to reduce production costs and drive direct sales of individual passport packaging, this 3D hologram technology build scale. components, such as passport paper can also be applied to identity and laminate, to SPWs and other Security features were adversely commercial operators. documents and, with modification, impacted by the material contract which to banknotes. In June 2016, we launched DLR concluded in the prior year. Both revenue Overall, the Currency business benefited and operating profit were lower than Identify™ CRVS 2 – an extension of DLR from an improved mix in Banknote Print the prior year. However, underlying Identify™, which enables governments and higher volumes in Banknote Paper, performance, i.e. excluding the impact to record life events of their citizens which partially offset the impact of the of the concluded contract, was such as births, deaths and marriages. security features contract that concluded encouraging. We launched four new These data establish the rights of in the prior year. Revenue fell by 1% year features in May 2017 – TrueImage™, individuals to services such as education on year to £350.6m (2015/16: £353.3m). TextMark™, enhanced Gemini™, and health care while also enabling The lower revenue and change in sales Kinetic StarChrome® Portrait – further governments to plan ahead with mix resulted in a 9% decline in adjusted strengthening our product portfolio. greater confidence. operating profit. At the year end the 12 month order book for Currency including estimated call-off orders for contracts was £311m (2015/16: £278m). 28 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Chief Executive Officer’s review continued Identity Solutions 3 3 10 16 Rwanda eID A key strength of our eGovernment Solutions team lies in helping governments create a better future for their citizens, with improved service delivery. We are working with the Government of Rwanda to create and implement a multi‑functional smart card – this will not only enable Rwandans to prove their identity, but also help them gain access to government services. Find out more about our innovations www.delarue.com Identity Solutions 4 9 UK HM Passport Office Based on proven De La Rue technology and know-how, the UK passport is a universally trusted document. We provide HM Passport Office with a total service solution, delivering a cutting edge book that fosters pride among its holders. Complex and secure infrastructure maintains the integrity of the service as well as the resilience of the document. Find out more about our innovations www.delarue.com Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 29 Strategic report Product Authentication 3 12 Microsoft Certificate of Authenticity In the face of ever more sophisticated counterfeiting operations, the task of proving the legitimacy of products is a key challenge for modern businesses. For the last 20 years, Corporate governance our secure label designs have helped Microsoft ensure that customers benefit from genuine products. Combining attractive visuals with state‑of-the-art security features, these labels enable Microsoft and our teams to track a product around the world, thereby helping to maintain product integrity. Accounts Find out more about our innovations www.delarue.com As part of the manufacturing footprint Product Authentication Furthermore, we are driving direct restructuring programme, we have & Traceability sales of components, such as created a centre of excellence for identity Product Authentication & Traceability security labels and security features and security print in Malta, which includes (PA&T) operates in two main markets: IP licensing, to system integrators the installation of a new polycarbonate tax revenue protection for governments; and packaging companies. line. This new capability has further and brand protection for private PA&T delivered an excellent performance strengthened our product offering enterprises. We aim to grow recurring in the year. Revenue increased by 20% for both passport and national ID. revenues in both markets by increasing to £34.6m (2015/16: £28.8m), driven Identity Solutions performed well in the solution sales. by growth in tax revenue protection. year. Revenue grew by 5% to £80.6m As one of the largest tax stamp The segment benefited from lower (2015/16: £76.5m), with an improved providers, we continue to strengthen production cost, which was partly margin of 14.1% (2015/16: 10.8%) from our position by leveraging existing offset by increased investment in R&D better mix of orders. This reflected relationships and expanding our offering and sales. Adjusted operating profit an increased proportion of revenues with service and digital solutions. in the period was up 29% to £9.0m from software and services, as well Cameroon became the first customer for (2015/16: £7.0m). as increased focus on component our track and trace system DLR Certify™ We completed the acquisition of sales. Adjusted operating profit in the during the year, and we are now pursuing DuPont Authentication on 6 January period increased by 37% to £11.4m a number of other opportunities. 2017. Integration of the business was (2015/16: £8.3m). We have renewed our focus on the completed in April 2017. Excluding the We continue to invest in skills and fast growing but fragmented enterprise acquisition, revenue in the segment grew capabilities. During the year, we more brand protection market. Our objective by 13% and adjusted operating profit than doubled our R&D investment is to expand by targeting international was up 24%. and added seven new sales people. brands with complex supply chains This increase in investment was paid and distribution networks which require Martin Sutherland for by overhead reduction and efficiency close monitoring. We also aim to Chief Executive Officer in the Currency business. accelerate growth through partnerships and acquisitions. For example, DuPont Authentication’s flagship product Izon® is recognised as the premier anticounterfeiting technology for brand protection and is used on a number of well-known brands such as Lenovo and Brother. 2 Civil Registration, Vital Statistics. 30 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 How we performed We measure our performance using both financial KPIs and strategic indicators that we believe provide a meaningful assessment of our performance against our strategy. Financial KPIs Revenue1 Adjusted EBITDA2 £m £m 2017 461.7 2017 97.4 2016 454.5 2016 96.4 2015 422.8 2015 93.8 2014 460.1 2014 117.7 2013 422.5 2013 85.0 £461.7m £97.4m Revenue demonstrates our ability to deliver growth. Revenue from continuing Adjusted EBITDA provides an underlying picture of our performance by excluding operations grew 2% in the year, reflecting good growth in the Identity Solutions and the non-operating factors such as financing and changes to tax environments. Product Authentication and Traceability product lines, as well as the £2.2m from De La Rue Authentication Solutions acquired in January 2017. Adjusted operating profit3 Basic earnings per share £m Pence 67.3 2017 70.7 65.2 2016 70.4 48.1 47.1 2015 69.1 44.2 2014 93.4 46.1 46.8 47.2 43.1 2013 61.5 31.8 £70.7m 2013 2014 Basic earnings per share 2015 2016 Adjusted basic earnings per share 4 2017 Adjusted operating profit was flat year on year as good growth in the Identity Solutions Growth in earnings per share demonstrates our ability to create value for our and Product Authentication and Traceability product lines was offset by higher central shareholders. It is one of the performance metrics for executive management costs and lower adjusted operating profit from the Currency business, partly due to the remuneration. The year on year decrease was due to a lower tax charge in the prior conclusion of an important contract in December 2015. year benefited from a non-recurring tax benefit arising on the release of a provision. Return on capital employed5 Cash conversion6 % % 2017 39 2017 114 2016 42 2016 160 2015 39 2015 123 2014 56 2014 111 2013 44 2013 119 39% 114% Return on capital employed shows how efficiently and effectively we use our assets and We are focusing on better managing our cash through effective inventory planning and resources to generate return for shareholders. It is the ratio of operating profit before credit control, as well as being disciplined on capital expenditure. The decrease against exceptional and adjusting items over capital employed, where capital employed equals the prior year was due to an adverse movement in working capital between years which net assets, excluding pensions, tax, interest and long term liabilities. The decline in was driven by the timing of large accounts receivable and advanced payments receipts the current year was due to an increase in capital employed following the recognition after 25 March 2017. of intangible assets relating to the acquisition of De La Rue Authentication Solutions Inc. 1 Revenue is from continuing operations and excludes discontinued operations which relate 5 ROCE is calculated as the ratio of operating profit before exceptional items and adjusted to the Cash Processing Solutions business that was sold on 22 May 2016. items over capital employed (where capital employed equals net assets excluding liabilities 2 Adjusted EBITDA represents earnings from continuing operations before the deduction for pension, tax interest and long term liabilities). of interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items. 6 Cash conversion is the ratio of underlying operating cash flow divided by the adjusted 3 Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit from continuing operations adjusted operating profit. to exclude exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets. See pages 153 to 154 for further explanations of Non-IFRS measures and reconciliations 4 Adjusted basic earnings per share are the earnings attributable to equity shareholders, to comparable amounts. excluding exceptional items and discontinued operations divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 31 Linking to performance Performance measures which directly affect the remuneration of our Directors. See directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 92 Strategic report Strategic measures Corporate governance Adjusted EBITDA margin1 Net debt/EBITDA covenant ratio % Times 2017 21.1 2017 1.27 2016 21.2 2016 1.25 2015 22.2 2015 1.23 Accounts 2014 25.6 2014 0.83 2013 20.1 2013 0.97 21.1% 1.27 This measurement provides an underlying picture of our performance by excluding the The increase in 2017 primarily reflects the $25m acquisition of De La Rue non-operating factors such as financing and accounting decisions or tax environments. Authentication Solutions, which was funded from our existing credit facility. Adjusted EBITDA margin has declined marginally in the year due to the effect of 2% growth in revenue combined with only marginally higher adjusted operating profit. Identity Solutions revenue Product Authentication & Traceability revenue £m £m 2017 80.6 2017 34.6 2016 76.5 2016 28.8 2015 75.9 2015 32.7 2014 87.1 2014 36.7 2013 91.3 2013 38.2 £80.6m £34.6m Identity Solutions is one of our key growth product lines in which we are investing Product Authentication & Traceability is one of our key growth product lines in which to build capabilities and focusing resources. Good revenue growth in 2016/17 was we are investing to build capabilities and focusing resources. The higher revenue delivered by favourable margins and strong service revenues. in 2016/17 was primarily driven by growth in tax protection revenue. Percentage of revenue from long term agreements (LTA) Total number of patents granted % Number 2017 44 2017 26 2016 35 2016 22 2015 29 2014 18 2013 17 44% 26 One of our strategic priorities is to reduce the volatility of earnings. Increasing long We have a strong track record of innovation, with more than 1,000 granted patents term recurring revenues as a proportion of total sales enables us to improve the and 500 pending applications. Our commitment to double our R&D investment in the visibility as well as the quality of earnings. LTAs are contracts that have a duration five years to 2020 will ensure a strong product pipeline and enhance differentiation. of two or more years and a regular call-off value. This is a new measure and therefore historic data are not available. Group 12 month order book £m 2017 387 2016 365 2015 226 2014 283 2013 250 £387m Group 12 month order book is a record of received customers’ orders that are due to be shipped in the next 12 months following the reporting date. The numbers include committed orders and regular call-off orders on contracts. 1 Adjusted EBITDA margin represents adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of sales from continuing operations. 32 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Risk and risk management How we manage our principal risks and uncertainties How we manage risk The Risk Committee meets twice a year to Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management is the responsibility review risk management and monitor the The following pages set out the principal of the Board, supported by the Risk status of key risks as well as the actions risks and uncertainties that could Committee which comprises members we have taken to address these at both crystallise over the next three years. of our Executive Leadership Team. Group and functional level. Any material The Board has undertaken a robust The Risk Committee is accountable for changes to risk are highlighted at the risk assessment to identify these risks, identifying, mitigating and managing risk. monthly Executive Leadership Team which are listed in order of potential Further details about the Committee meetings, while the Audit Committee impact. There may be other risks that can be found on page 69. We have also reviews the Group’s risk report. we currently believe to be immaterial. a formal risk identification process Management is responsible for These could become material, either which evaluates and manages our implementing and maintaining controls, individually or simultaneously, and significant risks in accordance with which have been designed to manage significantly affect our business and the requirements of the UK Corporate rather than eliminate risk. These controls financial results. We have modelled Governance Code. Our Group risk can only provide reasonable but not potential scenarios of these risks register identifies the risks, their potential absolute assurance against material crystallising to support the disclosures impact and likelihood of occurrence, misstatement or loss. See page 62 in the Viability Statement. See page 37 and the key controls and management for further information regarding for further details. Due to the nature of processes we have established to internal controls. risk, the mitigating factors stated cannot mitigate these risks. be viewed as assurance that the actions taken or planned will be wholly effective. De La Rue’s risk management framework Board • Responsible for risk management and internal controls • Defines risk appetite and tolerance • Approves the risk profile Audit Committee Risk Committee Ethics Committee Health, Safety and • Reviews the effectiveness • Reviews and proposes • Reviews ethical risks, Environment (HSE) of internal controls the business risk profile policies and standards Committee • Approves the annual internal • Monitors the management • Sets HSE standards and external audit plans of key risks • Agrees and monitors • Reviews findings from selected • Tracks implementation implementation of HSE strategy assurance providers of actions to mitigate risks • Monitors HSE performance Executive Leadership Team • Accountable for the design and implementation of the risk management process and the operation of the control environment Group policies • Policies for highlighting and managing risks • Procedures and internal controls Functional management • Ensures that risk management is embedded into business culture, practice and operations Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 33 Risk appetite programme. The Board receives Strategic report Key for strategic focus The Board has reviewed our principal regular feedback on the degree risks and considered whether they to which management is operating 1 Addressing key issues reflect an acceptable level of risk. within acceptable risk tolerances. Where this is not the case, the 2 Driving efficiency This feedback includes regular Board has also considered what operational and financial management 3 Diversifying revenues further investment is being made reports, internal audit reports, external to reduce the likelihood and potential audit reporting and any reports to the 4 Investing in innovation Corporate governance impact of the risk. The Board either whistle blowing hotline. All members approves the level of risk being taken, of the Executive Leadership Team 5 Strengthening financial position or requires management to reduce have individual ownership for 6 Driving culture change the risk exposure. one or more of the principal risks. For core areas of the business, the Board Management of those risks forms part of their personal objectives. Key for risk outlook uses a number of methods to ensure that management operates within an Increasing Accounts accepted risk appetite. These include delegated authority levels, the approval No change of specific policies and procedures and Decreasing the approval of the annual insurance Principal risks and uncertainties ranked by net predicted impact Risk Exposure Impact Mitigation Impact Outlook on strategy Breach of legal It is possible that our employees Major reputational We are accredited to the Banknote Ethics Initiative, and regulatory requirements or overseas representatives, either individually or in collusion and financial damage. which provides governments and central banks with assurance regarding our ethical standards 6 with others, could act in and business practices. contravention of our stringent requirements in relation Our commitment to ethical standards is to bribery and corruption, articulated in the Code of Business Principles. anti‑competitive behaviours This is supported by underlying policies which are and management of third party reviewed regularly and enforced robustly. Where partners (TPPs). necessary, non‑compliances is dealt with through disciplinary procedures. We have a particular focus on raising awareness as well as training on anti-bribery and corruption, and competition law. Our policies and processes are independently audited. Our process for the appointment, management and remuneration of TPPs operates independently of the sales function. The behaviours of TPPs are strictly monitored and the TPP process is overseen by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who reports directly to the Board on these matters. Our whistle blowing policy and associated procedures are integral aspects of the compliance framework. Failure to win While we operate globally and Failure to win or Our track record of delivering product innovation or renew a have a diversified geographic, material contract product and customer profile, renew a key contract could restrict growth and our commitment to quality, combined with a commercial approach to tendering, means 1 we rely heavily on a small opportunities and we are well positioned to win or renew strategic number of medium and longer term material contracts. have a material impact on our or significant contracts. 3 financial performance We are focused on retaining key contracts, as and and reputation. when they fall due for renewal, and on winning new opportunities as they arise. Pension The Group’s UK defined benefit We have created a We are working with the pension trustees fund deficit pension scheme (the Scheme) is in deficit. As at 25 March joint working group with the pension to explore methods of improving the return of the Scheme’s assets and reducing 5 2017 the post‑tax deficit as trustees to proactively the Scheme’s liabilities. accounted for under IAS 19 manage our pension was £196.7m (26 March 2016: obligations. If at £178.4m). the next triennual valuation in 2018 the deficit increases further under actuarial valuation, the future cash flow commitments may put future capital investment and dividends at risk. 34 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Risk and risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties ranked by net predicted impact continued Risk Exposure Impact Mitigation Impact Outlook on strategy Failure to We operate in competitive Failure to maintain We maintain sustained levels of investment in maintain and exploit markets. Our products and services are characterised by and exploit technical innovation and research and development to ensure a steady flow of ideas into our innovation pipeline. Our 4 competitive and continually evolving industry intellectual property product roadmaps are designed to meet our technologically standards and changing may result in lower customers’ needs. Our materials science expertise advanced technology, driven by the demand, loss of and software science team are centralised in products demands of our customers. market share and the UK. These teams follow defined technology and services Longer term threats could lower margins. management processes, which include regular include the growth of pipeline and portfolio reviews. eCommerce, the emergence of cashless societies and lower We continue to invest in new technologies to enable barriers to manufacturing. us to advance our R&D capabilities, and have increased our focus on digital technologies since the strategy review in 2015. We aim to double our R&D investment in the five years to 2020. Failure to adopt In order to ensure our continued Without a change in In 2016/17 we delivered leadership training performance driven culture success and growth, we carried out an internal organisational our culture, we may not be able to execute to build on the achievements of the 2015/16 strategic leadership skills programme. The new 6 redesign in 2015/16. The the strategy laid out training focused on cross-functional working, focus for this programme is in May 2015. especially in the areas of influencing and managing to achieve sustained cultural competing interests. change in order to enable us to adapt to a rapidly changing We have set specific targets for performance market environment. appraisal and employee engagement. The results of the employee engagement survey in late 2016 have been cascaded throughout the business, and we have developed appropriate response plans. The strategic plan envisaged a three year programme of training, communication and recruitment to fill capability gaps. This plan is on track – and the outcome is expected to be a change in behaviours and skills that will enable us to be a more dynamic, agile and high performing organisation. Failure to Our ability to address the key The predictability If third party agreements cannot be concluded, secure strategic partnerships issues of volatile demand in banknotes and over capacity in of future revenue streams and our ability we will continue to use existing strategic initiatives to mitigate this risk. These are: continue to drive 1 to address the paper business depend on to increase the return efficiency; diversify revenues; innovate; and key issues third party agreements. on capital employed strengthen the overall financial position of the may be compromised. Group. Information The confidentiality and integrity Any compromise Our corporate information systems are accredited security risk of our customer, employee and business data could be in the confidentiality of information could to the ISO27001 Information Security standard. 1 affected by factors that include impact our reputation We maintain a strict control environment to enforce human error, ineffective design or operation of key data security with current and potential customers. disciplined information security practices and behaviours. A number of key technical controls 2 controls, or by the breakdown are in place to manage this risk, including network of IT control processes. segregation, access restrictions, system monitoring, security reviews and vulnerability assessments of 3 infrastructure and applications. We regularly review all aspects of information security arrangements, and our employees 4 undertake mandatory information security e-learning. 5 Loss of a key site A number of our manufacturing The total loss of any Our head office and the banknote production sites are exposed to business interruption risks. one of these key sites could have a major operations in Debden, UK are both accredited to the ISO22301:2012 Business Continuity standard. 1 financial impact, particularly where the site represents a single We maintain a high degree of interoperability across our banknote production and security 2 source of supply. printing sites. We aim to minimise risk by adopting the highest standards of risk engineering in our production processes. 3 In recognition of our customers’ increasingly high requirements regarding business continuity, we continue to enhance the resilience of our major 4 facilities in line with the ISO standard. 5 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 35 Strategic report Risk Exposure Impact Mitigation Impact Outlook on strategy Health, safety All of our activities are subject Failure of an HSE At all major facilities, we have a robust HSE or environmental failure to extensive internal health, safety and environmental (HSE) management process could lead to a management system which is internally audited and certified to the OHSAS18001 and ISO14001 1 procedures, processes and serious injury or an standards. 2 Corporate governance controls. Nevertheless, there is environmental breach. a risk that any failure of an HSE All of our activities are subject to extensive internal management process could HSE procedures, processes and controls. result in a serious incident. The Group HSE Committee regularly reviews HSE performance. This is also monitored by the 3 Chief Operating Officer’s leadership team and reported to the Board monthly. 4 Each manufacturing facility has clear HSE action 5 Accounts plans which are prioritised, monitored and subject to review by local senior management to ensure that health and safety standards are maintained. Quality Each of our contracts has a A shortfall in quality We operate an established quality management management failure unique specification on product quality and delivery. Some management may expose us to system across all production sites. All major sites are certified to ISO9001 quality management 2 of these contracts demand additional cost to standards. a high degree of technical remake as well as specification. to any associated In 2012, we introduced an Operational Excellence warranty costs. programme to further drive continuous improvement across our manufacturing sites. This programme is well established and continues to deliver operational enhancements. Supply chain We have close trading Failure of a key Our exposure is reduced because we source many failure relationships with a number of key suppliers, including supplier, the inability to source critical components from within our own organisation. 3 unique producers of materials or poor Where we rely on external supply, we have specialised components supplier performance established procedures for identifying possible that we incorporate into in terms of quality or risks for each supplier. Key suppliers are managed our finished products. delivery could disrupt through a supplier relationship management our supply and ability programme. This incorporates checks on their to deliver on time financial strength and their ability to deliver to our and in full. quality standards and security, as well as their business continuity arrangements. Key suppliers are audited on a rotational basis. As a contingency, alternative suppliers are pre‑qualified wherever possible and where necessary we retain higher levels of stocks. Unpredictability Political and other factors can The timing and size We maintain close and regular contact with in the timing and size of substantial delay government procurement decisions for sensitive of contract awards is often uncertain. customers so that any changes in timing and requirements are recognised promptly. 1 contract awards products such as banknotes Delays lead to volatility and passports. in our order book and financial performance. We monitor our sales activity, order pipeline and forward order book to optimise production 5 planning and ensure that delivery to customers is on time and in full. We also monitor any delays in order confirmation on a weekly basis. This enables us to maintain flexibility in the supply chain and to accommodate any changes to production planning. To minimise future unpredictability, we proactively pursue longer term commitments from customers. We also aim to grow recurring revenues by expanding our digital and service offerings. 36 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Risk and risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties ranked by net predicted impact continued Risk Exposure Impact Mitigation Impact Outlook on strategy Product security Loss of product or high Any loss of product We have robust physical security and materials security components from a manufacturing site could occur or high security components has the control procedures at our production sites, which reduce the risk of inadvertent loss or theft during 1 as a result of negligence or potential to cause manufacturing. We apply stringent operational theft. Loss of product while in transit, particularly during reputational and financial damage. In procedures – and use carefully selected carriers and personnel – to handle movements of security 2 transhipment, through the failure certain circumstances, materials between our sites and onward delivery of freight companies or through the loss of an aircraft or vessel customer contracts may mean that we are to customers. All movements are risk managed and monitored globally on a 24/7 basis. We also 3 as a result of an accident or liable for those losses. maintain a comprehensive global insurance natural disaster, is also possible. programme. 4 5 Risks and uncertainties where the net impact has reduced since prior year, and which are no longer regarded as principal risks and uncertainties Risk Exposure Impact Mitigation Impact Outlook on strategy Political risk A number of the countries Losses from cancelled We assess the overall risk of all contracts prethat we sell to have a history of orders and nontender, including credit risk. We have defined unstable government or conflict. payment of debt could approval limits for management and the Board There is an ongoing risk that lead to a reduction regarding material contracts. These are based orders may be unexpectedly in operating profit. on risk as well as contract size. cancelled or cannot be Where performance fulfilled, that outstanding guarantees remain In higher risk situations, we negotiate payment debts do not get paid, or that outstanding, credit terms and request substantial down-payments, performance guarantees do facilities will be tiedand in 2016/17 negotiated credit insurance from not get cancelled because of up, restricting our UK Export Finance. local political issues, which ability to utilise such All performance guarantees are approved by the could lead to financial loss. facilities to support treasury department prior to contract signature. new contracts or investment. As a result of the mitigations in place, the exposure to this risk has decreased sufficiently for the Board to consider that it is not currently a principal risk. Risks and uncertainties where the net impact has increased since prior year, and which are now considered principal risks and uncertainties. The Board has decided, after review by the Audit Committee, that the continuing pension fund deficit and the challenges experienced in concluding strategic partnerships to address key issues now constitute principal risks and uncertainties in achieving the Group’s strategic objectives. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 37 Strategic report Viability statement The Directors have considered the longer term viability of De La Rue plc in line with the recommendations under the UK Corporate Governance Code. Period of review The Directors have considered the longer term viability These include the ability to maintain a dividend, meet current Corporate governance of De La Rue plc in line with the recommendations under investment plans, and comply with liquidity ratios. the UK Corporate Governance Code. Scenarios that the Directors view as implausible (or outside While the Group has a five year strategic planning horizon, the Group’s control, such as a terrorist attack or an event the financial performance of the Group is inherently less of nature) have not been modelled, nor have all potential predictable in years four and five because good visibility mitigating responses. The Directors have assumed that the of the order book is over a shorter term horizon. Therefore, current revolving credit facility remains in place with the same the Directors believe that an appropriate period to consider covenant requirements through to December 2021. Accounts the Group’s viability is over three years. Even with all the principal risks above crystallising in a plausible In assessing the viability of the Group, the Directors have combination, the Group’s credit facilities were not exhausted. reviewed the principal risks as set out in pages 33 to 36 The Board also considered a reverse stress test; the extent and considered foreseeable scenarios of one or more of the of cash the Group would have to lose against its strategic plan principal risks crystallising in the same time period in the forecast in order to breach its net debt/EBITDA and interest context of its strategic plan. cover covenants. Eight of the principal risks were modelled to test the impact The result of reviewing plausible scenarios and the reverse on the viability of the Group. The Directors have focused on stress test is that the Directors have a reasonable expectation principal risks that could more plausibly occur and result in that the Group is viable and will be able to meet its obligations the Group’s future operational results, financial condition and as they fall due up to March 2020. future prospects to differ materially from current expectations. 38 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Financial review Jitesh Sodha Chief Financial Officer This section is for continuing operations The Group has delivered a good only unless otherwise stated. performance this year, with full year adjusted operating profit* of £70.7m Financial performance Revenue and profit (2015/16: £70.4m). We also completed Group revenue was £461.7m, our first acquisition in 14 years with the representing a 2% increase over the prior purchase of DuPont Authentication Inc year (2015/16: £454.5m), resulting in good growth in the Identity Solutions and (subsequently renamed as De La Rue Product Authentication and Traceability Authentication Solutions) on 6 January 2017. product lines. Adjusted operating We are pleased with the performance profit* at £70.7m was marginally higher than the prior year as higher adjusted of this business post acquisition. operating profit generated by the Identity Solutions and Product Authentication and Traceability product lines was offset by lower adjusted operating profit from the Currency business, partly due to the conclusion of a material contract in December 2015. Adjusted EBITDA* was £97.4m (2015/16: £96.4m). Operating profit on an IFRS basis was higher than last year at £70.2m, compared to £66.8m in 2015/16 due to lower exceptional charges (see commentary below for further details on exceptional items). Adjusted profit before tax* was consistent with the prior year at £58.7m (2015/16: £58.5m), resulting from adjusted operating profits which were flat on the prior year and marginally lower net finance charges at £4.6m (2015/16: £4.8m), and a higher IAS 19 related finance cost of £7.4m (2016/15: £7.1m). Profit before tax on an IFRS basis was £58.2m (2015/16: £54.9m) and was higher than last year due to a lower net charge for exceptional items at £0.4m compared to £3.6m in 2015/16. * This is a non-IFRS measure. See further explanations and reconciliations to the comparable IFRS measure on pages 153 to 154. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 39 Strategic report Corporate governance Profit from continuing operations on an Taxation Financial position Accounts IFRS basis was £49.5m compared to The net tax charge for the year was Cash flow and borrowings £48.6m in the prior year as the impact £8.7m (2015/16: £6.3m). The effective of lower net charges for exceptional items Cash generated from operating activities tax rate before exceptional items was was £64.3m (9% higher than the prior was partly offset by a higher tax charge. 15.8% (2015/16: 14.7%). The tax rate was year (2015/16: £58.9m)), including a £5m lower in 2015/16 due to a non-recurring inflow relating to discontinued operations. Finance charge tax benefit arising on the release of There was an adverse working capital a provision. movement in the current year due to The Group’s net interest charge was £4.6m, a slight decrease on the prior Net tax credits relating to exceptional the timing of cash receipts from debtors year (2015/16: £4.8m). The IAS 19 items, on continuing operations, arising because of a high level of sales in the last related finance cost, which represents in the period were £0.6m (2015/16 month of the year and lower advanced the difference between the interest on £2.3m). payments compared to the prior year. pension liabilities and assets, was £7.4m Cash generated from operating activities (2015/16: £7.1m). included £3.3m (2015/16: £12.5m) of Earnings per share payments relating to exceptional items. Adjusted basic earnings per share* was Exceptional items Cash conversion ratio was 114% 47.1p compared to 48.1p in 2015/16. (2015/16: 160%). Cash conversion is During the period, exceptional net The decrease was caused by a higher the ratio of adjusted operating profit charges on continuing operations tax charge in the current year. plus depreciation, amortisation and amounted to £0.4m, compared to £3.6m Reported basic earnings per share on the movement in working capital over in 2015/16. an IFRS basis was 47.2p, higher than the adjusted operating profits. Exceptional net charges comprise: site prior year (2015/16: 46.8p) due to lower The cash conversion ratio was adverse relocation and restructuring costs of net exceptional charges. to the prior year due to the movement £0.2m (2015/16: £9.2m); gains on sale in working capital. of land of £0.2m (2015/16: £9.5m); a Loss from discontinued operations credit relating to the release of warranty Net debt increased by £14.8m to provisions of £0.5m (2015/16: credit of The loss from discontinued operations £120.9m (2016/17: £106.1m) primarily £1.3m); asset impairment charges of £nil in the year was £8.0m, including two due to the $25m acquisition of De La Rue (2015/16: £5.2m) and acquisition related months of Cash Processing Solutions’ Authentication Solutions Inc. costs of £0.9m (2015/16: £nil). trading loss prior to disposal of £2.2m and exceptional charges net of tax The Group utilises a £250.0m revolving Site relocation and restructuring costs of £5.8m. credit facility and has operated well were lower in 2016/17. within the key financial covenants. On 27 April 2017, the Group extended The significant gain on sale of land in Dividend the maturity date of this facility by two 2015/16 related to the sale of surplus The Board is recommending a final years to December 2021. It is subject land in Overton which generated a profit dividend of 16.7p per share (2015/16: to the same financial covenants which of £9.5m. A few small land assets were 16.7p per share). Together with the require that the ratio of EBIT to net sold in the current year. interim dividend paid in January 2017 interest payable be greater than four Costs of £0.9m have been incurred of 8.3p per share, this will give a total times and the net debt to EBITDA ratio following the acquisition of dividend for the year of 25.0p per be less than three times. At the period De La Rue Authentication Solutions Inc. share (2015/16: 25.0p per share). end the specific covenant tests were as This included £0.5m of professional Subject to approval by shareholders, follows: EBIT/net interest payable of 16.1 advisor fees in addition to the non-cash the final dividend will be paid on 3 August times, net debt/EBITDA of 1.27 times. unwind of the fair value adjustment 2017 to shareholders on the register recorded against inventory of £0.4m. on 30 June 2017. See note 4 in the accounts for further details. 40 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Financial review continued Working capital Pension deficit and funding Capital expenditure relative Net trade receivables were £89.5m, The Group’s formal triennial funding to depreciation up from £77.6m in the prior year, due valuation of the UK defined benefit £m to strong sales in the last quarter pension scheme (the Scheme) was 2017 24.0 26.8 of 2017/16. finalised in June 2016. The Group 2016 25.0 26.2 agreed a revised funding plan with the Inventories were broadly similar to last trustees to eliminate the deficit over a 2015 28.8 24.8 year, but lower than the level seen at the period of 12 years from 31 March 2016. Capital expenditure half year of 2016/17, reflecting strong The plan will see the existing funding Depreciation and amortisation sales and shipments in the last month payment schedule extended from 2022 of the year. to 2028. In addition, we have created Group trade working capital* Advanced payments were £28.5m, down a joint working group with the pension £m from £45.5m, due to the mix of contracts trustees to proactively manage our 2017 83.6 in the order book. pension obligations. 2016 71.1 The Group will continue to pay annual 2015 96.1 Trade creditors were £46.5m up from fees of £1.6m for managing the Scheme 2014 94.0 £40.1m in 2015/16. in addition to the cash contributions. 2013 75.3 In the year ended 25 March 2017, the Group made funding payments and management fees totalling £14.6m. Underlying effective tax rate The next triennial funding valuation (before exceptional items) is due in April 2018. £m 2017 15.8 The valuation of the Scheme under 2016 14.7 IAS 19 indicates a post-tax deficit at 2015 17.6 25 March 2017 of £196.7m (26 March 2014 19.5 2016: £178.4m). On a pre-tax basis 2013 23.8 the net pension deficit was £237.0m (26 March 2016: £217.6m). The increase results from higher liabilities due to the Bank covenants impact of a lower discount rate used Times to value the Scheme liabilities (2.75% 2017 16.1 in 2016/17 compared with 3.50% 2016 12.9 in 2015/16) due to significant falls in corporate bond yields in addition to 2017 1.27 an increase in the expectation for the 2016 1.25 longer term inflation rate. The increase Adjusted EBIT/net interest covenant >= 4.0 in liabilities has been partially offset Adjusted net debt/EBITDA covenants <= 3.0 by an increase in assets which have performed strongly in the year. * Trade working capital comprises inventories plus trade receivables less trade payables and advance payments. 2013-15 comparatives have not be restated for discontinued operations. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 41 Strategic report Corporate governance In common with other final salary Accounts schemes, the Scheme valuation is Analysis of the Group’s assets/(liabilities) and related cash/(debt) very sensitive to any movement in the by currency discount rate, with a 0.25% increase 2017 2017 2017 2016 in discount rate resulting in a £55m Group assets/ Group cash/ Net assets/ Net assets/ decrease in liabilities or vice versa and (liabilities) (debt) (liabilities)* (liabilities)* £m £m £m £m hence the deficit would reduce should interest and discount rates increase in Sterling (52.3) (127.5) (179.8) (190.6) the future. US dollar (7.2) 1.9 (5.3) (11.5) The charge to operating profit in respect Euro 32.1 0.1 32.2 42.4 of the Scheme in 2016/17 was £1.5m All other (6.2) 4.6 (1.6) 7.5 (2015/16: £1.2m). In addition, under IAS (33.6) (120.9) (154.5) (152.2) 19 there was a finance charge of £7.4m arising from the difference between * Excluding non-controlling interest. the interest cost on liabilities and the interest income on scheme assets (2015/16: £7.1m). Principal exchange rates used in translating the Group’s results 2016/17 2017 Capital structure Average Year End At 25 March 2017 the Group had US dollar 1.32 1.25 net liabilities of £146.6m (26 March Euro 1.20 1.16 2016: £145.6m) mainly due to the recognition of the long term retirement 2015/16 2016 benefit obligations of £239.4 (26 March Average Year End 2016: £219.9m) in accordance with IAS 19 (total pension liabilities of £239.4m US dollar 1.50 1.41 also include non UK defined benefit Euro 1.36 1.27 pension schemes). The Company had shareholders’ funds of £230.5m (26 March 2016: £174.4m) and had 101.8m fully paid ordinary shares in issue (26 March 2017: 101.4m) at the year end. Jitesh Sodha Chief Financial Officer 42 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 A responsible business De La Rue in the global context Sustainability impacts every aspect of our business. We help governments protect their revenue, citizens to participate securely in the global economy and brands to safeguard their intellectual property. Our commitment to sustainability is expressed through our support for the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Joining the UN Global Compact demonstrates our Why we have joined the commitment to being a responsible business. We are aware UN Global Compact of the impact that our activities have on the world around us and the responsibilities of being a corporate citizen. In fact, many of our products and services are closely aligned to the UNGC’s broader sustainability objectives, In April 2017, we were proud to become including social inclusion, economic growth, transparency, signatories to the UNGC in recognition health and safety, and security. of the key role that the UNGC plays in promoting the highest ethical standards. Joining the UNGC is a clear The UNGC business principles demonstration of the progress we are making in our five year transformation The UNGC requires that De La Rue acts in accordance with its ten principles programme, which addresses a number covering human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The section of initiatives, including sustainability. below shows how we comply with these principles. The UNGC is a voluntary initiative whereby companies align strategies Human rights Labour rights and operations with universal principles 1. Businesses should support and 3. Businesses should uphold the on human rights, environment and respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the anti-corruption, and take actions that proclaimed human rights; and effective recognition of the right advance societal goals. It is based to collective bargaining; on commitments of chief executives 2. Make sure that they are not complicit to implement universal sustainability in human rights abuses. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced principles and to take steps to support and compulsory labour; UN Sustainability Development Goals 5. The effective abolition of child (SDGs). These goals aim to encourage labour; and individuals, organisations, governments 6. The elimination of discrimination and the international community to in respect of employment communicate and collaborate more and occupation. effectively and to ensure that everyone has the right to prosper in the future. Environment Anti-corruption We recognise the role that businesses 7. Businesses should support 10. Businesses should work against can play in the achievement of the SDGs. a precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, including As our Chief Executive Officer Martin environmental challenges; extortion and bribery. Sutherland commented at the time of the signing, “Our business fights against 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater counterfeiting every day and we aim to environmental responsibility; and enable legal identity and social inclusion 9. Encourage the development for our customers across the world. and diffusion of environmentally As a result, many of the SDGs are at the friendly technologies. heart of what we do. We are proud to demonstrate that we are a responsible business – in the services we provide, the way we work and the contributions we make to the communities in which we operate.” Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 43 Strategic report The Board is responsible for assessing how corporate responsibility issues could affect the Group and for setting appropriate policies. Corporate governance Accounts UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) As well as the ten UN principles which guide how we do business, the UNGC also requires that we support the UN SDGs (also known as the UN Global Goals). We are committed to supporting the SDGs and ensuring that they are embedded into our daily operations. The Chief Executive Officer is the Board member with designated responsibility. Lead He is supported by the Executive SDGs where our impact Leadership Team, the Risk Committee, is significant and where and the Group Health, Safety and we will continue to lead Environment Committee. Our team carried out an internal audit Focus and Improve which identified our alignment to the SDGs, and then grouped the SDGs SDGs where we have the according to the level of impact of our opportunity to improve and operations in those particular areas. achieve great impact This is helping us identify where we are best able to make a difference. Maintain Momentum This is the first year that we are reporting within the UNGC Communications SDGs where we must maintain Framework, and this will be the baseline our strategies in order to ensure for future reporting. we continue to make an impact Maintain Foundations SDGs which we continue to support Not directly applicable SDGs where we have no direct impact 44 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 A responsible business continued • Embedding our values in our SDGs daily operations SDG 4 • Launching an initiative to reduce Quality education Lead risk by examining the role of third party partners • Our Civil Registration and Vital • Delivering anti-bribery and corruption Statistics (CRVS) systems help training to all relevant staff, sales governments to plan for the consultants and suppliers educational needs of their population • Requiring employees to declare all • We run a range of training courses gifts and hospitality given or received for central banks and law enforcement in excess of £100 agencies on anti-counterfeiting These SDGs are at the core of technology and currency programmes our business and a key part of our • Encouraging global grievance and strategy. We will continue to lead whistleblowing processes • We work with the UK National efforts to achieve these SDGs, with the Document Fraud Unit to support Executive Leadership Team drawing its advanced training programme on a range of initiatives to ensure that Our employee survey • We provide thought leadership all employees understand how to play at multiple international technical their part. 3,000 workshops, sharing best practice • We continue to run our successful scholarship programme in the SDG 16 Employees participated worldwide. Caribbean, which was established Peace, justice and in 2002 strong institutions We help citizens around the world participate securely in the 88% global economy. Responded positively to the statement: At this site we are encouraged to always We provide governments and action in an honest and ethical way. This is commercial organisations with products an increase on the 85% recorded in 2014. and services that underpin the integrity of trade, personal identity and the movement of people and goods. We help them shape their future by: Central bank public awareness 4 16 • Supporting governments in two-thirds of the world’s countries to tackle We help customers communicate currency counterfeit cash, identities and goods changes to their own people and beyond. • Recognising the importance of Our currency awareness and education improving business practices in the campaigns protect users from counterfeiting banknote industry, as a founding by delivering clear, simple messages. member of the Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) During the year, we assisted a total of 14 issuing authorities with their campaigns. For example, • Maintaining membership of the International Chamber of Commerce’s we helped the Central Bank of the Seychelles Corporate Responsibility and Anticommunicate the details of its new banknotes Corruption Committee to the public. • Relaunching our Code of Business Principles in 2016, with every member of staff attending a video presentation and receiving an updated Code booklet Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 45 Gender diversity as at 25 March 2017 Female Male Female Male Employees 853 2270 27% 73% Senior Management 12 55 18% 82% Executive Management 1 7 13% 87% Strategic report Centre for learning 4 SDGs SDG 5 Educating and training our people Gender equality Since April 2015, we have delivered training programmes Focus and Gender equality is a key element of our inclusion strategy. The gender Improve and inclusivity strategy is currently to help our leaders and Corporate governance being rolled out, with support from managers execute our the Executive Leadership Team. strategy and help us innovate We will be sharing our mission, aims and and grow as a business. our interventions with our employees. We plan to report our UK gender pay gap From April 2015 to 2017, we data and narrative externally, in line with held 213 courses covering the pending regulations. An important Accounts 23 subjects, attended SDGs where we have the opportunity aim is that by 2020, 25% of senior and to improve and achieve great impact. executive management roles should by over 300 managers. Subjects covered range from be filled by women. understanding leadership impact and strategic choices SDG 9 to using storytelling as a key SDG 3 Industry innovation skill to engage employees. Health and wellbeing and infrastructure For 2017/18, our focus is During 2016, we conducted an Innovation is central to our core business on deepening understanding employee survey to gather views strategy. See the Chief Executive and skills. on the benefits offered by De La Rue. Officer’s review on page 23 for details. Following feedback, we have made a number of improvements: Read more about our innovations • Launched a cycle-to-work scheme on page 23 in the UK, for which we received a 5% uptake • Extended our annual leave flexibility scheme (whereby employees can gain or forego leave), to a larger population within the UK • Improved our maternity and paternity leave policies In addition, we developed a global wellbeing strategy which will be launched in the new financial year. Our initial focus is on the areas of ‘mental wellbeing’ and ‘keeping active’. The wellbeing strategy will complement the existing occupational health and employee assistance programmes. New solution 9 16 Providing security, building trust We provide governments with added security and build trust across the whole identity life-cycle. Launched in June 2016, DLR Identify™ CRVS is an extension of our end-to-end identity service solution DLR Identify™. The new service enables governments to record, register and report on vital citizen events including births, deaths, marriages and divorce, as well as helping governments rise to the challenge of citizen identity management. 46 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 A responsible business continued SDGs New energy efficient water treatment plant 6 in Kenya Maintain Currently being commissioned, a new plant at our Kenya manufacturing facility will improve our control over the effluent treatment process Momentum of the intaglio printing presses. SDGs where we must maintain our strategies in order to ensure we continue to make an impact. SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation SDG 7 Affordable and clean energy Making progress We have set demanding environmental Managing water usage targets and continue to work hard to Environmental objectives During the year, Overton mill was issued improve our performance. While we are 2017/18: with a new Environmental Permit, which yet to meet our objectives, during the tightens many of the parameters to year we achieved around a 1% reduction  o continue with our ISO14001 T comply with the Industrial Emissions in our GHG emissions and around a 5% certification alignment for all Directive for the pulp and paper industry. reduction in solid waste sent to landfill, manufacturing sites so that they In response, we have established seven per metric tonne produced. are all covered by the central work packages to achieve Environment Our emissions intensity was 224 net certificate and one external audit Agency compliance. tCO2e per £m turnover (2015/16: 206 process and to meet the new ISO14001:2015 standard Across the company, water usage net tCO2e), an increase of 9% which remained at the same level. At Overton was largely driven by the 5% decrease To reduce our greenhouse gas mill, the intensity of water used per tonne in revenue. In real energy terms, natural emissions in tCO2e related to output of banknote paper produced reduced gas consumption emissions were by 2% per annum over a three year by 7%. The mill depends on abstracted up 0.8%, while electricity emissions period ending 2017/18 groundwater, which is cleaned increased by 0.7%, primarily due to and discharged into the River Test. increased production. The river is classified as a Site of Special T  o aim to reduce solid waste sent Scientific Interest and protected by UK to landfill by 2% related to output conservation regulations. We continue Environmental objectives per annum over a three year period to optimise water quality and quantity 2016/17: ending 2017/18 in line with ecological best practice. T  o continue with our ISO14001 To develop a wider sustainability certification alignment for all programme covering HSE with key How we gather and report data manufacturing sites so that they performance indicator tracking We have again reviewed our data are all covered by one central collection and reporting processes certificate and audit process in line with best practice, with support from independent specialist consultant To reduce our greenhouse gas Carbon Clear. emissions in tCO2e related to output by 3% per annum over Using an operational control approach, a three year period ending 2017/18 we collected activity data and reported on all material GHG emissions including Scopes 1 and 2 and a wider range To reduce solid waste sent to of Scope 3. Data was checked both landfill by 2% related to output internally and by Carbon Clear, with the per cent per annum over a three internally assured data being used to year period ending 2017/18 calculate GHG emissions. Our external auditor, KPMG, reviewed the process Achieved In progress Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 47 used for collecting and analysing the We continued to focus on machinery safety Strategic report data in 2014; this has not changed. during the year, with all new machinery SDG 8 – Decent work checked by an independent consultancy Calculations follow the ISO-14064-1:2006 and economic growth to verify compliance with the latest UK/EU standard and the results presented machinery safety requirements. As part of in the table on page 49 give absolute Human rights our manufacturing review project, we are and intensity factors for emissions. relocating several large machines. All of We operate a Combined Heat and We fully support the principles set out in the UN Declaration of Human these will be given full safety reviews prior Power (CHP) unit at Overton mill and Corporate governance Rights, in particular with regard to being refurbished and shipped to their export some electricity to the grid. new locations. We also continue to invest in These practices have been quantified to equal opportunity and freedom from discrimination. and improve our fire risk management with and accounted for against our gross several sites upgrading their on-machinery GHG emissions to show a net reduction. Our Code of Business Principles fire suppression systems. Following the divestment of the Cash covers human rights issues including employment principles, health and We recognise that our responsibilities Processing Solutions business, in extend beyond our own organisation, line with best practice we reviewed safety, anti-bribery and corruption and Accounts the protection of personal information. and work with main suppliers and our emissions sources and elected to contractors to ensure that their health re‑baseline our historical emissions in The Code also embraces whistleblowing – we seek to provide an environment and safety processes are robust. line with our revised company structure. In addition, we undertake commercial where employees can raise concerns via a variety of mechanisms, including and operational due diligence when Bathford paper mill a CodeLine which is managed by an approving new suppliers, and also 12 15 external third party. carry out regular audits and reviews Sustainable raw of existing suppliers. We risk assess materials We have launched an inclusion strategy our supplier base by identifying to support our policy of treating suppliers which, either as a result of all employees fairly and equally in geographical location, industry sector recruitment, training, development, or nature of commercial transaction, promotion and in their terms and are considered to be at medium to conditions of employment, irrespective high risk from a slavery and human of their gender, transgender status, trafficking perspective. sexual orientation, religion or belief, marital status, civil partnership status, We are pleased to report that we age, colour, nationality, national origin, achieved all of our health and safety Our Bathford paper mill disability or trade union affiliation. objectives for 2016/17. We reduced our overall number of reportable accidents in the UK has achieved and lost time days due to accidental the Programme for the Labour rights injuries. In a climate of continuing Endorsement of Forest We carry out internal and external audits organisational changes, we have Certification (PEFC) – Chain to assure the Executive Leadership Team successfully maintained our positive and the Board that all sites comply with safety culture and excellent internal of Custody Accreditation, an our health, safety and environmental reporting processes and continue international benchmark of policies and any applicable legislation. to engage employees in our safety forest product sustainability. We identify and use any necessary training programmes, delivering over This certification assures our corrective actions, together with 2,000 man‑days of health, safety and customers that Bathford mill employee suggestions, to develop environment related training this year. effective continuous improvement We will continue to set robust health uses raw materials suppliers programmes. Our health, safety and and safety objectives and targets and that operate sustainable and environment standards and audit verify our compliance/good practice responsibly managed forests. protocols are reviewed annually and programmes through the internal updated where required in order to drive audit programme. In addition to a commitment good practice and ensure alignment with to environmental protection, the Operational Excellence programme. Chain of Custody holders must During the year, De La Rue had no also demonstrate that workers’ prosecution for infringing health and rights and welfare are protected safety laws or regulations. All our main and indigenous peoples’ manufacturing sites have maintained human and land tenure OHSAS18001 certification for their health and safety management rights are respected. systems, following external audits by accredited providers. In order to further improve health and Our employee survey safety, we have launched a ‘Making Good Safety Decisions’ modular training programme for all employees. We are also increasing the number of NEBOSH certified managers across the business. 87% of participants think De La Rue is a safe place to work. 48 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 A responsible business continued An inclusive organisation Modern Slavery Act 8 Implementing the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Our mission is to have an inclusive and diverse workforce. We aim to: Our Anti-Slavery & Human Trafficking Policy sets out our zero • To employ a diverse workforce tolerance approach to modern slavery. It provides guidance which reflects our communities to employees on implementing and enforcing effective systems and customers and controls to ensure that modern slavery is not taking place • To benefit from advantages either in our own business or our supply chain. of a diverse workforce, where inclusion becomes the normal We have identified that the key area of risk in our supply way of working chain lies with raw materials suppliers of products such as • To celebrate diversity by recognising cotton comber used in the manufacture of secure paper. that everyone is an individual and has Suppliers which are now identified as being medium or high a contribution to make risk are required to complete corporate social responsibility • To eliminate the gender pay gap questionnaires which focus on identifying slavery or human trafficking issues within their organisation and their supply chain. We analyse these questionnaires, assess the associated risks and conduct supplier audits as appropriate. Our health and safety Our health and safety objectives objectives for 2016/17: for 2017/18: To maintain a world class lost time To maintain a world class lost time injury frequency rate per 200,000 injury frequency rate per 200,000 worked hours (<0.62 LTIFR) worked hours below 0.62 (LTIFR) To continue to demonstrate To continue to demonstrate manufacturing site improvements manufacturing site improvements within our internal HSE audit within our internal HSE audit levels programme levels programme To continue to progress our new To continue driving a good level of Making Good Safety Decisions health and safety training across all training by completing three employee levels within our business, modules at manufacturing sites, including NEBOSH certificates, IOSH with two modules now successfully Managing Safely and more Making delivered. The third module – Slips, Good Safety Decisions modules Trips and Falls – will continue beyond the year end but will To ensure that all new machinery delivered by the end of June 2017 meets good machinery safety standards prior to use. In addition, To ensure that all older machinery ensure that all machines being moved is upgraded or replaced over or refurbished as a result of the the next three years, following footprint restructuring project undergo independent safety assessments independent safety assessments, with safety upgrades as required To obtain ISO45001 certification at our head office with a view to To bring all the manufacturing sites bringing all manufacturing sites under the central OHSAS18001 under this scope in two years certification over two years (ongoing in 2017/18) Achieved In progress Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 49 Strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions year on year comparison See SDG 6 and 7 on page 46 20172 2016 Type of emissions Activity tCO 2 e % of total tCO2e % of total % change Direct (Scope 1) Natural gas 39,240 37.9 38,936 38.3 0.8 Other fuels 466 0.4 488 0.5 (4.6) Process emissions 1,197 1.2 1,048 1.0 14.3 Corporate governance Fugitive emissions 5 – 24 – (77.8) Owned vehicles 77 0.1 160 0.2 (52.3) Subtotal 40,985 39.5 40,656 40.0 0.8 Indirect (Scope 2) Electricity 36,084 34.8 35,819 35.3 0.7 Subtotal 36,084 34.8 35,819 35.3 0.7 Indirect other (Scope 3) Rail travel 5 – 0 – – Accounts Air travel 7,425 7.2 6,985 6.9 6.3 Non-owned vehicles 0 – 0 – – Water 1,900 1.8 2,034 2.0 (6.6) WTT all scopes1 17,273 16.7 16,066 15.8 7.5 Subtotal 26,603 25.7 25,085 24.7 6.1 Total gross emissions (tCO2e) 103,672 101,560 2.1 Renewable electricity (tCO2e) 0 0 – Electricity exported to grid (tCO2e) 88 756 (88.4) Total net emissions (tCO2e) 103,584 100,804 2.8 Intensity metric 2017 2016 % change Total gross emissions (tCO2e) 103,672 101,560 2 Total net emissions (tCO2e) 103,584 100,804 3 Revenue3 (£m) 462 488 (5) Tonnes of gross CO2e per £m 224 208 8 Tonnes of net CO2e per £m 224 206 9 1 Standard ‘well to tank’ carbon calculation. 2 Figures for the last period are estimates. 3 Pre-disposal. The numbers have been re-based following best practice. Collectively, these goals underpin our Many of our sites across the world SDGs mission and purpose. We work with engage with local communities by governments, multilaterals, and nonsupporting charitable organisations, profit organisations to provide technical often focusing on smaller, locally Maintain expertise and secure products and services to deliver inclusive societies and strong institutions. based charities where our employees’ efforts can have the greatest impact. The highlights of the year included Foundations De La Rue for Good events at our For example, our products and services head office which raised over £10,000 support key government services that for a local charity. The group-wide indiscriminately allow for social and Three Peaks Challenge continues to financial inclusion, whether through remain popular, and raised more than access to cash, an identity document £22,000 to benefit a number of charities. or authentic products/goods. We also In addition, the De La Rue Charitable provide Civil Registration and Vital Trust – which offers match-funding to Statistics (CRVS) services as well as UK employees undertaking their own SDG1 – No poverty identity management solutions to ensure fundraising activities – donated over SDG10 – Reduce inequalities that governments can plan for the needs £14,000 to charities. of their population. SDG17 – Partnerships for the Goals We recognise that it is vital that SDGs which we continue to support. employees are happy and valued at their workplace. We are proud of the fact that our latest employee survey showed that 70% of all participants would recommend De La Rue as a great place to work. 50 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Disclosure Committee Corporate governance During 2016, the new EU Market Abuse Chairman’s introduction Regulation (MAR) was implemented to ensure the smooth functioning of the market for financial securities by curbing behaviours that distort the price of securities and harm investor confidence. We have formalised the way in which we meet our obligations under MAR and established a Disclosure Committee, comprising three or more Directors, one of whom must be the Chairman, or in his absence, a Non-executive Director, to oversee the implementation of the governance and procedures associated with the assessment, control and disclosure of inside information. The Committee will meet as necessary or appropriate. Philip Rogerson Chairman Board Committees The Board delegates certain of its Dear Shareholder Leadership Team and other key roles responsibilities to the Board Committees within the organisation. This review also to enable it to carry out its functions This corporate governance statement provided visibility of the Group’s talent describes how the Group is governed effectively. The membership of the Board pipeline and the leadership development and Board Committees as at 23 May 2017 and managed, and how De La Rue plc programme in place to ensure we are applied the Principles of the UK Corporate can be found on page 59. maximising the potential of our people. Governance Code (the Code) throughout the year. The Board continues to ensure Audit tender it upholds the highest governance Board effectiveness During the year, the Audit Committee standards. We recognise the need We conducted our annual externally led a tender process for external audit to lead on values and conduct in order facilitated Board evaluation during the services, following which the Audit to encourage the right behaviours year, the outcome of which was very Committee agreed to recommend that throughout the Group. We believe that positive and confirmed that the Board the Board propose to shareholders at our culture and the quality of our people and its Committees operate to a high the forthcoming AGM the appointment are critical to the success of the Group. standard. The Board discussed the of Ernst and Young LLP as auditor You can read more about how we findings in detail at one of its meetings. of the Company for the 2017/18 audit. have developed our culture in the Chief See page 61 for further details of Further information on the tender Executive Officer’s review on page 24. this process. process is contained in the Audit As part of our performance evaluation Committee report on page 67. Board changes process, I met with each of the Directors Victoria Jarman stepped down as a individually in respect of their own Structure of the corporate Non-executive Director at the conclusion performance and to obtain their views governance statement of last year’s AGM after serving six years. on what was working well and what The corporate governance statement that We were pleased to welcome Nick Bray could be improved. follows is intended to give shareholders to the Board as a Non-executive Director an understanding of the Company’s The smooth operation of the Board on 21 July 2016. Nick Bray is Chairman corporate governance arrangements and effective relationships between the of the Audit Committee. Rupert Middleton and how they operated during the period. Non-executive Directors and Executive has informed the Board of his decision The corporate governance statement Directors is critical and firmly in place to step down after the AGM in July 2017. provides details of our governance policies at De La Rue. Frequent and open Rupert’s replacement will report to the and practices and includes reports from conversations with the Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer and will not be a each of the Committee Chairs to provide Officer enable me and the Board to Board position. The Board composition, details on key matters addressed by the understand and debate both what biographies and skills and experience are Committees during the period. A diagram is going on in the business and the contained on pages 52, 53 and page 55. of the Board governance structure is set challenges that lie ahead. out on page 58. The Board agenda will continue to Non-executive Director balance the need to improve oversight engagement Compliance with the UK Corporate and governance of all aspects of the An important part of my role is to business with the ability to debate Governance Code (the Code) ensure that our Non-executive Directors and examine forward-looking strategy, The Board considers that it and the offer both support to and challenge including changes to the business Company has, throughout the period to of the executive management team. environment and markets in which 25 March 2017, complied in all respects The Non-executive Directors meet with we operate and compete. with the provisions of the Code issued the wider executive management team in September 2014 which is the version and regularly visit different sites. of the Code which applies to the financial Remuneration policy period. The Code is issued by the The Remuneration Committee FRC and is available for review on the Succession planning conducted a full review of our FRC website: https//www.frc.org.uk Succession planning is an important remuneration policy during the period. element of good governance, ensuring You can read more about this in the that we are fully prepared for planned Philip Rogerson directors’ remuneration report on page Chairman or sudden departures from key positions 75. The directors’ remuneration policy throughout the year. The Nomination 23 May 2017 will be put to shareholders for approval Committee has reviewed the succession at the forthcoming AGM. plans for the Board, the Executive Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 51 Strategic report The Board encourages a culture of strong governance across the business, and continues to adopt the principles of good governance and adhere to requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code. Corporate governance Accounts The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for creating and preserving the long term success and performance of the business. The key Principles of the Code are outlined below: Leadership Accountability The Board provides leadership either directly or through The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the operation of its Committees. The Chairman is ultimately the risk management and internal controls and has responsible for the make-up and composition of the Board delegated responsibility to ensure compliance with the to best deliver the business strategy. Code to the Ethics Committee, Audit Committee and Risk Committee. Find out more on leadership Find out more on accountability see pages 52 to 60 see pages 65 to 72 Effectiveness Relations with shareholders The Board sets the strategic objectives and approves and Maintaining strong relationships with both private and monitors performance against budgets and forecasts. institutional shareholders is crucial in helping us achieve An evaluation process is regularly undertaken to ensure our aims. We hold events throughout the year to maintain Board members have the necessary skills in place. an open and transparent dialogue with them. Find out more on effectiveness Find out more on relations with shareholders see pages 61 to 64 see page 73 Remuneration The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and maintain a fair reward structure that attracts the right talent and incentivises Executive Directors to deliver strategic objectives and maintain stability of management. Find out more on remuneration see pages 74 to 92 52 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Leadership Board of Directors 1. Philip Rogerson 2. Martin Sutherland Chairman Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Appointment to the Board Current directorships Appointment to the Board Current directorships Appointed to the Board on and business interests Appointed to the Board and business interests 1 March 2012 and became • Bunzl plc, chairman on 13 October 2014. • International Currency Chairman on 26 July 2012. • Blancco Technology Group plc, Association, board member non-executive director Committees • Forterra plc, non-executive Committees (senior independent director) • Nomination Committee director (with effect from • Ethics Committee (Chairman) • Advisory Board of the • Risk Committee 23 May 2017) • Nomination Committee North and East London (Chairman) Commissioning Support • Remuneration Committee Unit (NELCSU) of the NHS, chairman 3. Jitesh Sodha 4. Sabri Challah Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Independent Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Committee Appointment to the Board Current directorships Appointed to the Board • Risk Committee Appointed to the Board and business interests on 10 August 2015. on 23 July 2015. • CogitalGroup Limited, deputy chairman Committees • Robert Kime Limited, • Audit Committee chairman • Ethics Committee • Contemporary Art • Nomination Committee Society, trustee • Remuneration Committee (Chairman) Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 53 Strategic report Corporate governance 5. Maria da Cunha 6. Nick Bray Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Accounts Appointment to the Board Current directorships Appointment to the Board Current directorships Appointed to the Board and business interests Appointed to the Board and business interests on 23 July 2015. • British Airways, director on 21 July 2016. • Sophos Group plc, of people and legal chief financial officer Committees • Community Integrated Committees • Audit Committee Care, trustee • Audit Committee (Chairman) • Ethics Committee • Ethics Committee • Nomination Committee • Nomination Committee • Remuneration Committee • Remuneration Committee 7. Rupert Middleton 8. Andrew Stevens Chief Operating Officer Senior Independent Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Committee Appointment to the Board Current directorships and Appointed to the Board on • Risk Committee Appointed to the Board business interests 23 July 2015 and will step on 2 January 2013. • CAE Inc., down from the Board after non‑executive director the 2017 AGM. Committees • Hèroux-Devtek Inc., • Audit Committee non‑executive director • Ethics Committee • Pattonair Ltd, • Nomination Committee non-executive director • Remuneration Committee 9. Edward Peppiatt General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointment to the Board Committee Appointed as General Counsel • Risk Committee (Chairman) on 1 March 2009 and as Company Secretary with effect from 1 April 2009. 54 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Leadership Board of Directors continued 1. 2. 3. Governance principle The Board is collectively accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are responsible for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations. The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standard 4. 5. 6. of corporate governance which is critical to creating value. The diverse range of experience offered by the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors means that they are well qualified to scrutinise performance, assess the Group’s risk management and control processes, provide constructive challenge and to support the 7. 8. 9. Executive Directors. Board composition Executive and Non-executive Gender of Board and independence Director balance The Board composition is set out on pages 52 to 53. The Directors have a range of experience and can bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct. Details of each Director’s skills and experience are set out on page 55. This experience and judgement is considered vital to our success. It is the balance of skills, experience, % Number independence and knowledge which ensures the duties and responsibilities Executive Directors 37.5 Male 7 of the Board and its Committees are Independent Female 1 discharged effectively. Non-executive Directors 50.0 The Board conducts a review of the Chairman 12.5 independence of the Non-executive Directors annually based on the criteria in the Code and following Board tenure Diversity consideration by the Nomination The Board has due regard for the Committee. The Board concluded that benefits of diversity in its membership all Non-executive Directors remained and strives to maintain the right independent in character and judgement. diversity balance, while maintaining the Philip Rogerson was considered over-arching aim of recruiting the best independent at the date of his appointment. candidate based on merit. The Chairman His external appointments are set out seeks to ensure that the composition on page 52. of the Board includes individuals with There is a clear division between the deep knowledge and experience, management of the Board and the bringing a wide range of perspectives Executive Directors’ responsibility to the business. for managing the Group’s business. % Following the departure of Victoria However, no individual or small group Jarman, and as at 25 March 2017, the can dominate decision-making. More than 5 years 12.5 percentage of women on the Board has 3 to 5 years 12.5 fallen to 12.5%. 1 to 3 years 62.5 Less than 1 year 12.5 The Group’s inclusion strategy is discussed further on pages 45 and 47. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 55 Strategic report 1. Philip Rogerson 2. Martin Sutherland 3. Jitesh Sodha Chairman Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Philip was formerly chairman of Aggreko plc Martin joined De La Rue from BAE Systems Jitesh is a CIMA qualified accountant and and Carillion plc. He was an executive director Applied Intelligence, where he was managing has worked in a range of businesses with of BG plc (formerly British Gas plc) from 1992 director since its acquisition by BAE Systems an international footprint, most recently to 1998, latterly as deputy chairman. in 2008. At BAE Systems Applied Intelligence Greenergy International, one of the largest Corporate governance (formerly Detica), Martin was responsible private companies in the UK, where he served for the strategic expansion of the business as chief financial officer from 2008 until internationally through both organic growth May 2015. His previous roles included chief and acquisitions. Prior to joining Detica in financial officer of Mobilestreams Plc, where 1996, Martin worked for Andersen Consulting he played a key role in the IPO, and chief (now Accenture) and British Telecom. financial officer of T-Mobile International UK. Accounts 4. Sabri Challah 5. Maria da Cunha 6. Nick Bray Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Sabri was a Partner at Deloitte from 1991 Maria has spent her career in a range of legal Nick has extensive international experience to 2013, where he had a varied career. roles as a solicitor and in-house at Lloyds of in the technology and information security He served as a member of both the Deloitte London and since 2000, with British Airways industries and for the last six years has been UK board, where he acted as chairman of where she is director of people and legal and chief financial officer of security software firm, the remuneration committee, and the Deloitte is a member of the executive board, corporate Sophos Group plc. Before joining Sophos, Global board, where he was chairman of the security board and pensions strategy he was chief financial officer at Micro Focus succession planning committee. Sabri was board. Maria is experienced at working with International plc, Fibernet Group plc, and also chairman of Igneus UK Limited, a leading international regulators and governments and Gentia Software plc. Prior to that, he held provider of welfare to work services. Sabri has has a deep understanding of operational risk, various senior financial positions at Comshare significant and wide ranging experience in including cyber security, data and mobile Inc. and Lotus Software. organisational design, change management, risk. She also has significant geo-political, strategy, and corporate development. multi‑channel distribution, acquisition and post-merger integration experience. 7. Rupert Middleton 8. Andrew Stevens 9. Edward Peppiatt Chief Operating Officer Senior Independent General Counsel and Non-executive Director Company Secretary Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Rupert joined De La Rue in October 2011 Andrew has extensive international experience Edward has many years of experience as a as Managing Director, Supply Chain before in the technology and engineering sectors, general counsel and company secretary in being appointed Chief Operating Officer in having spent over thirty years operating publicly quoted businesses and his roles in April 2015. Rupert has extensive experience across the globe, including in North America, the past have included responsibility for risk, of manufacturing with particular emphasis Europe, the Middle East and Asia. He was a security, insurance, HSE and HR. He was on printing. His previous role was group director of Cobham plc between 2003 and previously general counsel and corporate director of manufacturing at Trinity Mirror, 2012, where he held a range of positions, secretary of Christian Salvesen PLC and responsible for the integrated manufacturing becoming chief executive in 2010 until prior to that practised as a corporate lawyer division that prints all Trinity Mirror newspaper stepping down from that role in June 2012. at Stephenson Harwood. He is a qualified titles. Prior to joining Trinity Mirror, Rupert Before that he held senior positions in Rolls solicitor and holds an MBA from Cranfield was integration director at Transport for Royce, Messier Dowty International and School of Management. London, managing director of a division within Spirent plc. The Stationery Office and managing director of Westferry Printers. 56 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Leadership Board roles Board composition and roles As at 25 March 2017, our Board comprised of the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four independent Non-executive Directors. Their key responsibilities are: Chairman • Providing leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style and tone to promote constructive Philip Rogerson debate and challenge between Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors • Ensuring good information flows from the Executive Directors to the Board, and from the Board to its key stakeholders • Supporting and advising the Chief Executive Officer, particularly in the development of strategy • Chairing the Nomination Committee and building an effective and complementary Board, regularly considering its composition and balance, diversity and succession planning • Ensuring high standards of corporate governance and probity throughout the Group are established and maintained Senior Independent • Providing a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board Director other than through the Chairman or if they consider that their concerns are not being addressed Andrew Stevens through normal channels • Responsibility for appraising the Chairman’s performance in discussions with the other Non-executive Directors and Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman • Leading recruitment of a new Chairman other than when being considered for the position himself Chief Executive Officer • Maintaining a senior leadership team with the appropriate knowledge, experience, skills, attitude Martin Sutherland and motivation to manage the Group’s day-to-day activities • Exercising personal leadership and developing, on an ongoing basis, a management style which encourages excellent and open working relationships at all levels within the Group • Ensuring, through the Chief Financial Officer, the implementation, control and coordination of the Group’s financial and funding policies approved by the Board • Ensuring that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms • Setting the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy • Implementing and reviewing health, safety and environment policy and, supported by the Executive Leadership Team, overseeing improvements and performance • Identifying acquisitions and monitoring competitive forces Chief Financial Officer • Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in developing and implementing strategy Jitesh Sodha • Overseeing the financial delivery and performance of the Group • Leading the development of the Finance function to provide insightful financial analysis that informs key decision-making • Leading treasury activities • Leading investor activities • Working with the Chief Executive Officer to develop budgets and medium term plans to support the agreed strategy Chief Operating Officer • Overseeing operational excellence programme and manufacturing footprint Rupert Middleton • Responsibility for IS infrastructure and security • Responsibility for physical security • Responsibility for environment, health and safety • Overseeing Group procurement activity Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 57 Strategic report Independent • Constructively challenging management and decisions taken at Board level Non-executive Directors • Constructively challenging and helping to develop proposals on strategy Nick Bray • Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and Sabri Challah monitoring the reporting of their performance Maria da Cunha • Upholding high standards of integrity and probity, and supporting the Chairman and Executive Directors in instilling appropriate culture, values and behaviours in the Boardroom and across Corporate governance the Group • Ensuring they receive high quality information sufficiently in advance of Board meetings and challenging the adequacy and quality of such information General Counsel and • Acting as Secretary to the Board Company Secretary • Drafting and distributing Board and Committee agendas and papers Accounts Edward Peppiatt • Advising on corporate governance and ensuring compliance with Board procedures • Advising on legal matters • Facilitating induction programmes • Organising the AGM • Making himself available to all Directors for advice Our governance framework Board responsibilities Matters reserved for • Collectively responsible for the long the Board’s decision term success of the Group • Group strategy, long term objectives, annual budgets • Setting strategy and being accountable to shareholders for delivery of value • Approval of the annual and interim results • Monitoring management activity and performance against targets • Acquisitions, disposals • Delivering value to shareholders and • Approval of risk appetite other stakeholders • Ensuring that a sound system of • Maintaining the Group’s reputation for internal control and risk management integrity as the Company’s foundation is maintained of its relationship with shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and • Changes to the Group’s other stakeholders capital structure • Building long term success • Approval of dividend policy through innovation, quality and • Changes to Board composition sound management • The Board has delegated authority to manage the business to the Chief Executive Officer, who delegates specific responsibilities to members of the Executive Leadership Team • To enhance its effectiveness, the Board also delegates some matters to its Committees and to management as appropriate 58 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Leadership Our governance framework Certain Board responsibilities are delegated to formal Board Committees which play an important governance role through the work they carry out: Remuneration Committee Risk Committee • Sets the remuneration framework • Oversees the risk management and policy for the Company framework for the Group • Sets the individual remuneration • Identifies, evaluates and monitors of the Chairman, Executive principal risks facing the Group Directors and other senior executives See pages 74 to 92 See page 69 Audit Committee Nomination Committee • Reviews the Group’s financial • Reviews the composition of reporting and recommends to the Board and its Committees the Board that the report and • Ensures that appropriate accounts should be approved procedures are in place for • Reviews internal financial controls the nomination, selection and • Assesses the independence appointment of Directors and effectiveness of the • Ensures that there is an external auditor effective framework for succession planning See pages 65 to 68 See pages 63 to 64 Board Ethics Committee Disclosure Committee • Makes recommendation to the • Oversees the implementation Board on ethical matters of the governance procedures • Reinforces the Group’s associated with the assessment, commitment to ensuring business control and disclosure of inside ethics are a fundamental information in accordance with and enduring part of the Chief Executive Officer the Market Abuse Regulation Group’s culture • Scrutinises See page 50 whistleblowing reports • Monitors TPP programme See pages 70 to 72 Executive Leadership Team • Operates under the direction and authority of the Chief Executive Officer • Manages the day-to-day running of the Group • Develops and implements strategy, monitoring the operating and financial performance and the prioritisation and allocation of resources See page 61 Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee • Makes recommendations on HS&E strategy • Monitors compliance with HS&E obligations • Reports on key HS&E KPIs • Recommends appropriate training See pages 42 to 49 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 59 Board attendance Strategic report Operation of the Board The Board has a programme of meetings Matters reserved to the Board Executive Officer’s responsibility and during the year and also meets on an ad and delegated authorities authority within specific delegated hoc basis as required. The Board’s core In order to retain control of key decisions authorities. He reports on the activities procedures are set out in the terms of and ensure there is a clear division through his (and the Chief Financial reference for the Board, its Committees of responsibilities at the head of the Officer’s) regular reports to the Board. and Directors and include the control Company between the running of the The Board and each Committee receives Corporate governance of risk. Board and the running of the Company’s sufficient, reliable and timely information business, the Board has identified in advance of meetings and are provided Key aspects of the Board’s role include: with access to all necessary resources certain ‘reserved matters’ that only it can • Determining the responsibilities approve. Other matters, responsibilities and expertise to enable them to fulfil of Directors, in particular and authorities have been delegated to their responsibilities and undertake their those of the Chairman and the its Committees. The matters reserved duties in an effective manner. Chief Executive Officer to the Board and the terms of reference Accounts • Reviewing the effectiveness of internal for each of its Committees, which are control processes reviewed on an annual basis, can be • Setting authority levels found on the Company website at www.delarue.com. These were last • Approving the terms of reference and reviewed on 30 March 2017. Any matter membership of Board Committees outside of these falls within the Chief Board and Board Committee meetings The Board and Board Committee attendance during the year is shown in the table below. In addition to the schedule of Board meetings, the Board meets for dinners that give the Directors additional time together to discuss issues more broadly. For further information regarding when the Board members joined or stepped down from Committees during the year, please refer to the relevant Board Committee report. If a Director is unable to attend a Board or Board Committee meeting, the absent Director is encouraged to communicate comments and opinions on the matters to be considered. Nomination Ethics Audit Remuneration Directors’ attendance 2016/171 Board2 Committee Committee Committee Committee Nick Bray (appointed 21 July 2016) 6(8) 1(2) 1(1) 3(3) 2(3) Sabri Challah 11(12) 4(4) 2(2) 5(5) 5(5) Maria da Cunha 12(12) 4(4) 2(2) 5(5) 5(5) Victoria Jarman (stepped down from the Board 21 July 2016) 2(4) 2(2) 1(1) 2(2) 0(2) Rupert Middleton 12(12) – – – – Philip Rogerson 12(12) 4(4) 2(2) – 5(5) Jitesh Sodha 12(12) – – – – Andrew Stevens 10(12) 3(4) 2(2) 4(5) 4(5) Martin Sutherland 12(12) 4(4) – – – Notes 1 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. 2 Of the meetings detailed within the table, four meetings were convened on an ad hoc basis to consider matters in between scheduled Board meetings. 60 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Leadership The Board’s area of focus Board activity during the year In the period under review, the Board’s focus has been on progress with strategy and ensuring that the structures, capabilities and reports are in place to support the Group strategy. The Board has received regular reports from both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. In particular the Board: Strategy • Received presentations from different parts of the business on progress with agreed For more information strategy and opportunities on our strategy: • Held the annual strategy review meeting in October 2016 See pages 20 to 21 • Approved updated budget and medium term plans in the context of the agreed strategy • Reviewed progress with implementation of the strategy through regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer • Approved the acquisition of the authentication business of Dupont Authentication Electronics & Communications • Approved the divestment of the Cash Processing Solutions business • Refined the manufacturing footprint restructuring programme • Considered the Kenya joint venture • Received a presentation on digital strategy Shareholder • Consulted with shareholders and proxy voting bodies on the remuneration policy For more information: engagement • Reviewed reports from brokers on shareholder feedback following meetings with the See page 73 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer • Received presentations from brokers on the market perception of De La Rue plc • Consulted with shareholders and proxy voting bodies on resolutions put to the AGM Performance • Reviewed performance reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer For more information: monitoring • Reviewed reports on the Group’s financial position See pages 30 to 31 • Reviewed the year end and interim results People • Visited the Bathford site during the Board meeting in March 2016 • Reviewed progress on the culture change journey • Received presentations from the Group Director of Human Resources on succession planning Governance • Received reports from the Director of Audit, Risk and Assurance For more information on principal risks: and risk • Received a presentation on cyber security See pages 32 to 36 • Approved principal risks and the risk appetite for those risks • Received a presentation on the external review and testing of information security For more information on • Discussed the results of the Board performance evaluation Board Committee reports: • Received reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Ethics and See pages 63 to 92 Nomination Committees • Received briefing on the Market Abuse Regulation • Carried out the annual corporate governance review Other • Approved the appointment of a new Director • Approved the 2016 annual report and accounts and the 2016 notice of AGM • Approved the 2016 annual budget • Reviewed the Group’s insurance programme renewal • Reviewed HSE performance • Approved capital expenditure projects • Approved Non-executive Directors’ fees • Received an update on the pension fund triennial valuation Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 61 Effectiveness Conflicts of interests Board effectiveness Whistleblowing Strategic report and independence The Board and its Committees A whistleblowing telephone hotline The Board has established a process undertake an annual evaluation of their service allows De La Rue employees to to review at least annually and, if effectiveness. In 2016, the performance raise concerns in relation to dishonesty appropriate, authorise any conflict evaluation involved the use of an external or malpractice on an entirely confidential of interest and has carried out such independent facilitator, Lintstock Limited. basis. The hotline is operated by a third a review during the year and authorised party which is independent of De La Rue. The review process involved completion all Directors’ situational conflicts. Incoming reports are provided to Corporate governance of online questionnaires which focused Any transactional conflicts are reviewed the General Counsel and Company on Board composition, expertise and as they arise. Directors are asked to Secretary who ensures that the matters dynamics, quality of decisions made, review and confirm reported conflicts of are appropriately investigated. The Ethics Board support and processes, structure, interests as part of the year end process. Committee and the Audit Committee behaviours and other key issues such receive regular reports on any matters as strategy and succession. The review raised through the hotline and monitor Culture and values also addressed delivery of the Board’s the use throughout De La Rue. objectives and any issues identified Accounts The Board considers leadership, culture and good governance as essential during the previous review or which considerations in the Group’s ongoing became relevant during the year. A report Executive Leadership Team (ELT) transformation. As the business seeks on the performance of the Board and A clearly defined organisational structure to build a high performance culture each of the principal Committees was exists within which individual responsibilities across the Company to deliver on our compiled by Lintstock. The results of are identified. The management of the strategy, the Board recognises the role the questionnaire as they applied to the Group as a whole is delegated to the it plays in providing leadership and tone Board were discussed collectively and Chief Executive Officer and the ELT as from the top. The Board is developing objectives for the coming year agreed. discussed on page 59. The ELT is an a framework through the Executive The Chairman and each Committee executive-level forum of the Group’s Leadership Team for regular oversight Chairman have discussions with each most senior leaders, chaired by the Chief of the culture within the Company. Director or Committee member based on Executive Officer. It comes together to The intention is to ensure the De La Rue the responses. The Senior Independent communicate, review and agree on issues values are integral to the performance Director is responsible for appraising the and actions of Group-wide significance. management of the senior leadership Chairman’s performance in discussions It develops, implements and monitors group and other employees and that the with the Non-executive Directors and strategic and operational plans, and incentive structure in place supports and the Executive Directors in the absence considers the continuing applicability, encourages behaviours consistent with of the Chairman. The Chairman holds appropriateness and impact of risk. those values. one‑to-one meetings with all Directors. It leads the Group’s culture and aids decision-making of the Chief Executive The reviews undertaken in the year have Officer in managing the business in concluded that the performance of the the performance of his duties. The ELT Board, its Committees and individual members ensure that reports on their Directors was effective. A number of respective business areas are made to the positive points were noted as well as Board through the Chief Executive Officer. areas of focus for the coming year, which will be monitored and progressed at the Board meetings scheduled for the year. Induction and professional development Newly-appointed Directors follow a tailored induction programme, facilitated by the Company Secretary, which includes dedicated time with Group executives and scheduled trips to a variety of business operations. All Directors are encouraged to undertake additional training and to visit the Group’s facilities. 62 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Effectiveness continued Risk management Assessment of the prospects Information in the directors’ report and internal control of the Company and its Information fulfilling certain requirements The Board retains overall responsibility viability statement of the corporate governance statement for setting De La Rue’s risk appetite, In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the can be found in the directors’ report and for risk management and internal Code, the Directors set out on page 37 and is incorporated into this corporate control systems. The Board has how they have assessed the prospects governance section by reference. carried out a robust assessment of of the Company, over what period the the principal risks of the Company and prospects have been assessed, and the For reference, relevant sections of the how those risks affect the prospects Company’s formal viability statement. directors’ report are: of the Company. Further details on the • Substantial shareholdings ongoing risk management and internal control systems can be found in both Annual general meeting • Deadlines for voting rights the risk management section of this All holders of ordinary shares may • Amendment of the Company’s articles annual report and the Audit Committee attend the Company’s AGM at which of association report on pages 32 to 37 and pages the Chairman presents a review of the 65 to 68 respectively. key business developments during • Appointment and replacement the year. This year’s AGM will be held of Directors The Board confirms: at 10:30 on Thursday 20 July 2017 at • Powers of Directors • There is an ongoing process for The Hampshire Court Hotel, Centre identifying, evaluating, and managing Drive, Great Binfields Road, Chineham, • Authority to issue shares the principal risks faced by the Group Basingstoke, RG24 8FY. The notice of AGM accompanies this annual report. • Repurchase of shares • The systems have been in place for Shareholders can ask questions of By order of the Board the period under review and up to the the Board on the matters put to the date of approval of the annual report meeting, including the annual report and Edward Peppiatt and accounts the running of the Company generally. Company Secretary • They are regularly reviewed by All Directors are invited to attend each 23 May 2017 the Board AGM and all Committee Chairmen will be present to take questions at the AGM. • The systems accord with the FRC guidance on risk management, The Company sends the notice of internal control and related financial AGM and relevant related papers and business reporting to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. The notice The Board is satisfied that the risk of AGM is available to view on the management and internal control Group’s website. systems in place remain effective. A poll is conducted on each resolution This review does not extend to at all Company general meetings. associated companies or joint ventures All shareholders have the opportunity where the Group does not have to cast their vote in respect of proposed management control. resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post. Following the AGM, the voting results for each resolution are published and are made available on our website. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 63 Strategic report Nomination Committee Principal responsibilities The key areas of responsibility of the Committee are: The Nomination Committee ensures • To review the structure, size and that the Board and its Committees composition of the Board and maintain the appropriate balance of its Committees, to ensure they Corporate governance remain appropriate, and to make skills, knowledge, experience and recommendations to the Board diversity to ensure compliance with • To consider succession plans for all legal and ﬁduciary obligations and Directors and senior executives to deliver value to shareholders and other stakeholders. • To review the time commitment required of Non-executive Directors Philip Rogerson Accounts at least once a year Chairman of the Nomination Committee • To review the independence of the Non-executive Directors Dear Shareholder The Chairman and the independent I am pleased to present the 2017 Nomination Committee report. Non‑executive Directors together with the Chief Executive Officer are Composition of the Committee members of the Committee. Date of appointment Directors’ attendance Member to Committee 2016/17 Philip Rogerson (Chairman) 1 March 2012 4(4) Martin Sutherland 13 October 2014 4(4) Nick Bray 21 July 2016 1(2) Sabri Challah 23 July 2015 4(4) Maria da Cunha 23 July 2015 4(4) Victoria Jarman (stepped down from the Board 21 July 2016) 22 April 2010 2(2) Andrew Stevens 2 January 2013 3(4) Note Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. Biographical details of the members of the Board who held office up to the date of this report can be found on pages 52, 53 and 55. Activities during the period This year the Committee’s main activity was focused on Board succession planning, which it did over formal meetings and frequent informal exchanges. Other areas of focus included: • Review of the composition of the • Review of the composition Board and the range of skills and of Board Committees experience on the Board • Evaluation and effectiveness review • Recommended appointment of • External commitments Nick Bray to the Board • Board and management succession • Review of Board diversity • Non-executive Directors’ periods of appointment and confirmation that all should stand for election and re‑election at the AGM following a formal performance appraisal process • Review of senior leadership talent, succession and development 64 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Effectiveness continued Committee meetings Succession planning and talent Board changes The Committee is required, in The Committee has continued to work Victoria Jarman stepped down as accordance with its terms of reference, to put appropriate succession plans in a Non-executive Director of the to meet at least twice a year. During the place in order to ensure the right mix of Board at the conclusion of the 2016 year, the Committee met four times. skills and experience of Board members AGM. Nick Bray was appointed a now and in the future. In addition, Non-executive Director on 21 July 2016 The Committee’s annual evaluation the Board recognises the focus on and he succeeded Victoria as Chairman involved the use of an external strengthening the pipeline of executive of the Audit Committee. independent facilitator, Lintstock Limited. talent in the Company. An effective It was concluded that the Committee In its search for a replacement for Victoria talent model supporting organisational continued to operate effectively. Jarman, the Board retained The Zygos development has been in operation Partnership, an independent executive for three years. Our high potential search firm which does not have any Diversity programme is designed to develop a other connections with the Company. In considering appointments to the pipeline of talent of future leaders and The Committee agreed the process, Board and to senior executive positions, rising stars. A comprehensive talent timetable and mandate for the Zygos it is the policy of the Committee to review was presented to the Board, Partnership. Nick Bray was identified evaluate the skills, experience and mapping successional candidates across by the Nomination Committee as part knowledge required by a particular role all areas within the business. The skills of the external search process and was with due regard for the benefit of diversity and experience of those senior leaders subsequently recommended to the including gender diversity on the Board were also reviewed to ensure there is Board for appointment on the basis that and at senior management level. The aim the right mix in place to help deliver the he met the criteria required, including will continue to be the recruitment of strategic objectives of the Company and having sufficient time to discharge the the best candidate on merit regardless to build a high performance culture and requirements of the role. of gender. pool for future growth. As at 25 March 2017, the Company has Our Leading Through Complexity programme is an essential part of Election and re-election one female Non-executive Director on De La Rue’s ambition to enhance As in previous years, and in accordance the Board. The Board and the Committee leadership capability at both senior with the UK Corporate Governance have noted the recommendations of leadership group and managerial levels Code, all Directors will stand for election the Hampton-Alexander Review in and drive culture change through or re-election at the AGM. November 2016 to increase female board representation to at least 33% by 2020 the organisation. The programme is The Board, having carried out the and the recommendations of the Parker designed to encourage robust and effectiveness and evaluation process, Review on board ethnic diversity. honest debate to help lead more considers the performance of each of effectively in a matrix organisation leading the Directors standing for election and The Company has established a formal to more dynamic, high performing teams. re-election at this year’s AGM to be process, led by a member of the Ultimately, we want our leaders to be fully satisfactory and is of the opinion Executive Leadership Team, to review even more effective leaders – for their that they have demonstrated ongoing and make recommendations on our benefit, and for the benefit of their teams, effectiveness and continued commitment inclusion strategy programme, including our shareholders and our customers. to the role. The Board strongly supports gender, representation of women within The Board has dinner with ELT members their election and re-election and management and leadership roles. and other key managers at every recommends that shareholders vote Our theme for International Women’s opportunity to meet and exchange in favour of the resolutions at the AGM. Day this year was ‘Be Bold for Change’ and we held a meeting for employees views and ideas. at our Viables site, where our female Philip Rogerson role models and leaders in the business Chairman of the shared their leadership journey and Nomination Committee explored what inclusion intervention 23 May 2017 would look like and how to overcome challenges in a period of change. The Company’s policy on diversity applies across all levels of the Group, and further details on the approach to diversity are set out on pages 45 and 48. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 65 Accountability Strategic report Audit Committee Principal responsibilities • The appointment of the external auditors including the agreement of the terms of engagement at the The Audit Committee provides start of each audit, the audit scope an independent overview of the and the external audit fee effectiveness of the internal financial Corporate governance • Monitoring and reviewing the control systems and financial effectiveness of internal financial reporting processes. controls and internal control and risk management systems and the effectiveness of the internal audit function Nick Bray • Reviewing the integrity of the interim Accounts Chairman of the Audit Committee and full year financial statements • Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements Dear Shareholder contained in the financial statements I am pleased to present the 2017 Audit Committee report. This report describes the Committee’s ongoing responsibilities and key tasks as well as its major • Reviewing and monitoring the activities in the period ended 25 March 2017. external auditor’s effectiveness, independence and objectivity including the nature and Composition of the Committee appropriateness of any non‑audit fees Date of appointment Directors’ attendance Member to Committee 2016/17 • Reviewing reports on the Victoria Jarman (stepped down effectiveness of the Group’s from the Board 21 July 2016) 22 April 2010 2(2) whistleblowing procedures and Nick Bray (Chairman with effect arrangements, details of which from 21 July 2016) 21 July 2016 3(3) are set out on page 61 Sabri Challah 23 July 2015 5(5) • Advising the Board on whether Maria da Cunha 23 July 2015 5(5) taken as a whole, the annual report Andrew Stevens 2 January 2013 4(5) is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Note necessary for shareholders to Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy Activities during the period The terms of reference of the Audit During the period, the Audit Committee met on five occasions and dealt with Committee are available on the the following matters: Group’s website. • Group half year results –– Quality and security internal assurance reviews • Group preliminary announcement and annual results –– Internal control self assessment review • Principal judgemental accounting matters affecting the Group based –– HSE legal assurance on reports from management and and compliance audits the external auditors • Group disclosure and • External audit plans and reports whistleblowing policy • Risk and assurance plans and • Review of controls concerning reports including: the management of capital expenditure proposals –– Group risk profile • Going concern –– Internal audit plan • External auditor effectiveness, –– Internal audit reports independence, and fees –– Follow up of internal • Audit tender process audit recommendations • Review of the new regulatory –– Annual review of the system requirements regarding external of internal controls audit firm and audit partner rotation • Audit Committee effectiveness 66 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Accountability continued Victoria Jarman stood down as Chair Post-retirement benefit obligations Classification of exceptional items on her resignation from the Board The Committee received and considered As part of the Committee’s deliberations at the AGM on 21 July 2016, and reports from management and the over whether the annual report and I chaired my first meeting in September external auditors in relation to the accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 2016. My thanks go to Victoria for valuation of the defined benefit pension balanced and understandable, the her contribution to the work of the scheme and challenged the key actuarial Committee also considered the Committee over the years. assumptions used in calculating the amounts disclosed as exceptional All members of the Committee are scheme liabilities, especially in relation items. The nature of the items classified Independent Non-executive Directors. to discount rates, RPI inflation rates as operating exceptional items during The Board is satisfied that the and mortality. the period is described in note 2 membership of the Audit Committee and 4. The Committee considered the The Committee discussed the reasons accounting treatment and disclosure of meets the requirement for relevant for the increase in the net pension and recent financial experience. these items in the financial statements deficit and was satisfied that the including seeking the views of the I have continued with the practice assumptions used were appropriate external auditors. On the basis of this under Victoria Jarman of inviting the and were supported by independent review, the Committee concluded Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, actuarial specialists. Details of the key that the accounting treatment and Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating assumptions used are set out in note 23. disclosures in relation to these items Officer, General Counsel and Company were appropriate. Secretary, Director of Audit, Risk Valuation of inventory in Currency and Assurance and the external and The Committee reviewed the Group’s Purchase accounting following the internal auditors to join meetings of policies and procedures over the acquisition of DuPont Authentication the Committee. The Director of Audit, valuation and recoverability of inventory The Committee reviewed the purchase Risk and Assurance, who is the chief in Currency (£53.2m). The Committee accounting following the acquisition of internal auditor, and external auditors received confirmation that the valuation DuPont Authentication. The Committee each meet the Committee without principles had been consistently applied reviewed the critical accounting Executive Directors or other employees and noted that the majority of inventory estimates used in the purchase price being present. items were made to order rather than allocation, specifically the valuation of held for generic stock and hence the acquired intangible assets and satisfied Significant accounting matters recoverability risk was low. Accordingly, itself that the assets recognised on The Audit Committee is responsible for the Committee concluded that the the Group balance sheet following reviewing whether suitable accounting accounting treatments were reasonable the acquisition were reasonable. policies have been adopted and whether and appropriate. management has made appropriate estimates and judgements in the Estimation of warranty provisions preparation of the financial statements. The Group holds a number of provisions In respect of the financial statements relating to warranties including present for the period ended 25 March 2017, obligations for defective products and the significant issues reviewed and known claims as well as anticipated how these issues were addressed claims that had not been reported at is summarised below: the balance sheet date. The Committee reviewed and discussed reports from Revenue recognition in management and the external auditors the Currency division concerning the significant provisions held The Committee considered the Group’s for such matters including any provisions revenue recognition and contract with notable movements. The Committee accounting policies and procedures to considered the background to such ensure that they remained appropriate provisions and challenged management and that the Group’s internal controls over the judgements applied in were operating effectively in this area. determining the value of provisions Feedback was also sought from the required. The Committee enquired of external auditors over the application of management and the external auditors the revenue recognition policy including as to the existence of other matters a specific review of shipments pre and potentially requiring a provision to be post year end. Following a review of the made. The Committee concluded that varied sources of information received, it was satisfied with the value of warranty the Committee concluded that the provisions carried. accounting treatments were reasonable and appropriate. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 67 Independence and objectivity The safeguards KPMG put in place KPMG have been the Company’s Strategic report of external auditors avoid compromising their objectivity auditors since 11 October 2006 following The Committee ensures that the external and independence. They provide a the last tender of the external audit. auditors (KPMG) remain independent written report to the Audit Committee In line with the Code, the external audit of the Group. The Audit Committee has on how they comply with professional services for year ending March 2018 a detailed policy covering: and regulatory requirements and were put up for tender in 2016. best practice designed to ensure • Choosing the statutory auditors and their independence. Key members of The tender process involved members Corporate governance approving the audit fee the KPMG audit team rotate and the of the Audit Committee, Executive • Commissioning non-audit work firm ensures, where appropriate, that Directors, including the Chief Financial confidentiality is maintained between Officer, and the members of his team. • Defining circumstances in which it different parts of the firm providing is appropriate or inappropriate for services to De La Rue. A request for proposal (RFP) was incumbent auditors to be allowed to developed in consultation with the provide or be prohibited from providing The Audit Committee places great Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman non-audit work emphasis on the objectivity of the of the Audit Committee. Accounts Company’s auditors, KPMG, in reporting • De La Rue’s procedures for procuring to shareholders. Access was given to a data room where non-audit services from external key documentation was provided. sources, which specifically prohibits The KPMG audit partner is present at Audit Committee meetings to ensure The short-listed audit firms had various KPMG from undertaking certain types meetings with IT, Legal, Internal Audit, of service (including but not limited communication of matters relating to the audit. The Audit Committee Tax Treasury, Group Accounting and to services where it would audit its Planning. A visit to the Overton paper own work, where it would act in has discussions with the auditors, without management being present, mill was also arranged, in order to an advocacy role for the Group or gain understanding and gather all the where it would participate in activities on the adequacy of controls and on judgemental areas and receives and information needed to submit a proposal. normally undertaken by management) reviews the auditors’ highlights reports Following evaluation of the proposals, It may be cost-effective for KPMG to and management letters which are the audit firms were invited to present perform certain non-audit services, in one of the main outputs from the to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, particular where the skills and experience external audit. Chairman of the Board, Chief Financial required make KPMG the most suitable Officer and other senior members of the supplier. Certain categories of non‑audit The scope and key focus of the forthcoming year’s audit is finance team. services, including corporation tax compliance and due diligence services discussed with, and approved by, The Audit Committee’s criteria for must be subject to competitive tender the Audit Committee. selection was published in the RFP unless it is justifiable in the circumstances and was based on audit quality and not to do so. Areas which would not Appointment of auditors service, capability and competence of normally be acceptable non-audit services the firm, the team and the lead partner, The Audit Committee assesses annually behaviours, deliverables, relationships but in exceptional circumstances may the qualification, expertise, resources be considered appropriate, such as and organisational fit. and independence of the external auditors litigation and compliance services, require and the effectiveness of the audit process. my prior approval. The selection criteria The Audit Committee’s assessment include detailed proposals, timescales, is performed by an audit satisfaction local resource, cost and the safeguards questionnaire completed by the Chairman, put in place by KPMG to avoid conflicts relevant senior management and Audit of interest or loss of independence. Committee members. In addition, the Group’s policy is for any individual assignment to be undertaken by KPMG where the fee is likely to be in excess of £50,000 to be approved by me prior to commencement of work. During 2016/17 the amount of non-audit fees paid to KPMG was £0.2m. 68 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Accountability continued Following the conclusion of the tender Internal audit continued to ensure that In making its recommendation to process the Board confirmed its intention their efforts were better aligned to the Board the Committee continued to propose to shareholders, for approval the operational risks that the Group its robust existing governance at the 2017 AGM, to appoint Ernst and faces while maintaining an emphasis arrangements by: Young LLP as the Group’s auditor. on reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of general finance and IT • Comprehensive Group and De La Rue confirms its compliance with controls across the Group on a cyclical subsidiary accounts process, with the Competition and Market Authority basis. In addition to internal audit work, written confirmations provided by Order on mandatory tendering and audit there is a system of self assessment business unit senior management committee responsibility. internal control reviews by which teams on the health of the financial management are required to detail and control environment Internal control and certify that controls are in operation • Reviews of the annual report risk management to ensure the control environment in undertaken at different levels of the As noted above, the Committee is their business areas is appropriate. Group and by the senior management responsible for reviewing, on behalf Actions agreed are followed up by senior team that aim to ensure consistency of the Board, the effectiveness of the management to ensure that satisfactory and overall balance Group’s internal financial controls and control is maintained. The internal audit plan is set and reviewed by the Audit • External audit review the assurance procedures relating to the Group’s risk management systems. Committee. Additionally, the Audit • Clear guidance and instruction of the These controls and procedures are Committee reviews reports from the requirement provided to contributors designed to manage, but not eliminate, external auditors on internal control matters noted as part of their audit work. • Written confirmation that information the risk of failure of the Group to meet provided by executive management its business objectives and, as such, The 2017/18 Internal Audit plan was has been done on a fair and provide reasonable but not absolute approved by the Committee in April balanced basis assurance against material misstatement 2017. The focus of the plan is to provide or loss. The key elements of the Group’s assurance over the migration to a new • Additional reviews by the Audit risk management framework and global finance platform. Committee Chairman of the draft procedures are set out on pages 32 to annual report in advance of the 36. The Committee reviews these topics final sign-off in the context of the at each meeting and considers that none Fair, balanced and Code provision of the areas identified for enhancement understandable view Final sign-off is provided by the during the year constituted a significant At its May 2017 meeting, the Committee Board, on the recommendation failing or weakness for the Group. reviewed the content of this annual of the Committee. report and accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, taken as a whole, Internal audit it is fair, balanced and understandable Nick Bray Assurance over the design and operation and provides the information necessary Chairman of the Audit Committee of internal controls across the Group for shareholders to assess the Group’s 23 May 2017 is provided through a combination of position and performance, business techniques. The Board, through the Audit model and strategy. Committee, monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems through reports received from the internal audit function during the period. The internal audit function has been outsourced since 2009. PwC LLP have performed this role since the start of 2013/14. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 69 The Committee comprises all Executive Strategic report Risk Committee Directors of the Board, the rest of the Executive Leadership Team members including Customer and Commercial Officer, Chief Technology Officer and The Board has delegated to the Group Director of Human Resources, Risk Committee the responsibility for and Group Director of Audit, Risk and Assurance, as well as Group Director identifying, evaluating and monitoring Corporate governance of Security. The Committee meets and the risks facing the Group and for reports to the Board at least twice a year. deciding how these are managed. Any Director may attend meetings and the Board may direct other members to join. The Directors acknowledge that they Edward Peppiatt have overall responsibility for the Group’s Accounts Chairman of the Risk Committee system of internal control for managing risks associated with the business and markets within which the Company Dear Shareholder operates. Further details relating to how On behalf of the Risk Committee, I am pleased to present the 2017 Risk the Directors maintain overall control of Committee report. This report sets out its composition, role and activities significant strategic, financial, operational in the period ended 25 March 2017. and compliance issues is set out in the risk and risk management report on pages 32 to 36. Composition of the Committee In addition, the Board has delegated to Date of appointment Members’ attendance Member to Committee 2016/17 the Risk Committee the responsibility for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the Edward Peppiatt (Chairman) 20 October 2009 2(2) risks facing the Group and for deciding Steve Brown 22 September 2015 2(2) how these are managed. Jo Easton 22 September 2014 2(2) At the period end, following review by the Richard Hird 22 September 2015 1(2) Audit Committee of internal controls and Rupert Middleton 20 March 2012 2(2) of the processes covering these controls, Selva Selvaratnam 22 September 2015 2(2) the Board evaluates the effectiveness Jitesh Sodha 10 August 2015 2(2) of the risk management procedures conducted by senior management. Martin Sutherland 13 October 2014 2(2) Martin Sutton 22 September 2015 2(2) The Committee is assisted by Group Committees, which deal with specific Note areas of risk, such as health, safety and Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. environment and security. Activities during the period The Committee met twice during the year. During the period, the Risk Committee considered reports on: • The principal risks of the Group (see • Outputs from executive and functional Edward Peppiatt the risk and risk management report risk workshops Chairman of the Risk Committee on pages 32 to 36) 23 May 2017 • Specific operational risks of concern • Risk appetite and the mitigations in place Principal responsibilities • Recommend the risk management • Review the Group’s ability to identify policy and strategy and manage new types of risks • Oversee development and • Promote a risk management culture maintenance of a Group-wide risk and control environment management framework for identifying • Review the effectiveness of the and managing risks Group’s non-financial internal control • Identify and review all major risks systems in the management and faced by the Group and ensure that reporting of risks appropriate controls are in place to manage those risks 70 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Accountability continued Ethics Committee Principal responsibilities The main responsibilities of the Ethics Committee are to: The Committee is responsible, on • Assist the Board in fulfilling its the Board’s behalf, for reviewing oversight responsibilities in respect compliance with the Group’s Code of of ethical matters Business Principles. The Committee • Ensure that De La Rue conducts considers ethical matters and makes business with integrity and honesty and in accordance with relevant recommendations to the Board on legislation and regulations how they should be addressed and reinforces the Group’s commitment • Advise the Board on the development of strategy and policy Philip Rogerson to ensuring business ethics are on ethical matters Chairman of the Ethics Committee a fundamental and enduring part of the Group’s culture. • Advise the Board on steps to be taken to embed a culture of integrity and honesty in all of the Group’s business dealings • Oversee the development and Dear Shareholder adoption of Group policies and I am pleased to present the 2017 Ethics Committee report. procedures for the identification, assessment, management and reporting of ethical risk Composition of the Committee The Committee comprises Philip Rogerson and all Non-executive Directors. • Oversee the investigation of any material irregularities of an ethical Date of appointment Directors’ attendance or non financial fraudulent nature Member to Committee 2016/17 and review subsequent findings Philip Rogerson (Chairman) 27 September 2012 2(2) and recommendations Nick Bray 21 July 2016 1(1) Sabri Challah 23 July 2015 2(2) Maria da Cunha 23 July 2015 2(2) Victoria Jarman (stood down from the Board 21 July 2016) 22 April 2010 1(1) Andrew Stevens 2 January 2013 2(2) Note Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. Activities during the period During the period to 25 March 2017 the Committee focused on the following activities: • Key updates and trends in • Reviewed the internal audit findings business ethics of the implementation of actions arising from the first BnEI audit and • Status of the restructuring of the of preparedness for re-accreditation management of the third party in 2017 partners (TPPs) programme • Review of the gift register for • CBP activity update Executive Directors • Review of incidents with • Evaluation and effectiveness review an ethical dimension Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 71 De La Rue’s ethical framework Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) Whistleblowing Strategic report The Group delivers high profile security De La Rue is one of the founding The Audit Committee reviews our print products and services to customers members of the Banknote Ethics whistleblowing policy and procedures across the world. It is essential that the Initiative (BnEI). BnEI sets out a rigorous each year. Ethical questions or concerns Group maintains the trust and confidence framework for promoting high ethical raised by employees or third parties of its customers, and everyone it deals standards in the industry and requires through the De La Rue CodeLine with both inside and outside the Group, members to commit to the Code of are investigated under the CBP and by demonstrating complete integrity Ethical Business Practice that was all findings and remedial actions are Corporate governance in the way the Group and its business developed in partnership with the reported in detail in periodic reports partners behave. Institute of Business Ethics. The initiative prepared for and reviewed by the was established to promote ethical Ethics Committee. The Group has clear core values business practice, with a focus on and principles which govern how all the prevention of corruption and on employees and business partners Result of all employee survey compliance with anti-trust law within the must behave. We believe that by banknote industry. Compliance with the We undertook an all employee survey committing to these values, supporting during the year and the belief that we Accounts code is rigorously tested through an audit the business objectives and adhering framework developed in conjunction with act honestly and ethically when doing to the expected behaviours, the culture GoodCorporation, recognised worldwide business achieved the highest scoring. of the business and the industry itself as a leading company in the field of will be strengthened and the business corporate responsibility assurance and will be well placed to deliver its Training business ethics. strategic objectives. The Committee attaches significant The audit focuses on anti-bribery and importance to regular, relevant and The Group’s ethical framework is corruption and anti-trust processes, focused training. Training during the supported by the standards, policies, procedures and controls. The findings period included: internal controls and communication of the triennial BnEI audit confirm that as highlighted on page 72. We are a De La Rue continues to perform strongly • Relaunch of the anti-bribery and signatory to the UN Global Compact or above GoodCorporation benchmarks. corruption (ABC) training which is initiative which aligns company strategies compulsory for all customer and and operations with universal principles supplier-facing new starters to on human rights, environment and Third party partners (TPPs) the Company anti-corruption. We also collaborate We recognise that it is not just our • Competition law training for all with the International Chamber of employees who could be exposed to new starters Commerce corporate responsibility ethics risks but also TPPs. Their conduct and anti‑corruption committee. remains one of our most significant risks • Online training modules for TPPs and and there is a continuing requirement for relevant employees Our ethics and TPPs to undergo our mandatory training • Security awareness training including compliance programme programme and to conduct business in guiding principles on ethical behaviour compliance with the standards set by for employees travelling overseas Code of Business Principles (CBP) the Company. We have controls in place The CBP was reviewed and relaunched in relation to remuneration of TPPs and in 2016 and our nine core principles are Philip Rogerson we monitor all payments to ensure that regularly reviewed to ensure that they Chairman of the Ethics Committee the remuneration structure does not continue to underpin the way in which 23 May 2017 incentivise unethical behaviour. we conduct ourselves and work on a daily basis. Due diligence is undertaken on all our TPPs before they are engaged and this If an employee is found to have acted process is reviewed on a regular basis. in breach of the CBP, the Group takes TPPs are given regular training to ensure appropriate action to address that they remain alert to potential risks. breach including disciplinary action and ultimately terminating employment in the most serious cases. Ethics Champions The Group’s network of Ethics Champions ensures that each site has Gifts and hospitality local support and representation for All employees are required to comply CBP matters and continues to play an with the gifts and hospitality policy integral part in ensuring that strong and the Committee receives a report De La Rue values are embedded on the gifts received or given by the across the business. We held the Ethics Executive Directors. Champions conference on 8 and 9 May 2017 providing refresher training for our Ethics Champions. 72 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance continued Accountability continued Code of Business Principles 9 Topics Bribery & Competition Gifts & HSE Employment Records and Personal Insider Conflicts corruption & antitrust hospitality principles reports information trading of interest Backed up by policies • ABC • Competition • Gifts and • Health • Equal • Group • Data • Share • Conflicts • Gifts and and entertainment and safety opportunities finance protection dealing, of interest entertainment antitrust • Expenses • Environment • Antimanual market • Gifts and • Charitable • ABC • Fire safety harassment abuse and entertainment giving • Conflict • Diversity insider of interests trading Supported by processes • TPP • Legal • Gift register • Monthly • Grievance • Compliance • Data • Procedure • Gifts • Gift register Department • Expenses reporting procedure declarations protection for dealing register • Expenses guidelines vetting • Global HSE • Disciplinary • External officer with inside vetting standards process monitoring • Annual data information • ISO • Separation protection • Dealing management of duties returns approvals systems Underpinned by oversight, controls and communication Specialist audits Benchmarking CodeLine Employee surveys Ethics Committee External audit Internal audits Training/induction Risk reviews SharePoint BnEI accreditation ICC CR & Anti-Corruption Committee UN Global Compact Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 73 Relations with shareholders Building and managing long term On the day of the announcement of Strategic report relationships based on mutual trust the full year and half year results, the Shareholders by location is vital to our strategy for corporate Company’s largest shareholders, together governance. The Board recognises with financial analysts, are invited to a its responsibility for ensuring that presentation with a question and answer a satisfactory dialogue takes place session by the Chief Executive Officer with shareholders. It maintains an and Chief Financial Officer, with webcast active programme of engagement presentations of the results available for Corporate governance with investors through the Investor all shareholders and potential investors Relations function. The aim is to on the Company’s website. In September develop shareholders’ understanding 2016, the Company hosted an investor of the Company’s strategy, operations day at its Debden manufacturing site, and performance and to provide the which included a presentation from the Board with awareness of the views of Executive Leadership Team and a tour significant shareholders. of the operation. % UK 65 Accounts The Chief Executive Officer and Chief During 2016, the Chairman of the Financial Officer hold regular meetings Remuneration Committee consulted with North America and Canada 21 and calls with institutional shareholders our largest shareholders and main proxy Rest of Europe 6 and potential investors and report to the institutional bodies in the UK as part of Rest of world 8 Board the views of major shareholders. the review of the directors’ remuneration Analysts’ and brokers’ reports are also policy. In response to their feedback, presented to the Board on an ad hoc we have enhanced our annual bonus basis. The key topics discussed in the performance targets disclosure as Shareholder concentration meetings and calls include: reported in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 92. • Financial performance The Board encourages shareholder • Long term strategy engagement and feedback. • Response to changing The Chairman, the Senior Independent market conditions Director, and the Chairs of Board Committees are available to meet • Operational issues key shareholders upon request to • Capital allocation discuss strategy, governance and other matters. All shareholders have access to the members of the Board at the Company’s AGM. % Top 1 to 5 34 Top 6 to 10 16 Top 11 to 20 19 Top 21 to 60 18 The remainder 13 Investor and shareholder engagement calendar 2016/17 APR MAY JUL SEP NOV April May July September November • Trading update • Full year results • AGM • Investor day • Half year results analyst presentation and site visit analyst presentation • Post results • Post-results roadshow roadshow • Consultation with major shareholders on remuneration policy 74 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Principal responsibilities Remuneration Committee • Recommendations to the Board on Group policy regarding executive remuneration • Determination of the specific We believe our remuneration policy remuneration packages of the is designed to deliver both annual Chairman, Executive Directors performance as well as the longer term and senior executives who report transformation of De La Rue. to the Chief Executive Officer • Determination of the design, conditions and coverage of annual and long term incentive plans for senior executives and approval of total and individual awards under Sabri Challah the plans Chairman of the Remuneration Committee • Determination of targets for any performance related pay plans Composition of the Committee • Determination of the issue and The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-executive Directors, terms of all share based plans all of whom are regarded as independent, and the Chairman of the Board, who available to all employees was regarded as independent on his appointment as Chairman. In the year to • Oversight of any major changes 25 March 2017, Victoria Jarman stepped down on 21 July 2016 and Nick Bray in remuneration joined the Committee on the same date. Date of appointment Directors’ attendance Member to Committee 2016/17 Dear Shareholder Sabri Challah (Chairman) 23 July 2015 5(5) As Chairman of the Remuneration Philip Rogerson 26 July 2012 5(5) Committee, I am pleased to present Nick Bray 21 July 2016 2(3) the report on the work of the Committee during the period to 25 March 2017. Maria da Cunha 23 July 2015 5(5) Victoria Jarman (stepped down We believe our remuneration policy from the Board on 21 July 2016) 22 April 2010 0(2) is critical to delivering both planned Andrew Stevens 2 January 2013 4(5) performance each year and the longer term transformation of De La Rue, Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended. according to the strategy published in 2015 for the five years to 2020. Activities during the period With a five year strategic plan to The Committee follows a cycle of activities during the year and in 2016/17 this transform De La Rue from a banknote covered amongst other things the following matters: and passport manufacturer to a technology-led security product and • Review of the directors’ remuneration • Determination of service provider, our reward model policy and conducted a consultation retention arrangements supports the achievement of the specific with major shareholders and for key senior executives short and long term objectives set out institutional bodies in that plan, and reinforces the desired • Review and approval of the directors’ • Approval of the Executive Leadership remuneration report behaviours and culture that will sustain Team group and individual objectives the success of De La Rue. • Awards under the UK Sharesave for the year We aim to ensure that executive employee share scheme • Review of performance targets against remuneration is fair and competitive • Review of the report on gender pay so that the Group can attract, motivate short and long term incentive plans gap and action plan and retain the highly talented people • Approval of pay awards for Executive required to deliver the operational and • An effectiveness review Directors and the Executive strategic transformation of the business of the Committee Leadership Team that we have committed to. Above all, the Committee’s objective is to ensure that our directors’ remuneration policy incentivises and rewards delivery of sustainable shareholder value. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 75 Committee meetings and, accordingly, we are not proposing appointment as an Executive Director Strategic report The Committee met five times during fundamental changes. But we have and prior to the recruitment of Martin the period and details of attendance recognised how our approach to executive Sutherland and Jitesh Sodha as Chief can be found on page 74. The Chief reward can be strengthened to give Executive Officer and Chief Financial Executive Officer and the Group Director shareholders additional comfort about Officer respectively. of Human Resources also attended both the levels of reward as well as the meetings. The General Counsel and commitment to long term creation of value. ABP and PSP awards 2016 Company Secretary, who is also Accordingly, from this year we have The Remuneration Committee made Corporate governance secretary to the Committee, advised greatly enhanced the level of disclosure awards under the ABP and PSP in 2016 on governance issues. associated with variable pay, proposed and details of award levels and the No Executive Director or employee changes to holding arrangements performance conditions are on pages is present or takes part in discussions for long term incentives and further 86 to 88. in respect of matters relating directly developed the conditions for malus and to their own remuneration. clawback, which already conformed to best practice. We will continue to keep 2017 salary review Accounts all aspects of our reward policy under The Committee has reviewed the salary Structure of directors’ review and be prepared to respond levels of the Executive Directors and the remuneration report to changing circumstances. Chairman’s fee. Details are provided on This report is presented in three main page 85. Increases are in line with those sections: an annual statement from made to other employees. All salary Outcomes 2016/17 increases are deferred until 1 July 2017. the Chairman of the Committee; the directors’ remuneration policy to be Annual Bonus Plan (ABP) I would like to thank shareholders approved by shareholders at the The maximum opportunity for Executive who contributed to the Committee’s 2017 AGM; and the annual report Directors under the ABP is 135% of discussions during the year. on remuneration for 2016/17. salary for the Chief Executive Officer, 115% for the Chief Financial Officer I present our directors’ remuneration In accordance with the regulations, we and 100% of salary for the Chief policy which will be subject to a binding will be asking shareholders to vote on Operating Officer. For 2016/17, the bonus vote at the 2017 AGM and the annual two separate remuneration resolutions opportunity was based on an element report on remuneration which is subject as follows: of personal objectives and financial to an advisory vote. We recommend that • The binding triennial vote on the measures including: all shareholders support the resolutions. proposed directors’ remuneration • Group revenue policy which will, subject to Sabri Challah shareholder approval, become formally • Group underlying operating profit Chairman of the effective as at the date of the 2017 Remuneration Committee • Group cash conversion AGM (and is set out on pages 76 to 83) 23 May 2017 No payment is made on any element of • An advisory vote on the annual report bonus (including the personal element) on remuneration as set out on pages if a minimum operating profit threshold is 84 to 92 which provides details of the not achieved. Full details are on page 86. remuneration earned by Directors for performance in the period to 25 March In light of the above structure and ABP 2017 and how the current and existing measures, I report that the ABP payout policy will apply until the new policy against the financial measures outlined is approved above will be 21.5% of a maximum of 80% of entitlement. 2017 review of remuneration policy Detailed disclosure of the targets and and shareholder consultation performance against these measures This year the Committee, with support are contained on page 86. from our independent remuneration consultants, has undertaken a fundamental Performance Share Plan (PSP) review of our remuneration policy. We have benchmarked our approach against the Awards under the PSP in 2014/15 had market, examined the latest guidance from three year performance criteria based government and the proxy institutions on earnings per share (EPS) and return and consulted shareholders. Above all, on capital employed (ROCE). Seventy five we have tested our model against what per cent of the award was based on we have committed to achieve both EPS average compound growth above strategically and for shareholders. We have 5%, and 25% on ROCE above 40%. considered and debated a broad range Performance tests against both criteria of options for the redesign of the policy. were not achieved and therefore the Based on this comprehensive review, award lapsed. Rupert Middleton, Chief it is our conclusion and conviction that Operating Officer was the only current the basic structure of our existing policy Executive Director recipient of this on executive remuneration remains well‑ award. The award was made to Rupert suited to this phase of our transformation Middleton in June 2014 prior to his 76 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Directors’ remuneration policy Introduction This section of the report contains details of the Directors’ remuneration policy that will govern the Company’s future remuneration payments. The Remuneration Committee has established the policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman. The Board has established the policy on the remuneration of the other Non-executive Directors. Awards and benefits granted under the previous Directors’ remuneration policy will be honoured. Proposed remuneration policy The Group’s remuneration policy aims to align the interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives with those of shareholders. The policy will take effect from 20 July 2017, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM. The remuneration policy is designed to ensure execution of the Group’s strategy and to align with the interests of shareholders. As indicated in the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, we are not proposing fundamental changes to our existing remuneration policy. The table below summarises how the proposed policy compares with the current policy. The page reference for the full detail within the proposed policy is also provided. Summary of key features of current policy Summary of key features of proposed policy Current disclosure Proposed disclosure Retrospective Disclosure of measures and weightings shown Enhanced disclosure relating to the annual bonus will include a comprehensive Annual Bonus as a percentage. data set with clearly articulated measures, weightings, range (threshold, target, Plan disclosures maximum) and actual performance against financial and personal measures. See page 86. Current wording Proposed wording Share retention Executive Directors are encouraged to build up Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to one a shareholding over five years of one times salary. times salary. It is intended that this is met by Executive Directors retaining 100% of vested post-tax shares. See page 80. Malus and ABP ABP and PSP awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions. clawback The Remuneration Committee has the right to reduce any deferred bonus awards which have Clawback: provisions will apply for three years following payment of cash not yet vested to the extent that there has been bonus (malus already applies to the deferred share element for a three year a material misrepresentation in relation to the period). Awards may be clawed back in the following circumstances: material performance of the Group. financial misstatement of results, gross misconduct or similar acts by the Executive Directors that could bring the business into disrepute and/or cause PSP reputational damage. The Remuneration Committee has the right to claw back any PSP awards within three years Malus: provisions will apply to outstanding deferred share awards allowing of an award vesting to the extent that there has the Committee to reduce the level of vesting in the event of: material financial been misconduct, or a material misrepresentation misstatement of results, gross misconduct or similar acts by the Executive in relation to the performance of the Company. Directors that could bring the business into disrepute and/or cause reputational damage. See pages 78 to 79. Remuneration The Remuneration Committee maintains the The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to adjust or set different Committee ability to adjust or set different performance performance measures for both short and long term plans if events occur discretion measures if events occur or circumstances arise or circumstances arise in which performance conditions have ceased to be which cause the Committee to determine that appropriate. These events include substantial changes in business structure the performance conditions have ceased to be or strategy, acquisition or divestment. The Committee may also make appropriate. If varied or replaced, the amended discretionary adjustments, up and down, to the formulaic outcome of short performance conditions must, in the opinion and long term plans if there is misalignment with the Group’s strategic goals of the Committee, be fair, reasonable and or shareholder interests. This discretion will be applied in exceptional cases materially no more or less difficult than the original only and disclosed. See page 80. conditions when set and these will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration. The overriding objective is to ensure that the executive remuneration policy encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder value. The Remuneration Committee believes that performance related pay and incentives should account for a significant proportion of the overall remuneration package of Executive Directors so that their reward is aligned with shareholder interests and the Group’s performance, without encouraging excessive risk-taking. Performance related elements of remuneration therefore form a significant proportion of the total remuneration packages. This is illustrated on page 83. The Committee also has the discretion to take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 77 Policy table Strategic report The remuneration package for Executive Directors consists of fixed base salary, pension and other benefits and a significant proportion of variable pay including annual bonus and long term share based incentives. The following table summarises each element of the proposed remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and explains how each works and is linked to the corporate strategy. Base Salary Corporate governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential opportunity Performance metrics Fixed competitive remuneration Reviewed annually and fixed To avoid creating expectations Individual performance is the primary set at levels to recruit and for 12 months (but may be of Executive Directors and other consideration in setting salary alongside retain talent. Determination reviewed more frequently). employees, no maximum base overall Group performance, affordability informed, but not led, by salary has been set. Increases will and market competitiveness. Influenced by: reference to the market place not normally exceed the average of for companies of similar size • Role, experience, increases awarded within the rest Accounts and complexity. responsibilities of the Group in the UK. and performance Reflects individual skills, Larger increases may be awarded experience and responsibility • Change in broader in certain circumstances including, necessary to deliver workforce salary but not limited to: business strategy. • Group profitability and • Increases in scope or responsibility prevailing market conditions Rewards individual • Where market conditions indicate performance. • Salary levels across the a lack of competitiveness and risk Group generally to attracting or retaining executives • Eliminating the gender Where the Remuneration Committee pay gap. exercises its discretion to award Increases are not automatic. increases above the average for other employees, a full explanation will be provided in the next annual report on remuneration. Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential opportunity Performance metrics Market competitive benefits Provision of car allowance, life While the Remuneration Committee Not applicable. sufficient to recruit and assurance and private medical has not set an absolute maximum, retain the talent necessary scheme. Executive Directors benefits will be market competitive to develop and execute are also provided with taking into account role and individual the business strategy. permanent health insurance. circumstances. Executive Directors can also participate in the annual leave flexibility scheme. Other benefits may be provided on an individual basis such as, but not limited to, relocation allowances including transactional and legal costs, disturbance and travel and subsistence costs. 78 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Directors’ remuneration policy continued Pension Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential opportunity Performance metrics To provide market Executive Directors are offered The contribution rates for Not applicable. competitive pensions membership of a defined the Executive Directors are sufficient to recruit and contribution pension plan. 30% of base salary for the retain executives. The contribution rates offered are Chief Executive Officer and reflective of market practice and 20% of base salary for the based on base salary only. Chief Financial Officer. If contributions to the plan would The Executive Directors cause an Executive Director may choose to receive a to exceed the HM Revenue cash allowance in lieu of and Customs (HMRC) annual contributions. The allowance allowance or lifetime allowance is equal to the pension limits, a cash allowance in lieu contribution that would of pension contribution will otherwise have been paid be offered. less the Company’s national insurance contribution to ensure cost neutrality. Annual Bonus Plan (ABP) Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential opportunity Performance metrics To incentivise and reward The Remuneration Committee The current annual maximum The bonus payout level is determined by delivery of financial and sets Group financial targets and bonus opportunity of 135% of achievement of Group financial performance personal performance agrees personal objectives for salary for the Chief Executive measures with an element based on targets that address the each Executive Director at the start Officer and 115% of salary personal objectives. The metrics, while distinct commercial and of each year. Reference is made for the Chief Financial Officer stretching, do not encourage inappropriate strategic needs of the to the prior year and to budgets linked to business performance risks to be taken. business, and align with and business plans while ensuring will continue to apply. The Remuneration Committee will maintain shareholder interests. the levels set are appropriately The Remuneration Committee discretion to consider the financial underpin challenging but do not encourage To ensure a consistent and has the discretion to increase in respect of awards under the ABP. Financial excessive risk-taking. stable reward structure the overall maximum bonus targets and weightings will be disclosed throughout the management Payments are determined by the level to 150% of salary, subject in the annual report on remuneration. group that will remain fit Remuneration Committee after to this not being above the for purpose. the year end. The bonus plan is competitive market range. non‑contractual and may be offered To support a pay for on a year by year basis. performance philosophy. Sixty per cent of annual bonus is To help attract and retain top payable immediately in cash. Forty talent and be cost effective. per cent of annual bonus is payable Executive Directors are in deferred shares and released required to hold a level in tranches, subject to continued of shareholding of 100% employment (with early release in of salary as described certain circumstances). There are on page 80. no further performance conditions. Compulsory deferral of Fifty per cent of deferred shares are shares supports alignment released one year after cash payout with shareholder interests and the remaining 50% two years and also provides a after cash payout. retention element. The Remuneration Committee may increase the number of shares subject to a deferred share award to reflect dividends that would have been paid over the deferral period on shares that vest. The deferred share element will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration. The cash and deferred share element are subject to malus and clawback provisions to allow the Company to recoup three years from award in the event of material financial misstatement of results or gross misconduct and other acts or omissions that could bring the business into disrepute and or cause reputational damage. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 79 Strategic report Performance Share Plan (PSP) Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential opportunity Performance metrics A share based long term Annual share award with a three The maximum number of Awards will vest subject to the achievement incentive is aligned closely year performance period and shares which may be subject of Group performance over a period of with business strategy and performance metrics which, while to an award granted to eligible three years against key metrics set by the interests of shareholders challenging, will not encourage employees in any financial Remuneration Committee which are aligned through the performance excessive risk-taking. year shall be an amount to commercial business needs and strategy. Corporate governance measures chosen. equal to such percentage, Sixty per cent of the award vests For proposed awards in 2017/18, the vesting not exceeding 100% of salary To increase the time over after three years provided Group of PSP awards will be subject to EPS as at the award date, as which rewards are earned to performance (two metrics) criteria and return on capital employed (ROCE) may be determined by the four years and support a pay are met and the balance will vest performance conditions. Remuneration Committee. for performance philosophy. after a further one year subject to The Committee retains The Remuneration Committee must be continued employment. To retain key executives over discretion in exceptional satisfied that vesting reflects the underlying a longer term measurement The Remuneration Committee circumstances to grant awards performance of the Group and retains the Accounts period. Executive Directors may add dividend shares accrued with a face value of up to 150% flexibility to adjust the vesting amount to are encouraged to hold only on vested shares during of salary. ensure it remains appropriate to the business a level of shareholding the performance and extended performance achieved. as described on page 80. vesting period. The Remuneration Committee regularly To ensure a consistent and Vesting of awards is subject to reviews the performance conditions and stable reward structure continued employment until the targets to ensure they continue to be aligned throughout the management vesting date but, as described on with the Group’s business objectives and group that will remain fit page 81, PSP awards may also vest strategy and retains the discretion to change for purpose. early in ‘good leaver’ circumstances. the measures and their respective weightings Awards under the PSP will vest early to ensure continuing alignment with such To attract and retain top on a change of control (or other objectives and strategy. talent and continue to be similar event) subject to satisfaction cost-effective. The Remuneration Committee maintains the of the performance conditions and, ability to adjust or set different performance To ensure overall unless the Remuneration Committee measures if events occur or circumstances cost‑efficiency. determines otherwise, pro‑rating arise which cause the Committee to for time. To ensure any payout determine that the performance conditions is supported by sound The Remuneration Committee have ceased to be appropriate. If varied profitability by link to has the right to clawback any PSP or replaced, the amended performance EPS growth. awards within three years of an conditions must, in the opinion of the award vesting to the extent there has Committee, be fair, reasonable and To support the strategic been material financial misstatement materially no more or less difficult than focus on growth and margins of results, gross misconduct or any the original condition when set and these by the link to ROCE. act or omission that could bring will be disclosed in the annual report the business into disrepute and on remuneration. or cause reputational damage. Malus provision also applies. All employee share plans Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential opportunity Performance metrics To encourage employees Executive Directors may participate The maximum savings amount No performance measures but employment including the Executive in the Sharesave scheme on the currently offered is £500 per conditions apply. Directors to build a same terms as other employees. month over a three or five year shareholding through the period under the Company’s Under the UK Sharesave scheme, operation of all employee Sharesave scheme. The rules the option price may be discounted share plans such as the of the scheme provide for by up to 20%. Accumulated savings HMRC approved De La Rue savings up to the legislative through payroll may be used to Sharesave scheme in the UK. limit of £500 per month. exercise an option to acquire shares. Under the Employee Share Purchase Plan, employees in the US may be offered the opportunity to purchase the Company’s shares at a 15% discount to the market price. Any purchases are funded through accumulated payroll deductions. Shareholders approved the Rules of Sharesave and the ESPP at the 2012 AGM. 80 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Directors’ remuneration policy continued Shareholding requirement for Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee believes that it is important that the interests of Executive Directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders. The Committee has adopted a policy that Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to one times salary. It is intended that this is met by Executive Directors retaining 100% of vested post-tax deferred bonus shares, restricted shares and performance shares until the requirement is met in full. Pay policy for other employees When determining the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group. In particular, the Committee is kept informed of: • Salary increases for the general employee population • Overall spend on annual bonus • Participation levels in the ABP The remuneration policy applied to the Executive Leadership Team and the most senior executives in the Group is similar to the policy for the Executive Directors in that a significant element of remuneration is dependent on Group and individual performance. The key principles of the remuneration are applied consistently across the Group below this level, taking account of seniority and local market practice. The Group aims to offer competitive levels of remuneration, benefits and incentives to attract and retain employees. The Remuneration Committee consults with the Chief Executive Officer on the remuneration of executives directly reporting to him and other senior executives and seeks to ensure a consistent approach across the Group taking account of seniority and market practice and the key remuneration policies outlined above. On authority of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer has discretion to make awards to a limited number of employees not being Executive Directors or Executive Leadership Team members. All UK employees may join the Company’s HMRC approved Sharesave scheme. Options are granted over De La Rue plc shares, at an exercise price, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, of a maximum of 80% of the prevailing market share price at the time of grant. Eligible US employees may participate in the ESPP. The purchase price is 85% of the lower of the market value of a De La Rue plc share either at the beginning or end of the offering period. Offerings under the Sharesave and the ESPP are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee considered that it would be impractical to consult with employees when drawing up the remuneration policy. Remuneration Committee discretion The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to adjust or set different performance measures for both short and long term plans if events occur or circumstances arise in which performance conditions have ceased to be appropriate. These events include substantial changes in business structure or strategy, acquisition or divestment. The Committee may also make discretionary adjustments, up and down, to the formulaic outcome of short and long term plans if there is misalignment with the Group’s strategic goals or shareholder interests. This discretion will be applied in exceptional cases only and disclosed. Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders to discuss and take feedback on its remuneration policy and governance matters. During the last year the Committee has consulted with De La Rue’s largest UK shareholders and the main UK institutional investor bodies on the proposals for the new directors’ remuneration policy subject to a binding vote at the AGM on 20 July 2017. The Committee welcomes an open dialogue with shareholders and intends to continue to consult with major shareholders before implementing any significant change to the directors’ remuneration policy. Service contracts The Board’s policy for current and new Executive Directors is that service contracts are one year rolling contracts with a notice period that should not exceed one year. The Remuneration Committee recognises that in the case of appointments to the Board from outside the Group, it may be necessary to offer a longer initial notice period, which would subsequently reduce to 12 months after that initial period. Non-executive Directors Philip Rogerson, Chairman, was initially appointed as a Non-executive Director and Chairman designate on 1 March 2012. All Directors offer themselves for annual re-election at each AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. Service contracts for Executive Directors and letters of appointment for Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office address of the Company. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 81 Payment for loss of office Strategic report In determining compensation for early termination of a service contract, the Remuneration Committee carefully considers the specific circumstances, the Company’s commitments under the individual’s contract and the individual’s obligation to mitigate loss. The table below outlines the framework for contracts for Executive Directors. Should additional compensation matters arise, such as a settlement or compromise agreement, the Remuneration Committee will exercise judgement and will take into account the specific commercial circumstances. Corporate governance Policy Notice period 12 calendar months. The Remuneration Committee recognises that in the case of appointment to the on termination Board from outside the Group, it may be necessary to offer a longer initial notice period, which would by the Company subsequently reduce to 12 months. Termination payment On termination by either the Company or the relevant Executive Director, the Company retains the Accounts at the Company’s discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice not exceeding 12 months’ basic salary, excluding sole discretion bonus but including benefits in kind (including company car or car allowance and private health insurance) and pension contributions (which may include salary supplement). Benefits provided in connection with termination payments may also include, but are not limited to, outplacement and legal fees. Change of control Under the ABP, share awards will vest in full on change of control. Awards under the PSP will vest early on a change of control (or other similar event) subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating for time. Vesting of incentives The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts taking into for leavers consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves. Typically for ‘good leavers’, bonus amounts (as estimated by the Remuneration Committee) will be pro-rated for time in service to termination and will be subject to performance, paid at the usual time. The vesting of share awards is governed by the rules of the appropriate incentive plan approved by shareholders. Typically for ‘good leavers’: • Under the ABP, the provisions allow awards to vest in full at the normal vesting date or earlier at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee • Under the PSP, awards pro-rated (unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise) to the date of departure, will vest at the normal vesting date if the relevant performance targets have been met. The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to test the performance targets early and accelerate vesting • Good leavers under the Sharesave scheme, which is HMRC approved, are entitled to exercise options, pro-rated to the savings made • If awards are made on recruitment the treatment on leaving would be determined at the time at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion in accordance with the relevant plan rules Pension benefits These will be paid in accordance with the rules of the pension scheme. Where an early retirement pension is paid from a legacy UK defined benefit arrangement, a reduction will be made to the pension to reflect early receipt using factors determined and set by the Trustees from time to time. 82 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Directors’ remuneration policy continued Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors Element Operation by the Company Chairman fees The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Remuneration Committee. Fees are set at a level which reflects the skills, knowledge and experience of the individual, while taking into account market data. Non-executive Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for fixed terms of three Director fees years renewable for a further three years. Terms beyond this period are considered on a case by case basis. The Board (excluding Non-executive Directors) is responsible for setting Non-executive Directors’ fees. Fees are structured as a basic fee for Board and Committee membership. Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director receive an additional fee. Reasonable expenses for attending Board meetings are reimbursed by the Company and the Group may pay any tax due on such benefits. Total fees paid to Non-executive Directors will remain within the limit set out in the Company’s articles of association of £750,000 per annum. Non-executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the Group’s annual incentive arrangements, or share option schemes. No compensation is payable to the Chairman or to any Non-executive Director if the appointment is terminated. Remuneration policy for new appointments When considering the appointment of Executive Directors, the Committee balances the need to attract candidates of sufficient calibre while remaining mindful of the need to pay no more than necessary. The Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above remuneration policy. Base salary may be set at a higher or lower level than previous incumbents. Where possible, salary may be set at an initially lower level with the intention of increasing it over the following two years dependent on performance in the role and experience gained. In certain circumstances, to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of the required calibre, incentive arrangements and awards may also be higher. The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to make payments or awards which are outside the policy to facilitate the recruitment of candidates of the appropriate calibre to implement the Group’s strategy. In addition, remuneration forfeited on resignation from a previous employer may be compensated. The form of this compensation would be considered on a case by case basis and may comprise either cash or shares. Generally (though not necessarily in all circumstances) the Committee will favour share awards with appropriately stretching performance targets attached and, at a minimum, expects that: • If forfeited remuneration was in the form of shares, compensation will be in the form of shares • If forfeited remuneration was subject to achievement of performance conditions, compensation will be subject to no less challenging performance conditions • The timing of any compensation will, where practicable, match the vesting schedule of the remuneration forfeited A newly-appointed Executive Director may be provided with reasonable relocation support. Internal appointments will receive a remuneration package that is consistent with the remuneration policy. Legacy terms and conditions would be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards. Subject to the limit on additional maximum variable remuneration set out below, incentive awards may be granted within the first 12 months of appointment above the maximum award opportunities set out in the policy table above. Excluding payments or awards to compensate for remuneration forfeited on resignation from a previous employer, the maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded to a new Executive Director, above the maximum levels set out in the policy table above, is one times base salary. The Remuneration Committee will ensure that variable remuneration is linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance measures and will be forfeited if performance or continued employment conditions are not met. Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or Non-executive Director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time of appointment. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 83 Illustration of the application of remuneration policy Strategic report The following charts illustrate the potential value of the Executive Directors’ remuneration package in various scenarios in a typical year. Salary levels are as at 1 July 2017. Performance scenarios for the ABP and PSP assume the following: Minimum Target Maximum Corporate governance There is no cash bonus or deferred Target cash bonus and deferred Maximum cash bonus, maximum share award under the ABP or vesting shares under the ABP, target vesting deferred shares under the ABP, under the PSP. under PSP. maximum vesting under the PSP. CEO CFO Accounts (£’000) (£’000) 1,819 1,750 1,750 27% 1,500 1,500 1,250 1,250 1,121 15% 1,133 1,000 11% 1,000 29% 22% 12% 750 18% 750 694 668 14% 12% 500 100% 59% 36% 500 11% 20% 421 16% 250 250 100% 61% 37% 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum PSP Deferred Shares (bonus) Cash Bonus Salary and Benefits (fixed) PSP Deferred Shares (bonus) Cash Bonus Salary and Benefits (fixed) Assumptions for the scenario charts Minimum performance Target performance Maximum performance • Fixed pay (base salary, benefits • Fixed pay (base salary, benefits • Fixed pay (base salary, benefits and pension) and pension) and pension) • No bonus payout • 50% of maximum bonus • 100% of maximum bonus opportunity (67.5% of salary for opportunity (135% of salary for • No vesting under ABP or PSP CEO, 57.5% of salary for CFO) CEO, 115% of salary for CFO) • 60% will be payable immediately • 60% will be payable immediately in cash and 40% will be deferred in cash and 40% will be deferred in shares in shares • 25% of PSP shares vesting • 100% of PSP shares vesting (25% of salary for CEO and CFO) (100% of salary for CEO and CFO) Executive Director remuneration mix 2017/18 Based on the above performance scenarios the table below illustrates that a significant proportion of Executive Directors’ remuneration is biased towards variable pay at maximum: % of pay at minimum % of pay at target % of pay at maximum achieved achieved achieved CEO Fixed 100 59 36 Variable – 41 64 CFO Fixed 100 61 37 Variable – 39 63 The remuneration mix above is based on the remuneration policy as it was intended to be operated for 2017/18. 84 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration The directors’ remuneration policy for the period ended 25 March 2017 was consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014. This section of the directors’ remuneration report gives information on how the Remuneration Committee implemented the policy on directors’ remuneration and the incentive outturns for 2016/17. It details how the current remuneration policy is being applied until approval of the new policy. The current remuneration policy, as approved by shareholders in 2014, is available on our website. Single figure of remuneration for each Director (audited) The table below shows how we have applied the current remuneration policy during 2016/17. It discloses all the elements of remuneration received by the Directors during the period. Benefits Long term Salary and (excluding incentive Other fees a pensions) b Bonus c (PSP) (vested)d Pensions e paymentsf Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 Executive Directors Martin Sutherland 469 464 31 31 256 361 – – 132 136 11 6 899 998 Jitesh Sodha 320 206 24 15 151 119 – – 57 37 – – 552 377 Rupert Middleton 324 222 16 11 – 122 – – 61 41 – – 401 396 Colin Child (stood down from the Board with effect from 23 July 2015) – 119 – 8 – – – – – 30 – – – 157 1,113 1,011 71 65 407 602 – – 250 244 11 6 1,852 1,928 Chairman Philip Rogerson 189 185 – – – – – – – – – – 189 185 Non-executive Directors Nick Bray (appointed with effect from 21 July 2016) 40 – – – – – – – – – – – 40 – Sabri Challah 57 39 – – – – – – – – – – 57 39 Maria da Cunha 49 33 – – – – – – – – – – 49 33 Warren East (stepped down from the Board with effect from 23 July 2015) – 23 – – – – – – – – – – – 23 Victoria Jarman (stepped down from the Board with effect from 21 July 2016) 17 54 – – – – – – – – – – 17 54 Gill Rider (stepped down from the Board with effect from 23 July 2015) – 20 – – – – – – – – – – – 20 Andrew Stevens 57 54 – – – – – – – – – – 57 54 Aggregate emoluments 1,522 1,419 71 65 407 602 – – 250 244 11 6 2,261 2,336 Notes The figures in the single figure table above are derived from the following: a Base salary and fees: the actual salary and fees received during the period. The Executive Directors’ salaries are normally reviewed, but not necessarily increased, with effect from 1 July each year. i Martin Sutherland has a salary of £480,000 per annum effective 1 July 2016 and the salary shown above is to the period 25 March 2017. Martin Sutherland took advantage of the annual leave flexibility scheme and purchased an additional five days’ annual leave entitlement during the period at a cost of £9,129 which is reflected in the table above. ii Jitesh Sodha has a salary of £325,000 per annum effective 1 July 2016 and the salary shown above is to the period 25 March 2017. Jitesh Sodha took advantage of the annual leave flexibility scheme and purchased an additional two and a half days’ annual leave entitlement during the period at a cost of £3,408 which is reflected in the table above. iii Philip Rogerson’s Chairman’s fee is £190,250 effective from 1 July 2016 and the fee shown is the fee to the end of the financial period. b Benefits (excluding pensions): the gross value of all taxable benefits received in the period, including for example car or car allowance and private medical and permanent health insurance. c Bonus: bonus is the cash value of the bonus earned in respect of the period including the value of deferred shares which must be held for a minimum period as detailed on page 86. A description of the performance measures that applied for the year 2016/17 is provided on page 86. d There is no long term incentive vesting to Executive Directors for the period reported. e Pension allowance and contributions to defined contribution section. See page 89 for further details of pension arrangements. f Other payments relate to: 2017 – Martin Sutherland: dividend equivalent payments made under the CEO Share Award at the point of vesting. See page 90 for further details. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 85 Individual elements of remuneration Strategic report Base salary and fees (audited) Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee and are set with reference to individual performance, experience and responsibilities, Group performance, affordability and market competitiveness. An annual salary review was carried out by the Remuneration Committee on 27 April 2017. Following that review the Committee agreed an increase in salary for Martin Sutherland and Jitesh Sodha for 2017/18 payable from 1 July 2017 as follows: Base salary Base salary Corporate governance 2017 2016 Increase £’000 £’000 % Martin Sutherland 490 480 2.08 Jitesh Sodha 331 325 1.85 Rupert Middleton1 325 325 – 1 Rupert Middleton will stand down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 20 July 2017 and he will not receive a salary increase for 2017/18. Accounts The current directors’ remuneration policy, approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, is that increases in salary for Executive Directors will not normally exceed the range of increases awarded to other employees in the Group except in the specific circumstances listed in the binding policy. This policy is maintained in the new directors’ remuneration policy being put to shareholders at this year’s AGM. The remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, is determined by the Board. Fees reflect the responsibilities and duties of Non-executive Directors while also having regard to the market place. The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s share incentive plans nor do they receive any benefits or pension contributions. The Chairmen of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee and the Senior Independent Director received a further fee of £8,000 to reflect their additional duties in 2016/17. Basic fees payable to Non-executive Directors were increased by 2% for 2017/18 effective from 1 July 2017, with no change in the additional fee for chairing Board Committees. The fees are as follows: 2017 2016 Non-executive Director fees £’000 £’000 Basic fee 50 49 Additional fee for chairmanship of Audit and Remuneration Committees and Senior Independent Director 8 8 The Chairman will receive a fee of £194,000 with effect from 1 July 2017. 86 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Performance against targets (audited) Annual bonus The annual bonus is delivered under the Annual Bonus Plan (ABP). ABP performance measures 2016/17 The ABP was operated on similar terms with respect to structure, financial measures and weightings as in 2015/16. The bonus opportunity was based on an element of personal objectives (20%) and a number of financial performance metrics apportioned as follows: • Group revenue (20%) • Group adjusted operating profit (40%) • Group cash conversion (20%) No payments will be made on any element of bonus (including the personal element) if a minimum operating profit threshold is not achieved. In addition, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to consider other factors, such as ethical behaviours, corporate responsibility, environment and health and safety matters as it sees fit when determining awards. Annual bonus payments to Executive Directors have the following restrictions: 60% of the bonus opportunity is payable in cash with the remaining 40% deferred in shares. Half of the deferred shares will vest one year after the cash payout and the remaining half of the deferred shares will vest two years after the cash payout. There was no change to the maximum bonus opportunities for Executive Directors as described in the directors’ remuneration policy table on page 78. Disclosure of 2016/17 bonus targets The Remuneration Committee has agreed to adopt an approach of full retrospective disclosure of bonus targets in response to comments from investors during the policy review process. The following table provides detail on the bonus target measures. % of maximum Measure Threshold Target Max Actual achieved Group revenue £480m £500m £520m £462m 0 Group adjusted operating profit £66.4m £70.4m £74.4m £70.7m 21.5 Group cash conversion 140% 150% 160% 114% 0 Twenty per cent of the Executive Directors’ bonus is based on achievement of personal objectives. Personal objectives are based on Group objectives comprising both tactical and transformational targets focused on the achievement of core strategic priorities and encompassing improved efficiency, strengthened financial performance, product innovation and culture change. In addition, each Executive Leadership Team member has personal objectives relating to their own area of functional responsibility. Following a review of achievement against the personal objectives for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee concluded that: • Martin Sutherland should receive a payment of 18% of maximum opportunity • Jitesh Sodha should receive a payment of 19% of maximum opportunity • Rupert Middleton will not be eligible for a payment for 2016/17 The 2016/17 cash bonus and deferred share element is detailed in the table below: Total annual bonus shown in column (c) of total Cash payment Deferred into shares remuneration table on page 84 in respect of 2017 £’000 £’000 £’000 Martin Sutherland 154 102 256 Jitesh Sodha 91 60 151 Rupert Middleton – – – ABP 2017/18 The Remuneration Committee has determined that the bonus in respect of 2017/18 will be operated on similar terms of structure, financial measures (Group revenue, Group adjusted operating profit, Group cash conversion) and weightings as in 2016/17. The performance measures are appropriately weighted and incentivise the Executive Directors to achieve the desired outcomes without undue risk of focusing on any one financial measure. No payments will be made on any element of bonus (including the personal element) if a minimum operating profit threshold is not achieved. There will be no change to the maximum bonus opportunities for Executive Directors. The specific performance points are not disclosed while still commercially sensitive, but are disclosed the following year. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 87 Long term incentive – Performance Share Plan (PSP) Strategic report The PSP is a share based long term incentive aligned closely with business strategy and interests of shareholders through the performance measures chosen. The PSP is designed to provide Executive Directors and selected senior managers with a long term incentive that promotes annual and long term performance and reinforces alignment between participants and shareholders. Performance measures applying to PSP Awards The awards made under the PSP were subject to a combination of compound average growth in underlying basic EPS and Corporate governance average return on capital employed (ROCE). EPS growth ensures any payout is supported by sound profitability. ROCE supports the strategic focus on growth and margins ensuring cash is reinvested to generate the appropriate returns. All awards are made as performance shares based on a percentage of salary and the value is divided by the average share price over a period before the date of grant in accordance with the rules of the PSP. In addition, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the vesting reflects the underlying performance of the Group and retains the flexibility to adjust the vesting amount to ensure it remains appropriate. Any adjustments will depend on the nature, timing and materiality of any contributory factors. Accounts A summary of the performance measures, weighting and award vesting levels that apply to awards under the PSP is shown in the table below: Vesting % of element Vesting %of element Growth % required Growth % required Year of Award Measure at threshold at maximum for threshold for maximum 2014 EPS1 25 100 5 10 ROCE 25 100 40 45 2015 EPS1 25 100 5 10 ROCE 25 100 26 32 2016 EPS1 25 100 5 10 ROCE2 25 100 30 36 2017 EPS1 25 100 5 10 ROCE 25 100 30 36 Notes 1 Underlying earnings per share. 2 The vesting levels under ROCE have been adjusted to take account of the impact of a discontinued operation held for sale as described in note 2 to the financial statements. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the performance measures which are appropriately weighted support the Group’s strategy and business objectives. EPS and ROCE remain the most appropriate long term incentive measures and provide a strong line of sight between strategy, business performance and executive reward. The Remuneration Committee believes that the performance necessary to achieve awards is sufficiently stretching. 88 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued PSP award vesting in 2017 Rupert Middleton is the only current serving Executive Director who was in receipt of this award in June 2014 prior to his appointment as an Executive Director. Awards under the PSP had three year performance criteria based on earnings per share (EPS) and return on capital employed (ROCE). Seventy five per cent of the award was based on underlying EPS average compound growth above 5% and 25% was based on ROCE of over 40%. The performance period for the 2014 PSP awards ended on 25 March 2017. Over the period: • The Group’s underlying EPS growth was -8% per annum over the three years from 2014. Since this was below the threshold growth of 5% per annum, shares will not vest under this performance measure • De La Rue’s average ROCE for the period was 39%. Since this was below the threshold of 40%, shares will not vest under this performance measure Performance tests against both criteria were not achieved and therefore the award lapsed. PSP awards made in June 2016 (audited) Executive Directors received PSP awards in line with the existing directors’ remuneration policy as follows: Number of Face value Vesting at threshold Performance shares awarded Date of award % of salary £’000 (as a % of maximum) period end date Martin Sutherland 90,813 27 June 2016 100 425 25 31 March 2019 Jitesh Sodha 61,438 27 June 2016 100 288 25 31 March 2019 Rupert Middleton 61,438 27 June 2016 100 288 25 31 March 2019 All awards are made as performance shares based on a percentage of salary and the value is divided by the average share price over a five day period prior to the date of award, being 520.85p for the award. Face value is the maximum number of shares that would vest multiplied by the share price (468.25p on 27 June 2016) at the date of grant. Performance measures applying to PSP awards to be made in 2017 The Remuneration Committee has given detailed consideration, following shareholder consultation during 2016, to the potential reintroduction of a relative TSR performance measure but concluded that the measures of EPS growth and ROCE are the most appropriate measures for De La Rue. Past experience has identified the difficulty in selecting a robust and relevant comparator group with simple reference to the broad FTSE 250 index not considered appropriate. At least 5% per annum growth in EPS must be achieved for threshold vesting of 25% under the EPS performance measure with maximum vesting at 10% per annum. A return of at least 30% must be achieved for threshold vesting of 25% under the ROCE performance measure with a maximum vesting of 100% at a return of 36%. For awards to be made in 2017 the performance targets and weightings remain unchanged. Executive Directors’ service contracts The table below summarises the notice periods contained in the Executive Directors’ service contracts. Date of contract Date of appointment Notice from Company Notice from Director Martin Sutherland 28 August 2014 13 October 2014 12 months 6 months Rupert Middleton 23 July 2015 23 July 2015 6 months 6 months Jitesh Sodha 24 June 2015 10 August 2015 6 months 6 months Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment The Chairman and Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment rather than service contracts. Current letter of Non-executive Director Date of appointment appointment end date Nick Bray 21 July 2016 20 July 2019 Sabri Challah 23 July 2015 22 July 2018 Maria da Cunha 23 July 2015 22 July 2018 Philip Rogerson 1 March 2012 28 February 2018 Andrew Stevens 2 January 2013 2 January 2019 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 89 Total pension entitlements (audited) Strategic report The Group’s UK pension schemes are funded, HMRC registered and approved schemes. They include both defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. None of the Executive Directors was a member of the legacy defined benefit schemes. All of the Executive Directors have opted out of the defined contribution plan and receive a cash allowance in lieu of a pension contribution. During the year Martin Sutherland received a cash allowance of 30% of his basic salary in lieu of a pension contribution and Jitesh Sodha and Rupert Middleton each received a cash allowance of 20% of basic salary in lieu of pension contributions. The cash Corporate governance allowances were reduced by the amount of the Company’s national insurance contribution to ensure cost neutrality with making the same contribution to the pension plan. Details of the payments made to the Executive Directors are included on page 84. Payments for loss of office (audited) There were no payments for loss of office during the period. Accounts Payments to past Directors (audited) There were no payments to past Directors during the period in respect of services provided to the Company as a Director. External directorships of Executive Directors The Board considers whether it is appropriate for an Executive Director to serve as a non-executive director of another company. Martin Sutherland was appointed a non-executive director of Forterra plc with effect from 23 May 2017 and his entitlement to a fee in respect of this appointment will be reported in the 2018 annual report. Share retention policy The Remuneration Committee believes it is important that the interests of Executive Directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders. Under the existing policy, Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over five years, equivalent to one times salary. This may be achieved either through market share purchases or retention of vested share awards. Under the new remuneration policy to be proposed at the 2017 AGM it is intended that this be met by the Executive Directors retaining 100% of vested post-tax deferred bonus shares, restricted shares and performance shares until the requirement is met in full. Directors’ interests in shares (audited) The Directors and their connected persons had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at 25 March 2017: Unvested awards Subject to performance conditions Not subject to performance conditions Vested shares Current shareholding Current SAYE (subject Vested shares ordinary shares shareholding as Performance Annual CEO Share to continued exercised during (held outright) % of salary Share Plan Bonus Plan Award employment) the period Executive Directors Martin Sutherland 40,819 54 176,488 28,063 – 4,443 20,7021,3 Jitesh Sodha 7,594 15 128,530 8,732 – 3,902 – Rupert Middleton 3,084 6 150,593 14,483 – – 1,5892,3 Non-executive Chairman Philip Rogerson 13,000 n/a – – – – – Non-executive Directors Nick Bray (appointed 21 July 2016) – n/a – – – – – Sabri Challah 3,400 n/a – – – – – Maria da Cunha 4,735 n/a – – – – – Andrew Stevens 2,327 n/a – – – – – There have been no changes in Directors’ outright interests in ordinary shares in the period 25 March 2017 to 23 May 2017. All interests of the Directors and their families are beneficial. The current shareholdings as a percentage of salary during the period are calculated using the closing De La Rue plc share price of 631.5p on 24 March 2017 (25 March 2017 being a Saturday). Notes 1 Includes a total of 2,341 dividend shares on vested CEO Share Award (2,206 shares) and vested award under Annual Bonus Plan (135 shares). 2 Includes a total of 133 dividend shares on vested award under Annual Bonus Plan. 3 All shares on exercise retained by Martin Sutherland and Rupert Middleton respectively after disposal to meet tax liabilities pursuant to the share retention policy. 90 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Directors’ interest in vested and unvested share awards (unaudited) The awards over De La Rue plc shares held by Executive Directors under the ABP, PSP, CEO Share Award and Sharesave scheme during the period are detailed below: Total award Awards Mid-market Market price as at Awarded Exercised Lapsed Awards vested share price at per share at Date of 26 March during during during held at 25 (unexercised) date of award exercise date Date of Expiry award 2016 year year year March 2017 during year (pence) (pence) vesting date Martin Sutherland CEO Share Award1 Nov 14 19,087 – 19,0872 – – – 474.603 625.50 Mar 174 Mar 17 Annual Bonus Plan1 Jun 15 1,615 – 1,6155 – – – 514.506 599.71 Jul 167 Jun 25 Jun 15 1,615 – – – 1,615 – 514.506 – Jul 17 Jun 25 Jun 16 – 13,224 – – 13,224 – 546.606 – Jul 17 Jun 26 Jun 16 – 13,224 – – 13,224 – 546.606 – Jul 18 Jun 26 Performance Jun 15 51,405 – – – 51,405 – 541.006 – Jun 18 Jun 25 Share Plan Jun 15 34,270 – – – 34,270 – 541.006 – Jun 19 Jun 25 Jun 16 – 54,488 – – 54,488 – 520.856 – Jun 19 Jun 26 Jun 16 – 36,325 – – 36,325 – 520.856 – Jun 20 Jun 26 107,992 117,261 20,702 – 204,551 – Sharesave options1 Jan 15 2,876 – – – 2,876 – 438.008 – Mar 18 Aug 18 Jan 16 1,567 – – – 1,567 – 344.408 – Mar 19 Aug 19 Jitesh Sodha Annual Bonus Plan1 Jun 16 – 4,366 – – 4,366 – 546.606 – Jul 17 Jun 26 Jun 16 – 4,366 – – 4,366 – 546.606 – Jul 18 Jun 26 Performance Sep 15 40,255 – – – 40,255 – 476.956 – Sep 18 Sep 25 Share Plan Sep 15 26,837 – – – 26,837 – 476.956 – Sep 19 Sep 25 Jun 16 – 36,863 – – 36,863 – 520.856 – Jun 19 Jun 26 Jun 16 – 24,575 – – 24,575 – 520.856 – Jun 20 Jun 26 67,092 70,170 – – 137,262 – Sharesave options1 Jan 16 2,613 – – – 2,613 – 344.408 – Mar 19 Aug 19 Jan 17 – 1,289 – – 1,289 – 441.068 – Mar 20 Aug 20 Rupert Middleton Annual Bonus Plan1 Jun 15 1,589 – 1,5899 – – – 514.506 599.71 Jul 167 Jun 25 Jun 15 1,589 – – – 1,589 – 514.506 – Jul 17 Jun 25 Jun 16 – 6,627 – – 6,627 – 546.606 – Jul 17 Jun 26 Jun 16 – 6,627 – – 6,627 – 546.606 – Jul 18 Jun 26 Performance Jun 14 21,108 – – – 21,108 – 830.006 – Jun 17 Jun 24 Share Plan Jun 14 14,073 – – – 14,073 – 830.006 – Jun 18 Jun 24 Jun 15 32,384 – – – 32,384 – 541.006 – Jun 18 Jun 25 Jun 15 21,590 – – – 21,590 – 541.006 – Jun 19 Jun 25 Jun 16 – 36,863 – – 36,863 – 520.856 – Jun 19 Jun 26 Jun 16 – 24,575 – – 24,575 – 520.856 – Jun 20 Jun 26 92,333 74,692 1,589 – 165,436 – Notes 1 These awards do not have any performance conditions attached. 2 The Company procured shares and transferred the shares to Martin Sutherland at vesting. An additional 2,206 dividend shares were procured at vesting. Martin Sutherland made a taxable gain (after dealing costs excluding PAYE/NI) of £133,188. The balance of shares (11,265) following disposal to meet all liabilities were retained by Martin Sutherland. 3 Based on price formula linked to De La Rue plc and BAE Systems plc listed share price. The shares were awarded as part of a recruitment award and were intended to mirror the fair value and vesting profile of incentives Martin Sutherland forfeited on leaving his previous employer. 4 The closing mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary share on 8 July 2016 was 567p as the vesting date on 10 July 2016 was a Sunday. 5 Includes an additional 135 dividend shares on vesting. Martin Sutherland made a taxable gain (after dealing costs excluding PAYE/NI) of £10,495. The balance of shares (923) following disposal to meet all liabilities were retained by Martin Sutherland. 6 Mid-market share value of an ordinary share averaged over the five dealing days immediately preceding award date. 7 The closing mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary shares as at the vesting date on 7 March 2017 was 627.50p. 8 For Sharesave options the share price shown is the exercise price which was 80% of mid-market value of an ordinary share averaged over the three dealing days immediately preceding award date. 9 Includes an additional 133 dividend shares on vesting. Rupert Middleton made a taxable gain (after dealing costs excluding PAYE/NI) of £10,327. The balance of shares (908) following disposal to meet all liabilities were retained by Rupert Middleton. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 91 Dividend shares on unvested awards Strategic report Dividend shares are an additional award of shares that may be released by the Remuneration Committee on the vesting date in respect of awards under the ABP, PSP and CEO Share Award equivalent in value to the amount of dividends that would have been received pursuant to the relevant Plan Rules or Agreement. As at 25 March 2017 and based on the prevailing market share price on the respective dividend record date, the dividend shares accrued and assuming full vesting as appropriate were as follows: Martin Sutherland: 11,282 ordinary shares Jitesh Sodha: 5,777 ordinary shares Corporate governance Rupert Middleton: 12,391 ordinary shares Chief Executive Officer pay, total shareholder return (TSR) and all employee pay This section of the report enables our remuneration arrangements to be seen in context by providing: • De La Rue’s TSR performance for the eight years to 25 March 2017 Accounts • A history of De La Rue’s Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration for the current and previous seven years • A comparison of the year-on-year change in De La Rue’s Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration with the change in the average remuneration across the Group • A year-on-year comparison of the total amount spent on pay across the Group with profit before tax and dividends paid Chief Executive Officer pay Period ended March 2010 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 James James Tim Tim Tim Tim Martin Martin Martin Chief Executive Officer Hussey1 Hussey1 Cobbold2,3 Cobbold Cobbold Cobbold2 Sutherland4 Sutherland Sutherland Single figure of total remuneration £000 843 433 604 1,053 634 1,071 1,107 998 899 Annual bonus payout as a % of maximum opportunity 46 44 Nil 80 Nil Nil 14 57 40 LTIP vesting against maximum opportunity (%) 100 100 Nil Nil Nil 60 Nil Nil Nil Notes 1 Role as Chief Executive Officer ended on 12 August 2010. 2 Appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2011 and resigned on 29 March 2014. 3 Includes award to the value of £450,000 at the date of award under the Recruitment Share Award (which vested on 31 January 2014). 4 Appointed 13 October 2014. TSR performance The graph below shows the value, at 25 March 2017, of £100 invested in De La Rue plc on 28 March 2009 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts, assuming in each case the reinvestment of dividends. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends. The FTSE 250 has been chosen as it is the index of which De La Rue was a constituent for a majority of the period reported (source: Thomson Reuters). TSR is not used as a performance measure for any benefits provided to Executive Directors. Total shareholder return Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) 450 400 387.41 350 335.54 310.30 335.80 300 Value (£) (rebased) 255.68 250 197.28 202.76 200 168.52 150 109.05 123.49 103.03 105.83 91.27 96.81 100 78.53 66.07 50 0 March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14 March 15 March 16 March 17 De La Rue plc FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) 92 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer remuneration The table below compares the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer’s salary, bonus and benefits to the average change in salary, bonus and benefits for all UK employees between 2015/16 and 2016/17. UK employees were chosen as a comparator group to avoid the impact of exchange rate movements over the year. UK employees make up approximately 64% of the total employee population. Salary Benefits Annual bonus % % % Chief Executive Officer 1.80 – (29.18) UK employee average 2.29 – (24.43) Relative spend on pay The following table sets out the percentage change in payments to shareholders and the overall expenditure on pay across the Group. 2017 2016 Change £m £m % Dividends (note 8 to the financial statements) 25.4 25.3 0.40 Overall expenditure on pay (note 24 to the financial statements) 136.1 149.3 (8.84) Statement of shareholder voting 2016 Total votes cast For1 (%) Against (%) Votes withheld2 Approval of 2016 remuneration report 76,718,394 61,511,913 80.18 15,206,481 19.82 2,260,147 Notes 1 The votes ‘For’ include votes given at the Chairman’s discretion. 2 A vote ‘Withheld’ is not a vote in law and, as such, is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’. De La Rue carefully monitors shareholder voting on the remuneration policy and implementation and the Company recognises the importance of ensuring that shareholders continue to support the remuneration arrangements. All voting at the AGM is undertaken by poll. Remuneration advice The Remuneration Committee consults with the Chief Executive Officer on the remuneration of executives directly reporting to him and other senior executives and seeks to ensure a consistent approach across the Group taking account of seniority and market practice and the key remuneration policies outlined in this report. During 2016/17, the Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson. Willis Towers Watson has been formally appointed by the Remuneration Committee and advised on the review of the directors’ remuneration policy, executive remuneration levels and trends, directors’ remuneration report preparation and target setting for incentive plans. The Remuneration Committee requests Willis Towers Watson to attend meetings periodically during the year. Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and has signed up to the code of conduct relating to the provision of executive remuneration advice in the UK. In light of this, and the level and nature of the service received, the Committee remains satisfied that the advice has been objective and independent. Total fees for advice provided to the Remuneration Committee during the year by Willis Towers Watson were £53,000. Dilution limits The share incentives operated by the Company comply with the institutional investors’ share dilution guidelines. The directors’ remuneration report was approved by the Board on 23 May 2017 and signed on its behalf. Statutory requirements The directors’ remuneration report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Committee. The directors’ remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. The Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules require the Company’s auditor to report on the audited information in their report on pages 97 to 101 and to state that this section has been properly prepared in accordance with these regulations. Sabri Challah Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2017 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 93 Report of Directors Introduction Overview of the information required Strategic report De La Rue plc is a public limited Other information that is relevant to the directors’ report and which is also company, registered in England incorporated by reference, can be located as follows: and Wales incorporated under the Companies Act 1985 with registered Disclosure Reported in Page reference number 3834125 and has its registered AGM Corporate governance 62 office at De La Rue House, Jays Close, statement Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, Corporate governance Change of control Corporate governance 81, 95 RG22 4BS. statement and report of directors Directors’ report and Community and charitable giving Strategic report 49 strategic report Conflicts of interest Corporate governance 61 The Directors of the Company are statement required to produce a directors’ Directors Corporate governance 52 to 55 Accounts report on an annual basis under the statement Companies Act 2006. The Directors are Employee involvement Strategic report 24, 43, 44, 47 also required under the Companies Act 2006 to publish a strategic report for the Employees with disabilities Strategic report 47 Group and the Company. The directors’ Future developments of the business Strategic report 20 to 29 strategic report must: Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic report 49 • Contain a fair review of the Company’s R&D activities Strategic report 18, 23 to 24 business and a description of the Results and dividends Strategic report 3 principal risks and uncertainties facing Risk management Strategic report 32 to 36 the business • Be a balanced and comprehensive Dividends Voting analysis of the development and performance of the Company’s An interim dividend of 8.3p was paid On a show of hands at a general business at the end of that year, on 11 January 2017 in respect of the meeting of the Company, each holder consistent with the size and complexity half year ended 24 September 2016. of ordinary shares present in person of its business The Board is recommending a final and entitled to vote shall have one vote dividend of 16.7p per share, making and, on a poll, every member present in This section of the annual report sets out a total for the year of 25.0p per share person or by proxy and entitled to vote the information required to be disclosed (2015/16: 25.0p per share). shall have one vote for every ordinary by the Company and the Group in the share held. Electronic and paper proxy directors’ report. Certain matters that Dividend details are given in note 8 appointments, and voting instructions, would otherwise be disclosed in this of the financial statements. Subject to must be received by the Company’s directors’ report have been reported approval of shareholders at the AGM Registrar no later than 48 hours before elsewhere in this annual report and on 20 July 2017, the final dividend a general meeting. consequently this directors’ report will be paid on 3 August 2017 to should be read in conjunction with the those shareholders on the register strategic report on pages 1 to 49 and on 30 June 2017. Exercise of rights of shares the corporate governance statement on in employee share schemes pages 50 to 92 which are incorporated Share capital Awards held by relevant participants by reference into this directors’ report. under the Company’s various share As at 25 March 2017, there were plans carry no voting rights until the Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe 101,767,263 ordinary shares of 44152/175p shares are issued. The Trustee of the harbour limits the liability of Directors in each and 111,673,300 deferred shares De La Rue Employee Share Ownership respect of statements in and omissions of 1p each in issue. Trust does not seek to exercise voting from the strategic report and the rights on existing shares held in the Deferred shares carry limited economic directors’ report. Under English law, employee trust. No shares are currently rights and no voting rights. They are not the Directors would be liable to the held in trust. transferable except in accordance with Company, but not to any third party, the articles of association. if the strategic report or the directors’ report contains errors as a result of The ordinary shares are listed on the recklessness or knowing misstatement London Stock Exchange. or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable. Rights and restrictions on shares and transfers of shares Management report The rights and obligations attaching to The strategic report and this directors’ the Company’s ordinary and deferred report together with other sections shares, in addition to those conferred of this annual report incorporated by on their holders by law, are set out in reference, when taken as a whole, form the Company’s articles of association, the management report as required copies of which can be obtained from for the purposes of Disclosure and Companies House in the UK or the Transparency Rule 4.1.5R. Group’s website www.delarue.com. The key points are summarised below. 94 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Report of Directors continued Dividends and distributions Shareholder agreements and consent Resolutions to renew, for a period of to shareholders on winding up requirements one year, the power of Directors to allot Holders of ordinary shares may receive There are no known arrangements under shares without regard to the pre-emption interim dividends approved by Directors which financial rights carried by any of provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and dividends declared in general the shares in the Company are held will be sought from shareholders at meetings. On a liquidation and subject by a person other than holders of the the AGM. to a special resolution of the Company shares. The Company is not aware of Details of shares issued during the year the liquidator may divide among any agreements between shareholders and outstanding options are given in members in specie the whole or any part that may result in any restriction on notes 19 and 20 on pages 135 to 138 of the assets of the Company and may, the transfer of shares or exercise of which form part of this report. Details of for such purpose, value any assets and voting rights. the share incentives in place are provided may determine how such division shall on pages 86 to 88 of the directors’ be carried out. remuneration report. Power to issue and allot At the AGM in 2016, authority was Transfers of shares given to the Directors to allot new Authority to purchase own shares The Company’s articles of association ordinary shares up to a nominal value of At the 2016 AGM, shareholders gave place no restrictions on the transfer of £30,327,036, equivalent to two-thirds of the Company authority to purchase up ordinary shares or on the exercise of the issued ordinary share capital of the to 10,138,623 of its own ordinary shares voting rights attached to them except Company, providing that, consistent with representing 10% of its issued ordinary in very limited circumstances (such as the Investment Association’s guidelines, share capital either for cancellation or a transfer to more than four persons). any amount in excess of one-third of the to be held in treasury (or a combination Certain restrictions, however, may existing issued shares should be applied of these). No purchases have been from time to time be imposed by laws to fully pre-emptive rights only. made pursuant to this authority and and regulations, such as the Financial a resolution will be put to shareholders Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, the At the same meeting, pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act at the 2017 AGM to renew the authority City Code on Takeovers and Mergers for a further period of one year. or any other regulations. 2006, shareholders approved the issue of shares for cash up to the maximum nominal value of £4,549,055, Dealings subject to the Listing Rules representing approximately 10% of and EU Market Abuse Regulation the Company’s issued ordinary share In accordance with the Listing Rules of capital (5% of which is only to be the Financial Conduct Authority and EU used in connection with an acquisition Market Abuse Regulation, Directors and or specified capital investment) in other persons discharging managerial each case without the application responsibilities of the Company, and of pre‑emption rights. in each case, any persons closely associated with them, are required to seek the prior approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company. Substantial shareholdings As at 23 May 2017, the Company had received formal notification of the following holdings in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority. It should be noted that these holdings may have changed since the Company was notified, however notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed. % of issued ordinary Date last TR1 share capital held at Persons notifying notification made Nature of interest notification date Brandes Investment Partners, L.P. 19/07/2016 Indirect 9.97 Majedie Asset Management Limited 17/12/2015 Indirect 5.60 Schroders plc 21/04/2015 Indirect 5.33 Artemis Investment Management LLP 10/10/2016 Indirect 5.32 Neptune Investment Management Limited 17/05/2017 Direct 5.09 Aberforth Partners LLP 10/10/2016 Indirect 4.85 Royal London Asset Management Limited 17/01/2017 Direct 3.02 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 95 Directors Amendment of articles Related party transactions Strategic report The current members of the Board of association Related party transactions are set out together with biographical details of each The articles of association may be in note 27 to the financial statements. Director are set out on pages 52, 53 and amended by special resolution of 55. Changes in the membership of the the shareholders. Financial instruments Board are summarised on page 50 of the Details of the Group’s financial corporate governance statement. Change of control instruments are set out in note 13 to the Corporate governance Details of Directors’ remuneration are Contracts financial statements. provided in the directors’ remuneration There are a number of contracts which report on pages 74 to 92. The interests of the Directors and their families in the allow the counterparties to alter or Branches terminate those arrangements in the De La Rue is a global company and share capital of the Company are shown event of a change of control of the our activities and interests are operated on page 89 of the directors’ remuneration Company. These arrangements are through subsidiaries, branches of report which also includes information on commercially sensitive and confidential subsidiaries and associates which are the Company contracts of service with its Accounts and their disclosure could be seriously subject to the laws and regulations of many Directors on page 88. prejudicial to the Group. different jurisdictions. Our subsidiaries and associates are listed on pages 144 to 145. Appointment and removal of Directors Banking facilities Rules regarding the appointment and removal of Directors are set out in the The £250m credit facility between the Acquisitions and disposals Company and its key relationship banks On 22 May 2016 the Company Company’s articles of association. contains a provision such that, in the completed the disposal of the Cash event of a change of control, any lender Processing Solutions business to CPS Powers of Directors may, if it so requires, notify the agent Topco Limited, a company owned by Subject to the Company’s articles that it wishes to cancel its commitment Privet Capital (see note 2 to the financial of association, the Companies Act whereupon the commitment of that statements for more details). 2006 and any directions given by the lender will be cancelled and all its outstanding loans, together with accrued On 6 January 2017 the Company Company in general meeting by a special interest, will become immediately due completed the acquisition of the resolution, the business of the Company and payable. authentication business of DuPont is managed by the Board who may Electronics and Communications exercise all the powers of the Company, A proposal to increase the current (see note 31 to the financial statements whether relating to the management borrowing limit of £250m specified in for further details). of the business of the Company or not. the articles of association will be put The powers of the Board are described to shareholders at the 2017 AGM as in the corporate governance statement detailed in the notice of AGM. Post balance sheet events on pages 56 to 60. On 11 April 2017, the Company announced that Rupert Middleton, Chief Employee share plans Indemnity Operating Officer and Executive Director, In the event of a change of control, would be stepping down from the Board At the date of this report, the Company automatic vesting would occur in with effect from the close of the AGM has agreed, to the extent permitted by accordance with the relevant scheme on 20 July 2017. the law and the Company’s articles of or plan rules. association, to indemnify Directors and officers in respect of all costs, charges, Going concern losses, damages and expenses arising Political donations As described on page 107, the Directors out of claims made against them in the The Group’s policy is not to make continue to adopt the going concern course of the execution of their duties as any political donations and none were basis (in accordance with the guidance a Director or officer of the Company or made during the period. However, it is ‘Going Concern and Liquidity Risk any associated company. The Company possible that certain routine activities Guidance for Directors of UK Companies may advance defence costs in civil or may unintentionally fall within the broad 2009’ issued by the FRC) in preparing regulatory proceedings on such terms scope of the Companies Act 2006 the consolidated financial statements. as the Board may reasonably determine provisions relating to political donations but any advance must be refunded if and expenditure. As in previous years, the Director or officer is subsequently the Company will therefore propose to Disclosures required under convicted. The indemnity will not provide shareholders at the forthcoming AGM UK Listing Rule 9.8.4 cover where the Director or officer has that the authority granted at the AGM in There are no disclosures required to be acted fraudulently or dishonestly. July 2016 regarding political donations made under the UK Listing Rule 9.8.4. be renewed. The Group also maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover for its Directors and officers. This cover extends Essential contracts to directors of subsidiary companies. or other arrangements The Group has a number of suppliers of key components, the loss of which could disrupt the Group’s ability to deliver on time and in full. See more details on page 35. 96 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Report of Directors continued Disclosure of information In preparing each of the Group and Directors’ responsibility statement to auditors Parent Company financial statements, Each of the persons who is a Director Each of the persons who is a Director the Directors are required to: at the date of approval of this report at the date of approval of this report • Select suitable accounting policies confirms that to the best of his or confirms that: and then apply them consistently her knowledge: • So far as the Director is aware, • Make judgements and estimates that • The Group financial statements, there is no relevant audit information are reasonable and prudent prepared in accordance with IFRS as of which the Company’s auditor adopted by the EU, give a true and fair is unaware • For the Group financial statements, view of the assets, liabilities, financial state whether they have been prepared position and profit of the Company • The Director has taken all the steps in accordance with IFRS as adopted and the undertakings included in the that he or she ought to have taken by the EU consolidation taken as a whole as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant • For the Parent Company financial • The strategic report on pages 1 to audit information and to establish statements, state whether applicable 49 and the directors’ report on pages that the Company’s auditor is aware UK Accounting Standards have 50 to 96 include a fair review of the of that information been followed, subject to any development and performance of material departures disclosed and the business and the position of the This confirmation is given, and should explained in the Parent Company Group and the undertakings included be interpreted, in accordance with financial statements in the consolidation taken as a whole, the provisions of section 418 of the together with a description of the Companies Act 2006. • Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless principal risks and uncertainties that it is inappropriate to presume that the they face; and Auditors Group and the Parent Company will • The annual report and accounts, Following a competitive tender process, continue in business taken as a whole, are fair, balanced a resolution to appoint Ernst and Young and understandable and provide the The Directors are responsible for keeping LLP, as auditor of the Company for the information necessary for shareholders adequate accounting records that are 2017/18 audit, will be proposed at the to assess the Group’s financial sufficient to show and explain the Parent forthcoming AGM. Further details are position, performance, business model Company and Group’s transactions and set out in the notice of meeting sent and strategy disclose with reasonable accuracy at any to shareholders. time the financial position of the Parent The strategic report and the directors’ Company and enable them to ensure report were approved by the Board Statement of Directors’ that its financial statements comply with on 23 May 2017. responsibilities in respect the Companies Act 2006. They have of the annual report and the general responsibility for taking such By order of the Board financial statements steps as are reasonably open to them The Directors are responsible for to safeguard the assets of the Group Edward Peppiatt preparing the annual report and the and to prevent and detect fraud and Company Secretary Group and Parent Company financial other irregularities. 23 May 2017 statements in accordance with applicable Under applicable law and regulations, law and regulations. the Directors are also responsible for Under that law they are required to preparing a strategic report, directors’ prepare the Group financial statements report, directors’ remuneration report in accordance with IFRS as adopted and corporate governance statement by the EU and applicable law and have that comply with that law and elected to prepare the Parent Company those regulations. financial statements in accordance with The Directors are responsible for UK Accounting Standards, including FRS the maintenance and integrity of the 102 The Financial Reporting Standard corporate and financial information applicable in the UK and Republic of included on the Group’s website. Ireland, and applicable law. Legislation in the UK governing the Under company law the Directors must preparation and dissemination of financial not approve the financial statements statements may differ from legislation unless they are satisfied that they give in other jurisdictions. a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 97 Independent auditor’s report to the members of De La Rue plc Strategic report Corporate governance Independent Accounts auditor’s report to the members of De La Rue plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1. Our opinion on the financial statements is Overview unmodified Materiality: Group £2.3 million (2016: £2.3 million) We have audited the financial statements of financial statements De La Rue plc for the period ended 25 March 2017 3.9% of group profit from continuing as a whole set out on pages 102 to 154. In our opinion: operations before tax normalised to exclude — the financial statements give a true and fair exceptional items (2016: 3.9% of group profit view of the state of the group’s and of the before tax, continuing and discontinued, parent company’s affairs as at 25 March 2017 normalised to exclude exceptional items) and of the group’s profit for the period then ended; Coverage 95% (2016: 92%) of the selected benchmark — the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union; Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 — the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Recurring risks Revenue recognition in the Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Currency division Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland; and Valuation of inventory in the Currency division — the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Classification of exceptional items Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Warranty provisioning Post-retirement benefit obligations Event driven risk Acquisition accounting New risk 98 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Independent auditor’s report to the members of De La Rue plc continued 2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows. In the prior period we identified the presentation of discontinued operations and assets held for sale as an event driven risk. The risk Our response Revenue recognition in the Accounting treatment Our procedures included: Currency division Certain customer contracts in the Accounting analysis: reading selected new £350.6 million; (2016: £353.3 Currency division include specific contracts to obtain an understanding of their key million) terms, for example, complex terms, in particular those relevant to the timing of acceptance criteria or ‘bill and hold’ revenue recognition, and assessing management’s clauses where the customer asks the related revenue recognition policy. Refer to page 66 (Audit Committee division to store finished products on Report), page 109 (accounting Control design and re-performance: evaluating its behalf. Due to these contractual policy) and page 110 (financial and testing the key controls designed to ensure complexities there is a risk that disclosures). that revenue is recognised in the correct revenue may be recorded in the accounting period. incorrect reporting period. Testing application: testing, on a sample basis, revenue recognition on contracts with complex acceptance conditions. In relation to revenue recorded under ‘bill and hold’ transactions we evaluated the underlying contractual arrangements and obtained customer documentation that demonstrates when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred. For selected revenue transactions recorded before and after the year end, confirming that they are recorded in the correct accounting period. Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy of the Group’s disclosure about significant judgements in relation to revenue recognition. Valuation of inventory in the Subjective estimate Our procedures included: Currency Division At the balance sheet date the Group Control design and re-performance: evaluating £53.2 million; (2016: £54.7 million) has significant inventory, including and testing the Group’s controls over the work in progress on customer determination of inventory allowances. banknote orders. Production of Refer to page 66 (Audit Committee Our business knowledge: assessing the banknote paper, printed banknotes and Report), page 109 (accounting adequacy of estimates used by reference to other security products is a complex policy) and page 122 (financial historical experience, current manufacturing quality process reflecting the tight disclosures). and specific issues such as current and recent specifications set by customers and the customer complaints. many embedded security features which are often bespoke to each Personnel interviews: challenging judgements product. through interviews with the quality control and sales functions in relation to quality performance Accordingly, there is a risk that work in levels and overall customer satisfaction. progress will fail quality control checks at a later stage in production and need Independent re-performance: sample reto be scrapped or reworked. The Group performance of management’s calculations of provides for this through allowances inventory valuation allowance. Re-performance of based on past experience and known the allocation of costs to work in progress and issues but there is a risk that this finished goods inventory and assessing the allowance will be misstated. allocation approach. Finished goods inventory is valued at Tests of detail: testing the net realisable value by the lower of cost and net realisable reference to the selling prices relevant for each value. Due to the bespoke nature of product. each product, fluctuations in production efficiency and spoilage rates could Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy affect the allocated cost and carrying of the Group’s disclosures in relation to the amount of inventory. significant judgements in relation to the carrying value of inventory including work in progress. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 99 Strategic report The risk Our response Acquisition accounting Subjective valuation Our procedures included: £7.2 million intangible assets On 6 January 2017, the Group completed Assessing base data and valuer credentials: assessing the the acquisition of the Authentication credentials of the third party engaged by management to Refer to page 66 (Audit business of DuPont Electronics & support this valuation and considering the appropriateness of Committee Report), page Communications for a cash consideration the base data used in the valuation, such as historical customer 109 (accounting policy) and of $25m. churn rates. page 147 (financial Corporate governance disclosures). The determination of separately Our experience: assessing the appropriateness and identifiable intangible assets arising on completeness of the separate intangible assets identified by business combinations is inherently applying our professional experience to the information judgemental and valuation of these obtained from our inspection of purchase agreements and assets is complex and sensitive to board minutes and inquiries. underlying assumptions around future Evaluating assumptions: assessing, with support from our cash flows and discount rates. own valuation specialists in specific areas, the Group’s Accounts valuation analysis which was the basis for the determination of the fair value of the intangible assets. We critically challenged the key assumptions, and in particular evaluated the reasonableness of assumptions underlying the future trading forecasts, growth rates and the discount rate applied in the valuations. In performing this assessment we had regard to the performance of the existing business and trading forecasts for operations acquired, including considering the historical accuracy of forecasts. Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures regarding the judgements applied in identifying and valuing the acquisition-related intangibles. Classification of Presentation appropriateness Our procedures included: exceptional items The Group discloses separately Assessing principles: assessing, using our professional £4.5 million; (2016: £29.6 ‘exceptional items’ which the directors experience, the appropriateness of the Group’s policy on million) consider to be items of income or determination of exceptional items. expense which are important to identify Assessing application and balance: assessing whether the to shareholders to aid their understanding Refer to page 66 (Audit application of the stated policy is appropriate and has been of the ‘underlying’ business performance. Committee Report), page applied consistently with regard to the need for balance based 109 (accounting policy) and Determining which items are disclosed on our understanding of the Group’s activities and results for page 113-114 (financial as exceptional is judgemental. the period. Challenging whether other items should be disclosures). disclosed as exceptional. Accordingly, there is a risk that inappropriate selection and disclosure of Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy of the exceptional items may result in the Group’s disclosures around the definition and composition of Group not meeting its’ objective of giving exceptional items. a view of company performance that is fair, balanced and understandable. Warranty provisioning Subjective estimate Our procedures included: £7.0 million; (2016: £5.9 As noted with inventory valuation in the Control design and re-performance: evaluating and testing million) Currency division, the Group’s products the Group’s controls over the determination of warranty are complex and produced to exacting provisions. standards. Product quality issues can be Refer to page 66 (Audit Tests of detail: in relation to known issues, assessing the identified subsequent to delivery to Committee Report), page Group’s risk assessment, considering the status of discussions customers. Accordingly, at any point in 109 (accounting policy) and with the customer (including inspecting correspondence) and time the Group may be in dialogue with page 135 (financial then testing and challenging the basis of the Group’s customers over potential product quality disclosures). calculations including the rectification or remediation cost issues. estimates. In performing these we have regard to past The Group holds provisions for the experience in addressing such matters. potential costs associated with these In relation to potentially unidentified issues, assessing the risks. The assumptions underpinning Group’s methodology for determining the level of provision these provisions are inherently uncertain. required taking into account key assumptions such as historical accuracy of provisioning, the levels of expense incurred over time together with current quality experience. Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in relation to the significant judgements in relation to warranty provisioning and related contingent liabilities, if relevant. 100 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Independent auditor’s report to the members of De La Rue plc continued The risk Our response Post-retirement benefit Subjective valuation Our procedures included: obligations Small changes in the assumptions and Assessing valuer credentials: assessing the Gross liabilities £1,204.7 million; estimates used to value the Group’s credentials of the third party engaged by (2016: £1,072.2 million) post-retirement benefit obligation (before management to support this valuation. deducting scheme assets) would have a Benchmarking assumptions: challenging, with significant effect on the Group’s postthe support of our own actuarial specialists, the key Refer to page 66 (Audit Committee retirement deficit. assumptions applied, being the discount rate, Report), page 109 (accounting inflation rate and mortality/life expectancy, against policy) and page 140 (financial externally derived data. disclosures). Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to these assumptions. Materiality £2,300,000 3. Our application of materiality and an Whole financial statements materiality overview of the scope of our audit (2016: £2,300,000) Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £2.3 million (2016: £2.3 million), £1,800,000 determined with reference to a benchmark of Group Range of materiality applied to profit from continuing operations before tax, component audits (£100,000 normalised to remove the impact of separately £1,800,000) identified exceptional items (as disclosed in note 4 (2016: £100,000 to £1,800,000) of the financial statements) of which it represents 3.9% (2016: 3.9% of group profit before tax, continuing and discontinued, normalised to exclude exceptional items). We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected Profit before tax normalised for or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding exceptional items £115,000 £115,000 (2016: £115,000), in addition to any other Group materiality Misstatements reported to the audit committee (2016: identified misstatements that warranted reporting £115,000) on qualitative grounds. Of the group’s 59 (2016: 70) reporting components, Group profit from continuing we subjected 12 (2016: 12) to audits for group operations before exceptional reporting purposes and six (2016: six) to specified, items and tax Group revenue risk-focused, audit procedures. The graphs to the right demonstrate how 13 components within the scope of our work 10 8 accounted for, as percentages of, the group’s 9 results from continuing operations. The components for which we performed specified 92% (2016 89%) 95% (2016 92%) risk-focused audit procedures were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for 80 84 group reporting purposes, but did present specific 82 82 individual risks that needed to be addressed. For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of Group total assets material misstatement within these. The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the 86% information to be reported back. 19 18 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 (2016 85%) 67 Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 67 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 Residual components Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 101 The Group audit team approved the component materiality In particular, we are required to report to you if: Strategic report levels used, which ranged from £0.1 million to £1.8 million (2016: £0.1 million to £1.8 million), having regard to the mix of — we have identified material inconsistencies between size and risk profile of the Group across the components. The the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the work on six of the 18 components (2016: six of the 18 directors’ statement that they consider that the annual components) was performed by component auditors and the report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, rest by the Group audit team. balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Group audit team visited four (2016: three) component group’s position and performance, business model and Corporate governance locations in the UK, and Kenya (2016: in the UK), to assess the strategy; or audit risk and strategy. Telephone conference meetings were — the Audit Committee Report on pages 65 to 68 does held with all component auditors and file reviews were not appropriately address matters communicated by us conducted remotely or during the visit to the component to the Audit Committee. location. At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any you if, in our opinion: further work required by the Group audit team was then — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the performed by the component auditor. parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Accounts not been received from branches not visited by us; or 4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified — the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are In our opinion: not in agreement with the accounting records and — the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be returns; or audited has been properly prepared in accordance with — certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified the Companies Act 2006; and by law are not made; or — the information given in the Strategic Report and the — we have not received all the information and Directors’ Report for the financial period is consistent explanations we require for our audit. with the financial statements. Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the — the directors’ statements, set out on pages 37 and 107, course of the audit of the financial statements and from in relation to going concern and longer-term viability; reading the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report: and — we have not identified material misstatements in those — the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages reports; and 50 to 73 relating to the company’s compliance with the — in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Governance Code specified for our review. 5. We have nothing to report on the disclosures of We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Scope and responsibilities — the directors’ statement of the longer-term viability on page 37, concerning the principal risks, their As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities management, and, based on that, the directors’ Statement set out on page 96, the directors are responsible for assessment and expectations of the group’s continuing the preparation of the financial statements and for being in operation over the three years to March 2020; or satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the — the disclosures on page 107 of the financial statements scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the concerning the use of the going concern basis of Financial Reporting Council’s website at accounting. www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to 6. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters important explanations and disclaimers regarding our on which we are required to report by exception responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, audit, we have identified other information in the annual the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions. report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material Ian Bone misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants, 15 Canada Square, London 23 May 2017 102 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Group income statement for the period ended 25 March 2017 2017 2016 Notes £m £m Revenue 1 461.7 454.5 Operating expenses – ordinary 3 (391.1) (384.1) Operating expenses – exceptional 3, 4 (0.4) (3.6) Total operating expenses (391.5) (387.7) Operating profit 70.2 66.8 Comprising: Adjusted operating profit 70.7 70.4 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (0.1) – Exceptional items 4 (0.4) (3.6) Profit before interest and taxation 70.2 66.8 Interest income 5 – 0.1 Interest expense 5 (4.6) (4.9) Retirement benefit obligation net finance expense 23 (7.4) (7.1) Net finance expense (12.0) (11.9) Profit before taxation 58.2 54.9 Comprising: Adjusted profit before tax 58.7 58.5 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (0.1) – Exceptional items 4 (0.4) (3.6) Taxation 6 (8.7) (6.3) Profit from continuing operations 49.5 48.6 Comprising: Adjusted profit for the year 49.4 49.9 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (0.1) – Profit/(loss) for the year on exceptional items 4 0.2 (1.3) Loss from discontinued operations 2 (8.0) (31.0) Profit for the year 41.5 17.6 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Profit for the year from continuing operations 47.9 47.4 Loss for the year from discontinued operations (8.0) (31.0) Total profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 39.9 16.4 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests Profit for the year from continuing operations 1.6 1.2 Profit for the year from discontinued operations – – Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1.6 1.2 Profit for the year 41.5 17.6 Profit for the year attributable to the Company’s equity holders Earnings per ordinary share Basic 7 Basic EPS continuing operations 47.2p 46.8p Basic EPS discontinued operations (7.9p) (30.6p) Total Basic Earnings per share 39.3p 16.2p Diluted 7 Diluted EPS continuing operations 46.6p 46.2p Diluted EPS discontinued operations (7.8p) (30.2p) Total Diluted Earnings per share 38.8p 16.0p Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 103 Group statement of comprehensive income for the period ended 25 March 2017 2017 2016 Strategic report Notes £m £m Profit for the year 41.5 17.6 Other comprehensive income Items that are not reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Remeasurement losses on retirement benefit obligations 23 (25.2) 5.4 Tax related to remeasurement of net defined benefit liability 6 2.3 (5.4) Corporate governance Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 2.6 1.5 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 7.8 4.1 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss (8.0) 1.6 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to non-current assets (0.2) 1.5 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (1.8) Accounts 6 0.2 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (20.5) 6.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 21.0 24.5 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 19.4 23.3 Non-controlling interests 1.6 1.2 21.0 24.5 104 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Group balance sheet at 25 March 2017 2017 2016 Notes £m £m ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 9 167.2 167.0 Intangible assets 10 30.9 13.4 Investments in associates and joint ventures 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax assets 15 43.7 41.6 Derivative financial assets 13 0.6 1.9 242.5 224.0 Current assets Inventories 11 67.8 67.1 Trade and other receivables 12 109.7 93.5 Current tax assets – 1.3 Derivative financial assets 13 15.3 15.0 Cash and cash equivalents 14 15.4 40.5 Assets classified as held for sale 2 – 11.2 208.2 228.6 Total assets 450.7 452.6 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Borrowings 17 (136.3) (146.6) Trade and other payables 16 (175.1) (171.5) Current tax liabilities (19.6) (17.6) Derivative financial liabilities 13 (7.7) (12.0) Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 (10.4) (9.0) Liabilities classified as held for sale 2 – (10.5) (349.1) (367.2) Non-current liabilities Retirement benefit obligations 23 (239.4) (219.9) Deferred tax liabilities 15 (4.9) (1.6) Derivative financial liabilities 13 (0.6) (1.2) Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 (2.0) (6.9) Other non-current liabilities 16 (1.3) (1.4) (248.2) (231.0) Total liabilities (597.3) (598.2) Net liabilities (146.6) (145.6) EQUITY Share capital 19 46.8 46.6 Share premium account 36.7 35.7 Capital redemption reserve 5.9 5.9 Hedge reserve 2.0 2.3 Cumulative translation adjustment (9.7) (12.3) Other reserve (83.8) (83.8) Retained earnings (152.4) (146.6) Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Company (154.5) (152.2) Non-controlling interests 7.9 6.6 Total equity (146.6) (145.6) Approved by the Board on 23 May 2017 Philip Rogerson Jitesh Sodha Chairman Chief Financial Officer Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 105 Group statement of changes in equity for the period ended 25 March 2017 Non-controlling Total Strategic report Attributable to equity shareholders interests equity Share Capital Cumulative Share premium redemption Hedge translation Other Retained capital account reserve reserve adjustment reserve earnings £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Balance at 28 March 2015 46.5 35.5 5.9 (3.5) (13.8) (83.8) (139.4) 5.7 (146.9) Profit for the year – – – – – – 16.4 1.2 17.6 Corporate governance Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – 5.8 1.5 – (0.4) – 6.9 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 5.8 1.5 – 16.0 1.2 24.5 Transactions with owners of the Company recognised directly in equity: Accounts Share capital issued 0.1 0.2 – – – – – – 0.3 Employee share scheme: – value of services provided – – – – – – 2.4 – 2.4 Income tax on income and expenses recognised directly in equity – – – – – – (0.3) – (0.3) Dividends paid – – – – – – (25.3) (0.3) (25.6) Balance at 26 March 2016 46.6 35.7 5.9 2.3 (12.3) (83.8) (146.6) 6.6 (145.6) Profit for the year – – – – – 39.9 1.6 41.5 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – (0.3) 2.6 – (22.8) – (20.5) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (0.3) 2.6 – 17.1 1.6 21.0 Transactions with owners of the Company recognised directly in equity: Share capital issued 0.2 1.0 – – – – – – 1.2 Employee share scheme: – value of services provided – – – – – – 1.5 – 1.5 Income tax on income and expenses recognised directly in equity – – – – – – 1.0 – 1.0 Dividends paid – – – – – – (25.4) (0.3) (25.7) Balance at 25 March 2017 46.8 36.7 5.9 2.0 (9.7) (83.8) (152.4) 7.9 (146.6) Share premium account This reserve arises from the issuance of shares for consideration in excess of their nominal value. Capital redemption reserve This reserve represents the nominal value of shares redeemed by the Company. Hedge reserve This reserve records the portion of any gain or loss on hedging instruments that are determined to be effective cash flow hedges. When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is transferred out of equity to the income statement. If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss on the related hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement. Cumulative translation adjustment This reserve records cumulative exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign entities since transition to IFRS. Upon disposal of foreign operations, the related accumulated exchange differences are recycled to the income statement. This reserve also records the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations. Other reserve On 1 February 2000, the Company issued and credited as fully paid 191,646,873 ordinary shares of 25p each and paid cash of £103.7m to acquire the issued share capital of De La Rue plc (now De La Rue Holdings Limited), following the approval of a High Court Scheme of Arrangement. In exchange for every 20 ordinary shares in De La Rue plc, shareholders received 17 ordinary shares plus 920p in cash. The other reserve of £83.8m arose as a result of this transaction and is a permanent adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. 106 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Group cash flow statement for the period ended 25 March 2017 2017 2016 Notes £m £m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax* 51.8 20.8 Adjustments for: Finance income and expense 12.0 12.1 Depreciation 24.3 23.0 Amortisation 2.5 3.2 Decrease in inventory 3.4 5.0 (Increase) in trade and other receivables (4.6) (2.0) (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (11.9) 11.4 (Decrease)/increase in reorganisation provisions (3.6) 0.4 Special pension fund contributions (14.6) (19.1) Loss/(Profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and software intangibles 1.4 (7.6) Asset impairments – 10.8 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 4.1 – Other non-cash movements (0.5) 0.9 Cash generated from operating activities 64.3 58.9 Tax paid (5.7) (4.7) Net cash flows from operating activities 58.6 54.2 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations 2.1 – Transaction costs relating to the sale of discontinued operations (2.5) – Purchases of property, plant, equipment and software intangibles (24.0) (25.0) Development assets capitalised (2.1) (3.0) Acquisition of subsidiary (net of cash acquired) (17.9) – Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 9.9 Net cash flows from investing activities (44.2) (18.1) Net cash flows before financing activities 14.4 36.1 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 1.2 0.3 (Repayments of)/proceeds from borrowings (12.4) 3.6 Interest received – 0.1 Interest paid (4.2) (4.2) Dividends paid to shareholders (25.4) (25.3) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0.3) (0.3) Net cash flows from financing activities (41.1) (25.8) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (26.7) 10.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 37.9 28.9 Exchange rate effects – (1.3) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 11.2 37.9 Cash and cash equivalents consist of: Cash at bank and in hand 14 13.2 40.5 Short term deposits 14 2.2 – Bank overdrafts (4.2) (2.6) 21 11.2 37.9 * Profit before tax includes continuing and discontinued operations. The cash flows relating to discontinued operations are included within note 2. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 107 Accounting policies The Company The principal accounting policies Accounting developments during Strategic report De La Rue plc (the Company) is a adopted in the preparation of these the period public limited company incorporated consolidated financial statements are During the period a number of and domiciled in the United Kingdom. set out below or have been incorporated amendments to IFRS became effective The address of its registered office is with the relevant notes to the accounts and were adopted by the Group, none disclosed on page 156 of this Annual where appropriate. These policies of which had a material impact on the Report. The consolidated financial have been consistently applied to Group’s net cash flows, financial position, statements of the Company for the all the periods presented, unless total comprehensive income or earnings Corporate governance period ended 25 March 2017 comprise otherwise stated. per share. the Company and its subsidiaries The Group’s business activities, together (together referred to as the Group) with the factors likely to affect its future Changes to IFRS not yet adopted and the Group’s interest in associates. development, performance and position The Company financial statements A number of other new and amended are set out on pages 4 to 41 of the present information about the Company IFRS were issued during the period, Strategic report. In addition, pages 124 as a separate entity and not about its which do not become effective until after to 132 include the Group’s objectives, 25 March 2017. Accounts Group. The principal activities of the policies and processes for financial Group are described in note 1. risk management, details of its financial IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts instruments and hedging activities and with Customers (effective for the year Statement of compliance its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk ending 30 March 2019, provides a single, and commodity pricing risk. The financial principles based, five step model to be European Union (EU) law (IAS Regulation position of the Group, its cash flows, applied to all sales contracts.. The group EC 1606/2002) requires that the liquidity position and borrowing facilities continues to assess the impact of the consolidated financial statements, for the are described on page 39 of the new standard. period ended 25 March 2017, be prepared Strategic report. in accordance with international financial IFRS 16 Leases was issued by the reporting standards (IFRS) as adopted The Group meets its funding requirements IASB in January 2016 (effective for the by the EU. These consolidated financial through cash generated from operations year ending 28 March 2020, not yet statements have been approved by the and a revolving credit facility which endorsed by the EU) replaces IAS 17. Directors and prepared in accordance expires in December 2021. The Group’s Under the new standard it requires with IFRS including interpretations forecasts and projections, which cover lessees to recognise a lease liability and issued by the International Accounting a period of more than 12 months, a right of use asset for all leases unless Standards Board. taking into account reasonably possible the lease term is 12 months or less or changes in normal trading performance, the underlying asset has a low value. show that the Group should be able Interest expense on the lease liability and Basis of preparation to operate within its currently available depreciation on the right of use asset will The consolidated financial statements facilities. The Group has sufficient financial be recognised in the income statement, have been prepared under the historical resources together with assets that are resulting in a higher total charge to the cost convention with the exception of expected to generate cash flow in the income statement in the initial years of certain items which are measured at normal course of business. a lease. IFRS 16 is not expected at the fair value as disclosed in the accounting current time to have a significant impact policies below. The accounts have been As a consequence and notwithstanding on the results of the group. The group prepared as at 25 March 2017, being the the net liability position being reported will continue to assess the impact last Saturday in March. The comparatives in the consolidated balance sheet, during 2017/18. for the 2015/16 financial period are for which has primarily arisen due to the the period ended 26 March 2016. value of the deficit in the retirement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was benefit obligations, the Directors have issued by the IASB in July 2014. The Company has elected to prepare its a reasonable expectation that the IFRS 9 introduces new requirements financial statements in accordance with Company and the Group are well placed for the classification, measurement and FRS 102 Financial Reporting Standard to manage their business risks and to impairment of financial instruments and applicable in the UK and Republic of continue in operational existence for hedge accounting, and is required to be Ireland. They are set out on pages 148 the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the adopted by 29 March 2019. The group to 152 and the accounting policies Directors continue to adopt the going is reviewing the standard to determine in respect of the Company financial concern basis in preparing the annual the likely impact. statements are set out on page 150. report and accounts. 108 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Foreign currency non-monetary items measured. In practice, the timing of The consolidated financial statements measured in terms of historical cost the transfer of risks and rewards varies incorporate the financial statements of are translated at the rate of exchange depending on the individual terms of the the Company and entities controlled at the date of the transaction. sales agreement. For sales of products by the Company (its subsidiaries) up Exchange differences on non-monetary and associated components, when sold to 25 March 2017. Control exists when items are recognised in line with whether separately, the transfer usually occurs the Group has the power to direct the the gain or loss on the non-monetary on loading the goods onto the relevant activities of an entity so as to affect item itself is recognised in the income carrier or, at an earlier point in time when the return on investment. The results statement or in equity. conditions are met for recognition of of subsidiaries acquired or disposed revenue on a bill and hold basis. In order to hedge its exposure to certain of during the period are included in foreign exchange risks, the Group enters Revenue is recognised on a bill and hold the consolidated financial statements into forward contracts. Refer to note 13 basis when a formal contract is in place, from the date that control commences for details of the Group’s accounting the product is in hand and ready for or until the date that control ceases. policies in respect of such derivative delivery, the customer has acknowledged The majority of the subsidiaries prepare financial instruments. acceptance of the bill and hold transaction their financial statements up to 25 March. and normal payment terms apply. Financial statements Revenue on service based contracts Business combinations of foreign operations is recognised as services are Acquisitions of subsidiaries and Assets and liabilities of foreign provided. If the services under a businesses are accounted for using operations, including goodwill and single arrangement are rendered in the acquisition method of accounting. intangible assets, are translated at the different reporting periods, or under The Consideration transferred in the exchange rate prevailing at the balance an arrangement that also includes the acquisition is measured at fair value sheet date. Income and expenses sale of goods, then the consideration as are the identifiable assets and are translated at average exchange is allocated on a relative fair value liabilities acquired. rates (which approximate to actual basis between the sale of goods and rates). Exchange differences arising rendering of services and then allocated The excess of the fair value of on re-translation are recognised in the to the appropriate reporting periods in consideration transferred over the fair Group’s translation reserve, which is a accordance with the transfer of risks and value of net assets acquired is accounted component of equity. When a foreign rewards and the contractual life of the for as goodwill. Any goodwill that arises operation is sold, exchange differences service contract. is tested annually for impairment. that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement Revenues and costs on a small Transaction costs are expensed number of project based contracts as incurred. as part of the gain or loss on sale. are recognised by reference to the Exchange differences in respect of stage of completion, based on the Significant accounting policies foreign operations that arose before work performed to date and the overall 27 March 2004, the date of transition contract profitability. The assessment The significant accounting policies to Adopted IFRS, are presented as adopted in the preparation of these of the stage of completion is dependent part of retained earnings, as permitted on the nature of the contract and is consolidated financial statements have by IFRS 1. been incorporated into the relevant notes assessed by reference to reviews of work where possible. General accounting performed, achievement of contractual Net investment in foreign operations milestones and costs incurred. policies which are not specific to an accounting note, for example foreign Foreign currency differences arising on exchange, are set out below. the re-translation of a financial liability Classification of assets held for designated as a hedge of a net investment sale and discontinued operations in foreign operations are recognised in Foreign currency the translation reserve to the extent the Following a root and branch review of the Foreign currency transactions hedge is effective. To the extent that the cash processing systems operation (CPS), hedge is ineffective, such differences are the Board concluded that whilst CPS These financial statements are presented has a good product profile and long term in sterling, which is the functional and recognised as finance income or costs in the income statement. Cumulative gains customer relationships, it did not believe presentational currency of the Company. that this is a business which should The functional currency of Group entities or losses in equity arising since the date of transition to Adopted IFRS are taken form part of the Group’s portfolio and is principally determined by the primary decided to exit this market subsequently economic environment in which the to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation. selling CPS on 22 May 2016. Therefore, respective entity operates. in the 26 March 2016 balance sheet in Transactions in foreign currencies entered line with the requirements of IFRS 5, into by Group entities are translated Revenue recognition where the carrying value of an asset into the functional currencies of those Group revenue predominantly represents will be recovered principally through entities at the rates of exchange at the sales to external customers of a sale transaction rather than through date of the transaction. Monetary assets manufactured products which fall within continuing use, the disposal group was and liabilities denominated in foreign the Group’s ordinary trading activities. been classified as an asset held for sale currencies at the balance sheet date are This excludes VAT and other sales taxes. on the balance sheet and the segment as translated at the rate of exchange ruling a discontinued operation. This treatment Revenue is recognised in the income was made with regard to the requirement at that date. Foreign exchange differences statement to the extent that it is probable for any disposal group to be immediately arising on translation are recognised that the economic benefits associated available for sale, the sale should be in the income statement. with the transaction will flow into the probable and expected to be completed Group and the amount can be reliably within the next 12 months. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 109 Critical accounting judgements Classification of exceptional items Presentation of disposal group Strategic report and key sources of estimation The Directors consider items of income held for sale uncertainty and expenditure which are both In the year to 26 March 2016, the Directors Management has discussed with the material by size and/or by nature and exercised judgement in assessing whether Audit Committee the development, non-recurring should be disclosed the criteria for recognising a disposal selection and disclosure of the Group’s separately in the financial statements group as held for sale were met in respect critical accounting policies and estimates so as to help provide an indication of the CPS business at the year end, and the application of these policies of the Group’s underlying business including whether a sale was considered Corporate governance and estimates. Management is required performance. The Directors label these highly probable. Further judgement to exercise significant judgement items collectively as ‘exceptional items’. was required in estimating fair value in the application of these policies. Determining which transactions are to less costs to sell when determining the Estimates are made in many areas be considered exceptional in nature remeasurement of assets and liabilities and the outcome may differ from is often a subjective matter. However, within the disposal group based on the that calculated. The key assumptions circumstances that the Directors believe lower of the carrying amount and fair value concerning the future and other key would give rise to exceptional items for less costs to sell. Refer to note 2 on page Accounts sources of estimation uncertainty at the separate disclosure would include: gains 112 for further details. balance sheet date that have a significant or losses on the disposal of businesses risk of causing a material adjustment (other than those within the scope of Business combinations to the carrying amounts of assets and IFRS 5), curtailments on defined benefit liabilities within the next financial year pension arrangements, restructuring During the year De La Rue has acquired are set out below. of businesses, asset impairments and of DuPont Authentication Inc (subsequently costs associated with the acquisition and renamed to De La Rue Authentication integration of business combinations. Solutions). Determination of the balance Revenue recognition All exceptional items are included in the sheet fair value of assets acquired is and cut-off in Currency appropriate income statement category dependent upon the understanding of Customer contracts within the Currency to which they relate. Refer to note 4 on the circumstances at acquisition and business will often include specific page 114 for further details. estimates of the future results of the terms that impact the timing of revenue acquired business and management recognition. The timing of the transfer judgement is a factor in making these of risks and rewards varies depending Post-retirement benefit obligations determinations. Refer to note 31 on page on the individual terms of the sales Pension costs within the income 146 for further details. agreement. For sales of products statement and the pension obligations and associated components, when as stated in the balance sheet are both dependent upon a number of Other accounting judgements, sold separately, the transfer usually assumptions chosen by management. estimates and assumptions occurs on loading the goods onto the relevant carrier or, at an earlier point These include the rate used to discount Tax in time when conditions are met for future liabilities, the expected longevity The Group is subject to income taxes recognition of revenue on a bill and for current and future pensioners and in numerous jurisdictions and significant hold basis. Judgement is used in estimates of future rates of inflation. judgement is required in determining interpreting these terms and conditions the worldwide provision for those taxes. The discount rate is the interest rate that in assessing when the risks and rewards The level of current and deferred tax should be used to determine the present have been transferred to the customer recognised is dependent on subjective value of estimated future cash outflows especially where they include complex judgements as to the outcome of expected to be required to settle the acceptance criteria. decisions to be made by the tax pension obligations. In determining authorities in the various tax jurisdictions the appropriate discount rate, the around the world in which the Group Valuation of inventory in Currency Group considers the interest rates of operates. It is necessary to consider which At any point in time, the Group has high quality corporate bonds that are deferred tax assets should be recognised significant levels of inventory, including denominated in the currency in which the based on an assessment of the extent to work in progress. Currency manufacturing benefits will be paid, and that have terms which they are regarded as recoverable, is a complex process and the final to maturity approximating to the terms of which involves assessment of the future product is required to be made to the related pension liability. See page 141 trading prospects of individual statutory exacting specifications and tolerance for detail of the relative sensitivity of the entities. The actual outcome may vary levels. In valuing the work in progress at value of the scheme liabilities to changes from that anticipated. Where the final tax the balance sheet date, assessments are in the discount and inflation rates. outcomes differ from the amounts initially made over the level of waste contained recorded, there will be impacts upon within the product based on the production Estimation of warranty provisions income tax and deferred tax provisions performance to date and past experience. and on the income statement in the period The Group measures warranty provisions In assessing the recoverability of finished in which such determination is made. at the Directors’ best estimate of the stock assessments are made to validate amount required to settle the obligation at The Group has current tax provisions that inventory is correctly stated at the the balance sheet date, discounted where recorded within Current tax liabilities, lower of cost and net realisable value the time value of money is considered in respect of uncertain tax positions. and that obsolete inventory, including material. These estimates take account of Provisions are recognised where there inventory in excess of requirements, available information, historical experience are specific uncertainties identified and is provided against. and the likelihood of different possible it is considered probable that there will outcomes. Both the amount and the be a future outflow of funds to a taxing maturity of these liabilities could be authority, and are measured based on different from those estimated. Refer to management’s best estimate of the note 18 on page 134 for further details. likely outcome. 110 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts 1 Segmental analysis The continuing operations of the Group have three main operating units: Currency, Identity Solutions and Product Authentication and Traceability. The Board, which is the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker, monitors the performance of the Group at this level and there are therefore three reportable segments. The principal financial information reviewed by the Board is revenue and adjusted operating profit. The Group’s segments are: • Currency – provides printed banknotes, banknote paper and polymer substrates and banknote security components • Identity Solutions – involved in the provision of passport, ePassport, national ID and eID, driving licence and voter registration schemes • Product Authentication and Traceability (previously Security Products) – produces security documents, including authentication labels, brand licensing products, government documents, cheques and postage stamps Inter-segmental transactions are eliminated upon consolidation. Reclassification of results between Product Authentication & Traceability and Identity Solutions Historically the results of one of the Group’s sites have been included in the PA&T segment as this segment represented the majority of its business. However, due to growth in IDS business within this site, the Chief Operating Decision Maker has started reviewing information including the results of this site split between IDS and PA&T. Therefore, in order to align the Group’s external reporting segments to the information reviewed internally the results of this site have been split in the current year between the IDS and PA&T segment. The 2015/16 figures have also been adjusted for comparability. Discontinued operations – The Cash Processing Solutions operation, primarily focused on the production of large banknote sorters and authentication machines for central banks. The business was disposed on 22 May 2016 (see Note 2). Product Authentication Total of Identity and Continuing Discontinued Currency Solutions Traceability Unallocated operations operations Total 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Total revenue 350.6 80.6 34.6 – 465.8 4.9 470.7 Less: inter-segment revenue (1.1) – (3.0) – (4.1) – (4.1) Revenue 349.5 80.6 31.6 – 461.7 4.9 466.6 Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 50.3 11.4 9.0 – 70.7 (2.3) 68.4 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1) Exceptional items – operating (note 4 and 2) 1.9 – (0.9) (1.4) (0.4) (4.1) (4.5) Operating profit/(loss) 52.2 11.4 8.0 (1.4) 70.2 (6.4) 63.8 Net interest expense (4.6) (4.6) – (4.6) Retirement benefit obligations net finance expense (7.4) (7.4) – (7.4) Profit/(loss) before taxation 58.2 (6.4) 51.8 Segment assets 243.4 46.3 23.1 137.9 450.7 – 450.7 Segment liabilities (113.0) (30.3) (10.4) (443.6) (597.3) – (597.3) Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 13.1 4.5 2.6 3.3 23.5 – 23.5 Capital expenditure on intangible assets 2.1 0.6 0.1 – 2.8 – 2.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.6 3.3 1.5 1.9 24.3 – 24.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment – – – – – – – Amortisation of intangible assets 1.7 0.6 0.2 – 2.5 – 2.5 Impairment of intangible assets – – – – – – – Unallocated assets principally comprise deferred tax assets of £43.7m (2015/16: £41.6m), cash and cash equivalents of £15.4m (2015/16: £40.5m) which are used as part of the Group’s financing offset arrangements and derivative financial instrument assets of £15.9m (2015/16: £17.1m) as well as current tax assets, associates and centrally managed property, plant and equipment. Unallocated liabilities principally comprise retirement benefit obligations of £239.4m (2015/16: £219.9m), borrowings of £136.3m (2015/16: £146.6m), current tax liabilities of £19.6m (2015/16: £17.6m) and derivative financial instrument liabilities of £8.3m (2015/16: £13.4m) as well as deferred tax liabilities and centrally held accruals and provisions. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 111 1 Segmental analysis continued Strategic report Product Authentication Total of Identity and Continuing Discontinued Currency Solutions Traceability Unallocated operations operations Total 2016 (restated) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Total revenue 353.3 76.5 28.8 – 458.6 33.9 492.5 Less: inter-segment revenue (0.8) – (3.3) – (4.1) (0.2) (4.3) Corporate governance Revenue 352.5 76.5 25.5 – 454.5 33.7 488.2 Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 55.1 8.3 7.0 – 70.4 (7.9) 62.5 Exceptional items – operating (note 4 and 2) (13.1) – (0.5) 10.0 (3.6) (26.0) (29.6) Operating profit/(loss) 42.0 8.3 6.5 10.0 66.8 (33.9) 32.9 Net interest expense (4.8) (4.8) (0.2) (5.0) Accounts Retirement benefit obligations net finance expense (7.1) (7.1) – (7.1) Profit/(loss) before taxation 54.9 (34.1) 20.8 Segment assets 238.4 43.8 15.9 143.3 441.4 11.2 452.6 Segment liabilities (119.4) (28.6) (5.3) (434.4) (587.7) (10.5) (598.2) Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 11.1 0.2 1.7 3.5 16.5 – 16.5 Capital expenditure on intangible assets 3.3 1.4 0.3 – 5.0 0.3 5.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.0 2.6 1.4 2.0 23.0 – 23.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5.2 – – – 5.2 – 5.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.2 0.7 0.1 – 3.0 0.2 3.2 Impairment of intangible assets – – – – – 5.6 5.6 Analysis of revenue by activity 2017 2016 £m £m Goods 457.7 446.6 Services 4.0 7.9 461.7 454.5 Geographic analysis of revenue by origin 2017 2016 £m £m UK 414.5 434.5 Other countries 47.2 20.0 461.7 454.5 Geographic analysis of non-current assets 2017 2016 £m £m UK 139.1 142.2 Malta 23.2 20.7 USA 18.7 – Sri Lanka 14.2 15.1 Other countries 3.0 2.5 198.2 180.5 Deferred tax assets and derivative financial instruments are excluded from the analysis shown above. Major customers The Group has a major customer from which it derived revenues of £47.2m in the Currency unit (2015/16: £120.4m from the Currency and Cash Processing Solution units). 112 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 2 Discontinued operation held for sale The Group completed the sale of the entire issued share capital of Cash Processing Solutions Limited and related subsidiaries (together ‘CPS’) to CPS Topco Limited, a company owned by Privet Capital on 22 May 2016. Under the terms of the agreement, De La Rue received £2.1m upon completion of the transaction plus an additional £0.8m is receivable relating to a closing working capital adjustment. In addition, deferred consideration totalling £1.5m is payable on two equal instalments on the first and second anniversaries of the transaction. The Group is also entitled to further contingent consideration following the sale of up to £6m if certain performance related and event driven milestones are achieved by CPS. No pension liability transferred as part of the disposal. Results of the discontinued operation including the disposal group held for sale 2017 2016 Notes £m £m Revenue 1 4.9 33.7 Operating expenses – ordinary (7.2) (41.6) Operating expenses – exceptional (4.1) (26.0) Total operating expenses (11.3) (67.6) Operating loss (6.4) (33.9) Comprising: Adjusted operating (loss) (2.3) (7.9) Exceptional items 1 (4.1) (26.0) Loss before interest and taxation (6.4) (33.9) Interest income 1 – – Interest expense 1 – (0.2) Net finance expense – (0.2) Loss before taxation 1 (6.4) (34.1) Comprising: Adjusted loss before tax (2.3) (8.1) Exceptional items (4.1) (26.0) Taxation 6 (1.6) 3.1 Loss from discontinued operations (8.0) (31.0) Comprising: Adjusted (loss) for the year (2.2) (7.2) (Loss) for the year on exceptional items (5.8) (23.8) Assets/liabilities held for sale/disposal group 2017 2016 £m £m Assets classified as held for sale Intangible assets – – Derivative financial assets – 0.2 Inventories – – Trade and other receivables – 11.0 – 11.2 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 113 2 Discontinued operation held for sale continued Strategic report 2017 2016 £m £m Liabilities classified as held for sale Trade and other payables – (10.0) Derivative financial liabilities – (0.3) Provisions for liabilities and charges – (0.2) Corporate governance – (10.5) Cash flows from discontinued operation held for sale 2017 2016 £m £m Accounts Net cash from operating activities 5.1 (3.3) Net cash from investing activities – (0.3) Net cash from financing activities (0.1) (0.1) Net cash from/(used in) discontinued operations held for sale 5.0 (3.7) Exceptional items on discontinued operations 2017 2016 £m £m Site closures and restructuring – (2.6) Remeasurement of carrying value following classification as an asset for sale – (23.4) Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (4.1) – Exceptional items (4.1) (26.0) Tax (charge)/credit on exceptional items (1.7) 2.2 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 2017 2016 £m £m Amounts paid/payable by purchaser 4.4 – Disposal costs paid/accrued (4.2) – Reserves recycled on disposal (4.5) – Net assets and liabilities disposed 0.2 – Total exceptional items (loss on disposal) (4.1) – Site closure and restructuring costs in 2015/16 were £2.6m comprising £0.7m in staff compensation, and £1.9m for site exit costs. In 2015/2016 asset impairments of £23.4m arising on the remeasurement of the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell have been recognised. The impairment related to intangibles of £1.6m, goodwill of £4.0m and inventories of £17.8m. The cash costs for exceptional items in the period was £2.5m (2015/16: £1.0m). Tax charges relating to the exceptional items arising in the period were £1.7m (2015/16 £0.3m credit). 2015/16 also included an exceptional credit of £1.9m in respect of the determination of the tax treatment of prior year discontinued operations. Accumulated foreign currency translation gains and losses within the disposal group held for sale The Group has accumulated foreign currency translation gains and losses in relation to the entities included within the disposal group. IAS 21 requires recycling of these foreign currency translation gains or losses, which have previously been taken direct to reserves, through the income statement at the point of disposal. At 26 March 2016 these foreign exchange gains or losses had not been recycled. 114 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 3 Expenses by nature 2017 2016 £m £m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 130.9 151.4 Net (decrease)/increase in impairment of inventories (0.6) (12.3) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 24.3 23.0 Asset impairment charge – 5.2 Amortisation of intangibles 2.5 3.0 Operating leases: – Hire of plant and equipment 0.3 0.4 – Hire of property 2.5 1.9 Amounts payable to KPMG and its associates: – Audit of these consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 – Audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 – Taxation services 0.2 0.1 Research and non-capitalised development expense 10.4 9.0 (Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1.4) 7.6 Employee costs (including Directors’ emoluments) (note 24)* 136.1 149.3 Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (12.4) (5.5) * Employee costs include both continuing and discontinued operations for 2016. 4 Exceptional items Accounting Policies Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where the Directors consider it necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount. 2017 2016 £m £m Site relocation and restructuring (0.2) (9.2) Sale of land 0.2 9.5 Warranty provisions 0.5 1.3 Asset Impairment – (5.2) Acquisition related (0.9) – Exceptional items in operating profit (0.4) (3.6) Tax credit on exceptional items 0.6 2.3 Site relocation and restructuring costs Site relocation and restructuring costs in 2016/17 were £0.2m net (2015/16: £9.2m net) and included charges of £1.7m including staff compensation costs related to the redesign of the organisation structure which was offset by a credit of £1.4m in relation to the manufacturing footprint review announced in December 2015 which planed to reduce our core banknote print production capacity from eight billion to six billion notes a year. As noted in Note 18 ‘Provisions for liabilities and charges’, in November 2016 we announced a refinement to that plan which resulted in a change in the total estimate for the associated site relocation and reorganisation costs resulting in a credit to the Income Statement which has been recorded as an exceptional item consistent to the original presentation in the Annual Report. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 115 4 Exceptional items continued Strategic report Sale of land The gain in 2015/16 related to the sale of surplus land in Overton which generated a profit of £9.5m. Gains of £0.2m in the current year relate to several individually small land sales. Warranty provisions Surplus warranty provisions of £0.5m in 2016/17 (2015/16: £1.3m) have been credited to exceptional items consistent to where Corporate governance the cost of the original provisions was presented in the Annual Report. Asset impairments In 2015/16 following a review of capitalised assets, £5.2m of tangible assets within the Currency segment were written down representing assets linked with specific products whose future income streams are forecast to be insufficient to support the current carrying value. Accounts Acquisition related De La Rue has incurred costs of £0.9m related to the acquisition of DuPont Authentication Inc during 2016/17. These acquisition related costs include £0.5m of professional advisor fees. In addition an amount of £0.4m has been recorded in exceptional items relating to the ‘unwind’ of the fair value adjustment to acquired inventory recognised on the opening day balance sheet as the related inventory was fully sold by year end. The Directors’ believe that this non-cash item is distortive to underlying profit levels compared to the expected cost of inventories recognised as an expense for this subsidiary going forward. Net cash cost of exceptional items The net cash cost of exceptional items for continuing operations in the period was £3.3m (2015/16: £12.5m). £0.8m of the cash cost of exceptional items related to prior periods and primarily to payment of items associated with site relocations and restructuring. Tax credits relating to exceptional items Tax credits relating to continuing exceptional items arising in the period were £0.6m (2015/16 £2.3m). 5 Interest income and expense Accounting Policies Interest income/expense is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial asset/ liability to the net carrying amount of that asset/liability. 2017 2016 £m £m Recognised in the income statement Interest income: – Cash and cash equivalents – 0.1 Interest expense: – Bank loans (3.7) (3.7) – Other, including amortisation of finance arrangement fees (0.9) (1.2) Total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method (4.6) (4.9) Retirement benefit obligation net finance expense (note 23) (7.4) (7.1) All finance income and expense arises in respect of assets and liabilities not restated to fair value through the income statement. The gain to the income statement in respect of the ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments was £nil (2015/16: £nil). 116 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 6 Taxation Accounting Policies The tax expense included in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, including adjustments in respect of prior periods, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, or result from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an asset and settle a liability simultaneously. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 117 6 Taxation continued Strategic report 2017 2016 £m £m Consolidated income statement Current tax UK corporation tax: – Current tax 8.4 8.3 Corporate governance – Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.6) (0.1) 7.8 8.2 Overseas tax charges: – Current year 3.7 2.2 – Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.2) (0.7) Accounts 3.5 1.5 Total current income tax charge 11.3 9.7 Deferred tax: – Origination and reversal of temporary differences, UK (0.7) (3.3) – Origination and reversal of temporary differences, overseas (0.3) (0.1) Total deferred tax (credit) (1.0) (3.4) Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement in respect of continuing operations 8.7 6.3 Income tax expense/(credit) in respect of discontinued operations (note 2) 1.6 (3.1) Total income tax charge in the consolidated income statement 10.3 3.2 Tax on continuing operations attributable to: – Ordinary activities 9.3 8.6 – Exceptional items (0.6) (2.3) Tax on discontinued operations attributable to: – Ordinary activities (0.1) (0.9) – Exceptional items 1.7 (2.2) Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: – On remeasurement of net defined benefit liability (2.3) 5.4 – On cash flow hedges (0.1) 1.4 – On foreign exchange on quasi-equity balances (0.1) 0.4 Income tax (credit)/charge reported within other comprehensive income (2.5) 7.2 Consolidated statement of changes in equity: – On share options (1.0) 0.3 Income tax charge reported within equity (1.0) 0.3 The tax on the Group’s consolidated profit before tax differs from the UK tax rate of 20 per cent as follows: 2017 2016 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Profit before tax 58.7 (0.4) 58.3 58.5 (3.6) 54.9 Tax calculated at UK tax rate of 20 per cent (2015/16: 20 per cent) 11.7 (0.1) 11.6 11.7 (0.7) 11.0 Effects of overseas taxation (0.1) – (0.1) (1.1) – (1.1) (Credits)/charges not allowable for tax purposes (1.8) (0.5) (2.3) (1.5) 0.8 (0.7) (Utilisation)/increase in unrecognised tax losses (0.1) – (0.1) – (1.9) (1.9) Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) (0.5) (0.6) Change in UK tax rate (0.3) – (0.3) (0.4) – (0.4) Tax charge/(credit) 9.3 (0.6) 8.7 8.6 (2.3) 6.3 The underlying effective tax rate was 15.8 per cent (2015/16: 14.7 per cent). 118 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 7 Earnings per share Accounting Policies Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust which are treated as cancelled. For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted for the impact of the dilutive effect of share options. The Directors are of the opinion that the publication of the adjusted earnings per share, before exceptional items, is useful to readers of the accounts as it gives an indication of underlying business performance. 2017 2017 2016 2016 Continuing Discontinued 2017 Continuing Discontinued 2016 operations operations Total operations operations Total pence per pence per pence per pence per pence per pence per share share share share share share Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 47.2 (7.9) 39.3 46.8 (30.6) 16.2 Diluted earnings per share 46.6 (7.8) 38.8 46.2 (30.2) 16.0 Adjusted earnings per share Basic earnings per share 47.1 (2.3) 44.8 48.1 (7.1) 41.0 Diluted earnings per share 46.5 (2.2) 44.3 47.5 (7.0) 40.5 Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Earnings 2017 2017 2016 2016 Continuing Discontinued 2017 Continuing Discontinued 2016 operations operations Total operations operations Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 47.9 (8.0) 39.9 47.4 (31.0) 16.4 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.1 – 0.1 Exceptional items 0.4 4.0 4.4 3.6 26.0 29.6 Less: tax on exceptional items (0.6) 1.7 1.1 (2.3) (2.2) (4.5) Earnings for adjusted earnings per share 47.8 (2.3) 45.5 48.7 (7.2) 41.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 2017 2016 Number Number m m For basic earnings per share 101.6 101.3 Dilutive effect of share options 1.2 1.3 For diluted earnings per share 102.8 102.6 8 Equity dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting. Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid. 2017 2016 £m £m Final dividend for the period ended 28 March 2015 of 16.7p paid on 1 August 2015 – 16.9 Interim dividend for the period ended 26 September 2015 of 8.3p paid on 6 January 2016 – 8.4 Final dividend for the period ended 26 March 2016 of 16.7p paid on 3 August 2016 16.9 – Interim dividend for the period ended 24 September 2016 of 8.3p paid on 11 January 2017 8.5 – 25.4 25.3 A final dividend per equity share of 16.7p has been proposed for the period ended 25 March 2017. If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid on 3 August 2017 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 30 June 2017. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 119 Strategic report 9 Property, plant and equipment Accounting Policies Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated provision for impairment in value. Assets in the course of construction are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date. No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated useful Corporate governance economic lives of 50 years. Other leasehold interests are depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease and 50 years. The Group’s policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful life at rates which vary between 4 per cent and 50 per cent per annum. The principal annual rate of depreciation used is 10 per cent on plant and machinery and on fixtures and fittings. No depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction. Accounts Depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end, taking into account commercial and technical obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, provision being made where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount. Where borrowing costs are attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, such costs are capitalised as part of the specific asset. Land and Plant and Fixtures and In course of buildings machinery fittings construction Total £m £m £m £m £m Cost At 28 March 2015 64.8 349.7 30.1 18.7 463.3 Exchange differences 0.4 4.9 0.3 0.2 5.8 Additions – 7.0 0.2 9.3 16.5 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 0.2 14.8 1.6 (16.6) – Disposals (0.1) (5.4) (2.3) (1.6) (9.4) Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (3.8) (1.6) (3.8) – (9.2) At 26 March 2016 61.5 369.4 26.1 10.0 467.0 Exchange differences 0.2 6.8 0.3 0.2 7.5 Additions 0.2 6.2 0.2 16.9 23.5 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 2.3 2.3 1.3 (5.9) – Disposals – (5.5) (4.0) (1.5) (11.0) Acquisitions (see note 31) – 2.1 – – 2.1 At 25 March 2017 64.2 381.3 23.9 19.7 489.1 Accumulated depreciation At 28 March 2015 28.8 234.5 20.7 – 284.0 Exchange differences 0.3 3.8 0.1 – 4.2 Depreciation charge for the year 1.6 19.4 2.0 – 23.0 Impairment – 5.2 – – 5.2 Disposals – (4.9) (2.3) – (7.2) Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (3.8) (1.6) (3.8) – (9.2) At 26 March 2016 26.9 256.4 16.7 – 300.0 Exchange differences 0.1 5.6 0.2 – 5.9 Depreciation charge for the year 1.7 19.6 3.0 – 24.3 Impairment – – – – – Disposals – (4.5) (3.8) – (8.3) At 25 March 2017 28.7 277.1 16.1 – 321.9 Net book value at 25 March 2017 35.5 104.2 7.8 19.7 167.2 Net book value at 28 March 2016 34.6 113.0 9.4 10.0 167.0 Net book value at 29 March 2015 36.0 115.2 9.4 18.7 179.3 120 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 10 Intangible assets Accounting Policies All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired. After initial recognition, goodwill is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. At the date of acquisition, the goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment or when there are indications of impairment. Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill, and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in investments in associates. Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset. Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 (the date of transition to IFRS) has been retained at the previous amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Other intangible assets Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Software intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis over the shorter of their useful economic life or their licence period at rates which vary between three and five years. Expenditure incurred in the development of products or enhancements to existing product ranges is capitalised as an intangible asset only when the future economic benefits expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be reliably measured. Development costs not meeting these criteria are expensed in the income statement as incurred. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, which vary between five and ten years, once the product or enhancement is available for use. Product research costs are written off as incurred. Distribution rights are capitalised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses and are amortised over their useful economic lives as determined by the life of the products to which they relate. Intangible assets purchased through a business combination are recognised separately from goodwill and are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost). Subsequent to initial acquisition, intangible assets acquired through a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately. Intellectual property is amortised over its expected life of 15 years. Customer relationships are amortised over their expected lives of 15 to 20 years. Trade names are amortised over their expected lives of 15 years. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 121 10 Intangible assets continued Strategic report Development Software Distribution Intellectual Customer Trade Goodwill costs assets rights property relationships Names Total £m £m £m £m £m Cost At 28 March 2015 7.7 34.0 9.7 0.4 – – – 51.8 Exchange differences 0.4 0.7 – – – – – 1.1 Corporate governance Additions – 3.0 2.3 – – – – 5.3 Disposals – – (2.5) – – – – (2.5) Transferred to assets classified as held for resale (8.1) (16.7) – (0.3) – – – (25.1) At 26 March 2016 – 21.0 9.5 0.1 – – – 30.6 Exchange differences (0.1) – 0.2 – (0.1) – – – Accounts Additions – 2.1 0.7 – – – – 2.8 Disposals – – (0.4) – – – – (0.4) Acquisitions (see note 31) 9.8 – – – 4.6 2.3 0.3 17.0 At 25 March 2017 9.7 23.1 10.0 0.1 4.5 2.3 0.3 50.0 Accumulated amortisation At 28 March 2015 3.7 23.4 7.7 0.4 – – – 35.2 Exchange differences 0.4 0.5 (0.1) – – – – 0.8 Amortisation for the year – 2.4 0.8 – – – – 3.2 Disposals – – (2.5) – – – – (2.5) Transferred to assets classified as held for resale (4.1) (15.1) – (0.3) – – – (19.5) At 26 March 2016 – 11.2 5.9 0.1 – – – 17.2 Exchange differences – – (0.2) – – – – (0.2) Amortisation for the year – 1.7 0.7 – 0.1 – – 2.5 Disposals – – (0.4) – – – – (0.4) At 25 March 2017 – 12.9 6.0 0.1 0.1 – – 19.1 Carrying value at 25 March 2017 9.7 10.2 4.0 – 4.4 2.3 0.3 30.9 Carrying value at 26 March 2016 – 9.8 3.6 – – – – 13.4 Carrying value at 28 March 2015 4.0 10.6 2.0 – – – – 16.6 122 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 10 Intangible assets continued Accounting Policies Impairment testing The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet ready for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In addition, goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. Impairment tests are performed for all Cash Generating Units (CGUs) to which goodwill has been allocated at the balance sheet date or whenever there is indication of impairment. For all other intangible assets, an impairment test is performed whenever an indicator of impairment exists. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use and, in the case of goodwill, is not subsequently reversed. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. For other intangible assets, at each balance sheet date an assessment is made to determine whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer exist or has decreased. Where such an indication exists, an impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Development costs with a carrying value of £1.6m have been transferred to assets held for sale to be included within the disposal group. See note 2 for further details. Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs identified according to business segment. Acquisition amounts of £9.8m during 2016/17 relate to the Group’s purchase of DuPont Authentication Inc (see note 31 for further details). In 2015/16 £4.0m of goodwill which related to the acquisition of CSI Inc, a provider of cash processing systems, in 2001 was transferred to assets held for sale and was included within the disposal group. See note 2 for further details. 11 Inventories Accounting Policies Inventories and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a weighted average cost basis and comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs, including direct labour and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing those inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion and selling costs. 2017 2016 £m £m Raw materials 26.9 29.1 Work in progress 17.4 17.8 Finished goods 23.5 20.2 67.8 67.1 The replacement cost of inventories is not materially different from original cost. An income statement charge in respect of the recognition of inventory provisions of £1.7m was recognised in operating expenses – ordinary in 2016/17 (2015/16: £1.2m). The Group also reversed provisions of £2.3m (2015/16: £13.6m), being provisions against inventory that was subsequently utilised or sold. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 123 Strategic report 12 Trade and other receivables Accounting Policies Trade and other receivables are measured at cost net of allowances for impairments, which approximates to fair value. 2017 2016 £m £m Corporate governance Trade receivables 92.5 81.1 Provision for impairment (3.0) (3.5) Net trade receivables 89.5 77.6 Other receivables 13.1 11.1 Prepayments 7.1 4.8 Accounts 109.7 93.5 There is no other concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers, internationally dispersed. The ageing of trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) at the reporting date was: Gross Impairment Gross Impairment 2017 2017 2016 2016 £m £m £m £m Not past due 45.9 – 54.6 (0.4) Past due 0-30 days 29.6 – 6.6 – Past due 31-120 days 13.4 (0.2) 22.6 (0.1) Past due more than 120 days 16.7 (2.8) 8.4 (3.0) 105.6 (3.0) 92.2 (3.5) The provision for impairment in respect of trade receivables is used to record losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible; at that point the amounts considered irrecoverable are written off against the financial asset directly. The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2017 2016 £m £m Balance at beginning of year (3.5) (3.8) Impairment losses recognised (0.6) (2.3) Impairment losses reversed 1.1 1.8 Transferred to assets held for resale – 0.8 Balance at end of year (3.0) (3.5) Amounts can go past due before collection in situations where the customer may have raised queries over contractual compliance. Such issues arise in the normal course of business and are routinely addressed to the satisfaction of the customer. The Group believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due by more than 30 days are still collectible in full, based on historic payment behaviour and analysis of customer credit risk, including underlying customers’ credit ratings if they are available. 124 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 13 Financial risk Financial risk management Overview The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, the most significant of which are liquidity risk, market risk and credit risk. The Group’s financial risk management policies are established and reviewed regularly to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s risk management policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk management strategy. The Group’s treasury department is responsible for the management of these financial risks faced by the Group. Group treasury identifies, evaluates and in certain cases hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. Group treasury provides written principles for overall financial risk management as well as policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, use of derivative financial instruments and the investment of excess liquidity. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities where due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group manages this risk by ensuring that it maintains sufficient levels of committed borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents. The level of headroom needed is reviewed annually as part of the Group’s planning process. A maturity analysis of the carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings is shown below in the reporting of financial risk section together with associated fair values. Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, including forward contracts and swaps to hedge its risk to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates with the objective of controlling market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. Derivative financial instruments are only used for hedging purposes. (a) Currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities, unrecognised firm commitments and investments in foreign operations. To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with Group treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each currency via foreign exchange contracts transacted with financial institutions. The Group’s risk management policy aims to hedge firm commitments in full, and between 60 per cent and 100 per cent of forecast exposures in each major currency for the subsequent 12 months to the extent that forecast transactions are highly probable. The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. The Group’s policy is to manage the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies and through foreign currency swaps. The Group’s policy is not to hedge net investments in subsidiaries or the translation of profits or losses generated in overseas subsidiaries. (b) Interest rate risk All material financial assets and liabilities are maintained at floating rates of interest. Where the Group has forecast average levels of net debt above £50m on a continuing basis, the policy is to use floating to fixed interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate on a minimum of 50 per cent of the Group’s forecast average levels of net debt for a period of at least 12 months. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 125 13 Financial risk continued Strategic report Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk. Geographically, there is no concentration of credit risk. Where appropriate, letters of credit are used Corporate governance to mitigate the credit risk from customers. The Group has established a credit policy that ensures that sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. The Group has a policy to procure advance payments during order negotiation which further reduces credit risk. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high credit quality financial institutions and the Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution. Accounts Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The gain or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised in the income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement. However, if the hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts accumulated in equity on the hedging instrument are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, for forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise. Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in net income. Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative or, for non-derivatives, the foreign currency component of its carrying value, are recognised in net income. Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value. Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives are reported in the income statement within revenue or operating expenses in line with the host contract. 126 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 13 Financial risk continued Fair values The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: Fair value – Fair value – Total fair Carrying discontinued Continued Total fair Carrying Fair value value amount operations operations value amount measurement 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 basis £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial assets Trade and other receivables1 102.6 102.6 10.8 88.7 99.5 99.5 Cash and cash equivalents 15.4 15.4 – 40.5 40.5 40.5 Derivative financial instruments: –F  orward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges Level 2 4.5 4.5 – 5.0 5.0 5.0 – Short duration swap contracts designated as fair value hedges Level 2 0.2 0.2 – 0.1 0.1 0.1 –F oreign exchange fair value hedges – other economic hedges Level 2 0.9 0.9 0.1 3.6 3.7 3.7 – Embedded derivatives Level 2 10.3 10.3 0.1 8.2 8.3 8.3 – Interest rate swaps Level 2 – – – – – – Total financial assets 133.9 133.9 11.0 146.1 157.1 157.1 Financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts (136.3) (136.3) – (146.6) (146.6) (146.6) Trade and other payables2 (61.6) (61.6) (1.8) (61.3) (63.1) (63.1) Derivative financial instruments: –F  orward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges Level 2 (1.6) (1.6) – (1.8) (1.8) (1.8) –S  hort duration swap contracts designated as fair value hedges Level 2 (0.1) (0.1) – (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) –F  oreign exchange fair value hedges – other economic hedges Level 2 (5.5) (5.5) (0.3) (10.1) (10.4) (10.4) – Embedded derivatives Level 2 (0.7) (0.7) – (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) – Interest rate swaps Level 2 (0.4) (0.4) – (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) Total financial liabilities (206.2) (206.2) (2.1) (221.1) (223.2) (223.2) 1 Excluding prepayments. 2 Excluding accrued expenses, deferred income and payments received on account. Fair value measurement basis for derivative financial instruments Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. The valuation bases are classified according to the degree of estimation required in arriving at the fair values. Level 1 valuations are derived from unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets, level 2 valuations use observable inputs for the assets or liabilities other than quoted prices, while level 3 valuations are not based on observable market data and are subject to management estimates. There has been no movement between levels during the current or prior periods. Forward exchange contracts used for hedging The fair value of forward exchange contracts has been determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps are measured by reference to third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves in effect at the balance sheet date. Embedded derivatives The fair value of embedded derivatives is calculated based on the present value of forecast future exposures on relevant sales and purchase contracts and using quoted forward foreign exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 127 13 Financial risk continued Strategic report Determination of fair values of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities Non-derivative financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value and changes therein, including any interest, are recognised in profit or loss. Directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Non‑derivative financial assets not classified as at fair value through profit or loss are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence of impairment. Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. Corporate governance Subsequent to initial recognition, these liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Hedge reserves The hedge reserve balance on 25 March 2017 was £2.0m, (26 March 2016: (£2.3m)). Net movements in the hedge reserve are shown in the Group statement of changes in equity. Comprehensive loss after tax was £0.3m comprising a loss of £7.8m of fair value movements on new and continuing cash flow Accounts hedges, a gain of £0.2m on maturing cash flow hedges for capital expenditure and a £8.0m gain to the income statement to match the recognition of the related cash flows in effective cash flow hedge relationships. Deferred tax on the net gain of £0.4m amounted to £0.1m. £0.1m of the (£1.4m) operating expense relates to discontinued operations for 2016. Hedge reserve movements in the income statement were as follows: Operating Interest Revenue expense expense Total £m £m £m £m 25 March 2017 – Maturing cash flow hedges (2.1) 10.1 – 8.0 – Ineffectiveness on de-recognition of cash flow hedges – – – – (2.1) 10.1 – 8.0 26 March 2016 – Maturing cash flow hedges (0.2) (1.4) – (1.6) – Ineffectiveness on de-recognition of cash flow hedges – – – – (0.2) (1.4) – (1.6) The ineffective portion of fair value hedges that was recognised in the income statement amounted to £nil (2015/16: £nil). The ineffective portion of cash flow hedges that was recognised in the income statement was £nil (2015/16: £nil). Liquidity risk The following are the contractual undiscounted cash flow maturities of financial liabilities, including contractual interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements. Total Impact of Due within Due between Due between undiscounted discounting Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years cash flows and netting amount 25 March 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts 136.3 – – 136.3 – 136.3 Derivative financial liabilities Gross amount payable from currency derivatives: – Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges 101.4 0.9 0.2 102.5 (100.9) 1.6 – Short duration swap contracts designated as fair value hedges 14.4 – – 14.4 (14.3) 0.1 – Fair value hedges – other economic hedges 99.9 2.4 – 102.3 (96.8) 5.5 Interest rate swaps 0.2 0.2 – 0.4 – 0.4 352.2 3.5 0.2 355.9 (212.0) 143.9 128 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 13 Financial risk continued Liquidity risk continued Total Impact of Due within Due between Due between undiscounted discounting Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years cash flows and netting amount 26 March 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts 146.6 – – 146.6 – 146.6 Derivative financial liabilities Gross amount payable from currency derivatives: –F orward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges 42.0 0.2 – 42.2 (40.4) 1.8 – Short duration swap contracts designated as fair value hedges 48.6 – – 48.6 (48.3) 0.3 – Fair value hedges – other economic hedges 148.7 19.3 2.1 170.1 (160.0) 10.1 Interest rate swaps 0.3 – – 0.3 – 0.3 386.2 19.5 2.1 407.8 (248.7) 159.1 The following are the contractual undiscounted cash flow maturities of financial assets, including contractual interest receipts and excluding the impact of netting agreements. Total Impact of Due within Due between Due between undiscounted discounting Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years cash flows and netting amount 25 March 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-derivative financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 15.4 – – 15.4 – 15.4 Derivative financial assets Gross amount receivable from currency derivatives: –F orward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges 128.7 1.8 – 130.5 (126.0) 4.5 –S hort duration swap contracts designated as fair value hedges 58.5 – – 58.5 (58.3) 0.2 – Fair value hedges – other economic hedges 69.5 2.5 0.2 72.2 (71.3) 0.9 Interest rate swaps – – – – – – 272.1 4.3 0.2 276.6 (255.6) 21.0 Total Impact of Due within Due between Due between undiscounted discounting Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years cash flows and netting amount 26 March 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-derivative financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 40.5 – – 40.5 – 40.5 Derivative financial assets Gross amount receivable from currency derivatives: –F  orward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges 102.8 5.0 – 107.8 (102.8) 5.0 – Short duration swap contracts designated as fair value hedges 31.6 – – 31.6 (31.5) 0.1 – Fair value hedges – other economic hedges 66.2 0.5 – 66.7 (63.1) 3.6 Interest rate swaps – – – – – – 241.1 5.5 – 246.6 (197.4) 49.2 The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 129 13 Financial risk continued Strategic report Liquidity risk continued Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other current receivables, bank loans and overdrafts, trade payables and other current liabilities have fair values that approximate to their carrying amounts due to their short-term nature. As at 25 March 2017, the Group has a total of undrawn committed borrowing facilities, all maturing in more than one year, of £118.0m (26 March 2016: £106.0m in more than one year). The amount of loans drawn on the £250.0m facility is £132.0m (26 March 2016: £144.0m). Guarantees of £nil (26 March 2016: £nil) have been drawn using the facility. Corporate governance On 27 April 2017, the Group extended the existing £250m revolving credit facility by two years to a maturity date of December 2021. It is subject to the same financial covenants which require that the ratio of EBIT to net interest payable be greater than four times and the net debt to EBITDA ratio be less than three times. At the period end the specific covenant tests were as follows: EBIT/net interest payable of 16.1 times, net debt/EBITDA of 1.27 times. Forward foreign exchange contracts The net principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 25 March 2017 are US dollar 16.8m, Accounts euro 6.0m, Swiss franc (37.7m), Japanese yen (1.1bn), Canadian dollar (0.8m), and Hong Kong dollar 10.9m. The net principal amounts outstanding under forward contracts with maturities greater than 12 months are euro 0.6m, US dollar 5.9m and Hong Kong dollar 10.9m. These forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges as appropriate. Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts at 25 March 2017 will be released to the income statement at various dates between one month and 27 months from the balance sheet date. Short duration swap contracts (i) Cash management swaps The Group uses short duration currency swaps to manage the level of borrowings in foreign currencies. The fair value of cash management currency swaps at 25 March 2017 was £nil (2015/16: £nil). Gains and losses on cash management swaps are included in the consolidated income statement. The principal amounts outstanding under cash management currency swaps at 25 March 2017 are US dollar 7.7m, euro 6.8m, Swiss franc (7.1m), South African rand 12.8m, Australian dollar 0.1m, Japanese yen 24.6m and Canadian dollar 0.2m, Hong Kong dollar 2.6m. (ii) Balance sheet swaps The Group uses short duration currency swaps to manage the translational exposure of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The fair value of balance sheet swaps as at 25 March 2017 was £0.1m (2015/16: (£0.2m)). Gains and losses on balance sheet swaps are included in the consolidated income statement. The principal amounts outstanding under balance sheet swaps at 25 March 2017 are US dollar 48.9m, euro (15.1m), Swiss franc 0.9m, South African rand 7.0m. Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives relate to sales and purchase contracts denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the customer/supplier, or a currency that is not deemed to be a commonly used currency of the country in which the customer/ supplier is based. The net fair value of embedded derivatives at 25 March 2017 was £9.6m (2015/16: £7.5m). Gains and losses on fair value hedges The gains and losses recognised in the year on the Group’s fair value hedges were £0.2m relating to balance sheet hedges (2015/16: (£0.1m)), (£12.5m) relating to other fair value hedges (2015/16: £2.2m), and £nil relating to cash management hedges (2015/16: £nil). Market risk: Currency risk Exposure to currency risk The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Reporting date spot rate 2017 2016 2017 2016 US dollar 1.32 1.50 1.25 1.41 Euro 1.20 1.36 1.16 1.27 130 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 13 Financial risk continued Market risk: Currency risk continued Sensitivity analysis A 10 per cent strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at 25 March 2017 and 26 March 2016 would have increased/(decreased) profit or loss by the amounts shown below, based on the Group’s external monetary assets and liabilities. 2017 2016 £m £m US dollar (3.3) (2.9) Euro (0.8) (1.2) A 10 per cent weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 25 March 2017 and 26 March 2016 would have had the following effect: 2017 2016 £m £m US dollar 4.0 3.5 Euro 1.0 1.4 The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2015/16. Interest rate risk At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest bearing financial instruments was: Carrying amount 2017 2016 £m £m Variable rate instruments Financial assets 15.4 40.5 Financial liabilities (136.3) (146.6) (120.9) (106.1) At the year ending 25 March 2017 the Group had sterling 65m of floating to fixed interest rate swaps with financial institutions and with maturities of October and November 2018. Sensitivity analysis A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit and loss by the amounts shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. Profit and loss Equity 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp increase decrease increase decrease £m £m £m £m Variable rate instruments cash flow sensitivity (net) 26 March 2017 (0.5) 0.7 28 March 2016 (0.5) 0.8 – – Credit risk Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the credit exposure at the reporting date. The exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying amount 2017 2016 Notes £m £m Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 12 102.6 88.7 Cash and cash equivalents 14 15.4 40.5 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 5.6 8.7 Embedded derivatives 10.3 8.2 Interest rate swaps – – 133.9 146.1 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 131 13 Financial risk continued Strategic report Credit risk continued The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) by geographic region was: Carrying amount 2017 2016 £m £m UK 28.9 12.3 Corporate governance Rest of Europe 5.1 6.0 The Americas 5.0 17.9 Rest of world 63.6 52.5 102.6 88.7 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) by type of customer was: Carrying amount Accounts 2017 2016 £m £m Banks and financial institutions 17.1 15.3 Government institutions 53.0 52.6 Distributors 4.3 3.2 Retail customers 0.1 End user customers 2.0 3.2 Other 26.2 14.3 102.6 88.7 Fair value adjustment to credit risk on derivative contracts The impact of credit related adjustments being made to the carrying amount of derivatives measured at fair value and used for hedging currency and interest rate risk has been assessed and considered to be immaterial. These derivatives are transacted with investment grade financial institutions. Similarly, the impact of the credit risk of the Group on the valuation of its financial liabilities has been assessed and considered to be immaterial. Capital management The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The Group finances its operations through a mixture of equity funding and debt financing, which represent the Group’s definition of capital for this purpose. 2017 2016 Note £m £m Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Company (154.5) (152.2) Add back long term pension deficit liability 239.4 219.9 Adjusted equity attributable to shareholders of the Company 84.9 67.7 Net debt 21 120.9 106.1 Group capital 205.8 173.8 The long term pension deficit has been removed as a separate agreement is in place regarding the funding for this deficit which is paid out of cash flows from continuing operations. The Group’s debt financing is also analysed in notes 17 and 21. Included within the Group’s net debt are certain cash and cash equivalent balances that are not readily available for use by the Group. These balances are not significant, and are not readily available due to restrictions within some of the countries in which we operate. Earnings per share and dividend payments are the two measures which, in the Board’s view, summarise best whether the Group’s objectives regarding equity management are being met. The Group’s earnings and dividends per share and relative rates of growth illustrate the extent to which equity attributable to shareholders has changed. Both measures are disclosed and discussed within the strategic report and notes 7 and 8. 132 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 13 Financial risk continued Capital management continued The Group’s objective is to maximise sustainable long term growth of the earnings per share. De La Rue’s dividend policy is to provide shareholders with a competitive return on their investment, while assuring sufficient reinvestment of profits to enable the Group to achieve its strategy. During the period, the Group invested £37m in ongoing research and development and capital expenditure. The proposed total dividend for the year is covered 1.8 times. The ratio is calculated as total adjusted earning as per note 7 over the dividend for the year. The decision to pay dividends, and the amount of the dividends, will depend on, among other things the earnings, financial position, capital requirements, general business conditions, cash flows, net debt levels and share buyback plans. There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. 14 Cash and cash equivalents Accounting Policies Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement. 2017 2016 £m £m Cash at bank and in hand 13.2 40.5 Short term bank deposits 2.2 – 15.4 40.5 An analysis of cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts is shown in the Group cash flow statement. Certain cash and deposits are of a floating rate nature and are recoverable within three months. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 13. 15 Deferred taxation Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are as follows: 2017 2016 £m £m Deferred tax assets 43.7 41.6 Deferred tax liabilities (4.9) (1.6) 38.8 40.0 The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2017 2016 £m £m Beginning of the year 40.0 46.6 Exchange differences 0.4 0.3 Income statement credit/(charge) 0.8 4.1 Acquisitions (see note 31) (3.2) – Tax credit/(charge) to equity 0.8 (11.0) End of the year 38.8 40.0 Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 133 15 Deferred taxation continued Strategic report The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Property, plant and Fair value Development equipment gains costs Other Total £m £m £m £m £m Liabilities Corporate governance At 28 March 2015 (9.6) – (2.2) (0.1) (11.9) Recognised in the income statement 1.4 – 0.5 (0.4) 1.5 Recognised in equity – – – – – At 26 March 2016 (8.2) – (1.7) (0.5) (10.4) Recognised in the income statement 1.1 – – – 1.1 Accounts Acquisitions (see note 31) (0.7) (2.5) – – (3.2) Recognised in equity – – – 0.1 0.1 At 25 March 2017 (7.8) (2.5) (1.7) (0.4) (12.4) Share Retirement options benefits Tax losses Other Total £m £m £m £m £m Assets At 28 March 2015 0.5 47.6 0.7 9.7 58.5 Recognised in the income statement 0.3 1.6 0.1 0.6 2.6 Recognised in equity (0.3) (9.3) – (1.4) (11.0) Exchange differences – – – 0.3 0.3 At 26 March 2016 0.5 39.9 0.8 9.2 50.4 Recognised in the income statement 0.1 1.4 (0.4) (1.4) (0.3) Recognised in equity 1.0 (0.3) – – 0.7 Exchange differences – – – 0.4 0.4 At 25 March 2017 1.6 41.0 0.4 8.2 51.2 Other deferred assets and liabilities include tax associated with provisions of £1.7m (2015/16: £2.4m) and in respect of overseas tax credits £5.9m (2015/16: £4.5m). Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses available to carry forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £2.7m (2015/16: restated to show continuing operations only £1.8m) in respect of losses amounting to £8.3m (2015/16: restated to show continuing operations only £5.6m) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. Similarly, the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £9.4m (2015/16: £10.0m) in respect of overseas tax credits that are carried forward for utilisation in future periods. Unremitted earnings totalled £134m at 25 March 2017 (2015/16: £201m). Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal can be controlled and it was considered unlikely that dividends would be paid from those subsidiaries. UK capital losses of £320.6m are carried forward at 25 March 2017 (2015/16: £329.2m). No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses. UK tax rate A reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 20 per cent to 17 per cent (effective from April 2020) was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016. This will reduce the UK Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. The UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at 25 March 2017 have been calculated based on the rate of 17 per cent (26 March 2016: 18 per cent) substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 134 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 16 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are measured at carrying value which approximates to fair value. 2017 2016 £m £m Current liabilities Payments received on account 27.2 44.1 Trade payables 46.5 40.1 Amounts owed to associated companies – 0.4 Social security and other taxation 3.1 3.4 Deferred income 0.4 – Accrued expenses 85.9 66.2 Other payables 12.0 17.3 175.1 171.5 Non-current liabilities Other payables 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.4 Payments received on account relate to monies received from customers under contract prior to commencement of production of goods or delivery of services. The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 13. 17 Borrowings Accounting Policies Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 13. Face Carrying Face Carrying value amount value amount Nominal Year of 2017 2017 2016 2016 Currency interest rate maturity £m £m £m £m Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts EUR – – – – 0.9 0.9 Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts GBP 1.80% 2017 136.0 136.0 144.0 144.0 Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts USD – 2017 – – 0.9 0.9 Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts Other – 2017 0.3 0.3 0.8 0.8 Total interest bearing liabilities 136.3 136.3 146.6 146.6 As at 25 March 2017, bank overdrafts of £112.5m (2015/16: £111.0m) were offset for interest purposes against credit balances. As at 25 March 2017, the Group has committed borrowing facilities, all maturing in more than one year, of £250m. Up to £100m of the £250m facility can be utilised for either loans or guarantees. As the draw downs on these loans are typically rolled over on terms of between one and three months subject to conditions, the borrowings are disclosed as a current liability. This is notwithstanding the long term nature of this facility which expires in December 2021. 18 Provisions for liabilities and charges Accounting Policies Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation in respect of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted where the time value of money is considered material. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 135 18 Provisions for liabilities and charges continued Strategic report Restructuring Warranty Other Total £m £m £m £m At 26 March 2016 5.8 5.9 4.2 15.9 Exchange differences 0.3 – – 0.3 Charge for the year 0.5 8.6 – 9.1 Utilised in year (1.6) (5.1) (0.1) (6.8) Corporate governance Released in year (2.5) (2.4) (1.2) (6.1) At 25 March 2017 2.5 7.0 2.9 12.4 Expected to be utilised within 1 year 2.5 7.0 0.9 10.4 Expected to be utilised after 1 year – – 2.0 2.0 Restructuring provisions Accounts Restructuring provisions principally relate to amounts for site relocation and reorganisation costs in the Currency and Product Authenticity and Traceability segments. In December 2015 we announced the results of our manufacturing footprint review to reduce our core banknote print production capacity from eight billion to six billion notes a year. In November 2016 we announced a refinement to that plan which has resulted in a change in the total estimate for the associated site relocation and reorganisation costs. These provisions include related amounts for staff compensation and site exit costs, which are expected to be utilised within one year. Warranty provisions Warranty provisions relate to present obligations for defective products and include known claims as well as anticipated claims that had not been reported at the balance sheet date. The provisions are management judgements based on information currently available, past history and experience of the products sold. However, it is inherent in the nature of the business that the actual liabilities may differ from the provisions. The precise timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain but is generally expected to fall within one year. Other provisions Other provisions comprise a number of liabilities with varying expected utilisation rates. There are no individually material provisions within this total in the current or prior period. 19 Share capital 2017 2016 £m £m Issued and fully paid 101,767,263 ordinary shares of 44152/175 p each (2015/16: 101,358,815 ordinary shares of 44152/175 p each) 45.7 45.5 111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each (2015/16: 111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each) 1.1 1.1 46.8 46.6 2017 2016 Ordinary Deferred Ordinary Deferred shares ‘000 shares ‘000 shares ‘000 shares ‘000 Allotments during the year Shares in issue at 26 March 2016/28 March 2015 101,359 111,673 101,128 111,673 Issued under Savings Related Share Option Scheme 253 – 39 – Issued under US Employee Share Purchase Plan – – 11 – Issued under Recruitment Share Award – – – – Issued under Retention Share Award – – – – Issued under Restricted Share Award – – 19 – Issued under Annual Bonus Plan 62 – 138 – Issued under Performance Share Plan 93 – 24 – Shares in issue at 25 March 2017/26 March 2016 101,767 111,673 101,359 111,673 The deferred shares carry limited economic rights and no voting rights. They are unlisted and are not transferable except in accordance with the articles. 136 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 20 Share based payments Accounting Policies The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option schemes. For equity settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options. The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the numbers of shares that are actually expected to vest, taking into account non-market vesting conditions (including service conditions). Vesting conditions, other than non-market based conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability for options outstanding and recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period. The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement. At 26 March 2017, the Group has a number of share based payment plans, which are described below. These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2, Share Based Payments, which means that IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of employee share based payments granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005 and cash settled awards outstanding at 1 January 2005. The compensation cost and related liability that have been recognised for the Group’s share based plans are set out in the table below: Expense recognised for the year Liability at end of year 2017 2016 2017 2016 £m £m £m £m Annual Bonus Plan 0.7 0.6 – – Performance Share Plan (0.3) 1.8 – – Restricted Share Award 0.1 0.1 – – Savings Related Share Option Scheme 0.4 0.1 – – US Employee Share Purchase Plan – – – – 0.9 2.6 – – The fair value of share options is estimated at the date of grant using a lattice based option valuation model. The significant assumptions used in the valuation model are disclosed below: Performance Performance Annual Bonus Savings Related Arrangement Share Plan Share Plan Plan Share Option Scheme Dates of current year grants 27 Jun 2016 27 Jun 2016 7 Jun 2016 3 Jan 2017 Number of options granted 790,305 8,674 122,912 599,349 Exercise price n/a n/a n/a 441.06 Contractual life (years) 3 or 4 3 or 4 1 or 2 3 or 5 Settlement Shares Cash Shares Shares Vesting period (years) 3 or 4 3 or 4 1 or 2 3 or 5 Dividend yield n/a n/a n/a 25p Fair value per option at grant date £5.21 £5.21 £5.47 £1.74 for 3 year plan £1.87 for 5 year plan An expected volatility rate of 30 per cent (2015/16: 30 per cent) has been used for grants in the period. This rate is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. The rate applied during the year was 0.19 per cent or 0.53 per cent depending on the vesting period. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 137 20 Share based payments continued Strategic report Reconciliations of option movements over the period to 25 March 2017 for each class of options are shown below: Annual Bonus Plan For details of the Annual Bonus Plan, refer to the directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 92. 2017 2016 Corporate governance Number of Number of options options ‘000 ‘000 Options outstanding at start of year 181 282 Granted 123 38 Forfeited (3) (1) Exercised (58) (138) Accounts Expired – – Outstanding at end of year 243 181 Exercisable at year end – – Performance Share Plan For details of the Performance Share Plan, refer to the directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 92. 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted average 2017 average 2016 exercise price Number of exercise price Number of pence per options pence per options share ‘000 share ‘000 Options outstanding at start of year 657.75 1,092 891.13 917 Granted 520.85 799 534.98 713 Forfeited 612.09 (78) 713.07 (171) Exercised 867.70 (79) 714.27 (19) Expired 868.30 (12) 990.62 (348) Outstanding at end of year 585.18 1,722 657.75 1,092 Exercisable at year end – – The awards have been allocated based on a share price of 559.50p for the 26 November 2010 grants, 686.50p for the 31 January 2011 grants, 759.80p for the 23 June 2011 grants, 892.90p for the 4 December 2013 grants, 830.00p for the 27 June 2014 grants, 541.00p for the 29 June 2015 grants, 476.95p for the 23 September 2015 grants and 520.85p for the 27 June 2016 grants. Restricted Share Award For details of the Restricted Share Award, refer to the directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 92. Restricted Share Award 2017 2016 Number of Number of options options ‘000 ‘000 Options outstanding at start of year 19 38 Granted – – Forfeited – – Exercised (19) (19) Expired – – Outstanding at end of year – 19 Exercisable at year end – – The shares were granted based on a share price of 474.6p. 138 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 20 Share based payments continued Savings Related Share Option Scheme The scheme is open to all UK employees. Options are granted at the prevailing market price at the time of the grant (with a discretionary discount to the market price) to employees who agree to save between £5 and the maximum savings amount offered per month over a period of three or five years. There are no performance conditions attaching to the options. After the three or five year term has expired, employees normally have six months in which to decide whether or not to exercise their options. A pre-vesting forfeiture rate of 5 per cent has been assumed based on historic experience. 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted average average exercise Number of exercise price Number of price pence options pence per options per share ‘000 share ‘000 Options outstanding at start of year 397.36 3,129 476.63 2,678 Granted 444.11 599 344.40 1,880 Forfeited 384.77 (368) 450.41 (1,168) Exercised 438.02 (252) 443.23 (39) Expired 553.77 (164) 618.04 (222) Outstanding at end of year 396.25 2,944 397.36 3,129 Exercisable at year end – – – – The range of exercise prices for the share options outstanding at the end of the year is 344.40p – 775.34p (2016: 344.40p – 775.34p). The weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding share options is 1 September 2018 (2015/16: 1 September 2019). US Employee Share Purchase Plan De La Rue operates a US Employee Share Purchase Plan for US employees. Under the plan, employees have an option to purchase De La Rue plc shares at the end of each 12 month savings period at a price which is the lower of the market value of the De La Rue plc share either at the beginning or the end of the offering period, less a 15 per cent discount. In 2016/17, no shares (2015/16: 11,335 shares) were allotted pursuant to the plan. The Company has suspended future offerings from 1 January 2016 due to the low number of participants and corresponding shares awarded, as it is no longer considered a cost effective incentive and benefit to US employees. Market share purchase of shares by Trustee De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust The De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust (Trust) is a separately administered trust established to administer shares granted to Executive Directors and senior employees under the various discretionary share option plans established by the Company. Liabilities of the Trust are guaranteed by the Company and the assets of the Trust mainly comprise shares in the Company. Equiom (Guernsey) Limited is the Trustee. The own shares held by the Trust are shown as a reduction in shareholders’ funds. The shares will be held at historical rates until such time as they are disposed of. Any profit or loss on the disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves rather than as an income statement item. The Trustee held no shares at 25 March 2017. 21 Analysis of net debt 2017 2016 £m £m Cash at bank and in hand 13.2 40.5 Short term bank deposits 2.2 – Bank overdrafts (4.2) (2.6) Total cash and cash equivalents 11.2 37.9 Borrowings due within one year (132.1) (144.0) Net debt (120.9) (106.1) Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 139 Strategic report 22 Operating leases Accounting Policies A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee the right to use a specific asset for an agreed period of time in return for a payment or a series of payments. Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Corporate governance Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term. 2017 2016 2017 Plant and 2016 Plant and Accounts Property equipment Property equipment £m £m £m £m Total commitments due: – Within one year 2.5 – 1.9 0.1 – Between one and five years 8.9 – 7.4 0.1 – Over five years 28.9 – 30.1 – 40.3 – 39.4 0.2 23 Retirement benefit obligations Accounting Policies The Group operates retirement benefit schemes, devised in accordance with local conditions and practices in the country concerned, covering the majority of employees. The assets of the Group’s schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. The major schemes are defined benefit pension schemes with assets held separately from the Group. The cost of providing benefits under each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. The major defined benefit pension scheme is based in the UK and is now largely closed to future accrual. The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in operating costs in the Group income statement. The interest income on the plan assets of funded defined benefit pension schemes and the imputed interest on pension scheme liabilities are disclosed as retirement benefit obligation net finance expense respectively in the income statement. Return on plan assets excluding assumed interest income on the assets, changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise. The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets, as determined by actuarial valuations carried out at the balance sheet date. The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate. A Trustee board has been appointed to operate the UK defined benefit scheme in accordance with its governing documents and pensions law. The scheme meets the legal requirement for member nominated trustees representation on the trustee board and a professional independent trustee has been appointed as chair of the board. The members of the trustee board undertake regular training to ensure they are able to fulfil their function as trustees and have appointed professional advisers to give them specialist expertise where required. The Group has calculated the value of the minimum funding commitments to its schemes and determined that no additional liability under IFRIC 14 is required at 25 March 2017. No significant judgements were involved in making this determination. 140 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 23 Retirement benefit obligations continued (a) Defined benefit pension schemes Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet: 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Equities 222.9 – 222.9 303.9 – 303.9 Bonds 270.0 – 270.0 100.1 – 100.1 Gilts – – – 156.7 – 156.7 Diversified Growth Fund 199.4 – 199.4 186.3 – 186.3 Liability Driven Investment Fund 222.2 – 222.2 90.3 – 90.3 Multi Asset Credit 38.1 – 38.1 – – – Other 21.9 – 21.9 24.6 – 24.6 Fair value of scheme assets 974.5 – 974.5 861.9 – 861.9 Present value of funded obligations (1,204.7) – (1,204.7) (1,072.2) – (1,072.2) Funded defined benefit pension schemes (230.2) – (230.2) (210.3) – (210.3) Present value of unfunded obligations (6.8) (2.4) (9.2) (7.3) (2.3) (9.6) Net liability (237.0) (2.4) (239.4) (217.6) (2.3) (219.9) Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement: 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Included in employee benefits expense: – Current service cost – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2) (0.2) – Administrative expenses and taxes (1.5) – (1.5) (1.2) – (1.2) Included in interest on retirement benefit obligation net finance expense: – Interest income on scheme assets 29.6 – 29.6 28.1 – 28.1 – Interest cost on liabilities (37.0) – (37.0) (35.2) – (35.2) Retirement benefit obligation net finance expense (7.4) – (7.4) (7.1) – (7.1) Total recognised in the consolidated income statement (8.9) (0.2) (9.1) (8.3) (0.2) (8.5) Return on scheme assets excluding assumed interest income 114.7 – 114.7 (37.1) – (37.1) Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit (140.0) 0.1 (139.9) 42.7 (0.2) 42.5 pension obligations Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income (25.3) 0.1 (25.2) 5.6 (0.2) 5.4 Major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets: 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total % % % % % % Equities 22.9 – 22.9 35.3 – 35.3 Bonds 27.7 – 27.7 11.6 – 11.6 Gilts – – – 18.2 – 18.2 Diversified Growth Fund 20.5 – 20.5 21.6 – 21.6 Liability Driven Investment Fund 22.8 – 22.8 10.5 – 10.5 Multi Asset Credit 3.9 – 3.9 – – – Other 2.2 – 2.2 2.8 – 2.8 The Diversified Growth Fund is a diversified asset portfolio which includes investments in equities, emerging market bonds, property, high yield credit and structured finance and smaller holdings in other asset classes. The Liability Driven Investment (LDI) fund consists of fixed interest bond holdings (approximately 49 per cent), index linked bond holdings (approximately 37 per cent) and cash (approximately 14 per cent). Interest rate swaps and floating rate notes are employed to complement the role of the LDI fund for liability risk management. Derivatives have been valued on a mark to market basis. The LDI is designed to proportionally counterbalance the effect/impact of a decrease/increase in interest rates/inflation on 50% of the funded obligations. The Multi‑Asset Credit Fund invests in a variety of debt instruments. The scheme’s assets include £18,000 of the Group’s own financial instruments as at March 2017 which relate to ordinary shares of the Group through index tracking investments. Multi Asset Credit, Diversified Growth Funds and LDI asset categories include certain assets which are not quoted in an active market and are stated at fair value estimates provided by the manager of the investment fund. Other UK assets comprise cash, interest rate swaps and floating rate notes. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 141 23 Retirement benefit obligations continued Strategic report (a) Defined benefit pension schemes continued Principal actuarial assumptions: 2017 2017 2016 2016 UK Overseas UK Overseas % % % % Future pension increases – past service 3.65 – 3.60 – Corporate governance Discount rate 2.75 – 3.50 – RPI inflation rate 3.30 – 3.10 – The financial assumptions adopted as at 25 March 2017 reflect the duration of the scheme liabilities which has been estimated to be 19 years. At 25 March 2017 mortality assumptions were based on tables issued by Club Vita, with future improvements in line with the CMI model, CMI_2015 (2016: CMI_2013) and a long term rate of 1.25 per cent per annum (2015/16: long term rate of 1.25% per Accounts annum). The resulting life expectancies within retirement are as follows: 2017 2016 Aged 65 retiring immediately (current pensioner) Male 22.7 23.0 Female 24.2 24.4 Aged 50 retiring in 17 years (future pensioner) Male 23.3 24.1 Female 25.5 26.9 The defined benefit pension schemes expose the Group to the following main risks: Mortality risk – an increase in the life expectancy of members will increase the liabilities of the schemes. The mortality assumptions are reviewed regularly, and are considered appropriate. Interest rate risk – A decrease in bond yields will increase the liabilities of the scheme. Liability driven investment strategies are used to hedge part of this risk. Investment risk – The value of pension scheme assets vary with changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, credit spreads, exchange rates, and equity and property prices. There is a risk that asset returns are volatile and that the value of pension scheme assets may not move in line with changes in pension scheme liabilities. To mitigate against investment risk the pension scheme invests in derivatives which aim to hedge a proportion of the movements in assets and liabilities. The pension scheme invests in a wide range of assets to provide diversification in order to reduce the risk that a single investment or type of asset class could have a materially adverse impact on total scheme assets. The investment strategy and performance of investment funds are reviewed regularly to ensure the asset strategy of the pension schemes continues to be appropriate. Inflation risk – The liabilities of the scheme are linked to inflation. An increase in inflation will result in an increase in liabilities. There are caps in place for UK scheme benefits to mitigate the risk of extreme increases in inflation. Liability driven investment strategies are used to hedge part of this risk. Any increase in the retirement benefit obligation could lead to additional funding obligations in future years. The table below provides the sensitivity of the liability in the scheme to changes in various assumptions: Assumption change Approximate impact on liability 0.25% decrease in discount rate Increase in liability of c£55m 0.25% increase in RPI inflation rate Increase in liability of c£28m Increasing life expectancy by one year Increase in liability of c£55m The liability sensitivities have been derived using projected cash flows for the Scheme valued using the membership profile as at 5 April 2015 and assumptions chosen for the 2017 year end. The sensitivity analysis does not allow for changes in scheme membership since the 2015 actuarial valuation or the impact of the Scheme or Group’s risk management activities in respect of interest rate and inflation risk on the valuation of the Scheme assets. The largest defined benefit pension scheme operated by the Group is in the UK. The Group’s formal triennial funding valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme was finalised in June 2016. The underlying funding deficit as at 5 April 2015 was valued at £252m. Changes in the fair value of UK scheme assets: 2017 2016 £m £m At 26 March 2016/28 March 2015 861.9 891.6 Assumed Interest income on scheme assets 29.6 28.1 Scheme administration expenses (1.5) (1.2) Return on scheme assets less interest income 114.7 (37.1) Employer contributions and other income 14.8 19.2 Benefits paid (including transfers) (45.0) (38.7) At 25 March 2017/26 March 2016 974.5 861.9 142 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 23 Retirement benefit obligations continued (a) Defined benefit pension schemes continued Changes in the fair value of UK defined benefit pension obligations: 2017 2016 £m £m At 26 March 2016/28 March 2015 (1,079.5) (1,125.7) Interest cost on liabilities (37.0) (35.2) Effect of changes in financial assumptions (168.9) 58.7 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 12.9 (12.3) Effect of experience items on liabilities 16.0 (3.7) Benefits paid (including transfers) 45.0 38.7 At 25 March 2017/26 March 2016 (1,211.5) (1,079.5) During 2015/16, the Group made special funding payments of £19.1m (including scheme administration fees). The Group’s formal triennial valuation of the UK defined benefit Scheme was finalised in June 2016. The underlying funding deficit was valued at £252m. The Group agreed a revised funding plan with the Trustee to eliminate the deficit over a period of 12 years from 31 March 2016. The plan will see the existing funding payment schedule extended from 2022 to 2028. The cash contributions to the Scheme of £13.0m (in addition to the regular contributions outside of the revised funding plan) have been made in the current year and £13.5m will be made in 2018, increasing to £20.5m in 2019 and then rising by 4% per annum to 2022. It will be frozen at £23.0m per year between 2023 and 2028. The Group will continue to pay annual fees of £1.6m for managing the Scheme in addition to the cash contributions. In the year ended 25 March 2017, the Group made funding payments and management fees totalling £14.8m. The next triennial funding valuation is due in April 2018. (b) Defined contribution pension plans The Group operates a number of defined contribution plans for which the charge in the consolidated income statement for the year was £8.8m (2015/16: £9.4m). 24 Employee information 2017 2016 number number Average number of employees United Kingdom and Ireland 2,041 2,018 Rest of Europe 447 630 The Americas 30 125 Rest of world 633 793 3,151 3,566 Average number of employees Currency 2,536 2,626 Identity Solutions 313 327 Product Authentication and Traceability 222 162 Cash Processing Solutions 80 451 3,151 3,566 2017 2016 £m £m Employee costs (including Directors’ emoluments) Wages and salaries 116.1 125.6 Social security costs 10.3 11.7 Share incentive schemes 0.5 2.5 Sharesave schemes 0.4 0.1 Pension costs 8.8 9.4 136.1 149.3 More detailed information regarding the Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlement, share options and other long-term incentive plans is shown in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 84 to 89. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 143 Strategic report 25 Capital commitments 2017 2016 £m £m The following commitments existed at the balance sheet date: – Contracted but not provided for in the accounts 6.5 10.3 Corporate governance 26 Contingent liabilities De La Rue has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation matters from which, in the ordinary course of business, contingent liabilities can arise. While the outcome of litigation and disputes can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the insurance arrangements of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Directors believe that adequate provision has been made to cover these matters. For these and any item where a provision has not been made, the likelihood of a material additional outflow is considered remote. Accounts The Group also provides guarantees and performance bonds which are issued in the ordinary course of business. In the event that a guarantee or bond is called, provision may be required subject to the particular circumstances, including an assessment of its recoverability. 27 Related party transactions During the year the Group traded on an arms length basis with the associated company Fidink S.A. (33.3 per cent owned). The Group’s trading activities with this company included £20.8m (2015/16: £24.2m) for the purchase of security ink and other consumables. At the balance sheet date there were creditor balances of £6.4m (2015/16: £3.2m) with Fidink S.A. Intra-Group transactions between the parent and the fully consolidated subsidiaries or between fully consolidated subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation. Key management compensation 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 Salaries and other short term employee benefits 2,959.9 3,356.6 Termination benefits – 237.7 Retirement benefits: – Defined contribution 90.4 230.4 Share based payments 190.9 827.0 3,241.2 4,651.7 Key management comprises members of the Board (including the fees of Non-executive Directors) and the Executive Leadership Team. Termination benefits include compensation for loss of office, ex gratia payments, redundancy payments, enhanced retirement benefits and any related benefits in kind connected with a person leaving office or employment. 28 Events since the balance sheet date Since the year end the following material events have occurred: On 11 April 2017, the Company announced that Rupert Middleton, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director would be stepping down from the Board with effect from the close of the AGM on 20 July 2017. 144 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 29 Subsidiaries and associated companies as at 25 March 2017 A full list of subsidiary and associated undertakings is below. Unless otherwise stated all Group owned shares are ordinary. Country of incorporation and operation Activities De La Rue interest % Europe United Kingdom DLR (No.1) Limited Holding company 100 DLR (No.2) Limited* Holding company 100 De La Rue Holdings Limited Holding and general commercial activities 100 De La Rue International Limited Trading 100 De La Rue Overseas Limited Holding company 100 De La Rue Finance Limited Internal financing 100 De La Rue Investments Limited Holding company 100 Portals Group Limited Holding company 100 Bradbury Wilkinson Holdings Limited (in liquidation) (in liquidation) 100 De La Rue Consulting Services Limited Trading 100 De La Rue Healthcare Trustee Limited Dormant 100 De La Rue Pension Trustee Limited Dormant 100 De La Rue Scandinavia Limited Holding company 100 Harrison & Sons Limiteda Non-trading 100 Portals Holdings Limited Dormant 100 Portals Property Limited Trading 100 De La Rue House Jays Close Viables Basingstoke Hampshire RG22 4BS, United Kingdom Channel Islands The Burnhill Insurance Company Limited Insurance 100 Level 5, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, GY1 1EJ, Guernsey De La Rue (Guernsey) Limited Non-trading 100 PO Box 142, The Beehive, Rohais, St Peter Port, GY1 3HT, Guernsey Ireland Thomas De La Rue and Company (Ireland) Limited Dormant 100 Suite 3, One Earlsfort Centre, Lower Hatch Street, Dublin 2, Ireland Malta De La Rue Currency and Security Print Limited Trading 100 De La Rue Services Limited Trading 100 B40/43 Industrial Estate, Bulebel, Zejtun, Malta The Netherlands De La Rue BV Trading 100 Asterweg 17A1, 1031 HL Amsterdam, Netherlands Poland Harrison & Sons Sp. Z o.o Dormant 100 Mokotowska 24, 00-561, Warsaw, Poland Sweden De La Rue (Sverige) AB Non-trading 100 Box 14055, 104 40, Stockholm, Sweden Switzerland Thomas De La Rue A.G. Holding company 100 Rue de Morat 11, 1700 Fribourg, Switzerland North America USA De La Rue North America Holdings Inc.b Holding company 100 50 Chestnut Ridge Road, Suite 208, Montvale, NJ 07645, United States De La Rue Authentication Solutions Inc. Trading 100 1750 North 800 West, Logan, Utah 84321, USA Canada De La Rue Canada One Limited Trading 100 160 Elgin Street, Suite 2600, Ottawa, ON KIP 1C3, Canada Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 145 29 Subsidiaries and associated companies as at 25 March 2017 continued Strategic report Country of incorporation and operation Activities De La Rue interest % South America Mexico De La Rue Mexico Comercial, S.A. de C.V Trading 100 Sierra Mojada No 626, Col. Lomas Barrilaco, C.P. 11010, Mexico Brazil De La Rue Cash Systems Industrias Limitadac Trading 100 Corporate governance De La Rue Cash Systems Limitadac Trading 100 Rua Boa Vista, 254, 13th Floor, Suite 41, Centro, Sao Paulo, 01014-90, Brazil Saint Lucia De La Rue Caribbean Limited Trading 100 Meridan Place, Choc Estate, Castries, Saint Lucia Africa Kenya De La Rue Currency and Security Print Limited Trading 100 Accounts De La Rue Kenya EPZ Limited Dormant 100 De La Rue Kenya Limited Dormant 100 ABC Towers, 6th Floor, ABC Place, Waiyaki Way, Nairobi, Kenya Angola De La Rue Angola LDA Limitada Trading 100 Rua Engrácia Fragoso 60, Edifcio Kalunga Atrium, Escritòrio 104, Letra D, Distrito Urbano da Ingombota, Luanda, Angola Nigeria De La Rue Commercial Services Limited Trading 100 7th Floor, Marble House, 1 Kingsway Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria Senegal De La Rue West Africa SARL Trading 100 VDN Keur Gorgui Imm Hermes 1, 2e Etage No Dakar-Liberte, BP 10700, Senegal South Africa De La Rue Global Services (Pty) Limited Trading 100 3rd Floor, 54 Melrose Boulevard, Melrose Arch, Gauteng, 2196, South Africa Australia and Oceania Australia De La Rue Australia Pty Limited Trading 100 Level 22, MLC Centre, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia Far East and Asia Hong Kong Thomas De La Rue (Hong Kong) Limited Dormant 100 Suite 1106-8, 11/F Tai Yau Building, No 181 Johnson Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong Sri Lanka De La Rue Lanka Currency and Security Print (Private) Limited Trading 60 No 9/5 Thambiah Avenue, Colombo 7, Sri Lanka India De La Rue India Private Limited Trading 100 1404, 14 Floor, Tower B, Signature Towers, South City 1, Gurgaon, Haryana, India Singapore De La Rue Currency and Security Print Pte Ltd Trading 100 80 Raffles Place, #32-01, UOB Plaza, 048624, Singapore United Arab Emirates De La Rue FzCo Trading 100 Dubai Airport Free Zone Authority, Building 6 West Wing A, Office #820, PO Box 371683, Dubai Associates Switzerland Fidink S.A. Trading 33 * Ordinary shares held directly by De La Rue plc. a Ordinary shares, cumulative preference shares and deferred shares. b Common stock. c Quotas. 146 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts continued 30 Non-controlling interest The Group’s only subsidiary with a material non-controlling interest is De La Rue Lanka Currency and Security Print (Private) Limited, whose country of incorporation and operation is Sri Lanka. The accumulated non-controlling interest of the subsidiary at the end of the reporting period is shown on the Group balance sheet. The following table summarises key information relating to this subsidiary, before intra-group eliminations: 2017 2016 £m £m Non-current assets 14.2 15.1 Current assets 18.5 21.6 Non-current liabilities (1.8) (1.9) Current liabilities (10.7) (18.1) Net assets (100%) 20.2 16.7 Revenue 41.8 35.1 Profit for the year 4.0 3.0 Non-controlling interest percentage 40% 40% Profit allocated to non-controlling interest 1.6 1.2 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 0.3 0.3 Cash flows from operating activities 2.0 15.0 Cash flows from investment activities (1.1) (0.4) Cash flows from financing activities (10.7) – Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (9.8) 14.6 31 Business Combinations On 12 December 2016, De La Rue entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (‘SPA’) to acquire 100% of the outstanding capital stock of Dupont Authentication Inc (subsequently renamed to De La Rue Authentication Solutions (‘DAS’). The acquisition completed on 6 January 2017, for a total consideration of $26.2m (£21.3m). This included the initial cash payment of $24.8m (equivalent to £20.2m) and a closing working capital adjustment of $1.4m (£1.1m) as per the terms of the SPA. DAS is a leading global producer of photopolymer holographic films and 3D holograms and associated software. Its technology is used to authenticate products ranging from consumer electronics to spirits and also to secure identity documents. Its products are based on the highly specialised and secure Lippmann holography technology. Based in Utah, USA and with operations in Delaware, DAS has a well established global customer base in brand protection and identity authentication. This acquisition is in line with De La Rue’s five year strategic plan to transform the Group into a technology led Security product and service provider. It will strengthen De La Rue’s Security Features, Product Authentication & Traceability, and Identity Solutions product lines. DuPont Authentication’s proprietary technology will also provide a solid platform for De La Rue to create new applications for the Currency market. Goodwill of $12.1m (£9.8m) was recognised on the acquisition, being the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired as set out below. Through the acquisition of DAS, DLR has acquired the intellectual property, trade names and existing customer relationships and these intangible assets have been valued at $8.9m (£7.2m). Valuation techniques and key valuation assumptions and estimates The principle intangible assets recognised were intellectual property (£4.6m) and customer relationships (£2.3m). The key assumptions used in valuing these were: Intellectual property Valued on a ‘relief from royalty basis’. Key valuation assumptions were the appropriate third party royalty rate used to calculate the royalties saved from owning this intellectual property and estimations of future forecast sales levels. Management has also made judgements on the useful economic life of this asset and consequently the period of time over which forecasted cash flows should be estimated. Discount rate has been determined using the ‘internal rate of return’ for the transaction with an incremental risk premium added based on the perceived additional risk for this asset as compared to the acquired business as a whole. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 147 31 Business Combinations continued Strategic report Customer relationships Valued using the ‘multi-excess earnings method’. Key valuation assumptions were the future attrition rate for customers existing at the acquisition date and the expected growth in sales from the remaining customers in the future. Judgements have also been made with regards to estimated future forecast sales and cost levels. Management has also made judgements on the useful economic life of this asset and consequently the period of time over which forecasted cash flows should be estimated. Discount rate has been determined using the ‘internal rate of return’ for the transaction with an incremental risk premium added based on the perceived additional risk for this asset as compared to the acquired business as a whole. Corporate governance Goodwill The goodwill recognised represents the expected synergies to be derived from the acquisition, the value of the assembled workforce on acquisition and assets that do not qualify for separate recognition at the acquisition date. Provisional 2017 £m Accounts ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 2.1 Intangible assets 7.2 9.3 Current assets Inventories 2.7 Trade and other receivables 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 6.1 Total assets 15.4 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 0.7 0.7 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 3.2 Total liabilities 3.9 Total identifiable net assets 11.5 Goodwill 9.8 Total consideration 21.3 Consideration was fully satisfied in cash. The closing working capital adjustment of $1.4m (£1.1m) was paid post year end. Acquisition related costs of £0.5m were recognised in the Income Statement (See Note 4 ‘exceptional items’). DAS contributed £2.2m of revenue and loss of £0.1m to the group’s profit (£0.3m profit based on Adjusted Operating profit which excludes £0.4m unwind of the fair value adjustment to acquired inventory – see note 4 for further details) since acquisition and the balance sheet date. If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, revenues included in the Group’s results for the period would have been £10.6m and the profit included in the Group’s results would have been £1.0m (£1.7m based on Adjusted Operating profit). 148 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Company balance sheet at 25 March 2017 2017 2016 Notes £m £m Fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 4a 152.4 152.4 152.4 152.4 Current assets Debtors receivable within one year 5a 80.6 27.8 Cash at bank and in hand 1.7 1.1 82.3 28.9 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Borrowings 6a – (0.2) Other creditors 7a (4.2) (6.7) (4.2) (6.9) Net current assets 78.1 22.0 Total assets less current liabilities 230.5 174.4 Net assets 230.5 174.4 Capital and reserves Share capital 8a 46.8 46.6 Share premium account 36.7 35.7 Capital redemption reserve 5.9 5.9 Retained earnings 141.1 86.2 Total shareholders’ funds 230.5 174.4 Approved by the Board on 23 May 2017 Philip Rogerson Jitesh Sodha Chairman Chief Financial Officer Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 149 Company statement of changes in equity for the period ended 25 March 2017 Share Capital Strategic report Share premium redemption Retained Total capital account reserve earnings equity £m £m £m £m £m Balance at 28 March 2015 46.5 35.5 5.9 111.7 199.6 Share capital issued 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 Profit for the financial year – – – (2.6) (2.6) Dividends paid – – – (25.3) (25.3) Corporate governance Employee share scheme: – value of services provided – – – 2.4 2.4 Balance at 26 March 2016 46.6 35.7 5.9 86.2 174.4 Share capital issued 0.2 1.0 – – 1.2 Profit for the financial year – – – 79.7 79.7 Accounts Dividends paid – – – (25.4) (25.4) Employee share scheme: – – – – – value of services provided – – – 0.6 0.6 Balance at 25 March 2017 46.8 36.7 5.9 141.1 230.5 Share premium account This reserve arises from the issuance of shares for consideration in excess of their nominal value. Capital redemption reserve This reserve represents the nominal value of shares redeemed by the Company. 150 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Accounting policies – Company Basis of preparation liabilities before the date of transition, Employee benefits The financial statements of De La Rue hedge accounting for any hedging Defined benefit plans plc (the Company) have been prepared relationships that no longer existed at the date of transition, accounting estimates The pension rights of the Company in accordance with Financial Reporting employees are dealt with through a Standard 102 The Financial Reporting or discontinued operations. self administered scheme, the assets Standard applicable in the UK and Judgements made by the directors, of which are held independently of the Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) as issued in the application of these accounting Group’s finances. The scheme is a in August 2014. The amendments policies that have significant effect on the defined benefit scheme and is closed to to FRS 102 issued in July 2015 and financial statements and estimates with future accrual. The Group agrees deficit effective immediately have been applied. a significant risk of material adjustment in funding with the scheme Trustees and The presentation currency of these the next year are discussed on page 108. Pension Regulator. The Company is a financial statements is sterling. participating employer but the Group The accounts have been prepared as at Under section s408 of the Companies 25 March 2017, being the last Saturday in has adopted a policy whereby the Act 2006 the company is exempt from March. The comparatives for the 2015/16 scheme funding and deficit are recorded the requirement to present its own profit financial period are for the period ended in the main UK trading subsidiary of and loss account. 26 March 2016. the Company, De La Rue International Limited, which pays all contributions In the transition to FRS 102 from The following accounting policies have to the scheme and hence these are old UK GAAP, the Company been applied consistently in dealing not shown in the Company accounts. made no measurement and with items which are considered Full details of the scheme and its deficit recognition adjustments. material in relation to the Company (measured on an IAS 19R basis) can FRS 102 grants certain first-time adoption financial statements. be found in note 23 to the consolidated exemptions from the full requirements financial statements. of FRS 102. The following exemption Measurement convention was taken in these financial statements: The financial statements are prepared on Share-based payment transactions Separate financial instruments – carrying the historical cost basis except that the Full details of the share based payments amount of the Company’s cost of following assets and liabilities are stated Schemes operated by the Group are investment in subsidiaries is its deemed at their fair value: derivative financial found in note 20 to the consolidated cost at transition date, 30 March 2014. instruments, and financial instruments financial statements. In these financial statements, the classified at fair value through the profit company is considered to be a qualifying or loss. Taxation entity (for the purposes of this FRS) Foreign currencies The charge for taxation is based on and did apply the exemptions available the result for the period and takes into under FRS 102 in respect of the Amounts receivable from overseas account taxation deferred because of following disclosures: subsidiaries which are denominated in timing differences between the treatment • Reconciliation of the number of shares foreign currencies are translated into of certain items for taxation and outstanding from the beginning to end sterling at the appropriate period end accounting purposes. of the period rates of exchange. Exchange gains and losses on translating foreign currency Deferred tax is recognised, without • Cash Flow Statement and related notes amounts are included within the interest discounting, in respect of all timing • Key Management section of the profit and loss account differences between the treatment Personnel compensation except for exchange gains and losses of certain items for taxation and As the consolidated financial statements associated with hedging loans that are accounting purposes which have arisen of the Company include the equivalent taken to reserves. but not reversed by the balance sheet disclosures, the Company has also taken date, except as otherwise required by Transactions in foreign currencies are the exemptions under FRS 102 available FRS 102. translated into the functional currency in respect of the following disclosures: at the rates of exchange prevailing at • Certain disclosures required by FRS the dates of the individual transactions. Financial guarantee contracts 102.26 Share Based Payments Monetary assets and liabilities Where the Company enters into financial • The disclosures required by FRS 102.11 denominated in foreign currencies are guarantee contracts to guarantee the Basic Financial Instruments and FRS subsequently retranslated at the rate indebtedness of other companies within 102.12 Other Financial Instrument Issues of exchange ruling at the balance sheet the Group, the Company considers in respect of financial instruments not date. Such exchange differences are these to be insurance arrangements falling within the fair value accounting taken to the profit and loss account. and accounts for them as such. rules of Paragraph 36(4) of Schedule 1 In this respect, the Company treats • The Company proposes to continue Dividends the guarantee contract as a contingent to adopt FRS 102 with the above Under FRS 102, final ordinary dividends liability until such time as it becomes disclosure exemptions in its next payable to the shareholders of the probable that the Company will be financial statements Company are recognised in the period required to make a payment under The accounting policies set out below that they are approved by the shareholders. the guarantee. have, unless otherwise stated, been Interim ordinary dividends are recognised applied consistently to all periods in the period that they are paid. presented in these financial statements. On first time adoption of FRS 102, the Investments in subsidiaries Company did not retrospectively change These are separate financial statements of its accounting under old UK GAAP for the company. Investments in subsidiaries derecognition of financial assets and are carried at deemed cost. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 151 Notes to the accounts – Company Strategic report 1a Employee costs and numbers Employee costs are borne by De La Rue Holdings Limited. For details of Directors’ remuneration, refer to disclosures in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 92. 2017 2016 Number Number Average employee numbers 5 5 Corporate governance 2a Auditor’s remuneration Auditor’s remuneration is borne by De La Rue Holdings Limited. For details of auditor’s remuneration, see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. 3a Equity dividends Accounts For details of equity dividends, see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 4a Investments Investments are stated at deemed cost in the balance sheet, less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the investment. 2017 2016 £m £m Investments comprise: Investments in subsidiaries 152.4 152.4 2017 2016 £m £m Cost At 25 March 2017 and 26 March 2016 152.4 152.4 For details of investments in Group companies, refer to the list of subsidiary and associated undertakings on pages 144 to 145. 5a Debtors Other receivables are measured at amortised cost, which approximates to fair value. Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material. 2017 2016 £m £m Amounts due within one year Amounts owed by Group undertakings 80.6 27.8 6a Borrowings 2017 2016 £m £m Short term borrowings Bank loans and overdrafts – 0.2 The carrying amounts of the Company’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 2016 £m £m US dollar – – Euro – – Sterling – 0.2 Other currencies – – – 0.2 152 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Notes to the accounts – Company continued 7a Other creditors 2017 2016 £m £m Amounts falling due within one year Amounts due to Group undertakings 2.9 5.4 Accruals and deferred income 1.3 1.3 Other creditors 4.2 6.7 8a Share capital For details of share capital, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 9a Share based payments The Company operates various equity and cash settled option schemes although the majority of plans are settled by the issue of shares. The services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options. The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. FRS 102 has been applied to share settled share options granted after 7 November 2002. Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiary undertakings these awards are accounted for by the Company, as an additional investment in its subsidiary. The costs are determined in accordance with FRS 102. Any payments made by the subsidiary undertaking in respect of these arrangements are treated as a return of this investment. Share based payments recharged to subsidiaries are recorded via the inter-company loan account. For details of share based payments, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements and the directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 96. 10a Related party transactions The Company has no transactions with or amounts due to or from subsidiary undertakings that are not 100 per cent owned either directly by the Company or by its subsidiaries. For details of key management compensation, see note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 153 Non-IFRS measures De La Rue plc publishes certain additional information in a non-statutory format in order to provide readers with an increased Strategic report insight into the underlying performance of the business. The Directors are of the opinion that these measures give a better understanding of the underlying performance of the business. Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is a non-cash item and by excluding this from the adjusted operating profit metrics this is deemed to be a more meaningful metric of the contribution from the underlying business. The measures the Group uses along with appropriate reconciliations where applicable are shown below. Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit represents earnings from continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items and amortisation Corporate governance of acquired intangible assets. 2015 2016 2017 £m £m £m Operating profit from continuing operations on an IFRS basis 52.2 66.8 70.2 – Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – – 0.1 Accounts – Exceptional items 16.9 3.6 0.4 Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations 69.1 70.4 70.7 Adjusted basic earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share are the earnings attributable to equity shareholders, excluding exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets and discontinued operations divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares dual share in issue. It has been calculated by dividing the De La Rue plc’s adjusted operating profit from continuing operations for the period by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excluding share held in the employee share trust. 2015 2016 2017 £m £m £m Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company from continuing operations on an IFRS basis 32.1 47.4 47.9 – Exceptional items 16.9 3.6 0.4 – Amortisation of acquired intangibles – – 0.1 – Tax on exceptional items (2.4) (2.3) (0.6) Adjusted profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company from continuing operations 46.6 48.7 47.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings 101.0 101.3 101.6 Restated 2015 2016 2017 pence per pence per pence per share share share Basic earnings per ordinary share continuing operations on an IFRS basis 31.8p 46.8p 47.2p Basic adjusted earnings per ordinary share for continuing operations 46.1p 48.1p 47.1p 154 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Non-IFRS measures continued Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA represents earnings from continuing operations before the deduction of interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items. The EBITDA margin percentage takes the applicable EBITDA figure and divides this by the continuing revenue in the period. 2015 2016 2017 £m £m £m Profit before interest and taxation from continuing operations on an IFRS basis 52.2 66.8 70.2 – Depreciation 23.0 23.0 24.3 – Amortisation 1.7 3.0 2.5 EBITDA on an IFRS basis 76.9 92.8 97.0 – Exceptional items 16.9 3.6 0.4 Adjusted EBITDA 93.8 96.4 97.4 EBITDA margin on an IFRS basis 18.2% 20.4% 21.0% Adjusted EBITDA margin 22.2% 21.2% 21.1% Return on capital employed (ROCE) Return of capital employed is the ratio of the operating profit before exceptional items and adjusting items over capital employed, where capital employed equals net assets, excluding pensions, tax interest and long term liabilities. Cash conversion Cash conversion is the ratio of adjusted operating cash flow divided by the adjusted operating profit. Annual Report 2017 De La Rue 155 Five year record Strategic report Income statement 20131 20141 2015 2016 2017 £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 483.7 513.3 422.8 454.5 461.7 Operating profit – Adjusted operating profit 61.5 89.3 69.1 70.4 70.7 Corporate governance – Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – – – – (0.1) – Exceptional items – operating (7.6) (17.5) (16.9) (3.6) (0.4) Total 53.9 71.8 52.2 66.8 70.2 Share of profits of associated companies – – – – – Exceptional items – non-operating – – – – – Profit before interest 53.9 71.8 52.2 66.8 70.2 Net interest expense (3.6) (4.7) (4.6) (4.8) (4.6) Accounts Retirement benefit obligation net finance expense (6.6) (7.3) (7.0) (7.1) (7.4) Profit before taxation 43.7 59.8 40.6 54.9 58.2 Taxation (5.5) (11.9) (7.7) (6.3) (8.7) Profit after taxation from continuing operations 38.2 47.9 32.9 48.6 49.5 Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations – – 2.2 (31.0) (8.0) Equity non-controlling interests (1.0) (0.6) (0.8) (1.2) (1.6) Profit for the year 37.2 47.3 34.3 16.4 39.9 Dividends (42.1) (42.2) (36.8) (25.3) (25.4) Retained (loss)/profit for the period (4.9) 5.1 (2.5) (8.9) 14.5 Basic earnings per ordinary share continuing operations 37.4p 47.3p 31.8p 46.8p 47.2 Basic earnings per ordinary share discontinued operations – – 2.2.p (30.6p) (7.9) Diluted earnings per share continuing operations 36.9p 47.0p 31.3p 46.2p 46.6 Diluted earnings per share discontinued operations – – 2.1p (30.2p) (7.8) Adjusted earnings per ordinary share continuing operations 38.5p 60.7p 46.1p 48.1p 47.1 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share discontinued operations – – (0.8p) (7.1p) (2.3) Dividends per ordinary share2 42.3p 42.3p 25.0p 25.0p 25.0p Adjusted profit before taxation 51.3 77.3 57.5 58.5 58.7 Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets 251.3 240.4 244.0 226.5 242.5 Net current liabilities3 (58.6) (40.8) (30.7) (35.0) (20.0) Net debt (76.7) (89.9) (111.0) (106.1) (120.9) Non-current liabilities (182.6) (180.1) (249.2) (231.0) (248.2) Equity non-controlling interests (4.7) (5.1) (5.7) (6.6) (7.9) Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Company (71.3) (75.5) (152.6) (152.2) (154.5) Notes 1 Not restated in respect of discontinued operations. 2 Includes proposed final dividend which, in accordance with IFRS accounting requirements, has not been accrued. 3 Excludes amounts included in net debt. 156 De La Rue Annual Report 2017 Shareholders’ information Registered office Electronic voting advice on individual capital gains De La Rue House All shareholders can submit proxies tax calculations. Jays Close for the AGM electronically by logging Viables onto Computershare’s website at Share dealing facilities Basingstoke www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy Computershare Investor Services PLC Hampshire Computershare, the Company’s registrar, RG22 4BS Shareholder enquiries provides a simple way to sell or purchase Telephone: +44 (0)1256 605000 Enquiries regarding shareholdings or De La Rue plc shares. Fax: +44 (0)1256 605336 dividends should, in the first instance, be addressed to Computershare Investor Internet share dealing Registered number: 3834125 Services PLC. Details of shareholdings Company Secretary: Mr E H D Peppiatt Available 24 hours a day/seven days and how to make amendments to a week with real time pricing in market personal details can be viewed online hours. Commission is charged at Registrar at www.investorcentre.co.uk 1%, subject to a minimum charge Computershare Investor Services PLC Shareholder helpline telephone: of £30, with no set-up or annual The Pavilions +44 (0)370 703 6375 management fees. Further information Bridgwater Road can be obtained by logging on to: Bristol www.computershare.com/dealing/uk BS99 6ZZ Dividends Shareholders are encouraged to Telephone: +44 (0)370 703 6375 Telephone share dealing have dividends paid directly into their Fax: +44 (0)370 703 6101 bank accounts to ensure an efficient Commission is charged at 1% plus £35, payment method on the payment with no set-up or annual management fees. Annual general meeting date. Shareholders selecting this The telephone share dealing service is The AGM will be held at 10:30am on payment method will receive a dividend available from 08:00 to 16:30 Monday 20 July 2017 at The Hampshire Court confirmation in respect of each to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on Hotel, Centre Drive, Great Binfields Road, dividend payment. telephone number: +44 (0)370 703 0084 Chineham, Basingstoke, RG24 8FY. Each shareholder is entitled to attend Consolidation of shares Stocktrade and vote at the AGM, the arrangements An execution only telephone dealing Where registered shareholdings are service has been arranged with for which are described in a separate represented by several individual share notice to shareholders. The notice of Stocktrade which provides a simple certificates, shareholders may wish to way for buying or selling De La Rue AGM can also be found in the investors have these replaced by one consolidated section on the Group’s website. plc shares. Basic commission is 1%, certificate. The Company will meet the with a minimum charge of £25 with cost for this service. Share certificates no maximum. For further information, Electronic shareholder should be sent to the Company’s registrar please call +44 (0)131 240 0414 and communications together with a letter of instruction. quote reference ‘De La Rue dial and deal Shareholders can register online at service’. Please note that these services www.investorcentre.co.uk/ecomms Internet are not available in the US. to receive statutory communications The Group has a wide range of electronically rather than through the information that is available on its website Financial calendar post. Shareholders who choose this www.delarue.com including: option will receive an email notification Ex-dividend date for 29 June 2017 each time the Group publishes new • Finance information – annual and interim 2016/17 final dividend shareholder documents on its website. reports, financial news and events • Share price information Record date for final 30 June 2017 Shareholders will need to have their • Shareholder services information dividend shareholder reference number (‘SRN’) available when they first log in. This 11 • Press releases both current Payment of 2016/17 3 August 2017 character number (which starts with the and historical final dividend letter C or G) can be found on share certificates and dividend tax vouchers. Capital gains tax Warning to shareholders Shareholders who subscribe for electronic March 1982 valuation – boiler room fraud communications can revert to postal The price per share on 31 March 1982 communications or request a paper copy We are aware that some shareholders was 617.5p. might have received unsolicited telephone of any shareholder document at any time in the future. Shareholders are advised to refer to their calls or correspondence concerning brokers/financial advisers for detailed investment matters. These are typically from overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what Analysis of shareholders at 25 March 2017 often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares or investments. These operations Shareholders Shares are commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. By range of holdings Number % Number % These ‘brokers’ can be very persistent and 0 – 1,000 4,361 75.83 1,434,202 1.41 extremely persuasive. You should always 1,001 – 5,000 1,027 17.86 2,034,558 2.00 check any firm calling you about investment opportunities is properly authorised by 5,001 – 10,000 120 2.09 855,836 0.84 the FCA. You will find useful advice and 10,001 – 100,000 140 2.43 5,274,830 5.18 information about protecting yourself from 100,001 – 500,000 100 1.74 65,929,581 64.78 investment scams on the FCA website 500,001 and above 3 0.05 26,238,256 25.78 www.fca.org.uk/consumers. Total 5,751 100.00 101,767,263 100.00 This report is printed on Magno De La Rue is a registered trademark Satin paper. This paper has been of De La Rue Holdings Limited independently certified as meeting the Active™, Continuous Bio-Data Page™, standards of the Forest Stewardship DLR Identify™, SkyLight™ and DLR Council (FSC®), and was manufactured Certify™ are trademarks of De La Rue at a mill that is certified to the ISO14001 International Limited and EMAS environmental standards. Safeguard® is a registered trademark Designed and produced by of De La Rue International Limited Radley Yeldar www.ry.com Printed at CPI Colour Printing Company which is ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral®, Alcohol Free Printer, FSC and PEFC chain of custody certified. The inks used are all vegetable oil based. Visit us online www.delarue.com De La Rue plc De La Rue House T +44 (0)1256 605000 Jays Close F +44 (0)1256 605004 Viables www.delarue.com Basingstoke Hampshire RG22 4BS
