UN Global Compact 2016 Communication on Progress Contents 01 Statement of continued support 02 Key targets for 2016 03 Activities cutting across the principles 04 Human rights 05 Labour 06 Environment 07 Anti-corruption 01 Statement of continued support ExCeL London is ExCeL London is one of the UK's leading international committed to tackling exhibition and conference centres. We host a diverse the challenges of range of events with all types of organisers and visitors sustainable development from across the globe. We are committed to being and operating as a thought leaders in our market and to providing worldresponsible corporate class facilities and services that are in accordance with our business. own health and safety policies, our sustainability policy, and ExCeL London’s mission statement and core values. ExCeL London is committed to tackling the challenges of sustainable development and operating as a responsible corporate business. We will implement practices that promote economic security, social and environmental responsibility, and we will continuously seek to improve performance in these areas. We are committed to working with our suppliers and customers to improve sustainability performance David Pegler throughout all of our activities and are committed to maintain and CEO, ExCeL London operate our sustainability management systems in compliance with both ISO20121 and ISO14001 requirements. This United Nations Global Compact communication on progress is supported by both our Executive Team and our owners ADNEC, and will ensure that our set objectives in the areas of sustainability are monitored and measured regularly against our maturity matrix to enable us to continue to improve against our set targets. All ExCeL London staff are responsible for implementing this policy to ensure that all requirements are being met and for the co-ordination and evaluation of ongoing performance against our sustainability principles, inclusivity, transparency, integrity and stewardship. To deliver this, ExCeL London aims to: – Ensure the full implementation of this policy throughout all departments, business operations and services, and wherever possible throughout the supply chain. – Ensure the policy and related sustainability issues are discussed with all employees, as well as ensuring all staff are aware of our 100% commitment to measuring and improving our performance. – Be an industry leader in sustainable development in areas relevant to our business in the events industry; and where appropriate, exceed the basic legislation levels required. – Work with our clients to pursue, promote and develop sustainable events throughout the entire lifecycle. – Continue to limit the use of office consumables and waste whilst increasing recycling and the use of more sustainable materials wherever possible. – Continue a proactive management approach towards the use of energy throughout our venue, management office and other business operations. Statement of continued support | 3/20 02 Key targets for 2016 At ExCeL London, we take every event to heart. We genuinely care about what our clients do and are committed to helping them achieve great things. We work closely to find the right opportunities for growth and encourage our clients to push themselves in new and different ways. This is the standard we set and constantly strive towards, so that every experience we create together is truly impactful. In August 2007, ExCeL chose to join the UN Global ExCeL undertakes annual audits – both internally Compact. The ten principles serve as a foundation and independently – and we are certified to for the company’s CSR plan and are intertwined both the ISO14001 environmental standard as with a number of company policies and principles. well as the ISO20121, which sets sustainability We work with our suppliers and customers to management standards in the events industry. improve sustainability performance throughout all of our activities. Below outlines our main CSR targets and achievements for 2016. Page Target 2016 Status 6 Support 2x charities as part of our CSR programme Achieved 6 Provide event space free of charge to local and community groups Achieved 10 Maintain target of 8 accidents or under per 100,000 visitors at ExCeL Achieved 14 Provide staff training around company’s sustainability policies Achieved 15-16 Electricity target for 2016: to maintain the same level of consumption as 2015 Achieved 18 Continued reduction in use of unsustainable suppliers Achieved 18 To achieve 70% awareness amongst organisers of our sustainable activities Not achieved 18 Continued to develop digital marketing collateral and reduce print Achieved Key targets for 2015 | 4/20 03 Activities cutting across the principles In 2013, ExCeL redefined a set of core values designed to support our promise to take every event to heart. They are core to what we fundamentally believe are crucial to our long-term sustainable business success. Our core values are outlined below. Collaborate Provide world class facilities We will share our experience, We will continue to invest in our venue knowledge, and expertise to tailor and and infrastructure to ensure it remains bespoke our solutions to give every a world-class facility. event the best possible outcome. Innovate Provide the best people We will be open-minded and flexible We will provide the best people with to enable our teams to find the best the experience and knowledge to possible solutions to achieve success. add value and help our clients deliver successful events. Activities cutting across the principles | 5/20 We aim to win and retain customers by developing – Nurseries and schools (breakfast clubs and and providing products and exceptional service tuck shops): CFE supports healthy eating in delivery. To enable us to do this we will: primary schools throughout East London by providing them with a weekly delivery service – Ensure that all products and services of fresh fruit for their tuck shops. They also associated with our business are of a strict supply grocery provisions for breakfast clubs quality that is in accordance with, and aims to in infant, primary and secondary schools as enhance our market position, and business. well as vegetables for lunches for toddlers in – Develop and maximise the best customer nurseries. services practices, which set a benchmark for – Community support service: Using their unique the industry. infrastructure, CFE supports Community – Strive to constantly innovate and enhance our Food Projects (CFPs) throughout East London product offering for the benefit of our guests. by providing them with a range of services – Ensure that our services meet the requirements which includes buying, delivering and sharing stipulated by the appropriate regulatory bodies resources. Without this valuable service, many as well as legal requirements. CFPs would not be in a financial position to – Compete fairly and ethically and within the provide valuable service to their communities. framework of applicable competition laws. – Social food outlets: To facilitate and promote healthy eating in areas classified as ‘Food ExCeL is committed to operating as a responsible Deserts’, CFE have developed a Mobile Food corporate entity and having a positive impact on Store. the area that surrounds us. This means building – Food waste: CFE uses its infrastructure long-term relationships with local partners in (vehicles, warehouse space and distribution order to deliver long-lasting benefits for our network) to support the work of the Gleaning communities. In 2016, we continued to support Network UK by collecting, storing and our two long-term charities: NASSA (Newham redistributing produce harvested by them from All Star Sports Academy) and Community Food farms throughout England. Enterprise (CFE). In addition to the financial support we provide to The Newham All Star Sports Academy (NASSA) these two charities, ExCeL continues to support works with children every week to provide sports ‘ExCeL In The Arts’, a summer camp that hosts coaching, training and after-school activities to around 100 children from Newham aged 11-18, as help keep them off the streets. The mentoring well as providing physical space for Ascension talks delivered by NASSA under their ‘Carry a Eagles, a local cheerleading group that use the basketball not a blade’ initiative have educated venue around three times per year. thousands of young people about the dangers of knife crime and gang culture. With the funding In 2016 ExCeL also sought new ways to work with that ExCeL provides, NASSA is able to provide clients and external stakeholders to benefit the primary and secondary school basketball taster community. We worked with our clients, trade sessions across the borough of Newham. These media and select partners particularly Mash sessions include mentoring talks from the NASSA Media and Brand events to host a Christmas coaches about the dangers of knife crime and lunch for local elderly people. The event was a gang culture. In the 12 months to August 2015, not tremendous success and we are looking to host one young person in Newham lost his or her life as this annually. a result of knife-related violence – a drop from six in the previous 12 months. CFE’s mission is to work in partnership with the diverse communities of East London to safeguard and sustain their rights to the right food as a fundamental condition for individual and community health and well-being. The core foundations of the project include: Activities cutting across the principles | 6/20 04 Human rights Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect Businesses should make sure that the protection of internationally they are not complicit in human proclaimed human rights. rights abuses. Human rights | 7/20 ExCeL London agrees that businesses have a – Ensure all employees know what is expected responsibility to respect human rights and act of them and provide a framework which fairly in accordance with internationally applicable measures performance and assists employees standards, such as the UN Declaration of Human in developing their capabilities. Rights. We ensure that all staff, clients and visitors – Provide a safe work environment for all are not deprived of their human rights in any way employees and ensure they fully understand through our business processes. their responsibilities in regards to health and safety matters. In 2016, in line with new UK policy, ExCeL – Aim to develop policies that will support produced a Modern Slavery Statement which employees in balancing their work and has been made available publicly through our domestic responsibilities. website. The statement confirms that we welcome and support the introduction of the UK Modern Key members of the ExCeL Management and Slavery Act and the duty it places on business Audit team have responsibilities devolved to to disclose publicly what steps they are taking to them to monitor policies, assess risk, conduct tackle the inhuman abuse of forced labour and investigations and due diligence in an environment human trafficking. which is transparent and openly addresses any breaches or lack of compliance in an appropriate We hold ourselves, our service partnerships, and manner. our supply chain accountable and are confident that as a responsible corporate business we are Though owned by an international venue fully compliant with the provisions of the Act. development and business management company We actively collaborate with reputable service ADNEC, ExCeL is a UK-based venue and we partners and suppliers who embrace robust, employ a team of around 200. Almost all hiring fair, and ethical trading principles with the aim opportunities are managed by our HR department of minimising risk of any activities that may be or outsourced to three agencies that assist with linked to slavery and human trafficking. We are indirect hire – chiefly in our Cleaning, Traffic and committed to ensuring that our workers are not Security departments. Each member of staff is exploited and our work environment is as safe as subject to work checks and we operate PAYE as possible, abiding by all employment, health and part of our payroll, to ensure all of our employees safety, and human rights laws. are legally hired and paid. ExCeL’s corporate values, outlined on page five of ExCeL upholds a code of conduct, core values, this document, promote a positive ethos amongst and a dignity at work policy as part of our overall our people. We seek to create an environment employee handbook – this document outlines the which attracts and retains employees of high steps which all employees must follow to ensure calibre, and in which employees will feel valued for this principle is upheld. their contribution to the company’s performance. Each team must: We benchmark in the top 10% of employers in the UK for our benefits package, which includes – Implement and observe codes of conduct life assurance at four times the employee’s which are designed to protect employees from salary, permanent health insurance, biennial harassment or discrimination in any form, and health assessments, childcare voucher schemes, to provide equality of opportunity. and other perks designed to improve employee – Ensure all employees are fully aware of such wellbeing, both at work and in their personal lives. codes and that they comply with them. – Operate a remuneration policy that is competitive and rewards good performance. Human rights | 8/20 05 Labour Principle 3 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective abolition of child labour. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the Principle 4 elimination of discrimination Businesses should uphold the in respect of employment and elimination of all forms of forced occupation. and compulsory labour. Labour | 9/20 People are our most important asset and we are free to leave the organisation and our leavers’ recognise that their health, safety and welfare, policy outlines clear steps required to resign from and that of others affected by our activities, is employment. paramount. We do not condone any forms of child labour. We are committed to providing safe and healthy ExCeL is ISO20121 compliant; part of this working conditions. We respect internationally process includes ensuring our suppliers are also recognised labour rights standards as set forward sustainable, upholding ExCeL’s values in relation by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) to social commitment. Additionally, employees of and we follow national requirements for labour ExCeL are able to enjoy freedom of association practices. Our health and safety policy aims to without fear of detrimental implications on their promote a culture where every employee takes employment. These values are upheld in our equal responsibility to ensure safe and healthy working opportunities policy. conditions via preventative measures and carrying out systematic risk assessments. ExCeL is committed to eliminating direct and indirect forms of discrimination in relation to As a result, health and safety for both our employment and occupation. employees and our visitors forms a crucial part of our sustainable approach. In 2016, we pledged ExCeL upholds an equal opportunities policy to reduce accidents in the venue to 8 incidents or which applies to all aspects of employment under per 100,000 visitors and we achieved this. including: recruitment and selection, employment During our last reporting period, we confirmed opportunities, and promotion decisions. This that our accident ratio per 100,000 visitors for policy highlights the expectation that all job the whole of 2016 was 4.36. applicants and employees are to be treated in the same way regardless of sex, sexual preference, We hold annual emergency procedure briefings race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, disability, which are compulsory for all staff to attend. marital status or union membership status. To These briefings are designed to enable staff to facilitate this, all interviews and performance act efficiently and confidently in the unlikely event assessments are completed using an integrated of an emergency at the venue, and ensures we competency based framework. This process commit to our promise of taking every event, and ensures an objective perspective is taken in indeed visitor, to heart. relation to all recruitment decisions and places emphasis on the individual’s level of skill, We do not support any form of forced or qualification, experience and knowledge. compulsory labour, as demonstrated in our 2016 Modern Slavery Statement. All employees have Due to the nature of our business, job vacancies individual contracts detailing their terms and tend to be ad hoc. As such, there are no formal conditions of employment – these are issued prior diversity quotes in place hiring new employees at to commencement of employment. Employees are ExCeL. We do however have a robust recruitment also issued with job descriptions outlining details process for job vacancies as and when they of the work they are being employed to conduct. appear. The company upholds a grievance procedure which can be initiated by the employee with their Demographics related to our current workforce line manager or human resources. Employees are detailed below. Gender Count Percentage Female 78 39.80% Male 118 60.20% Total 196 100.00% Labour | 10/20 Ethnicity Count Overall percentage Asian Bangladeshi 7 4.02% Asian Indian 4 2.30% Asian Other 1 0.57% Asian Pakistani 2 1.15% Black African 16 9.20% Black Caribbean 4 2.30% Black (Other) 2 1.15% Chinese 1 0.57% Mixed Ethnicity 5 2.87% White British 110 63.22% White European 21 12.07% White (Other) 1 0.57% Total 174 100.00% Age bracket Count Overall percentage 20-29 33 9.39% 30-39 66 28.17% 40-49 57 32.43% 50-59 32 22.76% 60-69 6 5.12% 70-79 1 1.00% 80-89 1 1.14% Total 196 100.00% Area Count Overall percentage Battersea (London) 3 1.53% East London 77 39.29% Home Counties 22 11.22% North London 5 2.55% North West London 7 3.57% Paddington (London) 2 1.02% South East London 24 12.24% South London 5 2.55% South West London 4 2.04% N/A 47 23.98% Total 196 100.00% Labour | 11/20 ExCeL currently maintains an approximately 60/40 split of male and female employees and hires broadly across multiple generations. We’re also proud to employ almost 40% of our workforce from East London where ExCeL is based, supporting approximately 37,600 jobs in London as of 2012. The average length of service at ExCeL as of December 2016 was 8.45 years. Our latest figures show that 47.9% of staff have over five years’ service, 31.1% have over ten years, and 12.6% of the company have been with ExCeL for over fifteen years. Long service is acknowledged with annual company meetings that celebrate these milestones – our high retention rate strongly suggests that ExCeL is a rewarding company to work for. ExCeL upholds a dignity at work policy which aims to foster an atmosphere of mutual respect in which staff can feel accepted, able to work with dignity and to their full potential, and embrace the benefits which diversity can bring. All of these policies are clearly communicated in our employee handbook, which is distributed to all staff both physically and electronically. The handbook clearly outlines employees’ ability to raise breaches of our policies, either informally or formally, with their line manager or human resources. A formal process is followed if discrimination is suspected or identified. Any breach of the policy will result in disciplinary action and may include dismissal. Whilst we do our best to ensure our managers are well trained and our employees are happy at work, we recognise that from time to time, grievances relating to employment may arise. Our policy is to encourage free communication between employees and their managers to ensure that questions and problems arising can be aired and resolved quickly, to the satisfaction of all concerned. We have a comprehensive threestage process for grievances: informal complaints, formal written complaint, and formal grievance hearing. We also allow an appeals process for individuals that may be dissatisfied with the outcome. Labour | 12/20 06 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment | 13/20 8 ExCeL London is 100% committed to tackling brochures and other collateral with supports the the challenges of sustainable development and sales efforts. operating as a responsible corporate entity. It is our policy to continuously evolve and implement After being successfully re-certified for practices that deliver economic security, social, ISO14001 and ISO20121 at the end of 2015, we and environmental benefits. have continued in our efforts to improve our sustainability performance. In 2016, efforts As one of the UK’s leading exhibition and focused on three key areas: reduced waste, conference centres, we work with our suppliers increased energy efficiency and ensuring that and clients to improve sustainability performance organisers participate in ExCeL’s Sustainability throughout all of our activities. Over the last few objectives. years, we have taken significant steps to deliver and execute a sustainable business strategy Reduce waste for our direct operations, working alongside our clients to pursue, promote, and develop In 2016, we continued with our commitment sustainable events. to reduce waste. To achieve and measure this. ExCeL’s operations team complete monthly ExCeL undertakes audits – both internally and reviews of our waste metrics and we set annual independently – and we are certified to both targets as a business in an effort to continuously the ISO14001 environmental standard and the reduce waste. ISO20121, which sets sustainability management standards in the event industry. Between January and December 2016, we recycled 2,702.89 tonnes of waste and created ExCeL’s internal Sustainability Committee, which 1,564.66 tonnes of refuse-derived fuels (RDF) meets quarterly to discuss and monitor CSR from waste. Compared to 2015, the amount of objectives, is made up of ten employees from waste recycled has increased by 7%. across the company and chaired by an Executive Director. The purpose of this committee is to gain In order to continue reducing our waste, we focus feedback on the status of conformance of the our effort on continuous training of our staff, Sustainability Management System and to plan particularly our cleaning staff, on waste sorting arrangements, including the requirements of the and correct disposal. Recycling and general aforementioned standards. waste bins are located throughout the venue and the ExCeL management office. All cardboard, The checks are designed to ensure that ExCeL’s plastics and paper are segregated on-site, with Sustainability System Procedures are being any residual mixed recyclables segregated offunderstood, implemented, and maintained; and site. At ExCeL, we provide disposal service for our that the company continues to comply with suppliers and retailers on-site by providing the applicable legislations. The Committee champions following bins: and has delivered a number of projects that have significantly reduced the environmental impact of – Mixed recyclables. the ExCeL management office – this has included – General waste. removing all personal bins and replacing them – Cardboard and plastic cages – these are sent with separated recycling bins, as well as seeking to to a recycling area where they are baled. reduce printing outputs. – Food bins – for use in the wormery – IBC containers – to dispose of vege.table oils ExCeL’s marketing team also play a role in ExCeL’s and fats. CSR activity. In 2016, a new CSR champion was appointed to provide a single point of We continued to recycle our waste through contact for CSR activity, as well as being tasked our on-site materials recycling facility and the with developing a comprehensive marketing wormery. The ExCeL wormery is the UK’s largest strategy. ExCeL’s marketing team are responsible commercial wormery, containing over 300,000 for developing new ways of providing digital worms. The key benefits of our food waste policy resources for clients and stakeholders wherever include: possible, in an effort to reduce printing leaflets, Environment | 14/20 – Reduction of carbon emitted by transporting LED eco-friendly lighting provided by Philips. We waste from ExCeL. estimate that the energy consumption saving per – Reduction in the number of lorries travelling on fitting is 70% and we are continuously monitoring already congested London roads. effectiveness. – Reduction in landfill – volumes have been reduced by approximately 90%. In 2016 we’ve taken further steps to increase – Production of valuable soil additive which is energy efficiency through the following actions: then used for landscaping across the ExCeL campus. – Heating and cooling units are not used during – Minimal power usage. the build and break of events. – Worms can eat almost anything – certain – Lighting in our spaces is set to 50% during the amounts of green waste and paper can also be build and break of events. incorporated. – Every member of ExCeL staff undergoes training when they join the company to ensure In addition to the food recycling policy, all used they are as energy efficient as possible. vegetable oil is collected from site and turned into – Reminders are placed throughout the bio fuel. management office encouraging employees to switch off lights and shut down their computers Increased energy efficiency at the end of each day. – Operations teams are trained and empowered In 2014, we took steps to improve energy to make decisions on energy usages. efficiency at ExCeL which included a lighting upgrade throughout our venue and car parks. Below are the electricity consumption figures for We swapped our 14-year-old lighting which was the year to date 2016 with the value worked out at consuming significant amounts of energy for 0.10p per unit: Consumption KWhrs Forecast KWhrs Variance KWhrs Variance £ Electricity 17,427,423 18,010,803 -583,380 -58,338 Below is the electricity consumption summation graph in kwh for the same period compared against the target figures: 400000 350000 300000 250000 200000 150000 100000 50000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 2014 2015 2016 Environment | 15/20 In 2016 we are pleased to report that we were well within our target Engie are now providing us with monthly meter readings backdated to March 2015 to allow us to carry out comparison reporting. Below are the consumption figures for hot and chilled water for the year to date 2016 with the value worked out at 0.041p per unit for Hot Water and 0.062p per unit for Chilled Water: Consumption KWhrs Forecast KWhrs Variance KWhrs Variance £ Hot Water 8,176,000 8,144,000 32,000 1,312 Chilled Water 1,617,000 1,717,000 -100,000 -6,200 Hot water usage summation year to date (MWh) We have no figures from January or February 2015 so cannot provide comparison for these months. 10000 8000 6000 4000 2000 0 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Heating target Heating actual The graph above shows that our hot water usage for the year was frequently under target for almost the entire duration of the year. Chilled water usage summation year to date (MWh) 2000 1500 1000 500 0 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Cooling target Cooling actual The graph above shows that our chilled water usage summation for 2016 was under target for almost the entire year, bar in September 2016 when we went slightly over target. All in all, we are pleased to have achieved our targets for the year. We are able to provide year-on-year graphs detailing our gas and electricity consumption. Environment | 16/20 Gas consumption: 2013-2016 25000000 20000000 15000000 10000000 5000000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 2014 2015 2016 Electricity consumption: 2013-2016 400000 350000 300000 250000 200000 150000 100000 50000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 2014 2015 2016 Environment | 17/20 Ensuring organisers and suppliers participate in We measure the success of this objective through ExCeL’s sustainability objectives our organiser feedback surveys, which are conducted over the phone by an external agency. The key ingredient to ensuring ExCeL’s partners In 2016, 67% of organisers stated they were aware and suppliers are aligned with our sustainability of ExCeL’s sustainability objectives, which is a 4% objectives is through our procurement policy, increase on 2015 but still doesn’t meet ExCeL’s which outlines specific criteria to staff when objective of 70% awareness. purchasing good or services. Each departmental director is responsible for monitoring compliance Reduce amount of printed collateral and seek to with the policy and ensuring competitive host digitally where possible purchasing processes are in place. One of our informal goals for 2016 was to continue Sustainable procurement is a process whereby in our pledge to reduce printing in the ExCeL ExCeL meet its requirements for good, services, management office. We have notices encouraging works and utilities in a way that achieves value staff to print double-sided in black and white only for money on a whole life basis in terms of where necessary – in addition to this, all ExCeL generating benefits not only to the organisation, employee computers and laptops are set to but to society and the economy whilst minimising automatically print this way to prevent accidental damage to the environment. Cost savings, colour printing. reduced carbon emissions, less waste, lower energy and fuel consumption, improved health As previously mentioned, the ExCeL marketing outcomes, more skills and training, plus more team are a crucial part of achieving this objective, contract opportunities for smalland mediumas they provide support to the sales teams in sized enterprises are some of the practical benefits the form of marketing collateral. Where possible, to consider and include within procurement. brochures are created in PDF format and made available digitally, distributed via email or hosted To be truly sustainable, we also believe our clients on the ExCeL website. should work with us to run sustainable events. It is therefore one of our main priorities to ensure In 2016, ExCeL’s marketing team continued to organisers are aware of ExCeL’s sustainability champion reducing printed collateral by launching objectives and that they uphold our energy a newly revamped organiser toolkit, hosted on savings and waste management policies. the ExCeL website. This password protected area of the website is available for contracted ExCeL’s event management team champion this Exhibitions and Conference & Events clients and objective as they are the more frequent point of is split into two clear sections for operations contact for organisers during the planning and teams and marketing teams. The toolkit contains delivery process. Sustainability is discussed in a variety of ready-to-use tools to assist in the the planning process and charges are applied for event planning process such as: downloadable excessive waste as an incentive to keep events as PDFs in both desktop and mobile format providing sustainable as possible. useful information such as travel maps, venue information, key messages and recommended We have noted a reduction in waste left on-site partners. It also digitally hosts information such as and sent to landfills thanks to the role ExCeL organiser handbooks and rate cards for services. employees play in educating organisers on their CDM responsibilities. We work in collaboration Since launching in June 2016 on the new-look to ensure all waste is disposed of correctly ExCeL website, we ran a HTML campaign sent to before, during and after an event, and we provide approximately 169 organisers promoting the new handbooks to the organisers with guidance. In toolkit – this received an average of 22.22% opens addition, we remind organisers of our work and and 27.27% clicks. To date, the landing page has their responsibility on-site by providing ExCeL received 6,720 with an average of 1 minute and 17 CSR factsheets in the organiser offices. seconds being spent browsing the toolkit. Environment | 18/20 07 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption | 19/20 8 ExCeL London upholds its commitment to people and protect our organisation. preventing corruption of any kind within its code of conduct. Regular internal and external auditing To this end, ExCeL has a comprehensive of financial accounts ensures that the company’s Whistleblowing policy in place, as well as a expectations in relation to corporate governance whistleblowing hotline which we launched in May are maintained. 2015. Our whistleblowing hotline is managed by external company Expolink, who will forward This auditing also enables ExCeL to achieve our concerns – anonymously if desired by the objective of maximising shareholder value, as we individual – to an internal audit manager. This must be able to guarantee the highest possible whistleblowing hotline is global, enabling our standards of financial management, assessment of visitors, suppliers, and partners to raise their risk, and control. We understand that this must be concerns from a number of locations around the taken at every level within the business. world. To date, we have received zero calls to our whistleblowing hotline. The company has established an audit committee which monitors compliance, full details of their It is our policy to conduct all of our business in responsibilities can be found in the company’s an honest and ethical manner. We take a zeroaudit committee charter. The remuneration tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. Our committee makes decisions on executive pay anti-corruption and bribery policy, detailed in full and bonus. External benchmarking of employee in our employee handbook, applies to individuals salaries removes potential bias and favouritism in working at all grades and levels. annual salary reviews. Our policy does not prohibit normal and ExCeL has not been involved in any legal cases, appropriate hospitality (given or received) to or rulings, or other events related to corruption and/ from third parties. We appreciate that the practice or bribery. ExCeL seeks to conduct its business of giving business gifts varies between countries honestly and in good faith, free from fraud or and regions; our employee handbook outlines deception. In order to achieve this, all ExCeL what is considered acceptable and what is not. employees must: Another way in which we strive to prevent – Comply with all applicable UK and EU laws and corruption and bribery of all forms is through our regulations, including any regulations, codes, bi-annual employee appraisals. In these appraisals, and guidelines which apply specifically to the employees are asked to declare any gifts made business. to clients so this can be logged and monitored – Not give or receive bribes, or any other for any discrepancies. All employees are asked to inducements to obtain or retain business, nor declare and keep a written record of all hospitality conduct themselves in such a way as to give or gifts accepted or offered, which are subjected rise to any conflict of interest. to this bi-annual managerial review. There is – Seek mutually beneficial commercial a 100% completion rate of appraisal forms at relationships with third parties with whom they ExCeL, and HR follow-up personally with any do business. incomplete responses regarding anti-corruption – Ensure that they do not enter into contractual and bribery. arrangements that they are unable to fulfil. – Use company assets only for the purpose Employees are also asked to ensure all expenses of ExCeL’s business and not to abuse their claims relating to hospitality, gifts, or expenses position in the company for personal gain. incurred to third parties are submitted in – Ensure that adequate systems are in place to accordance with our expenses policy and protect the business’ assets. specifically record the reason for this expenditure. Training on this policy forms part of the induction We strive to ensure that our people act with process for all new employees. Our zerohonesty, integrity, and professionalism. To support tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is these underlying ethical values we encourage our communicated to all suppliers, contractors, and employees to raise genuine issues of malpractice business partners at the outset of our business or impropriety at work. By identifying and dealing relationship with them – and as appropriate with concerns at an early stage we can prevent thereafter. malpractice and take steps to safeguard our Anti-corruption | 20/20
