Sustainability at LGT 2015 to 2016 A look inside the Princely Collections: the illustrations in this publication depict studies of natural objects by Franz Anton von Scheidel. For more than 400 years, the Princes of Liechtenstein have form the basis for a successful partnership with our clients: been passionate art collectors. The Princely Collections a long-term focus, skill and reliability. include key works of European art stretching over five centuries and are now among the world’s major private art Illustrations: Franz Anton von Scheidel, details from collections. The notion of promoting fine arts for the general “Depictions of conchiliae in watercolor after Johann Carl good enjoyed its greatest popularity during the Baroque Megerle von Mühlfeld (1765–1840),” late 18th century. period. The House of Liechtenstein has pursued this ideal © LIECHTENSTEIN. The Princely Collections, Vaduz–Vienna consistently down the generations. We make deliberate use of the works of art in the Princely Collections to accompany what we do. For us, they embody those values that www.liechtensteincollections.at Contents 5 We strive to have a positive impact 6 Our understanding of sustainability 8 A new legislative framework 9 Responsible corporate governance at LGT 10 Interview: H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT 12 A strategic dialog based on partnership 14 Portrait: The green mobility activist 16 Sustainable employee development 18 On behalf of society 20 Portrait: Making dreams come true 22 We take responsibility 26 LGT Venture Philanthropy and LGT Impact 28 Doing business sustainably 30 Key figures at a glance 32 Our memberships 33 Report profile 34 Risk note/disclaimer “The simple and stable ownership structure of family-managed LGT allows us to pursue a long-term and thus sustainable corporate strategy and, at the same time, to make decisions quickly and independently.” H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein, Chairman LGT 5 We strive to have a positive impact Dear Client As entrepreneurs, we take a long-term approach to everything we do, which is why the social and environmental challenges currently facing the human race are of great concern to us. Pollution and the ensuing climate change, the political problems as well as the social injustice that exists in many countries and regions pose a serious threat not only to society, but also companies. In the long term, companies can only flourish in a healthy environment and a well-functioning society. Thinking and acting sustainably has always been a top priority for our family. We believe that we are responsible for the social and environmental impact of our business activities. As an intermediary between investors and capital-seeking businesses and organizations, we strive to ensure that capital is invested sustainably from both an environmental and a social perspective. We also make responsible use of the resources needed to conduct our business and encourage our suppliers to manufacture their products in a sustainable manner. This is our third sustainability report and it highlights the goals we have set for ourselves in this area, how we intend to achieve H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein (left) and them and the efforts we have made in the last two years to H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein (right) contribute to sustainable development. H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein Chairman LGT H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein CEO LGT 6 A long-term perspective Our understanding of sustainability Our society is facing major challenges as far as the environment of climate change remain manageable, the increase in the global is concerned, but also from a social, technological and political temperature must be restricted to less than two degrees Celsius perspective. The rapidly increasing pressures on the environment above pre-industrial levels and, if possible, to one and a half are leading to serious problems in a wide variety of areas. Climate degrees. This ambitious goal is laid down in the Paris Agreement, change is one of the biggest risks to our planet and its consewhich was adopted by all the member states of the United quences are already apparent today. These include melting sea Nations in December 2015. ice and glaciers, loss of biodiversity, thawing of the permafrost and increasing desertification. In order to ensure that the effects To overcome this myriad of challenges, we not only need a strong political system that will put in place the necessary legislative and regulatory changes. We also need the business world to make its own contribution by introducing structural changes and technological innovations. The financial sector has a signifcant responsibility in this respect as an investor and investment adviser in the field of capital allocation, because it can play an important role in the transformation process that is needed. LGT has been working on these issues for some time. It takes a long-term, integrated approach and fulfills its social and environSince 2010, LGT has been carbon neutral. To offset unavoidable emissions, it is supporting a small-scale hydroelectric project in Honduras that is helping mental responsibilities on a number of levels. In 2014, we defined both the environment and the local community. the sustainability objectives that we intend to meet by 2020. LGT’s objectives for 2020 Doing business sustainably Commitment to society and employees Protecting the climate and resources n We want to be a leading private bank n We want to make a strong comn We want 80 percent of our energy that integrates sustainability criteria mitment to positive development to come from renewable sources into its product range and business in society. by 2020. activities. n We want to help reduce global poverty. n We want to establish a systematic n We want to incorporate sustainability supplier risk management framework. n We want to be a leading employer. criteria into our investment activities n We want to monitor and account for in all asset classes. CO2 emissions within our core business. 7 In accordance with UN development goals have focused on making our banking operations and investOur objectives support 16 of the 17 UN sustainable development ment business sustainable. In 2017, we will turn our attention goals. In 2015 and 2016, we reached some of the milestones to private banking. We intend to ensure that the sustainability that form part of our 2020 objectives. This has given us the aspects of the various investment vehicles available to our incentive to set ourselves ambitious goals in these areas and to clients are fully transparent. take the measures that are needed. In the past few years we More information about the UN development goals is available at https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/. Doing business sustainably Commitment to society and employees Protecting the climate and resources n Ethics and integrity in business (p. 9) n Stakeholder dialog (p. 12) n LGT equity funds have a positive environmental footprint (p. 23) n Integrating sustainability criteria into n Award for the top employer in Switzercompliance processes (p. 9) land and Liechtenstein (p. 16) n Green energy: our own photovoltaic systems (p. 28) n Data security and protection (p. 9) n Employee Volunteering Program (EVP) (p. 18, 20) n Geneva and Zurich branches: n Combating money laundering, Minergie standard (p. 28) corruption and terrorism financing n Supporting social organizations (p. 9) in Liechtenstein (p. 19) n Offsetting the CO2 emissions of the business (p. 29) n Incorporating ESG criteria into direct n Drink & Donate (p. 19) investments, private equity and, in n Systematic supplier audits and the n LGT Venture Philanthropy and some cases, hedge fund solutions development of new evaluation LGT Impact helping disadvantaged (p. 22) processes (p. 29) people (p. 26) n Offering impact investing solutions with LGT Impact (p. 26) 8 A long-term perspective A new legislative framework The financial sector is in a state of change, not least because ■■ 2016: the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climateof the introduction of new regulatory requirements. The Autorelated Financial Disclosures published its recommendations matic Exchange of Information (AEOI) between countries is for the voluntary disclosure of climate-related financial risks. intended to increase international transparency and tax com■■ 2017: pension funds in Europe must include in their risk anapliance. A number of states and supranational organizations, lyses and their investment decisions any risks relating to the such as the UN, the OECD and the EU, are calling for more climate and the use of natural resources, together with any responsible corporate governance in order to help to prevent social risks, as a result of an amendment to the EU directive breaches of human rights and people trafficking, to guarantee for pension funds (EU directive on the activities and supervifair working conditions, the responsible use of raw materials sion of institutions for occupational retirement provision). and to reduce global warming. ■■ 2017: companies with more than 500 employees and public interest entities must provide information about environmental, Under the terms of international agreements and national social and employee-related matters in their business reports legislation, companies are increasingly required to take into (EU directive 2014/95/EU). consideration social and environmental criteria and the principles of good corporate governance: ■■ 2015: the UN introduced its sustainable development goals (2030 Agenda). Its overall goal is to end poverty by 2030 and, in particular, to eradicate extreme poverty. The World Bank defines extreme poverty as living on less than 1.25 US dollars per day. ■■ 2015: the Paris Agreement, which was adopted by all the UN member states, has the objective of restricting the warming of the earth’s atmosphere to less than two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels and, if possible, to one and a half degrees. In addition to the UN member states, the agreement includes businesses in the private sector. It also requires flows of capital to be made climate-friendly. In April 2016, representatives from 175 nations signed the Paris Climate ■■ 2016: in France, institutional investors must disclose the climate Agreement at a ceremony held at the United Nations headquarters in New impact of their investments under the terms of Article 173 of York – pictured is former US Secretary of State John Kerry with his two-yearold granddaughter sitting symbolically on his lap. (Source: State Department/ the Energy Transition Act. Public Domain) 9 Responsible corporate governance at LGT For LGT, responsible corporate governance is an essential requirement for gaining and reinforcing the trust of clients and employees and also that of the company’s owner and other stakeholders. LGT is managed according to the principles of the separation of powers (Foundation Board, Group Executive Committee, Executive Boards of the companies) and of checks and balances. We support the fight against corporate crime, money laundering, corruption and terrorism financing and have set up comprehensive internal controls and monitoring processes for this purpose. We publish our financial figures and other important information in accordance with the international accounting standards for companies listed on the stock exchange, despite the fact that as a family-owned business we are not obliged to do so. LGT is one of the few international private banks worldwide that has its creditworthiness assessed by independent rating agencies At specially organized events, LGT explains complex sustainability issues to its clients, partners and employees in an informative and entertaining way. and receives consistently high ratings. In 2016, LGT was rated Aa2 by Moody’s and A+ by Standard & Poor’s. Guaranteeing data security from employees Shared values – our Code of Conduct LGT holds regular training courses and awareness-raising sessions Our business policy is based on performance, professionalism, on data security in order to ensure that its employees are constantly fairness and high ethical standards. For us, responsible corporate aware of the importance of information and understand that governance means more than simply complying with all the sensitive data needs to be protected. Using a range of methods relevant legislation and regulations in the countries where we including web-based training (WBT), classroom training courses, do business. Where it makes sense to do so, we undertake to informational events and information provided on the intranet, comply with more stringent regulations. Our Code of Conduct information screens and posters and via e-mail, we keep our specifies a minimum standard that we must meet even in cases managers and employees throughout the company up to date where national legislation is less strict. Our shared values are with a wide range of subjects relating to data security. As well laid down in the LGT Code of Conduct, which defines the ethical as basic courses and occasional and regular activities, we also and professional standards for all employees and is binding for run annual campaigns on important topical issues. If possible, all employees, including the members of the Foundation Board we test our employees’ knowledge of these topics after the and Board of Directors. training has been completed. 10 Interview “We want to go our own way” H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein would like to take LGT’s sustainable approach even further. Your Serene Highness, the late Milton Friedman, businesses can only flourish as part of a healthy society who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics and and they rely on having a positive relationship with it. This was a classical liberal, once said in an interview: is why we cannot only take something out of society by “The social responsibility of business is to increase maximizing our short-term profits and neglecting social and its profits.” He was known to have a poor opinion environmental considerations. We must also give something of corporate environmental and social responsibility. back to society and help to protect our environment. What is your view? H.S.H. Prince Max: Of course, a company’s main role is to Apart from the business considerations, is the develop its core business and make a profit. However, it sustainability of LGT important to you personally? would be wrong to focus only on maximizing profits to Sustainability and a long-term perspective are values that have achieve this objective because this often results in companies always played a major role in our family. I am convinced that taking a narrow, short-term approach. In the long term, these values have helped the family to make an important contribution to society for centuries. Both as an individual and as a businessman, I want to have a positive impact on social and environmental issues. Which of the problems relating to sustainability that we are faced with today are the most important in your view? We are currently confronting major social and environmental challenges. Examples include pollution and climate change. The growing concentration of income and wealth in many areas of the world and the increase in social segregation are dangerous trends that could lead to political polarization. Instead of embracing populism and protectionism, we need to take an intelligent, inclusive and environmentally sustainable approach on a personal level, a corporate level and a national and international level. How can LGT help to resolve social and environmental problems of this kind? Every organization leaves behind a footprint on society and on the environment as a result of its activities and its behavior. We believe that investment and business decisions should H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein was appointed CEO be made not only on the basis of financial figures, but also of LGT in 2006. taking into account their social and environmental impacts. 11 H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein and employees of LGT Impact visiting the Naboisho project in Kenya. As investors and investment advisers we try to behave Many companies owned by family foundations, such accordingly. We give our clients our assessment of the ESG as Bosch and Bertelsmann, are, like LGT, making a characteristics of the different investment options and the conscious commitment to sustainability. What role organizations that provide them. ESG stands for environmental, does the ownership structure play in this respect? social and governance criteria. In the areas where we as In companies that are listed on the stock exchange, stronger advisers or investors have sufficient influence, we make every leadership is needed to ensure that they can focus on sustainattempt to ensure that organizations set themselves social ability. Amazingly, some companies still believe that incorporand environmental objectives which will improve their sustainating social and environmental objectives into their corporate able positioning and impact. We have also founded two strategy will have a negative effect on their profits. Of course, organizations – LGT Impact and LGT Venture Philanthropy – exactly the opposite is the case. In addition, the pressure to which specialize in investing in companies with a particularly achieve good results in the short term is often very high in strong positive impact on society and/or the environment. listed companies and this leads to negative decision-making in the long term. As LGT has only one owner, who takes a very long-term, socially responsible approach, it is much easier for us to think and act sustainably and holistically. “Every organization leaves behind a footprint on society and on the enviDo you have a vision of where LGT will be in ten years ronment as a result of its activities and in terms of sustainability? its behavior. We need to include these I hope that the word on the market will be: “If you want to invest, go to LGT. The service and client care are first class, the factors in our investment decisions.” performance is excellent and the company is inspirational in terms of its corporate culture and impact on society.” It is also important that we fulfill our social and environmental responsibilities within our own organization, for example by focusing on our own carbon footprint and ensuring that our suppliers are as committed as we are. 12 Activities A strategic dialog based on partnership LGT shares information on a regular basis with different stakeAdditional results: holders, but most importantly with its clients, its owner and its ■■ On average 40 percent of the clients surveyed (D: 45%; employees. We are also in frequent contact with public bodies, CH: 34%; A: 36%) claimed they had already invested in our suppliers, the academic world and the general public. sustainable assets. We provide systematic, clear and easily understandable infor■■ For up to 40 percent of the clients surveyed (D: 39%; mation that is targeted at specific groups. On the basis of a CH: 22%; A: 25%), environmental factors played a very survey about the relevance of sustainability issues carried out important role in their investment decisions in the past. in 2015, we reviewed and modified the direction and objectives ■■ Around 30 percent of the clients surveyed (D: 26%; CH: 33%; of our sustainability activities. Around 60 people took part in A: 29%) intended to increase their proportion of sustainable the survey, including representatives from the business and investments in future, while two thirds planned to keep the academic worlds and from society as a whole, together with proportion the same. employees from different departments and regions. The results ■■ Approximately 56 percent of the clients surveyed confirm that our 2020 sustainability objectives are on the right (D: 61%; CH: 48%; A: 58%) are of the opinion that track. They also demonstrate that a sustainable approach is an the returns from sustainable investments are the same essential means of future-proofing our business. as those from traditional investments. The importance of sustainability for private banking clients A client survey carried out by LGT in the German-speaking LGT Private Banking Report 2016 countries in 2016 reveals that private banking clients believe that sustainability is an important issue. However, environmental, An investigation into the investment behavior of wealthy individuals in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The survey was carried out by social and ethical factors were rated differently in the individual Professor Teodoro D. Cocca from the Institute of Corporate Finance countries. For example, ethical issues are relevant for more than at Johannes Kepler University Linz. half of the clients surveyed in Germany (D), but only for around one third of those questioned in Switzerland (CH) and Austria (A). You can find more information at: www.lgt.com/en/publications 13 The relevance of sustainability issues The importance of sustainability for institutional clients The results of the “Global Insights on ESG in Alternative Ethics and integrity Investing” study carried out by LGT Capital Partners and Anti-corruption Mercer were published in 2015. Investment policies regarding human rights/child labor Around 100 institutional investors from 22 countries were Reputational risk and management asked whether and in what way they take ESG criteria into Financing: human rights/ consideration when allocating alternative investments. The child labor screening Investments: risks in results confirm that our assessment of the situation and the supply chains way we work are correct. Active ownership: risk management approach ■■ The majority of the investors surveyed (76 percent) consider Training and education ESG criteria when making allocations to alternative investments. Good Corporate ■■ In addition, 57 percent of the investors believe that considering Governance ESG criteria has a positive impact on the risk/return profile, while Financial impact of climate change only nine percent feel that there is a negative connection. Active ownership: ■■ A total of 69 percent of the investors are certain that their investee relations Supplier assessment stakeholders are involved with ESG issues. environment/social risks ■■ More than two thirds of those surveyed are convinced that Digitization integrating ESG criteria into the investment process is a key Reduction targets for factor in reputation management. internal emissions Philanthropic engagement/ impact investing Water and waste Study by LGT Capital Partners and Mercer on ESG criteria in alternative investing. Relevance for LGT stakeholders external stakeholders You can find more information at: www.lgt.com/joint-survey-esg 14 Portrait Staying agile in the mind and on the saddle, Hans-Peter Schärli argues pragmatically for environmentally friendly transportation. The green mobility activist After an hour of in-depth discussions about cars, protecting the environment and the future of transportation, one gets the distinct impression that two souls reside within Hans-Peter Schärli. The surprising thing is that they are not in conflict. In fact, they complement one another and even work very well together. 15 Every year Hans-Peter Schärli covers more than 6000 kiloportation you use should be as environmentally friendly meters by bicycle. He is generally to be found on his racing as possible. Nowadays, there is a great deal of potential bike, but sometimes on a mountain bike, keeping himself in this area. fit and opening his mind to new ideas. This gives him direct experience of how important clean air is. “Whether they “The technology is ready,” he says. “Now we need to work live in Beijing, Paris or Milan, people want to breathe clean on the mobility concepts.” But he is also totally realistic. “We air,” he says. This is the first and most obvious argument must not attempt to convert all our transport vehicles as in support of green mobility. quickly as possible and develop electric vehicles for snow clearance. Instead we need to exploit the existing potential.” But however enthusiastic he gets about electric cars and new For example, most tradespeople and architects would be ways of reducing the volume of traffic by means of netunlikely to travel more than 100 kilometers every day. On working and autonomous driving, Hans-Peter Schärli is the basis of his analyses of large industrial organizations, definitely not a green idealist. He is a down-to-earth, rational he is certain that up to 30 percent of company vehicles could person who does not argue in favor of environmentally be replaced with electric models with the use of an intellifriendly transportation for ideological reasons, but on a gent fleet management system. pragmatic and realistic basis. “Oil is much too important as a raw material for us to be burning it in our engines,” he says. Intelligent mobility concepts reduce the volume of traffic But Hans-Peter Schärli doesn’t plan to stop there. “With The spirit of Silicon Valley intelligent, networked transportation concepts, we would Hans-Peter Schärli has noticed the new mood of optimism. no longer have large buses traveling on pre-defined routes “The development of electric cars is similar to the emergence past empty bus stops,” he explains. “Small buses, which could of the computer industry in the 1980s. And today Silicon run autonomously, would be able to operate on the routes Valley is the center of innovation, just as it was then.” He feels that people actually needed.” In addition, we live in an aging at home in the place where Google and Apple are carrying society and older people want to remain mobile for longer. out their research into self-driving cars. For many years, he Needs-based mobility concepts could allow them to live an was managing director of the Swiss subsidiary of a leading independent life for a longer period or at least give them greater freedom. That would mean more journeys on public transportation, “but because fewer vehicles would be regis“Oil is much too important as a tered and we would be using an intelligent traffic management raw material for us to be burning system, the volume of traffic would still be reduced,” says it in our engines.” Hans-Peter Schärli. Until we have achieved these objectives, the busy clean printer manufacturer. This gave him a good insight into the IT transportation activist will probably have spent a lot more and high-tech industries at an early stage. He found the buzz hours on his bicycle coming up with new ideas for the next and the excitement infectious. Even then it was not just about milestones in green mobility. producing better, faster and more cost-effective printers. Developers also exploited the available technical potential in order to reduce consumption and make printing more Hans-Peter Schärli soon moved into the world of business resource-efficient and therefore more environmentally friendly. after completing his electronics apprenticeship. As a dealer selling “Every page that isn’t printed benefits the environment,” American electronic devices, he breathed the innovative air of Silicon Valley in the heady days of the 1980s. Since his time says Hans-Peter Schärli, quoting his motto at the time. “But as managing director of the Swiss subsidiary of a large printer if you have to print something, it should cause as little envirmanufacturer, the connection between the economy and the onmental impact as possible.” environment has been very important to him. His involvement with green transportation allows him to combine his enthusiasm for innovation, his entrepreneurial talents and the need to protect Focusing on what is feasible the environment. In his role as a clean mobility architect he advises According to Hans-Peter Schärli, the same is true of transcompanies and public bodies on electric transportation and helps portation. The cheapest journey and the one with the least them to introduce electric vehicles and build up their fleets. impact on the environment is the one that you do not make. www.e-lime.ch But if you have to go somewhere, then the means of trans16 Employees Sustainable employee development Assuming social and environmental responsibility is an important part of our corporate culture. We rely on employees who identify with our values and make a long-term commitment to our clients, whom we often support across several generations. We value our employees’ dedication and provide them with an attractive, safe and healthy work environment. This is confirmed by awards we have received from the Top Employers Institute for the last two years. Classic virtues and values such as reliability, respect and integrity play an important role in our corporate culture and are an integral part of our Code of Conduct. In 2016, Riccardo Somma, a former apprentice and now a network administrator at LGT, finished in first place at ICTskills in Zurich in the IT network and Education and training system administration category and will take part in WorldSkills in 2017. He is LGT provides its employees with a comprehensive and varied the first person from the banking and service sector to enter the competition. range of internal and external training courses in areas such as personal development, social and management skills as well as professional and methodological expertise. In Switzerland, An internal survey on employee health carried out in the spring of Liechtenstein and Austria, our relationship managers take part 2016 shows that our employees are about average in terms of in a comprehensive certification program that complies with physical health. Periodic surveys will be held in future to identify international standards. any measures needed and the progress that has been made. Since 1995, the LGT Academy has been offering employees LGT Vitality also encourages employees to take part in public a wide range of personal development training programs which health campaigns such as “Bike to work.” Around five percent were attended by 255 employees in 2016 (2015: 209). The LGT of staff in Switzerland and Liechtenstein have been involved in Academy programs are complemented by additional courses this program over the last two years. and an online platform. LGT invests more than 5.3 million Swiss francs every year in The health management program, known as LGT Vitality, which employee training, which corresponds to 2121 Swiss francs was launched in 2014, has become well established and plays per employee. an important role in improving the productivity and health of our employees in the long term. LGT Vitality covers the four Supporting talented people areas of exercise, nutrition, relaxation and mindset. We are Training the next generation of staff has traditionally been an constantly adding to the activities available in all these areas. important part of our employee development activities. As a 17 certified training bank (in accordance with guidelines issued Periodic employee surveys by the Swiss Bankers Association), we are committed to giving As a family company, LGT places great importance on factors young people in Liechtenstein and Switzerland a practical and such as employee satisfaction and the working atmosphere. varied start to their careers. Our training programs cover profesThis is why we review these and other issues periodically in our sional and personal development, as well as social skills. We Group-wide employee surveys. The last survey was held in the employ around 90 percent of our apprentices after they have fall of 2016 and around 70 percent of employees took part. completed their apprenticeship. Compared with 2013, the satisfaction of employees has increased Every two years, we offer around ten university graduates the in almost all areas. A total of 90 percent of employees (2013: 86%) opportunity to complete an 18-month Graduate Program. are very satisfied with their general work situation and 91 percent (2013: 87%) are very satisfied with their work. The survey also Diversity and equal opportunities showed that employees feel very close links with LGT. Some 92 LGT offers equal employment and promotion opportunities to percent of them said that they are proud to work for LGT and all employees, regardless of their gender, age, religion, nationality, the same percentage would choose LGT as an employer again. ethnicity, sexual orientation, marital status, physical ability or Despite the excellent results, we will use the findings of the survey other characteristics protected by local law. Expertise and experias the basis for further improvement measures in the area of ence are important to LGT, which is why we deliberately employ employee satisfaction. people over the age of 50. In 2016, this group of people made up around nine percent of all our new hires. In order to meet the needs of older employees more effectively, we have introduced flexible working hours and pension safeguarding measures. For example, under certain circumstances employees who are 57 or older (at some locations 58) can take flexible retirement. Partial retirement with a reduced working week is also an option. From 2017 onward, we will be adding courses specially designed for this target group to our training program. LGT treats its employees with respect. It also respects differing In 2016, around 200 employees with at least ten years of service at LGT opinions, perspectives and cultural customs. In 2016, the were invited by H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein, Chairman of workforce of LGT was made up of people from more than LGT, to attend the traditional anniversary party. One permanent item on the program is a visit to an innovative Liechtenstein-based company, which gives 50 countries. the employees the chance to find out at first hand what makes other family businesses successful in the long term. 18 Commitment On behalf of society The LGT Employee Volunteering Program (EVP) gives employees In New York, employees regularly prepare meals for homeless the opportunity to volunteer on behalf of less privileged members people and help to serve them as part of the Common Pantry of society or to work on environmental projects. Around five organization. In London, employees of LGT Vestra have been percent of employees have taken part in various EVP activities involved for several years with the charity Beanstalk, which helps over the last five years. to improve the literacy of disadvantaged children. Once a week, employees spend their lunch hour reading with the children. In Liechtenstein and Switzerland, the focus in the last two years has been on the environment. Employees have dug out invasive Our subsidiary in London has recently begun supporting The plants in Liechtenstein, worked to increase biodiversity in a Prince’s Trust. This organization provides mentors and coaches vineyard near Zurich and removed waste and rubbish from the to help disadvantaged young people who have an idea for a banks of the Rhone in Geneva. new business. At the start of the cooperation with The Prince’s Trust, eight employees from LGT Vestra took part in a charity bike ride. Taking as their motto “From Prince to Prince,” they cycled the 1100 kilometers from Buckingham Palace in London to Vaduz Castle in Liechtenstein in six days. On the last stage they were accompanied by H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT. On their strenuous journey, they raised around 63 000 Swiss francs for The Prince’s Trust. In Hong Kong, around 20 percent of our employees have taken part in the Green Power Hike in the last two years and have raised a total of 35 500 Swiss francs for environmental education activities and for cleaning up unsupervised beaches on the islands surrounding Hong Kong. In the last two years, LGT Bank in Singapore has invited nonThe LGT Young Soloists are a group of young and talented string soloists. profit organizations to a concert given by the LGT Young Soloists, They perform together with their peers as soloists within their own orfollowed by a meal. In 2015, children, young people, low-income chestra, accompanying each other and sharing their passion for music. families, elderly people and disabled people attended the concert, This gives them the unique opportunity to appear on stage regularly and gain experience as soloists, chamber and orchestral musicians, build up all of whom are supported by the organization AWWA. In 2016, their repertoires and develop their stage presence. severely disabled residents of the Singapore Cheshire Home whose 19 families cannot care for them were invited. Our employees provided support for the visitors before, during and after the concert. Our branch in Austria has been supporting the organization Teach for Austria since 2016. It campaigns for equal opportunities in the education system and supports children and young people from low-income and educationally disadvantaged families. The organization sends university graduates as support teachers to junior high and high schools in disadvantaged areas, where they then work for at least two years as fully-fledged teachers (fellows). They are given training in teaching skills before they begin work and are supported by experienced trainers during their deploy“The award is intended to be an incentive to preserve and intensify social engagement in Liechtenstein,” said H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, ment. Every year, Teach for Austria helps around 100 children who CEO LGT (l.), at the second LGT Award ceremony in October 2016. have fallen behind in their education. LGT Award for Social Engagement support water projects”, LGT is encouraging employees not Since 2014, LGT has presented charities in Liechtenstein with to buy bottled mineral water, but to drink tap water instead. the LGT Award for Social Engagement. The prize, which is Every employee has been given a special drinking bottle and worth 50 000 Swiss francs, is awarded every two years to nonthese are also available in client areas, where they have received profit organizations in Liechtenstein. In 2016, the award went a positive response. Some clients have introduced the same to Stiftung Liachtbleck and Caritas Liechtenstein, both of concept in their own companies. which support people who are in financial difficulties or living on a very low income. The Junges Theater Liechtenstein Every year, LGT donates 100 000 Swiss francs to drinking water received a prize of 20 000 Swiss francs in recognition of its projects organized by Drink & Donate. LGT’s employees choose Lernbox project, which provides early support for children the project that will be supported each year. The 2016 donation aged between three and seven. went to a project run by the development aid organization Helvetas which is funding the construction and repair of drinking Drink & Donate – for clean drinking water water wells in Nepal. This will give around 850 households Since 2016, LGT has been one of the partners of the charitable in the regions with the poorest infrastructure access to clean organization Drink & Donate. With the motto “Drink tap water, drinking water. 20 Portrait Making dreams come true Ollie Brand has become involved in supporting The Prince’s Trust, together with 13 of his colleagues at LGT Vestra. The organization helps to give disadvantaged young people better prospects in life. “I was familiar with The Prince’s Trust back when I was a Many of them are already homeless, are suffering from student,” says Ollie Brand, Investment Assistant at LGT mental health problems or have even come into conflict Vestra in London. “The charity is very well known in the with the law. The Prince’s Trust programs give these UK, so I was particularly delighted when the Million Makers people the practical and financial support they need to competition, which the Trust organizes, gave me an put their lives in order, build up their self-esteem and exciting opportunity to offer this brilliant organization prepare for the world of work. Three out of every four some hands-on support.” young people helped by the organization find a job or go on to further education. Giving young people a chance The Prince’s Trust is a charity that helps disadvantaged young Million Makers competition people to put their lives back on track. It was founded in “When I heard about the Million Makers competition last 1976 by H.R.H. Prince Charles and for 40 years it has been spring, I decided to take part right away,” says Ollie Brand. helping young people between the ages of 13 and 30 who LGT Vestra Chairman David Scott had encouraged his staff have problems at school or are unemployed and for this to sign up for this charitable project. reason are at risk of social exclusion. Eight keen cyclists from LGT Vestra covered more than 1100 kilometers on their six-day “Prince to Prince” charity ride from Buckingham Palace in London to Vaduz Castle. 21 The concept is an exciting one: between eight and 14 various smaller-scale events. For example, they sold sandcolleagues form a team, develop their own fundraising wiches and ice cream to colleagues at their desks. The campaign and run it over a six-month period. Dozens of “Olympic Lunch” also went down well, he says. This incompanies from all over the United Kingdom took part. volved LGT Vestra employees preparing dishes from their The aim was for the companies that support The Prince’s home countries and bringing them to work to sell to Trust to raise one million pounds by means of their initiacolleagues, with the proceeds going to the Million Makers tives in the Million Makers competition to allow even more competition. They were also able to collect donations young people to be given a better future in life. The LGT Vestra team “Our team consisted of 14 people from a wide range of different departments,” says Ollie Brand, who was also the team leader. They hadn’t known each other very well before the Million Makers competition, he admits. He found it very rewarding to work as part of the project with colleagues he otherwise wouldn’t have had much to do with. The Prince’s Trust organized an introductory event for all the participants in London last May to mark the start of the competition. Jordan Smith, a young man with cerebral palsy, was among the young people who told their stories. He The team from LGT Vestra came in second in the Million Makers competition in the category for companies entering for the first time. described how his disability had led to difficulties at school and to mental health problems. With the support of The Prince’s Trust, he had gained the confidence to get his life during a golf tournament and the “Prince to Prince” bike back on track and had succeeded in finding work. “We were ride from London to Vaduz, where LGT has its headquarters. deeply moved – everyone in the room was close to tears,” “Although these two events were already planned, the remembers Ollie Brand. “At the same time, his success organizers allowed us to publicize our own cause,” says story motivated us even more to give the competition Ollie Brand. “At the golf competition, we were allowed our best shot.” to put an appeal for donations on the back of the tickets.” They created websites specifically for the “Three Peaks Hike” and the Prince to Prince bike ride, he adds. “Everyone at LGT Vestra had the links to the websites at the end of their “Knowing that our involvement helps e-mail signature,” explains the Investment Assistant. to give people like Jordan Smith better prospects is a huge incentive. I will keep Hard work pays off The team’s activities brought in an impressive sum – more up my involvement in social causes.” than 50 000 pounds (over 60 000 Swiss francs) was donated Ollie Brand to The Prince’s Trust. However, that was not the only thing that they had to be pleased about: the team from LGT Vestra came in second in the Million Makers competition in the Total commitment category for companies entering for the first time. “Of course, “From June onward, we spent all our time putting the we were rather proud of that too,” says Ollie Brand. But he finishing touches to our business plan in our lunch breaks believes he would have found his participation in the Million and after work.” He adds that, having explored various Makers competition a fantastic experience even without this ideas, they finally decided to arrange a number of events. recognition. “We learned a great deal from developing and They launched their campaign in July. Among other things, implementing our projects. And knowing that our involvethe team organized a “Three Peaks Hike,” which involved ment helps to give people like Jordan Smith better prospects climbing to the top of a mountain in Scotland, England and is a huge incentive. I’d definitely like to keep up my involveWales in the space of 24 hours. But their plan also included ment in social causes.” 22 Investing sustainably We take responsibility As an investor and investment adviser, we attempt to combine The LGT ESG Cockpit – the basis for our good financial performance with our environmental and social sustainable investment products objectives and to take into account the principles of good corporate We introduced our sustainable equity and bond funds as early governance, at the same time. Since 2003, a clause on the subject as 2009. In these funds, ethically controversial activities are of responsible investing has been a permanent feature of many excluded from our investment decisions. In addition, we choose of LGT’s investment programs. This enables us to exclude investsecurities offered by companies or states that have high ments that involve significant risks to environmental, social and sustainability standards (ESG). At the start of our selection governance factors (ESG criteria). Throughout our Group, we process, we exclude securities from companies that generate do not invest in companies involved in manufacturing, storing or a significant part of their revenue from tobacco, gambling, supplying controversial weapons such as nuclear missiles, land arms, pornography or nuclear energy or are involved in child mines, cluster bombs and munition, or biological and chemical labor. In the case of government bonds, we exclude countries weapons. We also actively exercise our voting rights for all our with a poor record on human rights, the rule of law and equity funds. Our decisions are based on internal regulations democracy and with a high level of corruption, as well as and on Swiss and international corporate governance guidelines, those that have not signed international agreements on such as the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). banned weapons. LGT ESG Cockpit – powerful, flexible and state-of-the-art Data input Capabilities Qualitative and quantitative data input, data review, corrections, Single stock analysis (company screening) completion ■■ ESG overall and individual E, S, G scores ■■ Reputational risks (critical issue screener) ESG raw data on 200 countries, LGT ESG Cockpit ■■ Controversial revenue sources 100 non-listed institutions and supranationals Environmental Country screening ■■ International treaties (e.g. cluster munition) Social ■■ Human rights issues and corruption level Raw ESG data on approx. 4300 listed companies Governance Supranational screener ■■ Impact assessment of the projects financed /(012(3456#47( ! #$%&'()*(+,-. 84'#9&':( , Portfolio analysis ! #$%&'()*(+,-. /(012(3456#47( 84'#9&':( , Monitoring of negative news ■■ Based on standardized or customized criteria flow and current controversies of companies globally ! #$%&'()*(+,-. /(012(3456#47( 84'#9&':( , 23 We also assess the good governance and the environmental benchmark index. For example, the annual greenhouse gas and social responsibility of the individual issuers by selecting emissions amount to 80.1 tonnes of CO2 equivalents per million key performance indicators (KPIs). We use our own analysis US dollars of sales. This figure is 65 percent lower than that of system, the ESG Cockpit, to calculate these KPIs. It is based the MSCI World index, which is 227.5 tonnes. The LGT porton publicly available ESG data from a number of specialist data folio’s figures for energy and water withdrawal and waste providers, such as Thomson Reuters and Inrate. generation are also much lower. The use and weighting of the KPIs are adapted to the industry LGT’s commitment to external investment managers that each company belongs to. For example, CO2 emissions are LGT makes substantial investments via external investment an important performance indicator for energy supply companies, managers, in particular in the two alternative investment catebut they play a less significant role in the IT services and banking gories of private equity and hedge funds. We work closely with sectors. This approach allows us to make a detailed ESG evaluation these managers and use our influence to convince them to of the companies with a focus on the issues and performance take sustainability criteria into consideration to a greater indicators that are important for the industry in question. extent in their investment process. The environmental footprint of our equity funds Since 2013, we have carried out an annual survey of our hedge The LGT ESG Cockpit enables complete portfolios to be analyzed fund and private equity managers that covers their initiatives and compared with other portfolios or market indices. One imin the area of environmental and social responsibility and good portant aspect is the impact of the companies’ business activities governance (ESG). We publish the results in our ESG Report. on the environment, in particular in terms of greenhouse gas We use the survey to demonstrate to our investors the extent emissions (GHG), which are currently a very significant considerto which the managers have integrated ESG factors into their ation for investors. The comparison between the LGT Sustaininvestment process, their ownership guidelines and their reable Equity Strategy and the MSCI World index (see illustration) porting practices. The survey is also the starting point for encourshows that the companies in the LGT portfolio have a much aging the managers to set themselves sustainability objectives less negative influence on the environment than those in the and to invest in developing their ESG expertise and processes. Environmental footprint report for LGT Sustainable Quality Equity Strategy (as of 10.01.2017) against MSCI World Index (as of 30.12.2016) GHG emissions to sales Energy consumption to Water withdrawal to Waste generation to (t CO2 eq./USD m) sales (MWh/USD m) sales (m³/USD m) sales (t/USD m) Portfolio exposure 80.1 253.0 1 924.8 19.5 Benchmark exposure 227.5 454.8 13 588.0 639.7 Difference -147.4 -201.8 -11 663.3 -620.2 Difference in % -64.8 -44.3 -85.8 -97.0 24 Investing sustainably Improvement in ESG ratings globally “good” (2) is roughly the same as the previous year (36 percent). However, progress has been made in all the regions. 100% 19% 23% 80% 34% In Europe, where 66 percent of managers are rated “excellent” or 43% 26% “good” (1 or 2), the integration of ESG criteria seems to have 27% 60% become a standard feature of the investment process. This means 30% that the easier measures for integrating ESG criteria have already 40% 30% 32% been taken. However, developments in this field are continuing. 31% 25% The managers are increasingly focusing on areas such as active 20% 19% 23% interaction with portfolio companies and are using key perfor19% 8% 11% 0% mance indicators (KPIs) to monitor the measures they have intro2014 2015 2016 2017 duced on the basis of comparable data. The level of detail and 1 – Excellent 2 – Good 3 – Fair 4 – Poor transparency in the reporting has increased. In the USA, the managers’ ESG momentum has remained Private equity the same as during the previous year. Although this has not Since 2015, the number of private equity managers who take yet become apparent in the ratings, in our discussions with ESG criteria into consideration when investing has risen continmanagers in the USA it is clear that their interest in the enviuously. Some 55 percent of the 184 managers we assess to ronment, social responsibility and good corporate governance determine whether they comply with ESG criteria are now rated is increasing. either “good” or “excellent,” which gives them a score of either 1 (excellent) or 2 (good). This corresponds to an increase In Asia, the integration of ESG criteria is at a high level which of five percentage points over the previous year, when 50 is similar to that in Europe. In 2017, 57 percent of all managers percent of the managers were rated either “good” or “excelwere rated “good” or “excellent.” This corresponds to an increase lent.” The proportion of managers who fail to take ESG criteria of twelve percent over 2016. It is worth mentioning that one into consideration (rating 4) has fallen to under 20 percent (2016: 23 percent). In 2008, we became a signatory of the UN Principles for Responsible There are still significant differences between the regions when Investment (UN PRI). We are also a member of CDP and of the Forum it comes to the integration of ESG criteria. Europe is the clear Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (the industry association promoting sustainleader, followed by Asia and the USA. In Europe, 66 percent able investment in Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein and Switzerland). of managers are rated either “excellent” (1) or “good” (2). Asia In addition, we are a founding member of Swiss Sustainable Finance. is close behind Europe with a figure of 57 percent. At 38 percent, In 2016, we signed the Montréal Carbon Pledge. the proportion of managers in the USA rated “excellent” (1) or 25 Manager ESG ratings by region in 2017 11% 11% 5% 24% 32% 35% 38% 23% 27% 33% 34% 27% Europe USA Asia 1 – Excellent 2 – Good 3 – Fair 4 – Poor manager has taken such a consistent approach to introducing uously increasing over the last three years (2015: 67%; 2016: appropriate measures that he has moved from a rating of 4 (no 73%; 2017: 76%). This shows that the initial ESG factors are consideration of ESG criteria) to a rating of 2 (good integration being addressed. of the criteria). The starting point for this development was the introduction of a standard for integrating ESG criteria into the investment process. A checklist is used to evaluate the ESG factors in all investments. Hedge funds The ESG ratings of the hedge fund managers have also improved in recent years. In 2017, the proportion of managers rated “excellent” or “good” remained relatively stable at nine percent. However, the assets managed by this group of managers has risen to twelve percent of all the assets under management (AuM). At the same time, the subject of ESG criteria is increasingly being discussed at hedge fund conferIn October 2016, PWM (Professional Wealth Management – part of ences and in articles in the industry press. We have also seen the Financial Times Group) and The Banker recognized our efforts by the number of managers who have improved from a rating designating us the Best Private Bank for Socially Responsible Investing of 4 (no consideration of ESG criteria) to a rating of 3 continand the Best Private Bank for Growth Strategy. 26 Commitment LGT Venture Philanthropy and LGT Impact ments made by LGT Venture Philanthropy remain within the foundation and are invested philanthropically in accordance with the foundation’s purpose. LGT Impact invests in organizations that combine positive financial returns with strong and clearly measurable social or environmental added value. It distributes the capital gains, dividends and interest to the investors. A large proportion of the portfolio companies supported by LGT Venture Philanthropy and LGT Impact have seen strong growth and have been able to achieve significant social added value. Our support for the portfolio companies is not limited to selecting and financing them. It also includes direct involvement, typically by providing a representative on the Supervisory Board, As an LGT Impact Fellow, Paolo Limcaoco has supported Sugruvi, an organitogether with contacts and expertise. These are provided by zation that helps small farmers in the Philippines. the LGT Impact Fellowship Program, which puts experts with extensive professional experience from LGT’s network in contact By establishing LGT Venture Philanthropy and LGT Impact, LGT with the portfolio companies. Over the last two years, 15 LGT has put itself in a leading position in the fields of venture philanFellows have become involved with portfolio organizations thropy and impact investing. Since 2007, we have invested in and worked there for at least eleven months in each case. Since more than 50 organizations that have had a major positive social this initiative was launched in 2009, one third of the more than and environmental impact. Both LGT Venture Philanthropy and 130 Fellows who worked with the portfolio organizations LGT Impact have the same investment strategy. They invest in have remained in their teams after the end of the program. companies that address social and/or environmental problems using efficient and scalable solutions. More than three quarters of the portfolio companies are in the healthcare, education, agriculture or energy sectors and almost all of them focus on Award-winning impact investing the needs of socially disadvantaged people. 2015 SVCA Award “Most Impactful Funder” from the Singapore Venture Capital & Private Equity Association LGT Venture Philanthropy is structured as a foundation and makes philanthropic investments either in non-profit organ2016 Highly commended “Best Social Impact Investor” at the izations or in companies and projects with a risk/return profile Investment Week Sustainable Investment Awards 2016 that does not correspond with traditional investment strategies. You can find more information in the “Impact Report 2015” Any capital gains, dividends or interest earned by the investat: www.lgt.com/en/publications 27 The positive impact of M-KOPA Solar kerosene. They no longer have to pay to charge their phones. One example of an investment from LGT Impact’s portfolio is In addition, several charging cables can be connected to one the solar energy company M-KOPA Solar in Kenya. Two out of solar system, which allows the users to sell electricity and boost every three people in sub-Saharan Africa do not have access their household income. Users usually pay off the loan for the to an electricity supply and some of the poorest people in the purchase of the system within approximately a year of daily use world live in this region. Families use kerosene lamps and kerosene and the system then becomes their property. This also constoves for cooking. This fuel is not only expensive, but also toxic tributes to a good credit history, which will make it easier for and often causes fires. In addition, people have to pay the daily them to take out a bank loan in future. costs to charge their mobile phones, which have become an essential part of everyday life in many parts of Africa. The positive impact of the M-KOPA Solar system goes beyond its obvious benefits. Thanks to reliable light sources, businesses can M-KOPA Solar provides affordable home solar power systems stay open for longer and children can do their homework in the that generate electricity reliably and can be paid for in small evenings, leading to better results at school. Since it was founded installments. The customers activate the solar systems by making in 2011, M-KOPA Solar has supplied systems to more than daily payments via their cell phones. The installments are the 400 000 households. By 2018, the figure should be one million. same amount of money that they would normally spend on M-KOPA Solar shows how a simple business idea with a scalable model can change the lives of millions of people. 28 Business ecology Doing business sustainably Sustainability is a fundamental corporate principle of LGT. We are helping to protect the environment and reduce climate change in a number of ways. Environmental management policy Our principles for environmentally friendly operational management and climate protection are laid down in the LGT Code of Conduct. They include using natural resources efficiently, improving our operations to reduce energy consumption and taking measures to help prevent climate change. Building management Our building management program takes a long-term, sustainOur locations in Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Austria use only electricity from certified renewable sources. able approach, from planning and construction, occupation and normal operation through to maintenance and renovation. Work on converting our Zurich office to meet the Minergie standard our photovoltaic systems in Liechtenstein was completed. This was completed in 2016. The building’s low resource use is a will provide around eight percent of our annual electricity good example of our objectives being put into practice. requirements in Liechtenstein. Operational reviews and improvements Substitution In the area of environmental protection and climate change, By 2020, we aim to supply 80 percent of our buildings’ energy the focus is on improving energy efficiency. Since the start of requirements from renewable sources. This is why we are focusing our action program in 2010, we have reduced energy losses on hydroelectric power, photovoltaic systems and wind energy. by improving the cooling and heating systems of our buildings. At the same time we are substituting our fossil fuel requirements. Our offices in Geneva and Zurich are cooled and heated only Our locations in Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Austria use only with lake water. In 2016, the last stage of the project to expand electricity from certified renewable sources. LGT’s direct energy consumption (in megawatt hours) 2016 2015 2014 Electricity 12 042 10 318 10 501 Heating 3 572 2 835 2 588 Total energy 15 614 13 153 13 089 Total energy per FTE 1 6.2 6.2 6.6 1 Full-time equivalents 29 Offsetting Sustainable procurement – supplier agreements LGT offsets unavoidable CO2 emissions from its business activThe sustainable procurement of goods and services is an imities and from business flights. Our main sources of emissions portant part of LGT’s sustainability planning. In our procurement are air miles and heating our buildings. In order to offset this, process, it is very important that products comply with our LGT is currently supporting a small-scale hydroelectric project sustainability principles from manufacturing through to disposal. in Honduras that is helping both the environment and the local We overcome the challenges of sustainable procurement by community. This project has been awarded the Gold Standard attempting to introduce best practices in procurement on the label and is managed by the South Pole Group, which is monibasis of a partnership and a dialog with our suppliers. tored to ensure that its performance and transparency meet the required standards. We introduced a mandatory supplier agreement for our suppliers in 2013. The signatories undertake to meet our internal requireReinvesting carbon tax refunds ments and to comply with international conventions, such as in the Swiss Climate Foundation the standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). In 2012, LGT joined the Swiss Climate Foundation in order to They also agree to require their suppliers to follow the provisions donate its refunds from carbon tax to the organization. The of the UN Global Compact. LGT reserves the right to send foundation provides financial support to small and mediumexperts onto suppliers’ sites to ensure that they are meeting sized enterprises (SMEs) for energy efficiency improvements the requirements. In 2015 and 2016, we did not terminate any and climate protection measures. In 2015, it was able to reduce of our relationships with suppliers. calculated CO2 emissions by around 40 000 tonnes and in 2016 by around 45 000 tonnes. Dialog with suppliers It is important to us to remain in regular contact with our Incentives to change travel behavior suppliers. Every two years, we invite them to attend the LGT In order to reduce the amount of commuter and commercial Supplier Day. At this event, we raise awareness of our sustaintraffic, LGT has introduced an incentive scheme to encourage able procurement standards and give examples of best practices. employees to use public transportation. At some locations, The dialog strengthens our partnership with our suppliers and bicycles are also available for employees. In addition, clients meets our objective of developing stable, long-term relationand employees can charge the batteries of their electric cars ships with them. at in-house charging stations. LGT’s CO2 emissions 2016 2015 2014 CO2 emissions in tonnes 3 987 2 592 2 575 CO2 emissions in kilograms per FTE 1 1 576 1 300 1 292 1 Full-time equivalents 30 Facts and figures Key figures at a glance 2016 2015 2014 Financial indicators Assets under administration CHF m 152 101 129 341 125 786 Net new assets under administration CHF m 19 687 8 882 14 429 of which net new money CHF m 11 668 8 882 6 755 of which through acquisition CHF m 8 019 0 7 674 Total operating income CHF m 1 206 1 149 1 010 Group profit CHF m 230 211 165 Appropriation of Foundation earnings and dividends CHF m -100 1 -100 -100 Group equity capital CHF m 3 643 3 314 3 354 Total assets CHF m 35 752 34 239 35 533 Ratios Tier 1 % 20.2 20.1 18.4 Cost/income ratio % 74.2 71.2 75.4 Liquidity coverage ratio % 191.0 142.7 130.0 Rating 2 Moody’s Aa2 Aa2 A1 Standard & Poor’s A+ A+ A+ Operations Total energy consumption MWh 15 614 13 153 13 089 Electricity MWh 12 042 10 318 10 501 Heating MWh 3 572 2 835 2 588 Paper consumption tonnes 180 163 156 Proportion of FSC paper % 100 100 100 Proportion of 100% recycled paper % 69 70 70 Waste Tonnes 302 253 247 Water consumption m 3 27 207 22 766 21 572 CO2 emissions Tonnes 3 979 2 592 2 575 Employees Number of employees (FTEs) 2 530 2 117 1 993 Proportion of women in the total workforce % 38.5 38.9 38.6 Number of part-time employees 325 305 285 Number of apprentices 3 25 26 26 Bank entry at high school graduate level (BEM) 3 8 6 6 Average years of service Years 7.5 7.9 7.59 Average age Years 41.32 41.3 41.01 Training costs per employee CHF 2 121 2 220 2 126 1 Proposal; 2 LGT Bank Ltd., Vaduz; 3 LGT only hires apprentices and high school graduates in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. “For us, sustainability means conducting our activities in a socially responsible manner and with a long-term, holistic view.” H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT 32 Facts and figures Our memberships LGT is a member of many international associations, organizaSwiss Sustainable Finance tions and networks for the purpose of making a contribution to www.sustainablefinance.ch sustainable development. The most important memberships are: Asia Corporate Governance Association (ACGA) UN Global Compact www.acga-asia.org www.unglobalcompact.org TONIIC – The Global Action Community for Impact Investors UN Principles for Responsible Investment www.toniic.com www.unpri.org Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit CDP in Finanzinstituten e.V. (VfU) www.cdp.net/en www.vfu.de European Sustainable Investment Forum (Eurosif) The Swiss Climate Foundation www.eurosif.org www.klimastiftung.ch European Venture Philanthropy Association (EVPA) Profawo www.evpa.eu.com www.profawo.ch Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (FNG) The Montréal Carbon Pledge www.forum-ng.org www.montrealpledge.org The Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) www.thegiin.org 33 Report profile The LGT sustainability report has been published every other year since 2012. This report, the third of its kind, documents the sustainability performance for the 2015 and 2016 financial years and, unless stated otherwise, relates to the LGT Group. Each financial year begins on January 1 and ends on December 31. The structure of this report is based on the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The key performance indicators listed in the report were mainly collected from database extracts available across the Group. Location-specific key performance indicators, in particular environmental data, were prepared by the local contacts for the relevant departments. There are comparative values from the previous periods for most of the data. The consolidation framework for the key performance indicators has been designed in such a way that data from locations with The report can be downloaded from www.lgt.com as a PDF similar business models and national standards formed the basis file. The guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative can be for the projections. The VfU's (German association Verein für downloaded from www.globalreporting.org. Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V.) standard for environmental reporting of April 25, 2016, forms This report contains forward-looking statements based on the basis for the calculation of emission values for the 2015 expectations and assumptions. Various factors may cause the and 2016 reporting years. actual results to deviate from the estimates given here. 34 LGT Bank Ltd. LGT Bank AG, Dublin Branch LGT Bank (Singapore) Ltd. Herrengasse 12, FL-9490 Vaduz Third Floor, 30 Herbert Street 3 Temasek Avenue Phone +423 235 11 22, info@lgt.com Dublin 2, Ireland #30-01 Centennial Tower Phone +353 1 433 7400 Singapore 039190 LGT Bank AG lgt.eire@lgt.com Phone +65 6415 3800, lgt.sg@lgt.com Zweigniederlassung Österreich Bankgasse 9, A-1010 Vienna LGT Vestra LLP LGT Bank (Hong Kong) Phone +43 1 227 59 0, lgt.austria@lgt.com 14 Cornhill, London, EC3V 3NR 4203 Two Exchange Square Phone +44 20 3207 8000 8 Connaught Place Central LGT Bank (Switzerland) Ltd. info@lgtvestra.com G.P.O. Box 13398, Hong Kong Lange Gasse 15, P.O. Box, CH-4002 Basel Phone +852 2868 0201, info@lgt.com Phone +41 61 277 56 00, lgt.ch@lgt.com A complete address list of all LGT locations can be seen at www.lgt.com Swiss Climate climate neutral Refutura FSC® matt, ISO white 100, 100% recycled paper, printing • www.swissclimate.ch CO2 neutral, Blue Angel Risk note/disclaimer stood as implying that no change has taken place since result of unfavorable exchange rate movements cannot This publication is for your information only and is not its publication or that it is still up to date. The information be ruled out. There is a possibility that investors will intended as an offer, solicitation of an offer, public in this publication does not constitute an aid for decinot recover the full amount they initially invested. We advertisement or recommendation to buy or sell any sion-making in relation to financial, legal, tax or other disclaim without qualification all liability for any loss or investment or other specific product. Its content has consulting matters, nor should any investment or other damage of any kind, whether direct, indirect or consebeen prepared by our staff and is based on sources of decisions be made on the basis of this information quential, which may be incurred through the use of this information we consider to be reliable. However, we alone. It is recommended that advice be obtained from publication. This publication is not intended for persons cannot provide any undertaking or guarantee as to it a qualified expert. Investors should be aware that the subject to legislation that prohibits its distribution or being correct, complete and up to date. The circumvalue of investments can fall as well as rise. Positive makes its distribution contingent upon an approval. Any stances and principles to which the information contained performance in the past is therefore no guarantee of person coming into possession of this publication shall in this publication relates may change at any time. Once positive performance in the future. The risk of price and therefore be obliged to find out about any restrictions published, therefore, information shall not be underforeign currency losses and of fluctua­tions in return as a that may apply and to comply with them. Franz Anton von Scheidel, detail from “Depictions of conchiliae in watercolor after Johann Carl Megerle von Mühlfeld,” late 18th century LGT Group Foundation Herrengasse 12, FL-9490 Vaduz Phone +423 235 11 22, lgt@lgt.com UID: CHE-208.624.214 www.lgt.com 50335en 0617 1.5T BVD
