RELACOM GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Contents: 3 CEO Message 4 About Relacom 6 The Relacom way 8 Sustainability Management 10 Stakeholder Engagement 14 Relacom Sweden 20 Relacom Norway 26 Relacom Denmark 30 Relacom Finland 38 About this Report 40 GRI Cross Reference Index © Relacom April 2017 CEO Message We aim for the future Within Relacom we have in recent years worked hard to We are very aware of sustainability’s growing importance to refine and develop our services. Our motto is “We aim for the company, our employees, our customers, as well as to the future”. That refers not only to the commercial activities, the society as a whole. A wise man once said: No one can securing a solid basis for a continued growth with competitido everything, but everyone can do something. Aiming for ve services within Telecommunications, Power and Internet the future, we are determined to contribute with what we of Things. It stands as much for our commitment to take can. responsibility for people and the environment. In our role as one of the leading service partners within technical infrastructure in the Nordic region, we are actively driving our business to ensure we create a positive impact in society and for the environment. Not only are we implementing methodology and technology to minimize the environmental impact from our own operations. We are also teaming up with clients in several projects to develop solutions aiming to reduce the environmental footprint from their operations, e.g. power production and power consumption. Taking responsibility for people and the environment is a strategic choice for Relacom. We are borrowing the world from future generations, and our promise to them is to manage and develop it in the very best way. This is becoming even more important as technological development is accelerating and competition is growing. I am confident that a proactive stance on sustainability creates value in the short, medium and long term. Reducing today’s energy consumption and acting as a responsible employer provides benefits already in the short term, while our contributions in the development of new and more sustainable solutions within our competence areas create value Veronica Ezeyza-Alvear in the medium to long term. President & CEO 3 About Relacom About Relacom Relacom is a leading technology services provider offeOrganization ring strategic solutions to the telecommunications, Power and IoT markets. Over the years, Relacom has become a Guidelines, targets and visions are decided jointly at preferred partner to leading global telecommunication and the group level. The Group includes Relacom Sweden, power operators, as well as to national retail and logistics Relacom Finland, Relacom Norway, Relacom Denmark companies. and Orbion Consulting. Relacom Group’s CEO is Veronica Ezeyza-Alvear. The company’s extensive track record spans from construction of nation-wide mobile networks, life-cycle manageRelacom is active in four business areas and supplies the ment of electrical and telecom networks, installation of fiber following products and services: optics for new residential areas, securing wireless communications for workplaces and private homes to installation of »» Telecom – Working with our clients, we ensure that the networked applications for retail and logistics companies. Nordic countries are connected to fiber and copper, Combined with expertise from Orbion Consulting, we provi3G, 4G and the future 5G networks, both indoors and de a unique, integrated value proposition to our customers, outdoors. and manage a wide range of services needed to optimize our customers’ businesses. »» IoT – We make sure that there are networks (WiFi and infrastructure networks) for all the fantastic gadgets Relacom also runs a broad operation that covers everything that are going to be linked up, but also that they from constructing, maintaining and expanding nation-wide function properly and are connected and maintained in telecom and electricity networks to gathering energy meathe right way. surement data within the energy sector. Relacom’s work also includes installing network applications for retailers »» Power – We are a part of today and tommorrow’s and logistics companies (IoT). network design, construction, maintenance and fault repair. Smart metering, meter value management and Relacom combines broad experience and cutting-edge smart grid solutions. technical expertise with an innovative approach to provide service that exceeds our customers’ expectations. Relacom »» Technical Consultancy Services – We offer specialiprovides a wide range of services and extensive geograzed technical consulting in site acquisition, network phic coverage in each country where we are active. These planning, implementation, operation and integration. factors combined make Relacom the preferred partner in Procurement process consulting. the industries in which we work. Our customers include international and local companies, operators, vendors, municipalities, energy providers, network owners and consumers. 4 Image 1. Our Organizational Structure. CEO Support & Group CFO Functions Company Name Relacom Group (Relacom Management AB) Countries of Operation Finland Denmark Sweden Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark Norway Number of employees ~ 3 000 Telecom Location of Headquarters Stockholm, Sweden IoT Revenue ~ 4 Billion SEK For further financial information please see the annual report Power Supply for Relacom Management AB. Orbion CUSTOMERS Regional, National and Transnational Corporate Governance The Group’s management team is responsible for guiding the company to meet the targets set by the board of Relacom Management AB is Relacom Group’s parent directors according to the directions given and within the company and is owned by Nordea Bank and DNB Bank. frameworks set. Below this executive level, the Group is The company’s shareholder meeting is the Group’s primary managed by management committees and along solid legal decision making body. Decisions made by the shareporting lines. To ensure responsible decision-making, reholders are converted into directions, frameworks and Relacom has developed what is known as our Group targets by the board of directors and communicated to the Authorization Matrix. This document defines levels of authoGroup’s management team. rity for key positions regarding the right of attestation and the right to make decisions on behalf of the company. 5 The Relacom way The Relacom Way Everything we do starts with people, whether we consult, plan, build or maintain networks and equipment. The impression Relacom leaves on the community is influenced by how we run our operations, for example how efficient our processes are and how we manage our production and create tools to meet our customers’ and stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. Relacom’s vision is to be the preferred service partner within technical infrastructure in the Nordics. Our mission is to offer flawless function and commercial value in our customers’ networks. To realize our vision and mission we needs talented people who are service-minded and have the ability to work across borders and with a flexible and non-bureaucratic mindset Core values – Reliable and competent: Relacom is a reliable partner. Everyday we have to make sure that our customers experience high quality in the services we provide. It is an ongoing process building and staying reliable. Relacom has competent people. We have both technical expertise and years of experience working with a variety of systems. These skills help us take a proactive approach and fulfil our commitments. We are present both on a personal level and in a geographical sense. 6 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management In 2016 Relacom Group strengthened its sustainability A Brief Summary of our Code of Conduct: management by developing several sustainability goals in areas such as finance, marketing and health and safety. In Relacom strives to create sustainable advantages for its addition, we are requiring that there are effective managecustomers, employees, suppliers, the environment and the ment systems addressing the areas of quality, environment community. and the working environment in every country we have operations. As in the past, all country offices are to comply Relacom mostly works on behalf of business-business cuswith our code of conduct and anticorruption policy. tomers when meeting end-customers. As such Relacom’s conduct is critical to our customers’ success: With these controls, we want to achieve a joint development of our sustainability efforts for the countries involved. In »» Relacom obeys the laws and regulations of each coun2017 we will continue our efforts to develop these goals and try in our business activities to measure and follow up results: »» Relacom respects human rights and our growth is »» That our customers are satisfied based on a sustainable and responsible approach in which our employees play a key role. Relacom aims to »» That we develop the competence of project leaders be the benchmark in our industry and to offer an attractive working environment that attracts new employees »» That our employees are engaged and motivated »» Relacom strives to employ a long-term environmental »» To have a safe working environment strategy to minimize our negative environmental impact and to follow the precautionary principle. This means that Relacom agrees to work in accordance with the UN’s ten basic principles for responsible enterpri»» Relacom strives to establish long-term relationships se. Each year, we prepare a report entitled Communication with suppliers and to achieve sustainable advantages on Progress that summarizes how Relacom is supporting through cooperation. and working in harmony with Global Compact and the initiative’s principles. »» We are committed to prevent corruption in all its forms and tolerate it neither in our own business, nor in those with whom we do business. 8 Image 2. Our Sustainability framework. Purpose, Values, Vision Code of Conduct, Business model Anticorruption Policy Management System Environment, Quality and Work Environment Compliance Supply Chain During 2016 we had no non-compliance findings regarding Relacom engages a number of suppliers and, to ensure laws and regulations and no significant findings, nor had that each of them lives up to Relacom’s and our custowe any grievances reported regarding environment, social mers’ values, we have chosen to work with a handful of aspects and products and services. large distributors based in the Nordic region. We have consciously chosen companies that are based in the Anti-corruption countries in which we operate. Relacom’s management group has drawn up a policy that Relacom’s contractors are screened through a qualificaapplies to all Group companies and employees. tion process that imposes requirements on their environmental, health and safety work and their business ethics. In turn, country representatives are responsible to inform Our code of conduct is a part of every country’s supplier the organization about the content of the policy and for policy. ensuring that it is followed. Country representatives inform and help employees to understand how they are expected We support UN Global Compact to act in different situations in connection with our customers. Whenever a new staff member is employed, they are As of 2012, Relacom is a UNGC signatory. Did you know? informed about the policy and our whistle-blower function. This commitment entails working in During 2016 several of our customers have performed exaccordance with the UN’s ten fundamental ternal CSR audit and examined our performance. We have principles for responsible business. The no noncompliance regarding anticorruption but we will Global Compact includes: Principles for during 2017 implement training in our sustainability policies. human rights, labour conditions, environment and anti-corruption. We also submit a report annually, entitled ‘Communication on Progress’, which summarises our commitment to the Global Compact’s ten principles. 9 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Analysis Our Stakeholders Materiality Analysis An important part of our sustainability efforts and a necessity A materiality analysis was conducted 2014 in accordanfor understanding our stakeholders’ needs and expectations ce with the guidelines found in GRI G4 to find out which is holding an active dialogue with them. Doing so supports aspects our internal and external stakeholders think are development and forms the basis for this report. Relacom’s important. Stakeholders, such as customers, employees operations affect, and are affected by, a large number of and owners, have contributed to this analysis. The internal different stakeholders. A good and open dialogue is imporvaluation incorporated the results from stakeholder dialotant for developing and building long-term relationships. Our gues held over the year. To the right is a summary of the employees meet stakeholders daily in various forums and the result and it summaries all aspects in the stakeholder dialomajority of our stakeholder relations are established in our gue. The companies operations differ from each other. But meeting and communications channels. Meetings with clients all the aspects that are of relevance of both stakeholders and contractors occur on a daily basis. Customer surveys, and Relacom are presented in the report. All aspects are employee satisfaction surveys, annual general meetings, not applicable for all companies. The index shows which proxy meetings, supplier meetings, trade fairs, industry meeaspects each country reports. tings and meetings with employer organizations are conducted throughout the year. Collaborative projects conducted with We will perform a new materiality analysis during 2017. public employment services and upper secondary schools are additional examples of situations where we meet and communicate with our stakeholders. ons ga n iz a ti Or e r s’ Up l oy p p er Em Se Customers Owners co nda h o o ls Relacom ry Sc es Employees Suppliers oriti th Au Tra ic ub l Contractors de A P ss oc ia t io n n er s sO w Image 3. Our business environment. 10 Image 4. Materiality Analysis. Product and Service Labeling Customer Privacy Economic Performance Markering Communications Compliance Supplier Assessments Transport Emissions Grievance Mechanism HIGH Materials Effluents Training and Education high to very high Product and Services Waste Diversity and Equal Opportunity Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Compliance Occupational Health and Safety Local Communities Grievance Mechanism Employment Procurement Practices INTEREST TO STAKEHOLDERS Supplier Assessments Compliance Market Presence Energy Anti-corruption Investment Customer Health and Safety Public policy Security Practice Water Overall Biodiversity Supplier Human Rights Assessment Medium to high Forced or Compulsory Labour Child Labour Non-discrimination Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Indigenous Rights Anti-Competetive Behavior Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Grievance Mechanism for Impacts on Society Indirect Economic Impacts Medium to high high to very high IMPACT TO RELACOM Economic Environmental Social Overall 11 Our Markets 14-19 Relacom Sweden 20-25 Relacom Norway 26-29 Relacom Denmark 30-38 Relacom Finland 12 13 Relacom Sweden Relacom Sweden Environmental Work Image 5. Sweden Organizational Structure. Relacom Sweden is a nationwide technology services CEO provider. The Swedish operations offers services to the teleSupport & Group CFO communications (fiber and mobil solutions), power and IoT Functions markets. 500 technicians and project specialists are spread throughout the country. Node/Mobile Telecom Power IoT Fixed Supply Our environmental work aims to find solutions that are both good for the environment and that benefit our customers and employees. Energy, climate, work in sensitive areas, chemicals and waste are focus areas within our environmental work. CUSTOMERS Regional, National and Transnational Relacom’s environmental work corresponds and adheres to the requirements found in the ISO 14001 standard Our environmental goals are: and are integrated into Relacom’s business management system. All work related to environmental issues is mana»» To reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 3% compaged by Relacom’s management and supported centrally red with 2015 by Relacom’s environmental coordinator. Our environmental work does not only influence our own operations, but »» To reduce the amount of unsorted and landfill waste extends to our subcontractors and suppliers, too. All our by 2% compared with 2015 contractors are reviewed against our environmental requirements. In 2015 Relacom enacted organisational changes that allowed the company to reduce its workforce by about half in 2016. These changes have had a major impact on our ability to achieve our objectives. In 2017 they will be supplemented with metrics that are not affected by personnel changes. 14 Environment Climate both reuse and recycle waste generated by our operations. The same requirements and procedures for handling waste Energy use in the form of electricity, heating and cooling also apply to our subcontractors. is one of our most critical environmental issues. It is still difficult to pinpoint the exact amount of energy used at our Our ambition is to ensure that all waste from our own opesmaller, rented offices, where electricity and heating are rations is recycled as quickly as possible. All our places of included in the leasing fee. Our real estate division is resbusiness have collection stations for waste. The stations ponsible for establishing procedures for reporting on and consist of containers for collecting office waste and for the following up energy use together with our property owners. recycling of cables and construction waste from our field operations. We have also implemented procedures for During the last couple of years, we have taken important proper waste handling and transportation for locations other steps to reduce travel related to meetings, including instathan our offices where we carry out assignments. lling solutions for online meetings with external parties, such as customers and suppliers. All these measures has helped Waste minimization is well integrated in the company us to significantly reduce the number of trips we take and reduce our environmental impact. Our IT help desk manages the company’s hardware, telephone entry system, alarms and IT technology aids. The Waste goal is to minimise electrical waste by recycling everything that can be used. The Technical Department has a repair Both waste minimization and responsible waste managefunction. Products are fixed and parts are replaced so that ment are vital for reducing our environmental impact and the product can continue to be used. Our management of ensuring sustainable development. Waste management waste follows the waste hierarchy, with a focus on miniprocedures are an integrated part of our operations. mising waste to an increasing extent through purchasing Through our agreement with a waste contractor, we can controls and the reuse of purchased products. Image 6. Waste hierarchy within the organization. TABLE 1. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION [GJ] G4-EN3 a Reduce 1 Lowering the amount of waste produced 2016 2015 2014 Reuse 2 Using material repeatedly Diesel 27063 50735 70905 Petrol 952 1386 958 Using materials to make Recycling 3 new products Total 28015 52121 71863 Recovery 4 Recovering energy from waste TABLE 2. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE Safe disposal ORGANIZATION [GJ] Landfill 5 of waste to G4-EN3 c landfill 2016 2014 2013 Electricity 690 1318 3022 TABLE 5. TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD [T] G4-EN23 a TABLE 3. DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) 2016 2015 2014 EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) [T] G4-EN15 a Non-hazardous waste 2016 2015 2014 Recycling 110 400 558 Composting 0 0 0 Fuel (Diesel, Petrol) 2017 3752 5172 Incineration (mass burn) 221 111 216 Landfill 2,62 19,0 9,14 TABLE 4 ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS Other (mixed recycling and (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) [T] incineration) 3,18 0 9,11 G4-EN16 a Hazardous waste 2016 2015 2014 Recycling 41,1 76,3 46,7 Electricity 17,4 33,2 76,1 Total 378 606 839 15 Stakeholder Relations Our Customers Cooperation with Suppliers To achieve and maintain world-class operations, custoCarefully considered purchases allow Relacom both to mers’ needs and expectations must be both understood reduce environmental impact and to lower actual purchaand met. Relacom focuses on having a close dialogue with se costs. Relations with our suppliers are characterized customers and suppliers through continuous meetings wheby high-level business ethics, objectivity and professiore needs and expectations are identified. Our customers nalism. Relacom’s purchasing policy requires that all our expect Relacom actively to pursue quality assurance and suppliers comply with our code of conduct. We only work sustainability, including reducing our environmental impact, with suppliers who meet our stated requirements concerensuring a safe workplace and being socially responsible. ning quality, environmental impact and ethical guidelines. Our customers expect us to apply these expectations to our We ensure that all Relacom suppliers are evaluated before suppliers and contractors, and that we follow up on their beginning to work with them. Evaluations are based on compliance with these requirements. In 2016, we have had references and customer satisfaction, financial stability, an increase in supplier follow-up from our customers. Both business systems, delivery service and support. Should a in the form of site visits of our projects such as desktop supplier lack delivery capacity or have other problems, a audits. We welcome this and appreciate that customers are new evaluation is conducted. making sustainability demands on us. At Relacom, we are aware of the importance our customers place on privacy. To this end, we have implemented proDid you know? cedures to ensure that customer data is handled in a safe manner. This measure resulted in no cases of lost customer We are since 2016 certified by The Swedish Post data being reported during 2016. and Telecom Authority (PTS) to build quality fiber networks (Robust Fiber certification). Customer Satisfaction We believe that a dialogue with our customers is the cornerstone of being able to develop our business. An example of this is a project that we’ve undertaken with clients and the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority (PTS). 16 Employees Systematic Efforts to Improve our health and safety. We strive to achieve Relacom’s vision Work Environment of zero accidents. The foundation for achieving this goal is following legislation and rules. A good working environment helps business development, encourages physical and psychological well-being, helps Health and safety is included in all collective agreements motivate employees, encourages employees’ persoand supplementary contracts are continually agreed upon nal development. Relacom systematically improves the with the various labour organizations. Every third month, the work environment through regular surveys, implementing Central Safety Committee meets to discuss work environimprovement measures and following up the status of our ment relatedMinskat issues, suchvåra as accidents, incidents and operations. This helps us to prevent illness and accidents changes withinflygresor the organization. The meetings focus on at the workplace and creates a better working environment for everyone. TABLE 6. TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEES HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP GENDER AND REGION * Work environment considerations include physical, techniG4-LA1 a cal and psychosocial conditions that are important for creating a good working environment. Managers and executi2016 <30 31-50 >51 Total ves work with employees, safety officers, the occupational Women 9 4 2 15 health strategist and others to achieve well-functioning and Men 28 23 41 92 satisfactory solutions. Not only are we required to comply TOTAL 37 27 43 107 with Swedish work environment legislation, but our customer agreements also contain clear health and safety rules TABLE 7. STAFF MOBILITY [%] that we follow. G4-LA1 b 2016* 2015* 2014 We have not noted any deviations from these commitments Total staff turnover 34 42 12,5 during 2016. * The organisational changes made involved redundancies. During 2016 we started to implement the international standard OHSAS 18001. The implementation will be completed in autumn 2017. TABLE 8. ACCIDENTS AND SICK LEAVE STATISTICS G4-LA 6 a 2016 2015 2014 Professional Development Injuries* 4 7 6 We identify needs in the organization and create training Work-related accidents resulting in death 0 0 0 opportunities that match demand. The range of training Days lost due to work-related accidents 11 339 428 offered is determined, in part, by Relacom’s overarching Sick leave as a percentage of total work strategies as stated in our business plan, demand from our time** 3,2 3,9 3,5 customers and input from managers based on professional development interviews held with staff. In this way, our TABLE 9. COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE employees have better opportunities to develop and we BODIES strengthen Relacom’s collective expertise at the same time. G4-LA12 a Management Group 2016 Whether technician, manager, or administrative staff, the Women same possibilities for professional development must be 0 available. Within the professional development field, we Men 9 also have a training programme that helps employees <30 0 develop 31-50 4 >51 Preventive Work Environment 5 Total 9 Relacom wants to be a leader in the industry when it comes employee safety and dedication. In a safe and pleasant work environment, our employees are given the ability to develop and deliver high-quality service to our customers. Relacom always prioritizes our employees’ and customers’ 17 Relacom Sweden Great Stories Relacom recycles technology Environmentally friendly battery For several years Relacom has had a tradition of recycling backup replaces diesel and servicing technology, both in our own organisation and on behalf of our customers. Together with our IT partner Now hydrogen is here to power large and small installations Enfo, we offer Life Cycle Management services, which in the event of a power failure. In 2016 Ballard Power Sysmeans that we service, repair and distribute hardware. tems commissioned us to install a battery backup powered by hydrogen. This was a pilot project carried out at a large Stefan Wallman, one of the technicians responsible for telecom facility in central Sweden. efforts to service and replace hardware, explains that it’s possible to recycle more than you think: Instead of using diesel as a reserve power source, the solution uses fuel cells powered by hydrogen stored in “Everything has a certain life span. For example, a fan or secure tubes. The only by-product is water vapour. Last hard drive can handle only a certain number of revolutions, year Relacom technicians completed training at Ballard, but it’s possible to reuse parts and replace many of them.” which means that we are now certified to perform this type of environmentally friendly service. This allows products like computers, monitors and telephones to have a longer life cycle without skimping on perforThe technology has tremendous growth potential becaumance or functionality: se energy companies, operators and others face major challenges when current battery installations do not have “Just because it’s used doesn’t automatically mean that sufficient capacity to cope with the new requirements for the performance is worse. It’s a matter of taking care of backup power. In addition, forward-looking companies the equipment you have, and that’s something that we at primarily invest in green energy, which this project exempliRelacom and at Enfo are good at,” Stefan says. fies. Having a plan and continuously applying it helps to conAbout Ballard Power Systems tribute to reduced environmental impact and, ultimately, A global company with a vision of being a leading supplier lower costs. of innovative solutions for clean energy. Read more at www.ballard.com 18 19 Relacom Norway Relacom Norway Relacom Norway provides its services throughout the attractive workplace, reducing our impact on the environcountry. Operations are led by a General Manager and the ment and helping our customers achieve their sustainability company provides services in Telecommunications, Power targets. and IoT (Internet of things). Our Customers We take the environment seriously Achieving and maintaining good business operations requiCustomers, public authorities and the community can be res understanding and meeting customers’ requirements confident that we are working to minimize our environmenand expectations. Relacom focuses on having a close tal impact. By adopting a long-term approach and showing dialogue with our customers and an active response to their respect for our environment, we focus on creating an requirements and expectations. Our customers expect Relacom to actively work on quality and sustainability issues Image 6. Norway Organizational Structure. CEO HR, Quality and Communication Finance and IT Sales Supply Chain Fixed Wireless & Nodes Service Power 20 Environment that will reduce our environmental impact, produce a safe workplace and assume social responsibility. »» We prefer electronic meetings to physical ones when this is satisfactory. Privacy is very important for our customers. This is why we have implemented procedures to ensure the secure mana»» We take all environmental complaints seriously and do gement of customer data and, as a result, no instances of our utmost to rectify any damage and ensure that such lost customer data have been reported during the year. situations do not recur. Customer Satisfaction Climate Good service is one of the most important factors when We take climate change seriously and work actively to recustomers are choosing a supplier. Attaining a high level of duce carbon dioxide emissions caused by our services and customer satisfaction is the cornerstone of Relacom’s busitransports. The results of climate change, such as extreme ness strategy. We believe that the key to success is mainweather, changes in precipitation, snowfall and ice, have a taining a close dialogue with our customers and we monitor direct economic impact on our industry and our customers. customer satisfaction. We constantly strive to identify areas of improvements that allow us to reach our goal of meeting To protect the environment against CO2 emissions and and exceeding our customers’ expectations. reduce our costs, we are focused on achieving an annual average reduction in our vehicle fleet’s fuel consumption by Bi-monthly Relacom conducts a customer satisfaction sur5%, adjusted for sales levels. In both 2015 and 2016, we vey (CSS) to a random selection of private customers with managed to achieve a reduction. Further measures have whom we are in direct contact. This gives customers the been put in place to achieve our target next year. Relacom opportunity to provide us with direct feedback on services has also focused heavily on reducing travel over the past we have delivered. year by increasing the number of electronic meetings. Relacom decided in 2016 to use a travel agency as a partner Environment to better track our travel pattern and to better visualize areas of improvement. Relacom is ISO 14001 certified. The company provides products and services that meet the environmental reWaste quirements of our customers and society at large. These products and services are constantly being improved to Both waste minimization and responsible waste managereduce energy consumption and environmental impact. ment are vital for reducing our environmental impact and We impose the same environmental requirements on our ensuring sustainable development. Waste management suppliers as we do on ourselves. procedures are an integrated part of our operations. Our environmental areas TABLE 10. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION [GJ] »» We focus on reducing the pollution caused by our G4-EN3 a vehicles. 2016 2015 2014 Diesel 75258 83361 92577 »» We handle our waste in accordance with the requirePetrol 2617 2903 2991 ments of local authorities. Total 77875 86264 95568 »» We take consideration of our surroundings when planTABLE 11. DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) ning and implementing our work assignments. EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) [T] G4-EN15 a »» We are conscious of the importance of the natural en2016 2015 2014 vironment, historic sites and their surroundings and are Fuel (Diesel, Petrol) 5605 6211 6889 vigilant in avoiding damaging or destroying them. »» We do not use paper unnecessarily and reserve its use for when absolutely vital. 21 Stakeholder Relations Through our agreement with a waste contractor, we can At Relacom we believe that long-term and close cooperaboth take advantage of and recycle waste generated in tion with our suppliers ensures higher quality and profitabiliour operations. The same requirements and procedures for ty. Relacom regularly follows up our key supplier’s perforhandling waste apply to our subcontractors. mance to identify where improvements can be made. In all our agreements our suppliers sign that they will follow our Our waste-related environmental goals mean that all facilicode of conduct, comply and follow Norwegian an internaties must have a well-functioning system for collecting and tional laws and regulations regarding Human Rights, HSE delivering waste and returns, something that our suppliers and Child Labour to mention some. also need to adhere to. Our Employees Relacom is a member of “Grønt punkt Norge” and thereby takes on a corporate social responsibility. “Grønt Punkt NorRelacom sees our employees as a resource and a competige” is a company that has undertaken the goal to reduce tive advantage. As part of this approach, in 2014 we chose environmental impact packaging entails. to be assessed through Great Place to Work. In January 2015 we carried out an employee survey, which revealed Rapid handling of customer complaints Relacom’s strengths as an employer as well as areas for TABLE 12. TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND improvement. The results of the survey showed that our emDISPOSAL METHOD [T] ployees think Relacom’s strengths are in creating a strong G4-EN23 a work environment, characterized by all-inclusiveness, co2016 2015 llaboration and a good fellowship. The results also showed Non-hazardous waste that our employees feel that management trusts them and Recycling 358 221 gives them a lot of responsibility. Composting 0 0 Incineration (mass burn) 383 547 The areas for improvement identified in the survey were Landfill 0 0 better internal communication and to continue the focus Other (mixed recycling and incineration) 0 0 on further increasing and developing competence. These Hazardous waste areas are being addressed both by senior management and by individual department managers. Recycling 7,61 53,6 Total 750 822 A new employee survey will be carried out during 2017. Our goal is to see improvements in the identified areas in Managing and resolving customer complaints are also key the survey performed in 2015 – on our way to becoming to improving our operations. We deal with customer comNorway’s best place to work. plaints as quickly and efficiently as possible. We register and promptly follow up all customer complaints and then Development Of Skills And Competence implement corrective actions to ensure the faults do not recur. We also measure the average time taken to resolve Our goal is for the organization and every single employee complaints. to be in a process of constant development. We effectively develop competence by involving on-thejob-training and Collaboration with suppliers internal courses. External courses are also held where necessary. Relations with our suppliers are characterized by strict business ethics, objectivity and professionalism. Relacom’s TABLE 13. TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEES HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER purchasing policy requires that all of our suppliers comply BY AGE GROUP GENDER AND REGION with our code of conduct. We only enter into collaboration G4-LA1 a with suppliers who meet the quality, environmental and ethical guidelines laid out in our policy documents. This 2016 <30 31-50 >51 Total means that all of Relacom’s suppliers are evaluated before Women 15 15 6 36 any collaboration commences. Evaluations are based on Men 105 124 62 291 references and customer satisfaction, financial stability, TOTAL 120 139 68 327 business systems, delivery service and support. Should a supplier lack delivery capacity or experience other issues, a new evaluation is conducted. 22 Employees TABLE 14. COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE TABLE 16. ACCIDENTS AND SICK LEAVE STATISTICS BODIES G4-LA6 a G4-La12 a 2016 2015 2014 2016 Injuries* 29 16 10 Women 1 Work-related accidents resulting in death 1 0 0 Men 11 Days lost due to <30 0 work-related accidents 547 428 155 30-50 Sick leave as a percentage of total work 4 time** 5,22 5,85 5,10 51-68 8 *Injuries include work-related accidents that led to sick leave Total 12 **Average for the entire year TABLE 15. STAFF MOBILITY [%] employees. The head of the steering group activates the G4-LA1 b emergency response team when deemed necessary, and 2016 2015 2014 by agreement with the head of the emergency response Total staff turnover 14,4 17,4 4,2 team. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) The head of the emergency response team takes operational lead of the situation, and also takes responsibility for A vital part of having a great workplace means emphasizing debriefing the involved parties and for corrective measures a good work environment and safety. where necessary. Our long-term objective is to avoid any work accidents at The steering group becomes operational when there is Relacom at all. All near miss must be reported, and any either a potential or realized event that could have extrerequired measures for improvement must be implemented. mely adverse consequences for our customers and/or We also have the long-term objective of reducing sick-leave employees. The head of the steering group activates the to a level below 5%. This places particularly stringent requiemergency response team when deemed necessary, and rements on management and also means that every single by agreement with the head of the emergency response employee must contribute to achieve these goals. During team. 2016 we have developed an app to ease the reporting of all near miss and work accidents. Based on all the incoming The head of the emergency response team takes operareports we follow up the results by having a quarterly HSE tional lead of the situation, and also takes responsibility for campaign for our employees based on the most reported debriefing the involved parties and for corrective measures accident type. We believe that this will help reduce near where necessary. miss and work accidents. If we achieve our goals in the fields of health, safety and environment, this will contribute to Relacom becoming an attractive partner for customers, suppliers and authorities. Crisis Management To deal with the development of potential crises, a steering group has been established consisting of some of the company’s senior management under the leadership of the general manager. A permanent emergency responseteam has been identified and established. This team can be supplemented with additional resources, depending on the scope and degree of severity of the crisis. The steering group becomes operational when there is either a potential or realized event that could have extremely adverse consequences for our customers and/or 23 Relacom Norway Great Stories Our Apprenticeship System – guaranteeing skilled workers for the future Relacom is a certified training organisation and has extensive experience in providing on-the-job-training. We offer apprenticeships for apprentices at secondary schools throughout the country. At any given time the company has 150–200 apprentices in the areas Telecommunications, Power and ICT. During apprenticeships, apprentices work alongside an experienced employee in the initial phase and are eventually assigned increasingly independent tasks. At the end of the apprenticeship, the basic aim is for the apprentice to be able to work independently. The apprenticeship training office is responsible for the remaining theoretical studies and tests after completion of the practical period. The apprenticeship system is an advantageously situation for apprentices, companies and society as a whole, and an area the company wants to continue to focus on. 24 25 Relacom Denmark Relacom Denmark Relacom Denmarks operations are decidedly smaller than Denmark’s environmental and occupational safety and those in the other Nordic countries and also differ in nature. health objectives: This involves working together to drive our core business through a challenging development process in which »» To reduce absence due to sickness growth is of prime importance. »» To reduce serious accidents Customer Relations »» To increase employee satisfaction To achieve and maintain world-class operations, customers’ needs and expectations must be both understood and met. »» To reduce the amount of overtime Relacom focuses on having a close dialogue with customers and suppliers through continuous meetings where »» To reduce energy use, as measured in kWh consumption needs and expectations are identified. At Relacom, we are aware of the importance our customers place on privacy. »» To reduce fuel consumption To this end, we have implemented procedures to ensure that customer data is handled in a safe manner. CEO Our Environmental Work Support & Group Functions Image 7. Denmark Organizational Structure. The goal of reducing the environmental impact of our products and services influence our entire operation. Our enTelecom Office/IoT Orbion vironmental work aims to find solutions that are both good for the environment and that benefit our customers and employees. Health and safety, energy and chemicals and waste are focus areas within our environmental work, and are continuously improved and followed by specific KPI’s By showcasing Relacom’s efforts to promote sustainability, we believe that we are sending an important signal to the market, our customers, suppliers, contractors and, not least CUSTOMERS of all, to our employees. Regional, National and Transnational 26 Environment Systematic Environmental Work TABLE 19. DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) [T] G4-EN15 a Relacom’s environmental work corresponds and adheres to the requirements found in the ISO 14001 standard and is 2016 2015 2014 integrated into Relacom’s business management system. Fuel (Diesel, Petrol) 338 461 388 All work related to environmental issues in everyday operations is managed by Relacom’s management and supporTABLE 20. ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) [T] ted centrally by Relacom’s executive. Our executive makes G4-EN16 a sure that our environmental protection measures are being 2016 2015 2014 applied. Our environmental work does not only influence our own operations, but extends to our subcontractors and Electricity and heating 30,6 28,6 31,3 suppliers, too. A great example is that we in 2016 have helped one of our meetings, including installing solutions for online meetings Telecom customers with significantly reducing their power with external parties, such as customers and suppliers. consumption on their mobile base stations for events, which are handled by Relacom. For daily internal administrative work meetings, we use the online tool Microsoft Lync (video, instant messaging, Climate telephony). These measures help to significantly reduce the number of trips we take and reduce our environmental We take climate change seriously and we work actively to impact. reduce carbon dioxide emissions caused by our services and transports. The results of climate change, such as Waste extreme weather, changes in rainfall, snowfall and ice, have a direct financial impact on our industry and our customers. Both waste minimization and responsible waste management are vital for reducing our environmental impact and During 2015 we identified the largest energy consumers of ensuring sustainable development. Waste management electricity in all our domiciles, to make plan for reduce the procedures are an integrated part of our operations. energy consumption. In 2016 we started the execution of Through our agreement with a waste contractor, we can our plan to bring down our power consumption and CO2 both reuse and recycle waste generated by our operations. emissions. We are changing all our lightning systems in The same requirements and procedures for handling waste our offices and warehouses to environmental friendly and also apply to our subcontractors. Our ambition is to ensure power saving LED lightning. Together with our solar panels, that all waste from our own operations is recycled at as the result is a major reducing of or power consumption and high a rate as possible. All our places of business have is a great benefit for the environment. recycling stations for waste. We have taken important steps to reduce travel related to TABLE 21. TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND TABLE 17. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE DISPOSAL METHOD [T] ORGANIZATION [GJ] G4-EN23 a G4-EN3 a 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Non-hazardous waste Diesel 4538 6126 5382 Recycling 73 88,7 123 Petrol 3,57 6,19 11,9 Composting 0 0 0 Total Incineration (mass burn) 21 41,3 33,3 4542 6132 5394 Landfill 0 0 0 Other (mixed recycling and incineration) 0 0 0 TABLE 18. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION [GJ] Hazardous waste G4-EN3 c Recycling 0 4,42 814 2016 2015 2014 Total 94 134 970 Electricity 744 664 635 Heating 473 472 610 Total 1217 1136 1245 27 Employees Our Employees the workplace and creates a better working environment for everyone. Relacom is a service company and our employees are our company’s most important asset. Our goal is to be an Work environment considerations include physical, teattractive employer that attracts skilled personnel and a chnical and psychosocial conditions that are important company where employees feel at home and want to devefor creating a good working environment. Managers and lop together. leaders work together with staff to achieve well-functioning and satisfying solutions. Preventive Work Environment Our customers are very satisfied with the great effort we do, TABLE 22. TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW and Relacom Denmark A/S is in 2016 awarded the Huawei EMPLOYEES HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY EHS Management prize for our work with environment and AGE GROUP GENDER AND REGION * G4-LA1 a health and safety. Besides the award from Huawei, Eco2016 <30 31-50 >51 Total vadis have for Telia measured Relacom Denmark on our Women 0 0 1 1 CSR. The excellent result was a gold recognition level and includes Relacom among the top 5% performers evaluated Men 2 4 2 8 Total 2 4 3 9 TABLE 24. COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE TABLE 23. STAFF MOBILITY [%] BODIES G4-LA1 b G4-LA12 a 2016 2015 2014 Management Group 2016 Total staff turnover 46 39 35 Women 1 Men 4 <30 0 * Number who concluded their employment in 2014, based on total permanent 31-50 5 >51 Relacom wants to be a leader in the industry when it comes 0 to employee safety, enjoyment and dedication. In a safe Total 5 and pleasant work environment, our employees are given the ability to develop and deliver high-quality services to TABLE 25. ACCIDENTS AND SICK LEAVE STATISTICS our customers. Relacom always prioritizes our employees’ LA6 a and customers’ health and safety. We strive to achieve 2016 2015 2014 Relacom’s goal to reduce the number of accidents. Every Injuries* 6 6 2 single accident is one too much. The foundation for achieWork-related accidents resulting in death 0 0 0 ving this goal is following legislation and rules. Furthermore, Days lost due to work-related accidents Relacom is certified OHSAS 18001 with means that we 13,4 15 32 constantly have a high focus on safety and work environSick leave as a percentage of total work time** 3,2 2,0 3,0 ment, and are obligated to keep on improving our working environment. *Injuries include work-related accidents that led to sick leave Systematic Efforts to Improve our Work **Average for the entire year Environment A good working environment helps business development, encourages physical and psychological well-being, helps motivate employees, improves quality of life, encourages ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Did you know? our employees’ personal development and contributes to certificates cover all Relacom Denmarks greater work safety. Relacom systematically improves our operations and locations. work environment through regular surveys, implementing improvement measures and following up the status of our operations. This helps us prevent illness and accidents at ISO ISO OHSAS 28 18001 9001 14001 Relacom Denmark Great Stories lightning, which we promoted during 2016. LED lightning Audits and awards has longer lifetime (4-5 times longer than traditional T8 tubes) and they consume approxi­mately half of the energy During 2016 our Telecom customers (Telenor, Telia and compared to traditional lightning systems. The development TDC/Huawei) performed audits regarding CSR, work enin LED lights is now on a level where the quality is better, or vironment and quality. All the auditors where very satisat least the same, as traditional lightning systems. Unfor­ fied and the result of all audits was very good and ended tunately a common misunderstanding of LED light is that with no remarks. We are extra proud to have received a it have a bad color and not gives enough light. However high score from Huawei quality audit and being awarded the problem is usually that the wrong products is chosen. Huawei’s EHS Management price Therefore we are installing different types of products in our office and warehouse in Blommenslyst, so the customers actually can see how it looks like. LED lightninggreen energy Relacom Power DK will also use the case as a show room solutions for new customers to show the quality of the LED lightning. In the Relacom’s office in Blommenslyst we are changing the lightning to LED to bring down Relacom’s energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Our Business area Power have a major focus on green energy solutions and more intelligent installations. One of the green energy solutions that really make sense is LED 29 23 Relacom Finland Relacom Finland Our diverse expertise extends to telecommunication tages for our customers. We provide service with a smile. networks, energy networks, IT onsite services and Simply put, a service-oriented mindset is part of the device lifecycle solutions. Being part of the interRelacom personality. When it comes to resourcing national Relacom Group, which operates in and providing managed services with different all of the Nordic countries, the company’s Percentage of skill requirements, our goal is to find the accumulated experience and technical women in most optimal solution for our clients and expertise is unique and has become management group commit to develop the solution conti50% a significant competitive advantage nuously. compared to other services providers. By creating transnational processes and The Relacom Way delivers quality for operating models, combined with an unmatour customers and other stakeholders ched geographical presence and an innovative approach to new solutions, Relacom has become a The services we provide and the materials we leading technology services partner in northern Europe. deliver comply with the specifications agreed upon with the customer. Likewise, we are constantly developing our Relacom Finland Oy is a technology service company that operations and products to meet our customers’ future exoperates nationwide and helps its customers to benefit pectations and requirements. This also involves our quality more from their investments in networks, systems and desystem – the Relacom Way – being systematically develovices. We are a leading provider in Finland and the Nordic ped together with our personnel. countries for the building, installation and maintenance of ICT networks and systems. Relacom provides a natural link Another critical aspect of the continuous development of between technology and its users. our policies is the regular interaction and co-operation carried out in accordance with our agreed model for collaboOur services are extremely flexible: we can provide maration with the employee representatives. naged services with 4-hour service level agreements to nationwide or alternatively site resident resources for our All our major suppliers are screened via our procurement clients to manage. We believe that Relacom’s way of compolicy. bining reliability and competency provides unique advan30 Environment Image 8. Finland Organizational Structure. Ensuring daily cutting-edge competence CEO Relacom is the natural choice for companies in which customer satisfaction and trouble-free operations are essential. The cost-benefit of outsourcing non-core activities has led to a growing demand for these services. Relacom meets this growing demand by employing people with diverse Telecom ICTN Services Power Orbion backgrounds and cutting-edge competence. Support & Group Functions In our industry, skills requirements are continuously changing. At the same time as we adapt to meet these changes, we also need to ensure good management of earlier technologies. We are committed to maintaining adequate CUSTOMERS staffing levels and to upgrading our expertise to comply Regional, National and Transnational with the requirements imposed by ever-changing technology and our customers’ requirements by means of annual training sessions and through work-based learning. We are committed to ensure that our employees work for customers in the agreed manner and thus promote the corporate develop our operations in a more holistic way. Workshops image of our customers when carrying out assignments have had also a positive effect on job satisfaction. at end-customers’ premises or homes. Our customers measure the quality of these encounters on a regular basis, Environment including both technical and customer service skills on our technicians. During the year 2016 we updated our ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certificate to meet the latest standard requirements. To ensure we meet our customers’ demands for competenLater the same year an external partner conducted a thoce, our managers engage in annual assessment, planning rough Quality, Security and Code of Conduct audit incluand development discussions with their subordinates. The ding also environmental aspects. We identified no failures combined performance appraisals rating for 2016 was 82 to comply with environmental requirements. per cent overall. Similarly, our customer satisfaction rating for 2016 was excellent. Together with our waste recycling supplier we executed environmental audits in 4 locations. The proposed changes Building the Future with EFQM self-assessments were discussed through with our property and line managers. The audit results were reported on our intranet. Relacom introduced an EFQM self-assessment concept in 2012. The objective was to involve employees widely We continued our activities to reduce the amount of across the organization in the development of our operapurchased paper throughout the organization. We have tions. All our business unit organize regularly EFQM-themed instructed our personnel to avoid unnecessary printing workshops for managers, specialists and technicians involand to favor two-sided printing by highlighting the environving each year around 100 employees. mental aspects and impacts. We have also set the goal to reduce the amount of unsorted waste from total amount of In 2016 we organized across the organization eight EFQMwaste compared to previous year by recycling even more workshops generating a total of 176 development measusystematically. res related to our business units. During the workshops our personnel identified and prioritized development areas, but ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifiDid you know? also brought up things that are already in a good shape. As cates cover all Relacom Finland’s operations and the result of the workshops we generated a concrete list to locations. We’ve continued to work closely with be followed and adapted. Total 96 % of the listed measures The Finnish Quality Association to improve our were successfully implemented in 2016. total quality even further. One major reason for the success was the continuous monitoring of development measures. EFQM has strengthen ISO ISO OHSAS the collaboration within the company. It has enabled our 9001 14001 18001 employees both to understand our business better and to 31 Environment In addition to our own environmental work we also instruct TABLE 28. TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND all our contractors based on the environmental requireDISPOSAL METHOD [T] G4-EN23 a ments and encourage them to operate more environmental friendly. 2016 2015 2014 Non-hazardous waste We continued to increase our personnel’s environmental Recycling 169 92,8 95,9 awareness by training our property managers in matters Composting 1,28 0,8 1,23 of waste management. New employees are introduced to Incineration (mass burn) 60,0 21,5 14,8 our Environmental Policy already during general orientation Landfill 0 38,8 33,3 meeting. Other (mixed recycling and incineration) 28,3 15,6 22,7 Hazardous waste Climate Recycling 16,6 19,6 17,7 Total 275 189 186 Preventing climate change is one of the main priorities of the modern world. Extreme weather phenomena such as rainstorms, strong snowfalls and formation of ice and frost Waste have a direct impact also on our industry. Because of this we actively strive to reduce the effect of our operations on Both waste minimization and responsible waste manageclimate. ment are vital for reducing our environmental impact and ensuring sustainable development. Waste management We are constantly considering new ways to reduce the procedures are an integrated part of our operations. carbon dioxide emissions caused by our services and Through our agreement with a waste contractor, we can transports. both reuse and recycle waste generated by our operations. We encourage our personnel to use video conferencing In year 2016 we removed majority of workstation speciservices and online tools for meetings. We also promote fic mixed waste bins. This had a positive effect on the opportunities for remote working. All these measures have recycling of materials. We also promoted the recycling helped us to cut the number of trips we take and reduce of metals by purveying metal collection bins to many our our environmental impact. In 2016 we managed to reduoffices. The significant growth of recycling is mainly due to ce the number of travel days from 11,455 (2015) down to increased share of scrap metal. The amount of scrap metal 10,769. recycled in 2015 increased from 23 tons in 2015 to 89 tons in 2016 In 2016 we continued to optimize the use of space in all our offices. Despite the steady increase of our turnover by 16 % Environmental Goals: reduce the volumes of unsorted during the latest three years, we have succeeded to reduce waste and paper our total occupancy costs by 7 %. Unsorted waste requires considerably management and has a long-term environmental impact. Over the past few TABLE 26. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION [GJ] years, we have continued successfully to reduce our G4-EN3 a unsorted waste volumes by providing clearer recycling 2016 2015 2014 instructions, training and by auditing our offices. For 2016, our goal was to reduce the non-recyclable waste compared Diesel 34415 34016 33813 to total amount of waste even more than in previous year. In Petrol 356 356 382 2015 the amount of mixed and combustible waste of total Total 34771 34372 34195 waste was 28 %. In 2016 we succeeded to decrease its share to 23 %. TABLE 27. DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) [T] G4-EN15 a As for paper, our on-going goal is to reduce the amount of needed paper. As of today, we have managed to cut the 2016 2015 2014 consumption of paper from 8,6 tons down to 2,9 tons since Fuel (Diesel, Petrol) 2600 2570 2559 2011. We continue to reduce the usage of paper for example with the help of mobile tools that enable the acceptance of work while on site, without printing it on paper. 32 Employees Mission to reduce CO2 emissions and improves overall quality of life. We are focused on optimizing our existing vehicle fleet to We have adopted a holistic approach to occupational wellimprove the overall operations. We believe that scaling being, which includes the competence, structure, condidown our fleet even more goal-oriented has led to it being tions and work community. We have agreed on a number of used more effectively and with greater consideration. We the well-being policies and practices together with our work have started to renew half of our vehicle fleet and will comrepresentatives. We have launched, for example, Relacom plete this project in first half of 2017. All our new vehicles Way for preventing inappropriate behavior and harassment. will be Euro 6 compliant delivering reduced pollution and Together with a local Whistle blower function it ensures all fuel consumption. In 2017 we will have 80 vehicles less in our employees are able to raise any kind of grievances or our fleet than year 2016. failures they might notice. To reduce fuel consumption in 2016 we replaced the flash We are using regular surveys, implementing improvement lightning and roof railings of our vehicles with more streameasures and following up the status of our operations mlined ones. to develop the working environment. This helps us prevent illness and accidents at the workplace and creates a Additionally, we are using a vehiclepositioning technique better working environment for everyone. It is important to that reduces unnecessary mileage, helps the production communicate and comprehend that every employee has a planner better optimize driving routes and improves occuvaluable role to play in building the common occupational pational safety for our employees. well-being. A holistic approach to occupational well-being In 2016 we promoted occupational wellbeing by organizing online sessions related to well-being and open for all We aim to be an attractive employer that interests skilled employees. For the managers, we also offered an additiopersonnel. For us it is important that in our company our nal resource discussion model with company health care employees feel motivated while developing together. supplier. This gives them an opportunity to discuss preventively and confidentially any concerns about their team A good working environment helps business developmembers’ well-being at work with health care specialists. ment, encourages physical and psychological well-being, motivates employees, reinforces our employees’ personal development, contributes to greater work and traffic safety Relacom Finland supported international summer camp of Scouts. Photo: Harri Halmejärvi 33 TABLE 29. TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW During the year we introduced a renewed personal develoEMPLOYEES HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER pment plan that is a part of our ASK-discussion model for BY AGE GROUP GENDER AND REGION * performance appraisals. The personal objectives of each G4-LA1 a employee should be linked strongly to company’s year plan 2016 <30 31-50 >51 TOTAL and be based on the modified Balance Score Card of each Women 1 6 0 7 employee. Men 42 12 17 71 TOTAL 43 18 17 78 Our various experts and specialists train regularly our employees and managers internally in different processes, work approach, systems, instructions and guidelines. MaTABLE 30. STAFF MOBILITY [%] nagers and others are also kept informed by means of short G4-LA1 b briefing sessions relating to employment matters, safety 2016 2015 2014 and wellbeing at work. In year 2016 we organized a total of Total staff turnover 1,9 1 0,8 1,646 training days. For the team meetings, the Support Functions produced TABLE 31. ACCIDENTS AND SICK LEAVE short presentations from different current topics important STATISTICS to our personnel, such as warehouse operations. The aim G4-LA6 a was both to strengthen the expertise of our employees 2016 2015 2014 and to increase communications and awareness of our Injuries* 22 14 14 company’s different operations. Work-related accidents resulting in death 0 0 0 Days lost due to work-related accidents 109 238 577 In 2016 Support Functions’ specialists introduced also a Sick leave as a percentage of total 3,6 3,7 4,8 new support service for managers. The so-called Clinic work time** Model offered tailor-made support and training for mana*Injuries include work-related accidents that led to sick leave gers challenged to meet the goals set. The manager was **Average for the entire year advised by a multidisciplinary team helping him to develop a concrete action plan. The idea behind Clinic Model is to Relacom’s all operations in Finland are run in accordance share the best practices and increase the feeling of facing with OHSAS 18001 an international occupational health challenges together. and safety management system specification A new intranet orientation tool launched TABLE 32. PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS [%] Orientation of the new recruits is a vital part of our develoG4-LA11 pment of employees. In 2016 we introduced a new intranet 2016 2015 2014 orientation tool. It helps managers in planning and impleWomen 6 6 6 menting the comprehensive orientation of the new recruits. It will also encourage them to take advantage of the experMen 76 84 77 tise of our various specialists. At the same time it supports TOTAL 82 90 83 the monitoring of progression of orientation practices. All managers are now making orientation plans online. Each Did you know? orientation program includes four compulsory trainings and it will be complemented according to each person’s needs. Relacom’s cable ship, Telepaatti has manaHowever, the online orientation tool is not intended only for ged to reduce notably its fuel consumption the benefit of new employees. It is also worth taking adby reducing speed 0,3 knots. This has not vantage of, when a person moves to another job or returns however impacted the agreed schedules. to work after a longer absence, for example from a study leave. 34 Preventive Work Relacom wants to be a leader in the industry when it comes Did you know? Telecom Construction Business Unit used to employee safety, satisfaction and dedication. In a safe the EFQM Excellence Model to develop its work environment, our employees will have an ability to operations and processes, and received develop and deliver high-quality service to our customers. in 2016 The Finnish Quality Association’s Relacom always prioritizes our employees’ and customers’ Recognition for Excellence with three stars. health and safety. Relacom has a far-sighted model for occupational health and safety. The company’s occupational health and safety organization includes 18 employees. Our Occupational Health and Safety Committee met four times during 2016. Lost Working Hours Also, the Occupational Health and Safety Group has met eight times and actively monitored the development of We monitor working hours lost in proportion to the number absence due to illness and the frequency of accidents. The of total working hours on monthly basis. Annual holiday Occupational Health and Safety Group also had held nine days are not included in total working hours in the caloccupational health and safety briefings for managers. The culation. The total number of working hours in 2016 was purpose of these briefings is to highlight important areas 1,107,200, while sick leaves total was 39,557 (2015: 41,041 related to occupational health and safety that managers hours). The rate of absence at the end of the year in 2016 should take into consideration with respect to their own was 3,6 percent average rate of 2015 being 3,7 percent. group. The briefings always address general reports on sick leaves and work-related accidents, occupational safety instructions and topical issues related to occupational health services. Managers are also offered an opportunity to discuss and ask questions about concerns they have related to occupational health and safety. During 2016 we launched a new alternative work arrangement model. The new model enables the employee to work temporarily in different tasks adapted to his current condition. A concrete example of our preventive work in 2016 is the renewal of working cloths of our field workers. The new clothing will ensure the better visibility of our coworkers in all conditions. As a qualifying measure of work related injuries we use Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), which is the standard method in Europe. The measurement period is a rolling 12 months, in which the number of accidents leading to three or more days of sick leave are considered. In 2016 we managed to decrease LTIF rate from 21 (2015) down to 16. Our ultimate goal is to have zero accidents for every million hours of work. 35 Relacom Finland Great Stories Contributing to the well-being of Rauli storm affected 200,000 society Finns Since 2014 Relacom has enabled its personnel to use half Southern and Central part of Finland experienced a severe a work day for charity work. Relacom’s staff members storm in the late August 2016. The storm caused major experienced the joy of giving by e.g. donating blood, damages and cut the electricity from almost 200,000 Finns. helping their neighbors or elderly citizens or collecting Relacom employees worked during the most critical phase money for charity organizations. For many years we have of the crisis 24/7 carving damages and restoring the elecalso donated the funds reserved for customers’ Christmas tricity to people. Relacom’s attitude and ability to quickly compliments for charity organizations for example promorestore the connections got a lot of positive feedback in the ting a cleaner Baltic Sea. In 2016 we chose a campaign Finnish media and from the customers. supporting indigent families. Value: Reliable Relacom is a member of the national disruption co-operation group that aims to improve national readiness for Relacom Finland supported interdisruptions in key communication and deployment networks and also recovery from such incidents. Values: Reliable national summer camp of Scouts and Competent. Roihu 2016 was the 7th International Finnjamboree organized by the Guides and Scouts of Finland. It was held New Life for End-of-Life (EOL) in Southern Finland, near the town of Hämeenlinna and gathered 16,000 scouts from more than 45 countries. equipment Relacom Finland was one of summer camp’s partners, and we supported the building of tele and data communication In 2016 Relacom carried out a major computer replacement network in the area with materials and through offering our within the company. As the computers replaced still had know-how for the organization. We were also responsible technical life cycle left, even if they no longer met our nefor the occupational safety card. Vaue: Reliable eds, our partner searched new users for the computers and and Competent t took care of the logistics and delivery. With the help of the Reuse service, the life span of disposed computers were extended. This tremendously reduced the environmental 36 impact of the old equipment. Value: Competent. 35 37 About this Report About this Report This sustainability report encompasses all companies and Explanations and limitations markets within the Relacom Group.The report aims to provide a transparent account of our sustainability work during Work environment: includes health and saftey. 2016. ICT: Information and Communication Technology IoT: The Internet of Things is the inter-networking of physical devices, Organizationally, the Relacom Group is s to a certain extent vehicles, buildings and other items decentralized, which means that its various companies OHSAS: Occupational Health and Safety operate according to national and local circumstances and ISO 9001: International Standard Organization for Quality Management with some measures of independence. Some of our core ISO 14001: International Standard Organization for Environmental Management areas are managed centrally (Relacom Group). As a result, this report is organized into the following chapters: RelG4-10 Reports according to our annual report. All employees who work more acom Group, Relacom Sweden, Relacom Norway, Relacom than 60% count as full-time employees. Relacom has no employees working Finland and Relacom Denmark. less then 60%. G4-EC1a For the economic value distributed see our annual report. The report is based on the guidelines for sustainability G4-LA1b We only report employee turnover in percentage and not by genreporting issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). der and age, we report in accordance with internal procedures. G4-LA6a We do not publish statistics on the gender distribution due to high This is the Relacom Group’s fifth report issued in accordanmale representation in the workforce. ce with the framework of GRI’s guidelines. G4-33 We do not seek external assurance for this report. Our first report was published in 2012 and followed the GRI G3 guidelines. Our previously report according to GRI G4 was published in November 2016. Contact information anders.bylund@se.relacom.com Phone: 08 553 90000 38 39 Index # GROUP Indicators Page Strategy and analys G4-1 Statement fromCEO 3 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 5 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 4 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 5 G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 4 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 G4-8 Markets served 4 G4-9 Scale of the organization 5 G4-10 Employee data 5 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 100% G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 9 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 8, 38 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 8 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles endorsed 34 G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations 9 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 38 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 10 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 10 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 10 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 10 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports 38 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 38 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 10 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 10 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 11 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 38 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 38 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) 38 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 39 G4-32 GRI Content Index 40 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 38 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 5 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 6 40 # GROUP SWE NOR DEN FIN Category/Aspect Indicators Page Economic Economic Performance, EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed 5 n/a n/a n/a n/a DMA and Results Environmental Energy, DMA and Results EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 9 15 21 27 32 Emissions, DMA and EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 9 15 21 27 32 Results EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Emissions 15 n/a 27 n/a (Scope 2) EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal methEffluents and Waste 15 22 27 32 od. EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total numCompliance ber of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a environmental laws and regulations “Number of grievances about environmental impacts Grievance filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a mechanisms Supplier Environmental EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Assesment, DMA and 8 16 22 n/a 32 using environmental criteria Results Social Employement, DMA and LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and 9 17 22 28 34 Results employee turnover by age group, gender and region LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational disOccupational Health and eases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of 9 17 23 28 34 Safety, DMA and Results work-related fatalities LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular perforTraining and Education mance and career development reviews, by gender and n/a n/a n/a 34 by employee category LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Diversity and Equal of employees per employee category according to gender, 17 n/a 28 n/a Opportunity age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Assesment for LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Labor Practice, DMA and 9 16 22 n/a n/a using labor practices criteria Results Labor Practices GrievLA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, ance Mechanisms, DMA addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a and Results mechanisms SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Anti-Corruption 9 n/a n/a n/a n/a policies Anti-Corruption SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 9 n/a n/a n/a n/a SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Compliance of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a and regulations” Overall PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Customer privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer 16 21 26 n/a data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliCompliance ance with laws and regulations concerning the provision 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a and use of products and services 41 www.relacom.com
