Global Compact UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 01.05.2016 – 30.04.2017 Statement from the CEO The desire to take responsibility for human beings, the environment The BoConcept CSR policy is divided into the following focus areas: and social relations is an important element of BoConcept's global environmentally friendly and safe production at our own production brand. At the same time, it is vital that the BoConcept CSR policy facility and at our sub-suppliers and reduction in CO2 emissions strikes an obvious and healthy balance between environmental related to transportation and logistics. impact and business economics. The following pages contain an update on developments in our In 2009, BoConcept joined the UN Global Compact, and the designated CSR focus areas in the 2016/2017 financial year. BoConcept CSR policy which forms the framework of our CSR initiatives and priorities is based on UN Global Compact's 10 On behalf of BoConcept, I thank you for the interest you are principles relating to human rights, employee rights, respect for the showing in our organisation by reading this report. environment and a prohibition against corruption. Torben Paulin CEO BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 2 BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 3 BoConcept is the brand name of Denmark's most global retail THE BOCONCEPT VISION AND VALUES furniture chain with 300 brand stores and studios in 65 markets worldwide. Our vision and our core values guide us in everything we do at BoConcept. These statements are not just words on a page they Passion at our core are acted out every day by BoConcept employees around the world. Passion and persistence are what move the people behind the BoConcept brand, whether they are designing a wall unit, leading a Our vision team, or managing a store. Our common mission is to make To make BoConcept no. 1 brand within urban interiors. modern design furniture available to the urban-minded customer. About Our core values Our furniture and accessories We offer customised, coordinated and affordable design furniture 'Values are what bring people together in a common understanding. and accessories. Customised because our products can be fitted to They're a set of rules telling us how to think and act. From Herning BoConcept the needs and dreams of our customers. Coordinated because we in Denmark to Auckland in New Zealand, values unite us across take a holistic approach in the development and design of our occupation, language and culture. They make us family.' product range. Design because we are a design company with our own designers. Affordable because we want to spoil our customers Viggo Mølholm, former BoConcept Holding A/S Deputy Chairman by giving them great value. and former BoConcept A/S CEO BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 4 CSR VISION CSR POLICY At BoConcept it is vital that our CSR policy strikes an obvious and One of the core values at BoConcept is respect. We want to show healthy balance between environmental impact and business respect for our customers by delivering great design and quality at economics the right price. But not at any price. As an organisation, we wish to ensure that our conduct has the All BoConcept suppliers must follow the BoConcept Code of Conduct least possible adverse environmental impact; and at the same time in order to ensure that all our products are manufactured in a way we need to be pragmatic and understand that it is impossible to that respects the rights of their employees. Our headquarters are CSR Vision avoid such impact altogether. based in Denmark and we apply our Danish background in our expectations to our suppliers when it comes to quality, environment and work processes. and Policy Over 60 years of experience and know-how provide invaluable benefits for our production facility in Denmark as well as in our close co-operation with our global suppliers. We have carefully selected suppliers that share our commitment to high quality. Business Environmental Together, we work to develop competencies and processes, and to economics impact implement initiatives that take responsibility for people and the environment. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 5 Due to BoConcept's social commitment and sense of responsibility, Nine years ago BoConcept launched the first edition of its Code of BoConcept has joined the UN's Global Compact in its attempt to Conduct. The purpose of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is to build a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. ensure that BoConcept suppliers operate in accordance with internationally recognised standards on human rights, labour and With this partnership BoConcept shows its support of the 10 environment. BoConcept adheres to the principles of this code and principles of Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, expects the same of its suppliers. The content is based on relevant environment and anti-corruption. ILO (International Labour Organisation) and UN conventions. The following pages contain an update on the areas that BoConcept The aim of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is not to end our Communihas designated as its principal focus areas: business with non-compliant suppliers but to help our suppliers improve their social and environmental standards. BoConcept is SUPPLIERS therefore willing to work with suppliers to achieve their compliance with this code. However, we will not conduct business with a cation on At BoConcept we have become more globally oriented as a growing supplier if compliance with the requirements of the code is deemed share of our products is sourced from all over the world. impossible. Nor will we conduct business with a supplier engaged in We realise that we are able to exert some influence on our violations of fundamental human rights. suppliers, and we believe it would be natural to take advantage of Progress this to the extent possible. At BoConcept, we visit all our principal suppliers to ensure that these comply with the BoConcept Code of Conduct and that action At BoConcept, we believe that personal relationships, mutual plans are established to deal with the most important issues. respect, communication and determination are useful drivers for growth. With this in mind, we regularly discuss environmental and While adherence to the BoConcept Code of Conduct brings our 01.05.2016 – 30.04.2017 safety issues with our suppliers, and we have in the past suppliers up to a certain standard, it basically only sets out our encouraged our suppliers to abide by the 10 Global Compact minimum requirements. With this in mind, we work with a principles, just as we endeavour to do so ourselves. 'development wheel' that is used in our ongoing dialogue with suppliers. The model below illustrates how we hold our suppliers to their CSR commitments, and it shows that it is an ongoing process. BoConcept sourcing share trend 45% 40% Step 3 35% Environmental framework 30% 25% 20% 15% Step 2 Social 10% conditions 5% 0% 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 Step 1 Legal framework Scandinavia Asia Eastern Europe Europe BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 6 SUPPLIERS STEPS TO BECOMING A BOCONCEPT SUPPLIER STATUS ON DEVELOPMENTS 01.05.2016-30.04.2017 The model below shows a number of parameters that BoConcept requires its suppliers to live up to. BoConcept will not begin collaborating with a company that fails to comply with Step 1. At BoConcept, we set and observe the highest standards of ethical and business conduct and are committed to combatting all forms of corruption. Therefore – in early 2017 – we adopted a formal Code of Conduct/anti-bribery policy that provides support and guidance to all employees in their efforts to prevent bribery and corruption. Further, during the past 12 months, we have performed a general contract update together with all our category-A suppliers. As part of this update, all category-A suppliers re-confirmed their obligation to meet all the standards included in declarations from BoConcept concerning REACH, Code of Conduct and Supplier Guidelines. Also, in the 2016/2017 financial year, we further strengthened our CSR standards and the audit of how our suppliers meet these standards. As a result of this, we have further strengthened our annual supplier audits and made sure that we never start collaborating with a supplier that fails to comply with our strict CSR standards. Asian suppliers During the past 12 months, our strategic supplier of upholstered Step 2 states a number of the expectations BoConcept has to established suppliers. A BoConcept supplier should fulfil most of these products has performed an audit of its ventilation systems and expectations. In case there are any remaining issues, a written action plan will be drafted in consultation with the supplier, setting out subsequently updated these in its glueing workshop and at its practical steps for improvement. warehouse facilities, thereby ensuring improved working conditions for its employees. Further, the same supplier has updated its Step 3 comprises a number of expectations relating more to management and control issues, and a BoConcept supplier should be able to production workflow, which is now less labour-intensive and this comply with these specifications. Once Steps 1 and 2 have been established, plans will be drawn up for implementation of Step 3. has resulted in improved ergonomics for the employees. Finally, one of our suppliers of solid wood products has audited its In the 2016/2017 financial year, our European rug supplier has Moreover, one of our Asian metal suppliers has made further production equipment and added further safety devices, thereby increased its focus on printing and as a result reduced the amount investments in updated ventilation systems, ensuring better and ensuring increased safety and improved working conditions. of printing for each employee by 26.3%. Further, the same safer working conditions. Another Asian metal supplier has audited supplier cooperates with a sub-supplier, whose rug production its handling of waste water and subsequently installed new European suppliers facilities are now powered by solar energy. The shift to this energy machinery, ensuring an even better handling of waste water and In 2016, our strategic supplier of upholstered products initiated a source has enabled the sub-supplier to reduce its energy reduction of the impact on the environment. move of its production facilities into newly renovated premises. consumption significantly. These premises are equipped with a modern heating system that In the 2016/2017 financial year, one of our Asian glass suppliers uses biomass to generate heat, which ensures CO2 neutral heating. Own production / internal warehouse updated its production workflow in relation to the handling of large The supplier expects to complete the move into these newly In the 2016/2017 financial year, our own production facility in glass units. As a result, work routines are now less labourrenovated premises by the end of 2017. Also, the supplier Ølgod, Denmark, replaced its main compressor, which reduced intensive, which has improved ergonomics for the employees. constantly focuses on improvements in working environment and energy-related costs by DKK 100,000 per year. Further, the ergonomics. Production facilities are e.g. equipped with heightinstallation of frequency-regulated motors on some of our Further, our Asian supplier of plastic units has performed an audit adjustable work stations, and the production flow is arranged in a production equipment has reduced costs related to power and of the work routines in its loading areas. Following this audit, new way that work routines can be performed as efficiently and heating by DKK 400,000 per year. Also, following EU legislation, a loading platforms were installed, resulting in improved ergonomics comfortably as possible. Finally, the supplier works intensively with compulsory energy report was prepared in the 2016/2017 financial for its warehouse employees. recycling and waste separation in order to reduce the amount of year. This report served to identify areas in which energy-related waste. improvements can be implemented. Finally, our own production BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 7 facility implemented LEAN in the 2016/2017 financial year. One of BoConcept. However, it is just as important to maintain a high Air transport the results of this implementation is an efficiency improvement of quality standard and ensure reliable delivery. The airlines used by BoConcept have a strong focus on 18% in the lacquer department as well as an increase of 48% in minimisation of fuel consumption through initiatives such as job satisfaction in the same department. BoConcept has its own production facility in Denmark, but development of new aircraft types, more efficient aircraft engines otherwise also purchases goods from the Far East and Europe. and a general optimisation of flight routes. During the past 12 months, our internal warehouse has focused on In order for this to be successful, a strict and precise management reducing the number of boxes that are handled manually. The of logistics and suppliers is required. In 2016, BoConcept reduced the air-transported volume by 75% increased focus ensures an annual reduction in manual handlings due to improved control within our supply chain. of 4,144, and with an average box weight of 30 kg, our employees For many years, BoConcept has operated with only one weekly now manually handle approx. 125 tonnes less than before. departure to our BoConcept stores in order to ensure direct Road transport deliveries and through this reduce both costs and environmental As for the European road transport, we constantly encourage our impact. In recent years, the tendency has been to have many carriers/transport operators to minimise their environmental GOALS AND FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEAR weekly deliveries. However, so far we have been able to maintain impact. our present delivery set-up. Our goal for the 2017/2018 financial year is to further strengthen When selecting carriers for our European transport corridors, the our current follow-up/KPI meetings with all our category-A use of the best truck engine type/highest Euro norm (norms 5-6) suppliers. The primary focus at these meetings was originally STATUS ON DEVELOPMENTS 01.05.2016-30.04.2017 is an important parameter. product-related, however, for the coming year, focus will also include Global Compact and CSR related issues. Sea transport Our carriers' use of the different truck engine types/Euro norms During the past 12 months, there has been no change in the directly affects the CO2 emission levels. Due to changes in carrier BoConcept sea transport set-up. The shipping lines used by mix and volume in different transport corridors, we saw no change TRANSPORTATION BoConcept all have a strong focus on reductions in CO2 emissions in the use of the less polluting truck engine types (Euro norm 5-6) from their vessels, However, reductions levelled out in 2016, from 2015 to 2016. This means that in 2016, the share of Euro As an international company, both with regard to retail and supply mainly due to increased sailing speed. norm 5-6 truck engine types remained at 83%. However, the use chain, transportation and logistics are key aspects of our business. of the more polluting engine types (e.g. Euro norm trucks 3) was Buying and selling at the right prices is of vital importance to reduced significantly. The environmental impact of the different engine types appears from the illustration below. THE BOCONCEPT WAREHOUSE AND DISTRIBUTION SET-UP BoConcept has two distribution centres:  Ølgod, Denmark NOX AND PM EMISSION STANDARDS FOR DIESEL  Shanghai, China TRUCKS One distribution point:  Lithuania One sourcing office:  Shanghai, China BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 8 Further, a large share of our carriers uses the following initiatives THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES BOCONCEPT'S ACTIONS: to reduce their environmental impact:  Tyre pressure monitoring  Idle-running reductions (truck engines) HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1: Businesses should support and BoConcept supports the international declared human  Transport reports on each truck/driver respect the protection of internationally rights.  Further training of drivers proclaimed human rights; and  Driver bonus schemes (based on the use of diesel per km) We do not discriminate against any person, regardless of Principle 2: make sure that they are not race, sex, colour or religion. complicit in human rights abuses. Being a global organisation, BoConcept has employees GOALS AND FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEAR with many different cultural backgrounds. It is vital to BoConcept to maintain this. For the 2017/2018 financial year it is our goal that the share of LABOUR: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the One of BoConcept's core values is 'Respect'. Euro norm 5-6 truck engine types represents min. 85%. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective In this context the value covers respect for other people bargaining; and their rights. Further, our focus for the coming financial year is to ensure continuous distribution set-up improvements, in addition to which Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of BoConcept knows that people make the difference! we strive to minimise the impact of our distribution set-up on the forced and compulsory labour; Therefore, all employees are encouraged to bring up environment as far as possible. their ideas to improve workflow, work environment or Principle 5: the effective abolition of child ideas to improve other parts of the BoConcept business. labour; and The BoConcept Code of Conduct states that all suppliers WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination must ensure that basic human rights and basic labour in respect of employment and occupation. standards are implemented. If you have any questions, comments or proposals relating to this report, please feel free to contact the designated contact person: Further, we have communicated to our present suppliers that we have enrolled in the UN Global Compact program and that we expect they will run their companies applying the same 10 principles as we do. Torben Blindbæk Quality Manager E-mail: toj@boconcept.com ENVIRONMENT: Principle 7: Businesses should support a As can be read on the preceding pages, BoConcept has precautionary approach to environmental prepared a specific plan for the clarification and reduction Telephone: +45 7013 1366 challenges; of the environmental impacts of our chain and our products. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and This plan covers sub-suppliers/production and transportation. At BoConcept, we will continue our work Principle 9: encourage the development to improve the accuracy of the data. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION: Principle 10: Businesses should work At BoConcept, we do not accept any form of corruption. against corruption in all its forms, including We do not use bribe or extortion in any way. extortion and bribery. Further, anti-corruption is an integrated part of our Code of Conduct, which we ask our suppliers to confirm in writing. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 9 BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016/2017 10
