Anti-Bribery | Anti-Corruption Centre of Excellence Building Strong Global Compliance Frameworks Safeguarding Organizations from Third-Party Risks RI SK MA NAG E M E NT A S S ES S M E NT & I NVESTIG ATIO NS | IS O 37001:2016 CE RTIFICATIO N DU E DI LI G ENCE 3 6 0 ™ | 3 PRM CE RTI F I CATIO N & STR ATE GIES Often tolerated in many countries as a “necessary part of getting business done or circumventing bureaucratic red tape,” systematic bribery vastly affects economic growth, undermines trust and discourages investment. Further, studies show that worldwide bribery and corruption directly contributes to global poverty, social inequality and a decrease in development of public infrastructure. According to Transparency International, which investigates business corruption across the globe, bribery and corruption were among the key components that led to the recent global economic crisis. From lapses in corporate due diligence and devolving government and corporate integrity, to poor transparency, lack of accountability and inadequate corporate integrity systems, business corruption has become both rampant and commonplace on a global level. Such corporate corruption — and it’s subsequent effects on development around the world — has furthered the public’s demand for organizations to behave responsibly. But bribery and corruption are often moving targets and very difficult to identify, isolate and remedy. That’s where CRI Group can help. Introducing the CRI Group Anti-Bribery | Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Centre of Excellence RISK MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT & INVESTIGATIONS 3PRM CERTIFICATION & STRATEGIES ISO 37001:2016 CERTIFICATION DUE DILIGENCE 360™ 2 CRI Group ABAC Centre of Excellence AN ESTIMATED $2 TRILLION $2 TRILLION IN BRIBES IS PAID ANNUALLY IN BOTH DEVELOPING AND Engaging in corrupt practices DEVELOPED COUNTRIES. creates an unfavorable business — International Monetary Fund environment that: • Encourages unfair advantage and anti-competitive practices • Allows organized crime to flourish • Creates obstacles to economic development • Erodes trust in public institutions and business organizations • Challenges democratic principles “ CRI Group’s Anti-Bribery Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Centre of Excellence was created to educate, equip and support the world’s leading business As the world’s governing bodorganizations with the latest in best-practice due diligence processes and procedures. We ies gravitate to more strinprovide world class risk management assessgent standards and efforts to ment and investigation services to organizations seeking to validate or expand their existing comprevent corruption, bribery pliance frameworks to maintain a competitive and other unethical business edge in the world marketplace. practices, we stand ready to The ABAC Centre of Excellence offers a comhelp companies meet and plete suite of world-class services and solutions designed to help organizations mitigate exceed those standards. “ the internal and external risks associated with —— Zafar Anjum, CFE, Group Chief operating in multi-jurisdiction and multi-cultural Executive Officer, CRI Group environments. CRIGroup.com 3 As recently as 2007, the largest fine under the FCPA was less than $50 million. Now the worst offenders pay 10-15 times that amount. — The Economist Risk Management Assessment & Investigations CRI Group provides expert audit of your existing risk management system to assess effectiveness and vulnerabilities, while ensuring your organization adequately complies with FCPA regulations, UK Bribery Act laws, Anti-Money Laundering regulations, and other global, regional and local regulations. These assessments also define the level of business integrity within your organization to ensure that the code of international business conduct is followed properly and conflicts of interest are averted. In doing so, a thorough assessment of your risk management processes can protect the organization from damaging litigation and safeguard your business in the global marketplace. Program Assessment Process 1 A comprehensive review to affirm initial buy-in of the organization’s risk management program beginning with top-level management. 2 A survey of the organization’s staff to determine the overall level of understanding of the established corporate procedures to identify corruption and other risks. 3 A review of training programs for personnel. 4 An audit of systems and procedures to ensure processes are up to date. 5 Staging scenarios to gauge effectiveness of program implementation. 6 An audit of all steps required to identify, report and resolve red flag issues. Our mission for all of our clients is to: ESTABLISH IMPLEMENT MAINTAIN MONITOR IMPROVE 4 CRI Group ABAC Centre of Excellence 27% of the 3,000 business people surveyed reported that they had lost business due to bribery by competitors. — Transparency International study ISO 37001:2016 Certification The newly established ISO 37001 standard is designed to help global organizations implement an anti-bribery management system. The standard specifies a series of measures required by the organization to prevent, detect and address bribery, and provides guidance relative to that implementation. CRI Group is fully trained to offer independent ISO 37001:2016 certification to ensure that your organization is in compliance with the standard, which is recognized and practiced in more than 160 countries worldwide. Our auditors and analysts work with your team to develop measures that integrate with your existing management processes and controls, and include: • Adopting an anti-bribery policy • Conducting due diligence on projects, business associates and other third-party • Establishing buy-in and leadership from manaffiliations agement • Implementing financial and commercial • Training personnel in charge of overseeing controls compliance • Developing reporting and investigation • Communicating the policy and program to all procedures personnel and business associates • Providing bribery and corruption risk assessments CRI Group can assist your organization in attaining ISO37001:2016 certification, which will: • Ensure that your company is implementing a viable anti-bribery management system utilizing widely accepted controls and systems. • Provide assurance to management, investors, business associates, personnel and other stakeholders that the organization is actively pursuing internationally recognized and accepted processes to prevent bribery and corruption. • Provide acceptable evidence to prosecutors or courts that the organization has taken reasonable steps to prevent bribery and corruption. CRIGroup.com 5 DueDiligence360™ CRI Group’s premier integrity due diligence solution CRI Group’s comprehensive due diligence investigations involve a review of all relevant information concerning virtually any business on the planet to ascertain past business dealings, criminal records, executive stability and suspect associations. Our experts, analysts and investigators focus on the industry experience, financial condition, knowledge of applicable laws and regulations, reputation, and scope and effectiveness of operations and controls for all third-party affiliations. In conducting these investigations, CRI Group goes far beyond the standard “check-the-box” assessment. We provide the industry’s most thorough bribery and corruption risk assessment through our exclusive DueDiligence360 solution which ensures that your organization is protected from internal and outside risks. CRI Group’s DueDiligence360 solution is the most DueDiligence360 involves rigorous investigative and comprehensive risk management tool available for research of the organization and its principals, providglobal organizations that are: ing a comprehensive integrity due diligence assessment and accompanying certification. This indepen• Performing pre-merger, acquisition or pre-IPO dent background investigation of principals, owners, transactions; shareholders and corporate directors helps to expose: • Offering or entering into newly formed interna• Any red flags and or non-compliant working tional joint ventures; relationships or transactions with previously undisclosed third parties • Engaging in new banking or business relationships; • Material misrepresentations or commissions • Employing, contracting or retaining a foreign • Unreported financial issues business partner; • Criminal or regulatory sanctions • Following regulatory compliance or corporate governance best practices; • Prior bribe or corruption allegations • Used as an integral part of a consistent and • Undisclosed legal, civil, criminal or bankruptcy audit-worthy AML and anti-corruption compliproceedings ance program. • Politically exposed persons While DueDiligence360 involves a broad scope of essential and enhanced investigative services, CRI Group can customize an assessment based on your specific requirements. THE IMPACT OF NEGATIVE EXPOSURE • Damaged Corporate Reputations and • Eroding Company or Stock Value Brand Devaluation • Possible Legal Action • Diminished Employee Moral • Fines and Potential Jail Terms for • Potential Consumer Boycotts Directors • Negative Investor Perceptions 6 CRI Group ABAC Centre of Excellence Essential Enhanced DueDiligence360 Packages Integrity Due Integrity Due Diligence Diligence Confirmation of the address and telephone number for the subject in question to determine if the provided address/contacts are correct, commercial and/or residential.   Undertake corporate record research to verify and ascertain current shareholdings/ directorships, officeholdings including executive and/or non-executive positions, corporate legal structure and to determine whether they are legitimate, commercial and/ or trade observations etc.) on the part of subject in question.   Establish corporate and business affiliations of the subject(s) in question.   Verification of personal information of the principal(s) associated with the subject entity.   Local language/English press and electronic media searches on company and the principal(s) in question to establish derogatory information and publicly arises negative criticism.   Undertake research to determine government affiliations, political positions and relationship to public officials on the part of subject(s) in question.   Undertake research with police and relevant court resources for criminal history record checks on the part of subject(s) in question.   Undertake research with relevant public record resources to ascertain civil litigation, liens, previous judgments, bankruptcy on the subject(s) in question.   Undertake research with regulatory agencies to ascertain any current and/or pending actions/sanctions on the part of subject(s) in question.   Undertake onsite visits and take photographs of the address and locality to establish legitimacy for the address and physical location.  Verification of previous employments and/or projects completed.  Verification of business and personal references.  Verification of academic and professional qualifications.  Undertake source interviews to establish the reputation of the subject(s) in question including but not limited to previous exposure to have a reputation for bribery, fraud, dishonesty or similar misconduct; establishing whether subject(s) have been investigated, convicted, sanctioned or debarred for bribery or similar criminal conduct and/ or any civil wrongdoings. CRI Group local agent will have developed well-established resources for the report which will be included but not limited to a combination of discreet source interviews with neighborhood, local law enforcement and court reporters, previous employees; previous customers and distributors; local chamber of commerce and industry resources; similar companies in the same industry. Local agent will further  establish on the part of subject(s) in question to have any direct or indirect links to the organization’s customer or client or to a relevant public official which could lead to bribery (this would include persons who are not public officials themselves, but who may be directly or indirectly related to public officials, candidates for public office, etc.); Local agents will include a description of the developed resource’s position and the category of each resource. Undertake research with publicly available property records and asset ownership on the part of subject(s) in question.  Comprehensive local and international sanction list screenings.  CRIGroup.com 7 3PRM-Certified™ Aside from establishing compliance with Third-party compliance verification and certification international standards and bolstering an orThird-party relationships are critical in business ganization’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption today, and include partnerships with suppliers, program, certification through CRI Group’s distributors, consultants, agents and other con3PRM-Certified training could potentially tractors. While such affiliations are essential to the reduce corporate insurance premiums and ulsuccess of your organization, the consequences of timately improve quality control and enhance inadequate due diligence cannot be overestimated. productivity over time. CRI Group’s exclusive 3PRM-Certified™ solution proCRI Group’s 3PRM-Certified™ solution vides the very best in third-party risk management. can help mitigate the risks associated with Our 3PRM strategy provides a proactive approach third-party affiliations by exposing: to mitigating risks from third-party affiliations, protecting the organization from liability, brand damage • Purposely Hidden Ownership (“Ultimate and harm to business. Beneficial Owner”) • Business Operations & Solvency The 3PRM strategy includes a focus on: • Poor Reputation • Providing third-party risk assessments • Past Allegations of Corruption • Meeting contracting requirements • Production, Quality or Delivery Issues • Conducting due diligence • Key Assets • Inappropriate Political Affiliations • Identifying potential fraud risks • Conflicts of Interest • Providing management oversight • Licensing & Credentialing Issues Utilizing a network of trained professionals posi• Links to Organized Crime tioned across five continents, CRI Group’s 3PRM services utilize one of the largest multi-national • Improper Payment Arrangements fraud investigation teams the industry has to offer. • Workforce & Human Rights Issues The 3PRM strategy is especially critical when “ your business is performing pre-merger and acquisition research and pre-IPO due diligence, engages new clients, employs, contracts or Corruption is primarily a cultural retains foreign business partners and requires a consistent and audit-worthy AML and anti-corrupproblem that will take generations tion compliance program. to address. “ CRI Group provides the knowledge required to —— Christine Lagarde, navigate unfamiliar markets by assessing the backInternational Monetary Fund grounds, integrity and character of those with whom you do business. 8 CRI Group ABAC Centre of Excellence “ We have been working with CRI Group since 2011 for our integrity due diligence and employment background YOUR COMPANY IS LIABLE FOR BRIBERY COMMITTED BY THIRD-PARTY AFFILIATES International laws and regulations (including the FCPA and UK Bribery Act) make various forms of bribery screening requirements, specifically a crime, punishable by unlimited fines, forfeiture of in Asia and Middle East countries. A public contracts, and possible imprisonment of the organization’s senior officials. majority of the requirements supported by CRI Group’s excellent investigaThose regulations define bribery, receiving a bribe, or tive research skills to unearth negative failing to prevent a bribe in these terms: character and qualifications of the • Bribery in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors. subjects resulted in not only protection • Bribes made by the organization, its personnel, of our company assets but a wellor outside business associates. informed decision in a timely manner. • Bribes made to the organization, its personnel, or outside business associates. “ —— EVP, Chief Counsel for the Americas • All direct and indirect bribes, including those Large Energy Group, New York, NY, offered or accepted through or by a third party. United States It’s important to stress that your organization will be criminally responsible for acts of bribery committed The top risks posed by third-party partners: by outside business partners (such as agents, consul• Harm to reputation. Adverse effects (including untants, suppliers, distributors and other third-parties) ethical behavior) and negative opinions attached working on your behalf. to a third party can damage your organization’s reputation. The most effective defense from prosecution is to • Non-compliance issues. A third-party partner that implement internationally accepted controls and fails to meet regulations or compliance standards systems designed to prevent bribery. These measures can adversely affect your business. involve an effective anti-bribery plan, leadership buyin, personnel training, risk assessment, due diligence, • Negative financial impacts. A third party’s system failures, human mistakes, fraud or an incapability financial and commercial controls, reporting mechato provide services will impact your bottom line. nisms, and audit and investigation procedures. • Supply chain risk. What happens if your critical suppliers go out of business suddenly, or are faced with shortages causing gaps in delivery? • Security threats. Your third-party partners may have access to your trade secrets and Intellectual Property (IP). How well do you know their employees? CRIGroup.com 9 CRI Group A Global Leader in Corporate Investigations and Risk Management CRI Group has emerged as a global leader in corporate investigations and risk management, serving distinguished clients across Europe, Asia Pacific, South Asia, the Middle East, North Africa and North America. CRI Group safeguards businesses by establishing the legal compliance, financial viability, and integrity levels of outside partners, suppliers and customers seeking to affiliate with an organization. CRI Group excels in providing support to the global business and financial sectors in the areas of: • Anti-Bribery | Anti-Corruption Centre of • Corporate Security Investigations Excellence • Business Intelligence and Investigations • Risk Management Assessment & Investigations • Forensic Accounting and Investigations • Corporate Intelligence • Intellectual Property Investigations • Integrity Due Diligence • AML KYC and Due Diligence Services • Fraud Risk Investigations • Employment Screening and Background Investigations • Fraud and White Collar Crime • Insurance Fraud Investigations CRI Group’s global integrity due diligence investigations provide your business with the critical information it needs in making sound decisions regarding mergers and acquisitions, strategic partnerships and the selection of agents, vendors and suppliers. This level of due diligence will help ensure that working with a potential outside party will ultimately achieve your organization’s strategic and financial goals. “ Intellectual property infringement is a large problem we face while operating in Asia. We engaged CRI Group with a recommendation from of our regional Corporate Security Director in 2004 to undertake IP investigations, background checks and distributor screening in the region. CRI Group’s on-ground investigative research and comprehensive and professional reports uncovered facts that found associations of local vendors and business partners with highly objectionable and negative personal and professional affiliations. CRI Group remains the preferred partner of our global compliance and ethics team. 10 —— Executive Director Global Corporate Security, A Leading Fortune 500 Consumer Product Manufacturer CRI Group ABAC Centre of Excellence “ Contact us today CRI GROUP GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS Corporate Research and Investigations Limited 2nd Floor, 5 Harbour Exchange Square South Quay, London E14 9GE United Kingdom Tel: +44 207 8681415 M: +44 7588 454959 info@CRIgroup.com CRIGroup.com Connect with us on social media and visit our blog, FraudInsider.com Global Locations M IDDL E E A S T A SI A E U ROPE & N OR T H A FRI C A Karachi London CRI Group Headquarters BRR TOWERS 13th Floor EMEA Head Office Level 9, #917, Liberty House, DIFC I.I Chundrigar Road 2nd Floor, 5 Harbour Exchange Square P.O. Box 111794 Karachi 74000 South Quay, London E14 9GE Dubai, UAE Pakistan United Kingdom Tel: +971-4-3589884 Tel: +92 (51) 111 888 400 Tel: +44 207 8681 415 Fax: +971 4 3589094 Email: pakistan@CRIGroup.com Email: london@CRIGroup.com Email: cridxb@CRIGroup.com Singapore N OR T H AME RIC A Abu Dhabi 1 Raffles Place, #19-61, Tower 2 Office No: 3509, 35th Floor One Raffles Place New York Al Maqam Tower, ADGM Square Al Singapore 048616 445 Park Avenue, 9th Floor Maryah Island, Tel: +65 6808 5634(35)(36) New York, NY 10022 Abu Dhabi, U.A.E Email: singapore@CRIGroup.com United States of America Tel: +971 2 4187568 Tel: +1 212-745-1148 Email: abudhabi@CRIGroup.com Malaysia Fax: + 1 917-322-2105 Lot 2-2, Level 2, Tower B Email: newyork@CRIGroup.com Qatar The Troika, 19 Persiaran KLCCM QFC Branch 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Office No. 130, 1st Floor Email: malaysia@CRIGroup.com Al – Jaidah Square, 63 Airport Road P.O. Box 24369 Doha, Qatar Mobile: +974 7406 6572 Tel: +974 4426 7339 Email: doha@CRIGroup.com CRIGroup.com 11 CRIGroup.com UAE | PAKISTAN | QATAR | SING AP ORE | HONG KONG | MAL AYSIA | US A | UNITED KINGDOM © 2016 Corporate Research and Investigations (Pvt) Limited. “DueDiligence360,” “3PRM-Certified,” “Anti-Bribery | Anti-Corruption Centre of Excellence” and the CRI Group logo are trademarks owned by the Corporate Research and Investigations (Pvt) Limited. All rights reserved. “ CRI Group was engaged by our U.K. Head Quarter Legal Team initially in 2009 to undertake due diligence and anti-bribery investigative research reports involving local vendors, suppliers and distributors in the Middle East. CRI Group’s due diligence reports are very professional and provided investigative research adequately, which is very important to retain this company on our preferred vendor list with every second year’s performance review. CRI Group will be our valued partner across Middle East and Asia regions, integrity due diligence being part of our 2017 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Program. —— Head, Global Procurement Services, Large Pharmaceutical Company, London, U.K. “
