Capital Four Communication on Progress 2017 Period covered by our Communication on Progress November 2016 to November 2017 1 Scope of reporting • Includes a statement by the chief executive officer expressing our continued support for the UN Global Compact and its principles • Description of actions related to Human Rights • Description of actions related to Labour • Description of actions related to Environment • Description of actions related to Anti-Corruption 2 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Capital Four reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. As an investment manager we also integrate the Capital Four ESG Policy throughout our investment process. We use our ESG Policy as a framework to develop the four issue areas in human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Sandro Näf CEO, partner 3 Description of actions Human Rights Assessment We have ensured workers and employees are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities and that we do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour or child labour. We do provide safe and sound working conditions. Implementation Upon commencement of employment, every employee is given an overview of the firm’s policies and procedures, which includes code of conduct, ESG and anti-money laundering policy, along with the employee handbook which outlines the employee’s rights and benefits. At least annually and upon appropriate occasions our ESG Committee educates all employees within the organization on ESG matters and ESG market standards. Measurement of outcome Measurements of outcomes are assessed as part of our HR department, by our management and by our ESG Committee. 4 Labour Assessment The Company complies with minimum wage standards and offers pension contributions to all eligible employees. In 2017 the Company has carried out a comprehensive health check for all employees and also made a first aid course available for all employees. We offer full salary for maternity leave of 7.5 months and paternity leave of 4 months (according to standards set by the Danish financial collective agreement) and our company is represented by 3/4 men and 1/4 women. The Company supports employees in developing skill sets and further professionals developments on an ongoing basis. Implementation Culture has a high priority within our organization and to support this our employee handbook is regularly updated and fully implemented in our organization. Measurement of outcome HR has a strong commitment to support employees on a daily basis. This is further supported by annual employee reviews with HR and direct reports where targets and performance is discussed and agreed upon by all parties. Labour issues have a high priority within our organization and we accommodate beyond market standards. 5 Environment Assessment Capital Four strives to minimize the environmental impact of activities. During 2017 we have put a focus on decreasing the carbon dioxide footprint. Implementation One method is going paperless when having internal meetings within the organization. In addition, we recycle ink cartridges and plastic and glass bottles. Measurement of outcome It has been noticeable that going paperless has decreased the amount of paper consumption as well as use of ink cartridges and waste of elements. 6 Anti-Corruption Assessment On an ongoing basis we assess the risk of Capital Four being misused to anti-money laundering and financing of terrorism. We assess the risk of bribery, corruption and anti-money laundering pursuant to our internal policies and procedures when we conduct business. Implementation We have a great focus on carrying out risk assessments and Know Your Customer-procedures on every current and potential client. Internally, we have in place a whistleblower system for any suspicion of compliance violations within our organization. Measurement of outcome Carrying out risk assessments and Know Your Customer-procedures on clients and having our own whistleblower system in place catches suspicious circumstances relating to compliance violations. 7
