UN Global Compact: COP 2016 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 1 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 CEO Statement of continued support To our stakeholders, I am pleased to announce that SUSI Partners supports the United Nations Global Compact – a global initiative for businesses that are committed to operate in accordance with ten universally recognized principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles on social and environmental practices into our daily business operations as well as long-term business strategy. We continuously seek to improve our business behaviour and activities to contribute to a more sustainable economy. This commitment is relevant to every SUSI employee and we will share this information with our stakeholders. Sincerely yours, Dr. Tobias Reichmuth Chief Executive Officer of SUSI Partners AG SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 2 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 SUSI Partners AG Financing SUSI Energy Partners AG Transition Founders: Board of Directors: Dr. Tobias Reichmuth, Kai-Uwe Ricke (Präsident), Björn Bajan, Otto von Troschke Prof. Dr. Uwe Krüger, Andrin Bachmann, Florian Seubert Renewable Energy Verwaltungsrat: Energy Efficiency Energy Storage Jürg Bucher (Präsident), Kai-Uwe Ricke, Prof. Dr. Uwe Krüger, Stephanie Schoss, RA Björn Bajan SUSI Renewable Energy Funds I & II SUSI Energy Efficiency Fund SUSI Energy Storage Fund Financing energy efficiency measures through Financing of decentralized Solar and Wind parks in Europe a contracting model Energy Storage infrastructure SUSI Partners AG (SUSI Partners) is a swiss Investment Manager based in Zug. Founded by Dr. Tobias Reichmuth and Mr Otto von Troschke in 2009, SUSI has three subsidiaries based in Zurich, Frankfurt and Luxembourg. SUSI Partners analyses and identifies projects in the field of the energy transition based on three pillars: Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency and Energy Storage. Through its subsidiary Sustainable Sàrl (100% owned by SUSI Partners), based in Luxembourg, SUSI Partners provides investment opportunities in sustainable infrastructure projects to qualified investors. The funds advised by SUSI Partners aim to generate stable and low-correlated returns with minimal risk and measurable environmental impact. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 3 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 UN Global Compact – The Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 4 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Human Rights (I/II) Assessment, policy and goals SUSI Partners is committed to respect human rights. As a confirmation of this commitment, the company has developed a Human Rights Policy in 2014 (see Appendix I), guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The company’s Code of Conduct, which details the employee’s rights and defines internal and external professional ethics in daily operations ensures implementation in our daily business. SUSI Partners will revise both documents on a continuous basis, to ensure that it is in line with the company’s growth and expansion of activities. As a Switzerland based company, SUSI Partners must respect Swiss legislations, which have high standards with regard to the rule of law as well as a worldwide commitment to human rights. The Federal Constitution sets certain guidelines for the state to protect in the area of corporate human rights in Switzerland as well as in the context of foreign affairs. Implementation SUSI Partners respects human rights in daily business activities. The employees are encouraged to discuss human rights issues encountered and to find solutions for future operations. SUSI employees have been – and continuously are being made aware of this during regular staff meetings. Suggestions by employees concerning work environment quality can be reported directly to the Human Resources Department. The company’s Human Rights Policy describes in general how human rights should be respected while dealing with clients and business partners. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 5 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Human Rights (II/II) Measurement of outcomes As of to date (13.04.2017), SUSI Partners has not encountered incidents of human rights violation and has not been subject to any investigations or legal cases related to it. Every employee is reviewed by the end of the year on his performance by his/her respective manager. During this review, the employee’s behaviour in the company and towards stakeholders is reviewed and evaluated, also in regards to upholding human rights standards. Due to SUSI Partners’ limited number of employees (42 as of April 2017), an external audit on human rights performance is not required. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 6 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Labour (I/II) Assessment, policy and goals SUSI Partners complies to national law and treats its employees in a fair and reasonable manner. All employees are issued with a contract of employment, clearly and transparently stating their terms and conditions. Last year, SUSI Partners has implemented a participative bonus system for its employees as well as a comprehensive Code of Conduct. Implementation With its revised annual bonus procedures, implemented in per January 2016, SUSI Partners will share the company’s results with its employees and foster a sense of ownership among all SUSI employees. The company’s Code of Conduct is going beyond mere compliance with local laws and regulations. The Compliance Officer and the Risk Manager can independently report problems to the Risk & Compliance Committee composed of members from the Board of Directors. SUSI Partners is in constant exchange with its employees through regular Staff Meetings during which they are encouraged to address perceived issues related to labour rights. Every year, SUSI holds a 2-day company retreat. In the run-up to this retreat, SUSI’s HR Department conducts an employee satisfaction survey which is mandatory to complete by every employee. During the retreat, the results are discussed openly and collaborative workshops are used to carve out solutions to optimize potential shortcomings. Changes, achievements and goals of the company are discussed and developed further together. On top of this, several company events are organized during the year to strengthen the bonds between staff and top management. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 7 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Labour (II/II) Measurement of outcomes SUSI fosters a climate of open communication regarding staff needs. To date (13.04.2017), SUSI Partners has not received grievances or complaints from employees with reference to violations of labour rights and has not been involved in any investigations or legal cases concerning labour issues. By April 2017, the company had 42 employees (11 female / 31 male) from 14 different nations through a wide range of ages. Every employee has annual performance reviews with the top management to evaluate skills and potentials as well as to foster personal development. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 8 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Environment (I/IV) Assessment, policy and goals SUSI Partners’ core business is focussed on financing the energy transition with institutional capital and is based on three pillars:  Renewable Energy Infrastructure  Energy Efficiency improvements on existing Infrastructure  Energy Storage Infrastructure All three areas of Investment produce a measurable positive impact on the environment, mainly stemming from reduced CO2-Emissions.  Investments in Renewable Energy lead to the gradual fading out of CO2-intensive fossil based energy sources  Energy Efficiency Retrofits reduce overall energy consumption  Energy Storage – as a key component – enables the mass deployment of renewable energy into the existing power grid For each project, the amount of CO₂-savings is measured in tons per year and transparently reported to all relevant stakeholders. In addition to its operational activities aiming to enable tomorrows energy transition, SUSI Partners has implemented measures for its employees to create a more sustainable work environment and has elected a company-responsible to promote environmental initiatives in the office on a regular basis. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 9 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Environment (II/IV) Implementation On top of its core business activities that measurably contribute to the global reduction of CO2-emissions, SUSI Partners offers a range of sustainability measures to its employees and encourages every new entrant in written form to take part in the following:  To use bicycle or public transport to commute to work (free inand outdoor bicycle parking, full coverage of public transport price reduction cards)  To choose Skype / conference calls over travelling for meetings and choose the train over flying by plane  To separate / recycle paper, cardboard, PET bottles and organic waste (Extensive waste recycling in the office)  To bring lunchboxes and whenever possible buy non-packaged food for meals  To use the stairs instead of the elevator  To print only when absolutely necessary and predominantly use digital marketing material for customers Moreover:  In early 2016, SUSI has replaced it’s fuel-powered company car by an emission-free Tesla  Dyson Airblade dryers have been installed in Summer 2016, saving paper and further reducing CO2 emissions  Printers are all automatically set on eco mode and two-sided printing  The coffee machine has been replaced (beans instead of capsules)  Electricity in the office is from renewable energy  SUSI has been the first company to implement South Pole Group’s Climate Credit Card. This way CO₂-emissions caused by any transaction are offset via investments in emission-reduction projects. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 10 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Environment (III/IV) Measurement of outcomes SUSI Partners saves approx. 600 t CO₂ p.a. per million invested in renewable energy projects and approx. 1’000 t CO₂ p.a. per million invested in energy efficiency measures. For it’s investment activities in Energy Storage, CO2 savings are currently being assessed. Via its subsidiary Sustainable Sàrl, SUSI Partners has been able to finance renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy storage assets across Europe and the OECD, saving more than 380,000 tons of CO₂equivalents to date. All employees apply at least two of the company’s sustainability measures. Only two employees use the car as a transport vehicle to the office, due to logistical necessities, one of them being an emission-free Tesla. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 11 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Environment (IV/IV) Measurement of outcomes (continued) 400'000 380’456 tons 350'000 300'000 250'000 200'000 150'000 100'000 198'791 147'933 50'000 22'792 6'948 1'037 2'956 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Annual CO2-Reduction in Tons Aggregated CO2 Reduction SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 12 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals SUSI Partners is located in Zurich, Switzerland and faces therefore lower risks of bribery and corruption. Switzerland is ranked among the top countries concerning anti-corruption and bribery according to the OECD and Transparency International. To ensure that no corruption should take place while doing business, the company has established a zero-tolerance policy for corruption and bribe, which is enforced through the company’s compliance department. All employees are obliged to take part in company-wide compliance workshops held twice a year. Implementation The Code of Conduct obliges all employees to avoid bribery or corruption during business activities in Switzerland as well as abroad. To implement the Code of Conduct, all employees are required to acknowledge their understanding and agreement with the principles as set out by SUSI Partners. Measurement of outcomes To date (13.04.2017) SUSI Partners has not experienced any cases of corruption or bribery and no legal case, investigation or other event with reference to bribery or corruption. SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 13 UN Global Compact: COP 2016 Appendix I: Human Rights Policy SUSI Partners is committed to developing an organizational culture, which respects internationally recognized human rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and seeks to avoid infringing on human rights. SUSI Partner’s Human Rights Policy applies to the company’s activities as well as to its relationships with third parties such as clients or business partners. The Human Rights Policy is communicated to all employees. Human rights are amongst the universal and inalienable fundamental rights of every person. In Switzerland, the fundamental rights are guaranteed by several international conventions as well as by the federal constitution and the cantonal constitutions. Based in Switzerland, SUSI Partners will comply with all Swiss laws and international human rights commitments. “Switzerland has high standards with regard to the rule of law as well as a worldwide commitment to human rights. As a party to many human rights conventions, the Confederation has the obligation to protect human rights, also in relation to its economic activities, and must ensure that this protection of human rights is not compromised by private sector activities. This implies that Switzerland takes a certain degree of responsibility for the activities of Swiss companies on the global market” (Federal Department of Foreign Affairs).. SUSI Partners has established the following goals for the company’s activities:  Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining All employees have the rights to form associations and protect their interest by engaging in collective bargaining to communicate working conditions. The company is committed to co-operate constructively and in good faith with the employees’ representatives.  Safe and Healthy Workplace SUSI Partners complies with applicable safety and health laws and is committed to minimize the risk of accidents as well as protect the employees from any kind of violence, harassment or abuse. The company respects the employees’ privacy and dignity.  No Discrimination SUSI Partners is dedicated to guarantee equal opportunities to all its employees and recruitment is exclusively based on qualifications, performance and experience. Any kind of discrimination with regard to race, sex, colour, origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation or any other status protected by national law will not be tolerated.  Fair and just work framework The company will maintain a framework of fair and just remuneration. Employees will be compensated competitively related to the industry and following current trends on the international labour market.  No child or forced labour SUSI Partners adheres to the general national rules regarding the minimum age for employment. In addition, working for SUSI Partners is a matter of choice. All forms of forced and bonded labour (including prison labour) are prohibited in accordance with ILO Conventions 29 and 105. This policy will be communicated to all employees of SUSI Partners and shall enter into force on the day of signing. The CEO is responsible for the implementation of this policy across SUSI Partners’ activities. Zurich, 13th April 2017 Dr Tobias Reichmuth Chief Executive Officer of SUSI Partners AG SUSI_P_UN Global Compact COP 2016 Seite 14
