RICE A/S Social Accountability Report for the UN Global Compact 1st of April 2017 As managing director of RICE A/S I hereby confirm our continued support to the Global Compact. Our management manual is based on the principles of SA8000, and in addition to this we find the Global Compact a valuable tool in our social responsibility as well as environmental work. Odense, April 2017 Philippe Gueniau Managing Director RICE A/S Contents “People Care – We Care”................................................................... 3 Company Facts ....................................................................................... 3 Management Tools .............................................................................. 3 Suppliers ...................................................................................................... 4 Audit process Suppliers ................................................................ 5 Audit Process Denmark ................................................................6 SA8000 Recertification ......................................................................7 Communication ..................................................................................... 8 Anti-corruption ....................................................................................... 8 CSR-collaborations ..............................................................................9 CUPS OF HOPE ..................................................................................10 “People Care – We Care” Company Facts Founded: 1998 Headquarters in Denmark: 34 employees European sales offices: 16 employees Sourcing office Thailand: 7 employees Happy Cooking kitchen: 3 employees RICETERIA: 3 employees Management Tools RICE A/S supports the Global Compact and uses it as a In 2002 we obtained the SA8000 certification as the first guideline for doing business responsibly. The objective Scandinavian company, and we have used it as both a checkof the UN initiative, Global Compact, is to promote good list as well as a way of dealing with the developmental probusiness behavior, and the management tool is centered on cess of our suppliers ever since. the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. The Central Areas of SA8000 are: Back in 2001 RICE decided to formalize the different • Child Labor initiatives within social accountability in an overall manage• Forced or Compulsory Labor ment tool. We decided to use the standard SA8000 – the international standardized code of conduct for improving • Health & Safety working conditions around the world. The spirit of this • Freedom of Association standard is close to our core business values. & Right to Collective Bargaining Furthermore, there is an audit system connected to the tool • Discrimination just as the system is based on human as well as labor rights. • Disciplinary Practices • Working Hours Since 2006 RICE has committed to apply to the Global • Remuneration Compact principles as a management tool, and as it will appear in the principles, SA8000 and Global Compact are to • Management Systems some extend quite close. 3 Suppliers The nature of our business is to launch two major and two connected to our suppliers. The aim is to continuously work minor collections each year. When developing these colon building a socially responsible business all over the lections we are working with a substantial number of perworld. The fully operational sourcing office has the responmanent suppliers with whom we engage in a long lasting sibility of coordinating with our suppliers, the sampling and cooperation. handling of purchased orders, the follow-up on production, quality control processes, shipping and finally but not least Additional to this we have seasonal suppliers or one-time the audit in connection with social compliance. suppliers who contribute only in the current collection. The audit is mandatory for all suppliers, and the follow-up To ensure a strong cooperation, we have established our own focuses on permanent suppliers with whom we engage in sourcing office in Thailand. The sourcing office is staffed long lasting cooperations. with RICE employees, which enables us to be very close DK UK NL PL DE CZ PT CN IT IN TW TH MG 4 Suppliers Audit Process Suppliers The audit process with our suppliers is of great importance conducted at least every second year in order to maintain to us. When we choose new suppliers, we make sure that the obligations of the factory. We always strive to make the they uphold ethical standards. Where improvements are audit process the most efficient, and therefore our audit in needed, we engage in cooperations with the supplier and China is in most cases carried out by a third party (70% Exuse the SA8000 standard as a tool in the developmental proternal, 30% Internal). cess. We have developed standard tools for our auditors to use We start by taking a commitment from the new supplier in during the audits. With a standard form the results are more relation to the SA8000 standard. The managing director of reliable, and it is easier for the RICE headquarter to streamthe supplier must sign this commitment, which relates to line the results from the audits around the world. SA8000 as well as environmental protection. When our auditor finds topics not meeting the expectations Once the production is initiated, and the first order is comin accordance to the SA8000 standard, we issue a non-conpleted from the supplier, we have our own staff visiting the formity report. During the next visit we will then follow up to supplier in order to make the quality control of products as control that the non-conformity has been solved. well as the first physical audit in the factory. The audit is 5 Denmark Audit Process Denmark In order to make sure that we comply with our own standards we made an agreement with Bureau Veritas Certification. Bureau Veritas Certification carries out an audit of RICE once a year according to the SA8000 standard. The auditor goes through the following program: • Opening meeting • Walk around in the premises • Personal interviews with the staff • Review of records • Control of suppliers • Internal monitoring • Outside communication • Management review • Closing meeting join a fitness program once a week during working hours. They are also invited to join a voluntary yoga class which During the audit the auditor will check our audit reports takes place after working hours once a week. Furthermore, from the factory visits as well. These reports will also they are able to book a personal massage from a licensed contain a description of fields where there are room for immassage therapist, giving them the opportunity to releif tenprovement. sions related to office work. Employees at the Bangkok office are also invited to join a yoga class. We believe that taking good care of our employees is an inWorking Environment at the Headquarters vestment, which both pleases the individual employee and The working environment in our Danish headquarters is at the same time prevents physical problems and keeps abcontrolled by the APV – workplace assessment. The assence of employees due to illness at a low level. sessment is updated at least every three years with inputs from the staff. At RICE we are aware of the importance of We also offer the staff a healthy lunch five days a week good working conditions among our employees, and in cooked by ‘Happy Cooking by RICE’ located at the head2015 we reorganized the office at the headquaters to enquarters. sure better working conditions and less noise. In 2016 we carried out a survey amongst the staff to ensure that We have a health and safety committee to take care of any the working conditions had improved. This resulted in a possible issues that might be brought up by the staff. The new reorganization of the marketing department which staff select among themselves a representative and likewise has now ensured an even better working environment. there is an appointed management representative in this Furthermore we have introduced new safety regulations in group. Once a year we conduct a fire drill for all employees, our warehouse, making sure that employees and guests can just as all employees must attend a mandatory guided safty move about in a safe manner. tour. Finally, a SA8000 headquarters worker representative has Our employees at the headquarters have the opportunity to been selected by the employees. 6 SA8000 SA8000 Recertification In order to stay on top of the standard the French consultIn November 2014 RICE achieved a SA8000 recertification ant company, Acta Verba, guides us on the SA8000 certificaand was thereby found to be in accordance with the requiretions. ments of the management system standard. In October 2015 The recertification takes place every three years and consists the announced surveillance was conducted with success. of two and a half days of audit at the RICE headquarters. 7 Communication Communication Communicating about social responsibility is important for customers about the campaign and the great progress takRICE, and we use both our website and our social media ing place in the developing countries. Furthermore, RICE channels to talk about current CSR projects and the imporcommitted to raise awareness on social media. tance of taking action. Anti-corruption RICE participated once again in the campaign “World’s Best At RICE we aim to be close to our suppliers, and with audits, News” a Danish news campaign working to raise awarequality control, product testing and strong external cooperaness about the great progress taking place in the developing tion we strive to avoid any kinds of corruption. Anti-corrupcountries, especially focusing on tracking and reporting the tion is of great importance to us, and we always consider the outcome of the UN Millennium Development Goals. The risks when engaging with new suppliers. campaign is based on a unique cooperation between the UN, the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ development Obviously, we have a no-tolerance policy towards corrupagency (Danida), over 100 Danish development organization, and we believe that it raises transaction costs, undertions and 100 corporate partners. mines fair competition, distorts development and impedes long lasting foreign and domestic investment. At the national campaign day our retail shop RICETERIA launched an event to heighten knowledge by informing 8 CSR Collaborations RICE CSR Projects and Donations At RICE we firmly believe that No one can help everyone, but everyone can help someone! Corporate Social Responsibility is a part of the RICE DNA, and working actively with CSR is a big part of our ethical values. DANISH RED CROSS PROJECT As a Club 10 ambassador in 2009 LITTLE BOX OF HOPE Charlotte and RICE made an allIn 2016 we supported the Red Cross and the work day event with über-banko, book they do for refugees worldwide. cafe, hairdressing, palm reading, The aim of the LITTLE BOX OF HOPE food kit massage, concerts and delicious was to give hope to people in need. Our wish was food stalls etc. The purpose was to to create awareness and encourage people to take raise as much money as possible action and help the refugees. For every food kit (6 for Danish Red Cross. funky foodboxes and 6 colorful spoons) sold, we donated 1.5 EUR to the Red Cross.) SAFE CHILDHOOD IN VIETNAM JHEEL JAIPUR Every child has the right to play... We have RICE entered a three year project, helped sponsor an educational program that in cooperation with Danida to teaches children how to tackle and avoid improve conditions for the workers explosives still remaining in the ground after in the factory. Now the conditions SEND ME TO SCHOOL the Vietnam War. The project was run by The comply with SA8000 standards. In 2008 the cyclone Nargis hit the Danish Refugee Council. Giving children in Environmental responsibility has south west part of Myanmar – Vietnam a safe childhood was our way of celealso been of concern to the supplier leaving a trail of destruction in its brating the 25th. Anniversary of Convention and they have constructed a wastewake. By making a range of kids on the Rights of the Child in 2014. water cleaning system reducing the DANISH HOSPITAL products we raised enough money to environmental impact. CLOWNS PROJECT build a school so kids could get back in the classrooms – improving their By designing a special cup and future chances of education. The plate, RICE provides a financial school also functions as a shelter contribution to the Danish Hospital for the entire community in case of SPOON FULL OF HOPE II Clowns. Their task is to make the We redesigned the Spoon full of Hope and natural disasters. hospitalization for kids a little easier this time the sale of one spoon equaled 24 to get through. Humor and close servings of soup. personal presence make room for hapiness and allow the kids to be “just kids”, in spite of being seriously SPOON FULL OF HOPE III ill. We also donated RICE play kits The latest cooperation with the Danish for 27 pediatric wards in Danish Refugee Council is yet another spoon. LAKSHYA Hospitals. With this spoon we helped provide clean Our cooperation with our supplier water for 10 refugees in Africa for 28 days! Lakshya, started out as a three years development project for street children. The goal was to build a production supporting an orphanage for street children. SPOON FULL CUPS FULL SUSBIZ INDIA During the project RICE donated OF HOPE OF HOPE During 2007 – 2009 RICE participated in a monthly amount of financial RICE launched the gift idea, “Spoon 4 melamine drinking cups, specially the Susbiz project along with one of our support and placed orders regularFull of Hope” in cooperation with designed by RICE for this project. suppliers in New Delhi, India. The goal of ly. The establishment of Lakshya the Danish Refugee Council. Every time a pack of these cups the project was to develop and implement secured an education for the New Each spoon sold donated a cooking was sold, a refugee family in Africa social and environmental initiatives in the Delhi street children, as well as set to a family on the run in Darfur received a Water and Washing Kit. supplier’s company and share knowledge housing and the opportunity to and Somalia. about the process. remain in Lakshya as employees. 9 CSR Collaborations CUPS OF HOPE has serious consequences, especially for children. Our wish UNICEF and RICE have entered a three year long collabois not only to support them we want to provide them with ration with a strong focus on children at risk. hope for a better future. Together we will be developing products annually to supFor every CUPS OF HOPE (set of 2 tall melamine cups) port children in exposed environments. The first project you buy we donate 1.5 EUR, and together with UNICEF CUPS OF HOPE will support children in desperate need these 1.5 EUR can provide 800 L of clean water to children of emergency relief like clean water. Clean drinking water in need. is in short supply as millions are without access, and this current project 2017 10 Contents Experience the universe of RICE www.ricebyrice.com Meet us at: facebook.com/riceup instagram.com/ricedk #ricedk #puttheextraintotheordinary #everydaymagic #todayisfun RICE A/S Global Headquarters Havnegade 100 E 5000 Odense C Denmark 11
