CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY R E P O R T 2 0 1 6 contents 01 02 03 About our report Ficosa at a glance How do we work? 04 05 06 CSR in the company Commitment to quality Commitment to our people 07 08 09 About our report Commitment to Commitment to society Innovation in our products health, safety and environment 3 President’s Statement Dear Sirs, It is a great honor to share with you our third CSR report, In 2016, the company has created the business Units which attempts to offer the reader an overview of Ficosa’s Onbard Ventures, an open innovation ecosystem that will performance to face the CSR challenges of the automobile help Ficosa and Idneo to accelerate exploration in new sector and describe our actions to integrate the Global technology, capture innovation and disruptive ideas that Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture can expand business and provide new solutions for clients. and daily operations. Furthermore, we are committed to intensely innovating to stay on the cutting edge of the sector by investing 6.5% of revenue in R&D. In our company, we continually strive to ensure the excellence in our products and, therefore, we continue to work on providing the most innovative solutions, developing and In addition, Panasonic is the best partner we could have to manufacturing products with high added value. maximize synergies and reach the critical mass to become a leading systems supplier globally. It will consolidates Ficosa in the new technologies market, creating the first The automotive industry is going through an amazing global group specializing capable of leading the automobile technological transformation in which electronics are going transformation. Both companies are working on integrating to boost sales in the future. We are at the beginning of a new its know-how and complementary technologies to era in which the car is no longer just a means of transport but accelerate the launch of new product categories in the areas become a Smart Car, a connected device that will be the of connectivity, safety and efficiency. Products like Smart central axis of the Internet of things. Connected car will totally Connectivity Module are a good example of the potential transform our lives to make them safer, more comfortable offered by the integration of our technology with Panasonic. and more informed with endless entertainment opportunities. The car will become the most powerful multiplatform source of communication in which the interconnection between people, objects and infrastructures have no limits. In this profound technological transformation, the customer is the focal point of all our management. That is why we strengthen our quality standards by implementing stricter rules in the 3Q3 audits for manufacturing plant and supplier In this regard, at Ficosa, we underwent a profound management. technological transformation during the last years by focusing on three areas of growth: connectivity, safety and efficiency. This year, we have achieved the following technological product sales: We do maintain a solid commitment towards integrity, one example of this is the fact that we reaffirm our support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti• Ficosa has been the first company WW to be awarded a Corruption. Moreover, we are elaborating a Corporate Code contract by a luxury Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) of Ethics that will set the rules outlining the employees’ Brand to work on the integration of a Camera Monitoring responsibilities or proper practices for the organization. System (CMS). • Ficosa has been awarded a €232M contract to produce Cameras for a German OEM. I would like to highlight our four new contracts with two American OEMs to produce 8,900,000 units of rear-view • Ficosa-Panasonic have been awarded a €800M contract mirrors over a period of five years in North America. Three of by a luxury OEM brand to work on a new integrated concept them will be produced at the new facility in Tennessee, which of an On-Board Charger (OBC) for Electric Vehicles. will open later this summer, becoming the first projects won • Ficosa has won two new OEM Customers in Car by this factory. These orders mark a record high for orders Connectivity. won by Ficosa North America in a single year. The path of internationalization of Ficosa is remarkable for its pioneering • Ficosa has been awarded a contract by a luxury OEM spirit, the complexity of its operations abroad and for brand to produce a Laserscanner Cleaning System. opening a market with global customers at the highest level. Nevertheless, it will bring new challenges for the company as competition for specialists is growing in the global labor markets. For that reason, we want to make sure that all the employees have the best working conditions they deserve. Ficosa´s commitment with its employees is materialized through a strong employee management program, based on maximizing the potential of our employees. I encourage you to explore all the details of our activities through this Corporate Social Responsibility Report that strongly reflects the commitment and dedication of Ficosa. Sincerely yours, Josep Maria Pujol President 5 About our report The Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 is the third CSR report of Ficosa and attempts to offer the reader a transparent and balanced overview of Ficosa’s performance in relation to the CSR challenges that the company has faced in 2016. Objective of the Scope and CSR Report boundary In this third report, Ficosa wants to explain how Corporate The 2016 CSR report covers from the period 1 January Social Responsibility (CSR) challenges are approached, 2016 to 31 December 2016. Unless indicated otherwise, and the performance of Ficosa’s activities in 2016, for the quantitative information reported in this document the purpose of offering stakeholders complete and shows the performance of the company at global level reliable information. The company focuses its reporting on and includes 100% of the facilities and sites where Ficosa explaining how the company is taking into consideration holds a majority stake and, consequently, responsibility for environmental, ethical and social aspects during the daily operation and control. Thus, the report includes information activities of the company. Likewise, it describes the annual from our operations in Asia, Europe, North America and progress made by the company in implementing the Ten South America. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in terms of human and labor rights, the environment and the fight against corruption. To provide a better understanding of the company’s performance, previous years’ data – if available have also been included. In determining the content to be included in this report, we consider the pertinent developments and initiatives, and the related performance indicators that are material for the The report focuses on the main business lines of the company. company: research, development, production and sales of high-technology vision, safety, efficiency and connectivity solutions for the automotive industry. 7 Ficosa at a glance The company, with headquarters in Barcelona (Spain), generated sales of €1,152.6 million in 2016 and has a team of more than 9,000 employees, with manufacturing plants, technological centers and offices located throughout · Barcelona 16 countries in Europe, North America, South America · Soria and Asia. Ficosa has been expanding its international presence with the strategy to be located near the decision · Sant Guim and production centers of major OEM in order to be able to offer a more competitive and global service. The alliance with Panasonic, signed in 2015, has boosted regional synergies and international activity of the company, mainly in Asia, thanks to the strong implementation of the Japanese multinational in this area. In 2016, Ficosa has been distinguished for its international consolidated path with the award Cambra a la Trajectòria Internacional Consolidada that the Chamber of Commerce of Terrassa (Cambra de Comerç de Terrassa) grants annually. The business association recognizes Ficosa’s “trajectory, innovation capacity and strong positioning strategy”, which pioneered its internationalization process in 1972, when it was implanted in Porto (Portugal) when few companies dared to do business outside. · Detroit (Mi) · Crossville (TN) In addition to boosting its global presence, Ficosa is also making important investments in innovation with the will · Shelbyville (KY) to lead the current worldwide automobile transition in the areas of connectivity, efficiency and safety systems. Ficosa is now one of the top-tier global providers devoted to the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of high-technology vision, safety, connectivity · Salinas-Victoria and efficiency systems for the automotive and mobility · Escobedo sectors. · Sao Paulo €1,152.6 million sales Established in 1949 in Barcelona (Spain), family-owned 16 countries Pioneers in safety, connectivity and efficiency 9,855 employees systems 19 manufacturing plants 12 R&D and technical centers · Dieuze · Dabrowa Gornicza (Licence agreement) · Rüsselsheim / Köln · Le Neobourg · Lindau / München · Wolfenbüttel (Licence agreement) · Gyeongsangbuk-do (Joint-venture) · Tokyo (office) · Taicang · Chongqing · Shenyang · Porto · Morcone · Bursa · Pune (two plants · Gemlik (Joint-venture) · Pant Nagar Plants Technical Center Commercial Office Research 9 Ficosa finished 2016 with sales above 1 billion euros for the year. The solid growth experienced by the company since 2013 is due to a clear commitment to globalization, operational efficiency, innovation and activity diversification, aiming its activities at new sectors aside from the automotive industry. In 2016, the regions where Ficosa has registered a greater Sales (€ million) increase in sales volume have been Europe. Nevertheless, North America has become, after Europe, 1,152.6 1,099.9 the most important market for Ficosa, which began operations in this region in 1994 and where it produces 924.7 939.4 902.4 mirrors, gearboxes and brake systems. In 2016, Ficosa has been awarded four contracts with two American OEMs to produce 8,900,000 units of rear-view mirrors over a period of five years in North America. Three 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 orders will be produced in the new facility in Cookeville (Tennessee), which will be the group’s most advanced facility worldwide. The Cookeville plant, which is expected to be fully operational later in 2017, will be a leader in painting and injection processes thanks to the latest Sales per region 2016 (% sales, € million) technology production equipment. Cookeville production will represent an economic value of 405 million euros, and will begin in the first quarter of 2018. 14% Asia> 162.9 In the United States, Ficosa currently has a commercial office and a development center, which employs 35 engineers in Detroit (Michigan); a manufacturing plant in Shelbyville (Kentucky) and a new plant in Cookeville (Tennessee), 2% 63% Europe> 731.6 which when at full capacity will replace the Crossville factory South America > 21.6 (Tennessee). The two Ficosa plants in Mexico, located in Salinas Victoria (Nuevo León) and Escobedo (Nuevo León), where the company also has a R&D plant, reinforce Ficosa’s activity in the North American region. 21% North America > 236.5 In December 2016, Ficosa was awarded in the 2nd edition of the Spanish-Turkish Official Chamber of Commerce and Industry Awards, in the category of Spanish company, for its contribution in strengthening the bilateral economic relationship between Spain and Turkey. Ficosa has been present in Turkey since 2000, and has two manufacturing plants situated in Bursa and Gemlik. The multinational company produces rearview mirrors, washer systems and gearshift in this country. Furthermore, Ficosa also have an R+D Center in Turkey, where the company develops its projects for the Turkish market and its influence area. Ficosa Turkey has a total of 1,100 employees. Distribution of employees per region 2016 (% employee, No.) 18% Asia>1792 62% 3% South America > 288 Europe> 6,076 17% North America > 1,699 11 Structure of Ficosa International 06 Doors & Seat Systems: At present, Ficosa is a conglomerate of companies formed by engineering centers, manufacturing plants, Ficosa´s own companies, associated companies and subsidiaries, Develops, produces and commercializes systems distributed all over the world. The group is organized into and parts for seats and vehicle doors, such as different Business Units: actuators, cables, and lumbar systems. 01 Rear-view system: Develops, produces and commercializes rear-view mirrors and vision systems forward, backward and lateral for vehicles. 07 Idneo: Develops and produces technological products with high added value for the sectors of mobility, medical devices, consumer electronics and industrial. 02 Command & Control System: Develops, produces and commercializes systems which interact between the driver and the vehicle, such as shifters, parking brakes, and drive cables. 08 Ficosa Solutions: Sells technical services such as auditing, designing, manufacturing and financing in the following areas: energy efficiency, communication machine to machine, smart cities and internet of things. 03 Under hood system: Develops, produces and commercializes fluid and ventilation systems installed at the vehicles’ underhood. 09 Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS): Develops, produces and commercializes systems that help the drivers in its driving process. 04 Advanced Communication: Develops, produces and commercializes antenna systems for vehicles, communication modules and antennas for navigation systems. 10 E-mobility: Develops, produces and commercializes electric powertrain technologies and connected infrastructures to enable the electric propulsion of vehicles and fleets. 05 Commercial Vehicle: Develops, produces and commercializes all Ficosa’s product portfolio for buses, trucks and industrial and commercial vehicles. 11 Onboard-Ventures: Supports start-ups in advancing their projects and turning them into businesses, relevant and scalable, giving them access to Ficosa’s and Idneo’s assets. Sales by division – 2016 (% of sales, € million) 5% Under hood system > 54 6% Advanced 17% Communication> 67 Command and Control system > 199.1 3% Commercial vehicle> 34.1 5% Others> 58.4 5% Doors & Seat 23.2 Systems> 59.4 3.8 14.1 Aftermarkets 3.8 59% Rear View System> 680.6 Ficosa solutions Idneo eMobility 13.5 ADAS In terms of product, the major increase in sales has occurred In that sense, the companies are already working together on the new technological products focused on safety and on new products linked to active safety (advanced mirrors), comfort systems (ADAS) by duplicating the figure of the electric cars and communication systems (connected car). previous year. The capital and business alliance with Panasonic has helped the company to accelerate the development of new products with high added value, by allowing the integration of both companies’ know how in the field of image and automotive technology. 13 New manufacturing plant in Brazil Ficosa’s internationalization strategy responds to Ficosa strong commitment to stay close to its clients to offer the better service. For this purpose, the company has recently strengthened its international presence by opening its second plant in Brazil (Jandira, São Paulo metropolitan area). This factory will strengthen the synergies of the alliance between Ficosa and Panasonic by laying the foundations for producing the technological solutions in Brazil that have been generated as a result of the agreement between these two companies. The new plant is equipped with the latest-generation technology that meets the highest standards of energy efficiency, demonstrating Ficosa’s commitment to sustainability and respect for the environment. The facilities at Jandira will also be home to an R&D centre that will develop solutions for the Mercosur region. Ficosa landed in Brazil in 1996, opening its first plant in São Paulo. Since then, the group has been firmly committed to this market, establishing here its central headquarters for operations in the Mercosur region. The company moved to Barueri (São Paulo) in 2007 in order to build larger facilities. This plant’s activity will be absorbed by the new factory in Jandira. Manufacturing plant in Jandira (Brazil) • Inauguration: 2016 • Employees: 273 • Surface area: 13,000 m2 • Product manufacturing: manufacture of rear-view mirrors, control and command systems (brakes, gear shifts and cables), underhood solutions and electronic systems for automobiles. • Clients: Volkswagen, Audi, Ford, Fiat, General Motors, Peugeot, Citroën, Renault and Nissan 15 How do we work? Mission Vision To innovate, develop and produce products with Our strength comes from our commitment. For us, success added value, which contribute to mobility improvement does not lie in size, but in agility, speed, creativity and in key factors of progress such as safety, comfort, the understanding that being the best means being able communications and the environment, exceeding market to respond to the needs of our employees, customers, expectations as well as those of our customers. community and shareholders in equal manner. Values The company values are posted in the different company sites and every new employee receives an explanatory leaflet informing them about our values when joining the company. Leadership Commitment Honesty & Humility, not taking sole & Passion for Integrity credit, and understanding all Being honest and upright persons are equally essential to Ficosa’s leadership style: one’s Work in our actions and behavior. lead by example and with The enthusiasm for General ethics and our high regard for people. participating in the company values should guide our daily Delegate, decentralize, have project and integrating decisions. faith in people’s abilities. its values. Participating in Integrate the company´s achieving our vision though values into the workplace. perseverance, work and enjoyment, and a job well done. Acknowledging that all jobs are equally important. Teamwork / Customer Focus Interest in People Learning together Helping our customers People are the center succeed is key to achieving of our company project, Knowledge-sharing, open our success. Being able to whose essence consists in communication, learning from build trusting relationships learning, training, respect, mistakes, cooperation, and with our customers, diversity, affection and friendly understanding that personal understanding and “informal” relationships. success is everyone´s anticipating their needs. success. Innovation & Creativity Our Values express the spirit of our All our employee have the company, the way we think and how capacity to innovate and create, and should therefore, we believe we should act ensure that their ideas flourish through our leadership. Challenging the market by being bold and taking risks while using good judgment. 17 CRS in the company Ficosa’s approach to CSR sits at the heart of the business and is supported at the highest level. Since the beginning, the company’s strengths come (OHSQE) Management Policy. The OHSE policy from its commitment and its understanding that being the focuses on the identification and elimination of risks best means being able to respond to the needs of our and the protection of the workers and the environment. employees, customers, community and shareholders in Ficosa places the highest emphasis on Health, Safety equal manner. In this regard, Ficosa continues its efforts and Environment management in conducting its daily to generate shared value among its stakeholders and add business. We recognize that legal compliance is regarded sustainability practices in its business strategy and culture. as a minimum standard and our objective is to ensure our activities are beyond statutory regulations and aim to conserve and protect the environment while supporting Any new CSR initiatives and programs are reported to our business goals. the Executive Committee, through the Chief Human Resources Officer, member for the Committee and highest responsible for CSR in the company. The integration of Ficosa has diverse CSR programs and initiatives. With the CSR into daily activities is promoted through the Human aim of bringing them together in the form of a coherent Resource department and a cross-functional organization strategy, the company decided to unify the diverse range that involves different business functions and countries. of the company’s CSR initiatives all under one umbrella by conducting a global CSR diagnosis and implementing a CSR action plan. To help the company determine which CSR Until 2014, the Occupational Health, Safety and areas should future efforts and financial resources focus on, Environment (OHSE) strategy and program were the Ficosa carried out an internal diagnosis at corporate level responsibility of the decentralized locations. In 2014, and country level. the company decided to define a corporate structure that allows OHSE management and data collection at a corporate level. In 2016, the company has published a new Occupational Health and Safety, Quality, Environment Human Rights & Living the values bussiness ethics at Ficosa At Ficosa, we are committed to meeting high ethical The values of Ficosa underpin everything we do and must standards and complying with all applicable local, national, be reflected in our day-to-day behaviors. To make sure every and international laws wherever we do business. employee understands and truly lives the corporate values of Ficosa, the company turned value into specific operating principles and communicate often about them. Behaving ethically is fundamental to establishing and sustaining legitimate and productive relationships between organizations. The welcome manual for new employees In some sites, the values are displayed in the factories gather the main ethical behaviors that each employee and offices to clearly state what we care about. Mexico must perform in terms of conflict of interests, equal and fair has implemented a specific program to ensure that all treatment, confidentiality of information, etc. Furthermore, employees understand and “live” the values of Ficosa. Every some sites are working in specific policies to make sure that year the manufacturing plant in Mexico organizes workshops their employees are aligned with the Ficosa commitments. and different campaigns to make sure that its employees For example, sites such as Viladecavalls (Spain), China, Italy embrace the company values. In Dabrowa Gornicza and United States have implemented a policy or agreement (Poland), every employee is evaluated by his manager on to ensure the confidentiality of the information. Dabrowa the adequacy of his behavior with the values of Ficosa. Gornicza (Poland) and Wolfenbüttel (Germany) have defined a policy against corruption. Other countries such as Italy and Mexico have published a local Code of conduct that set Ficosa wants to be responsible not only for its own decisions the rules outlining the employees’ responsibilities or proper and activities, but also wants to make sure that its suppliers practices for the organization. and business partners operate in line with the company’s CSR principles and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and environmental protection. Following the In Ficosa, we are convinced that emphasizing the General Purchasing Conditions, in addition to all applicable compliance culture makes a significant contribution to laws and regulations to be observed by the supplier, it is also securing the sustainable success of our company. In this the supplier’s obligation to respect social responsibility duties regard, the company decided to define a Crime Prevention and especially the requirements based on the Universal Model in 2015. The goal was to adopt and effectively Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the International implement the appropriate measures to prevent and detect Labor Organizations (ILO) conventions proclaimed to respect criminal risks. This compliance aspires to be integrated as employees’ rights, age and working-hours limits, etc. part of a corporate culture whose hallmark has always been the promotion of ethical values at all levels. The new Crime Prevention Model and its policies is planning to be approved The purchase orders sent by any company of Ficosa or any by the Board in June 2017. of its subsidiaries must include the terms and clauses of the General Purchasing Conditions. The implementation of the Crime Prevention Model particularly takes into account the adaptation process to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in which Ficosa is immersed. The new adaptation process relies on the implementation of new management protocols and tools that include the elaboration of a global Code of Ethics and different organic, procedural and substantive protocols such as the protocols for the prevention of money laundering, corruption, fraudulent and unfair behavior or crimes against the Treasury and Social Security. All the different procedures focus on company and sector-specific risks and priorities and will cover the facilities and sites where Ficosa holds a majority stake and, consequently, responsibility for operation and control. 19 Commitment to quality Our customers, mainly automobile manufacturers, are Ficosa aims to be a company trusted by its customers, by continuously raising their standards of quality. Therefore, addressing quality as a company wide issue. The company Ficosa is committed to anticipating and fulfilling such seeks to provide top-level quality to customers at every expectations in order to maintain and even improve its market stage, from the planning of new automotive-relative products, position. through development, manufacturing, distribution and sales to after-sales service. Quality Management Operational facilities certified ISO/TS Customer satisfaction (%) 16949 and ISO 9001 (%) 100% 87 93 94 94 ISO/TS 16949:2009 defines the quality management system requirements for the design and development, production and, when relevant, installation and service of automotiverelated products. It is specific to the automotive industry and based on the ISO 9001 standard. 2013 2014 2015 2016 Corporate Quality 3Q3 program Since 2009, Ficosa has implemented the Corporate Quality of the production process at Ficosa sites (Plastic & Metal 3Q3 program, which aimed to improve quality thrice within injection, Injection Toolings, Paint shop). The new internal audit three years’ time, thus elevating the business to the top of the will be applicable to all the Company’s technical centers and automotive sector. manufacturing plants. The 3Q3 program is updated every three years and is Furthermore, the company has added three new checklists in accompanied with a specific roadmap and quality targets to the 3Q3 Plant Audit to make sure that 4 guidelines. make sure that all the regions are following the best practices in this regard. Furthermore, stricter rules have been implemented to guarantee that the design and production of safety products Through the 3Q3 program, the company performs more than comply with the highest standards of the automotive industry. 100 audits per year to ensure that all the sites comply with the each site is following the Ficosa standard for proactive quality requirements of the company management of warranties. Finally, the company has implemented stricter rules in the 3Q3 audits for technical centers. The main goals of the new checklist is to certify that In 2015, the company has implemented stricter rules in the any software developed by Ficosa is aligned with the ISO/IEC 3Q3 audits for supplier management, project management 1550. Furthermore, stricter rules have been implemented to and technical centers, using the same criteria as for Ficosa guarantee that the design and production of safety products manufacturing plants. In 2016, the company has implemented comply with the highest standards of the automotive industry. a new internal 3Q3 Process Design Audit to certify the design 21 Quality performance Company quality is managed through the monitoring of Ficosa conducts some periodic supplier assessments KPIs (soft metrics or hard metrics). The company has to ensure that the suppliers’ quality meets the standards defined a balanced scorecard system that offers the sites’s established. Since 2015, the suppliers audits have been monthly values versus target figures. This monthly reporting using the same criteria that the ones used for Ficosa’s enables the company to pinpoint areas were improvement manufacturing plants. is needed. Furthermore, Ficosa will review the criteria used to select its The quality management goes beyond Ficosa activities. supplier for its Purchasing Optimum Panel (POP). The company wants to make sure that its suppliers also operate in line with the company’s commitment to excellence. All the suppliers must have a quality certification (ISO 9001, VDA, EAQF, and ISO/TS 16949) and must provide Ficosa with written evidence of the most recent certification renewal. Main KPIs Ficosa FY 2015 FY 2016 Goals Ficosa objectives indicators of progress priorities results results 2017 Reducing the custormer claims Customer of claims (No.) 380 356 334 Product Reducing number of defective parts Customer ppm (No.) 7.9 4.4 8 quality Over sales from Non-Quality Reducing the costs of non-quality 0.69 0.76 0.5 Costs (NQC) (%) Suppliers assembly ppm (No.) 54 32 55 Supplier Reduce the impact of suppliers on Number of complaints at quality customer Ficosa’s customer due to 91 65 66 suppliers responsibility (OEM QCR) Customer ppm (No.) Customer claims (No.) 9.2 7.9 464 380 356 4.4 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ppm: number of defective parts per million delivered. OEM QCR (No.) Supplier assembly ppm (No.) 95 91 Real 83 Objective 160 65 54 32 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ppm: number of defective parts per million delivered. In the last four years, Ficosa has reduced their defective parts indicators by 70% (Customer ppm) and by 81% (Supplier assembly ppm). In line with this improvement, the company has reduced its customer claims by 39% since 2013. Since 2015, the company has been implementing the Lean Six Sigma methodology in all the manufacturing plants and technical centers and reinforce the training for quality and process engineering. 23 Awards and recognition In 2016, the company received numerous awards from its clients. Ficosa has been recognized by Toyota Motor Europe with Furthermore, Adient, the world’s the Value Analysis award. With this prize, the Japanese largest global automotive seating multinational has distinguished Ficosa’s know-how and ability supplier, has recognized the to offer high-quality products, optimizing the relation between manufacturing plant in Maia function and cost and eliminating those costs that do not add (Portugal), for its leadership value. Ficosa has received numerous awards from Toyota and superior performance, by Motor Europe, a fact that highlights the policy of quality, awarding the center with the excellence, service, flexibility and continuous improvement following category: Silver 2016 that the multinational keeps with all customers. Supplier Performance Award. The Adient’s suppliers were honored during the company’s annual The manufacturing plant in Turkey has received the Best Plant Supplier Performance Awards Award 2016 from PSA for its commitment and quality of their ceremony held in Detroit. response to PSA Group’s expectations. EFQM Excellence Model Training In 2016, the manufacturing plant of Turkey participated in an EFQM Excellence Model Training. The EFQM Excellence Model training provides participants with theoretical and practical in-depth experience of assessing an organization with the EFQM Excellence Model. The training contents included social responsibility topics. Action planned for next year onward Quality in our supply chain From next year on, the company is planning to implement With this new strategy, a supplier that shows three months a strong program to reduce the impact of suppliers on of lower performance than expected will enter the “Business customers by imposing stringent rules and consolidate the Hold” process. In this process, Ficosa will collaborate with supplier audit in the countries where the company operates. the supplier, with the aim of improving its performance and In this regard, Ficosa has defined a specific 3Q3 supplier’s ensure it operates in line with the principles and standards strategic line that establishes more stringent quality rules for of the company. Nevertheless, a supplier that has entered a suppliers. “Business Hold” process and still records three consecutive months of low performance will enter the “fix or leave” process. Furthermore, the company will increase the number of controls to ensure the production process is in line with Ficosa’s quality standards. Proactive management of warranties Toward a “Zero-Defects” standard One of our main goals next year includes the proactive It is also worth emphasizing the commitment of the company management of warranties. We will monitor the customer to improving both our processes and our employees’ skills, portals to reduce response time, as we do not have to wait for using problem-solving and analysis tools and techniques with the official notification of defective parts to be received to take the aim of reaching zero defects. action. We will continuously monitor any possible warranty incidents thanks to a better monitoring of our customer portals. Furthermore, we will use statistical tools to predict any future trends and contrast the effectiveness of our actions. 25 Commitment to our people Ficosa’s commitment to people is the foundation of the company’s culture. Ficosa develops its activity in a very competitive and Moreover, the company is hiring hundreds of employees demanding industry. In this regard, we are aware that our from a variety of skill levels and educational backgrounds success depends mainly on our employees’ innovation, for its new automotive manufacturing facilities, such as the performance and behavior. one in Cookeville (Tennessee), which is about 80 miles east of Nashville. Because of this, we need to implement all the necessary mechanisms to get the best potential of our teams and This new hiring process is bringing new challenges for recruit the best professionals to maintain our competitive the company as competition for specialist and managerial advantage in the future. staff is growing in some areas of the global labor markets. For that reason, Ficosa wants to make sure that all the employees have the best working conditions they deserve. Ficosa looks for people who share its corporate values and have a high level of commitment, who are customerfocused, team players and are not afraid to take risks and For Ficosa, being a responsible employer involves a are prepared to develop their career in a continuously number of challenges: train employees, advance their changing international environment. careers, provide them with fair salaries that motivate them, look after their well-being at work, combine operational excellence and personal development and encourage a Since 2008, the company has tapped into new business full social dialogue. areas and international markets and integrated these into the corporation. In this regard, Ficosa has banked firmly on creating highly valuable jobs, as shows the fact that Ficosa has numerous internal policies to ensure that all the the number of engineers working in the headquarters in sites are following the best practices in this regard. Viladecavalls (Spain) has risen by more than 60% from 2013 to 2016. Workforce (No.) Turnover (%) Diversity men/women 2016 (%, No.) 9,855 47% Women> 4,632 2.61 2.57 9,084 Men 1.59 8,424 Women 53% Men> 5,223 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 27 Diversity and Integration In Ficosa, the criteria and procedures for the recruitment and selection of human resources take into account the principle of equality and non-discrimination based on sex, race, national or social origin, social class, birth, religion, disability, sexual orientation, union association, political opinion, age or any other condition. Furthermore, all worker agencies that work with us must guarantee the equality of the sexes, origin, ethnicity, political affiliation or religious option in the candidates who are pre-selected for our company. Case Studies: promoting the diversity in our different manufacturing plants In 2015, Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland) received a special that recognizes its commitment to contributing in hiring, prize “Icebraker” for its commitment to promoting inclusion training and reinserting prisoners of Soria penitentiary of persons with disabilities by the Foundation for Vocational establishments. The company collaborates with FADESS Activation of People with Disabilities and the Polish and ASOVICA (Asociación Virgen del Camino de Familiares Organization of Employers of Disabled Persons. Since de Personas con Enfermedad Mental) to promote the social 2010, the site has defined a specific program to promote insertion of physically and intellectually disabled people. the employment of disabled people. Every disabled Furthermore, the site, in collaboration with the Red Cross, employee in Ficomirrors received a special treatment with has implemented a program to promote the integration of external doctors. Furthermore, the company regularly disadvantaged groups. studies workstations to make sure that the working conditions are adapted to the needs of disabled people. Turkey has defined a specific target to employ disabled people that exceeds the legal requirement. The Soria (Spain) collaborates with correctional institutions manufacturing plant in Dieuze (France) has entered for fostering the rehabilitation of prisoners. In 2015, into partnership with a public organization to adapt the the company received a special prize “Empresa workplace to disabled people. In China, the company is Socialmente Responsable” by FADESS (Fundación de analyzing the possibility of adjusting its work station for Ayuda al Discapacitado y Enfermo Psíquico de Soria) people with disabilities. 29 Growing @Ficosa In 2014, Ficosa launched a Competency Development because it goes on for eighteen months up to two years, Program with the aim of identifying and maximizing the aiming at 110 participants in 2015-2016, but also because potential of our key employees. This program implies, as a each year there is a new group of people on-board. In 2017 starting point, an external Development Center that enables we will work with 25 new participants coming from different each one of the participants to better understand their functional areas, levels of responsibility and countries. behaviors and to map their strengths and development areas. This diagnosis is the foundation of Growing@ Ficosa, a program that provides the resources and support Growing@Ficosa is helping to create a homogeneous for accelerated development adapted to each one of the people development culture across the organization. participants. Growing@Ficosa means to make sure that It involves a large number of participants with different our employees are prepared for the current and future backgrounds working together with the Human Resources challenges of the company. team and the managers and top lines of the Company worldwide. Ficosa is committed to increasing the number of participants with the goal of becoming an ongoing process to develop The program is based on a 3 band commitment and is key people. This is a global long-term program, not only structured around: 01 02 An Individual Development A Corporate Program: Plan (IDP): With training on areas such as Leadership, Teamwork, People Development, Impact An ad-hoc plan resulting from one-to-one and Influence, and supported by coaching, interviews with the participants and their mentoring and specific metrics, as 360º or managers to better understand and define other behavioral KPIs. their main expectations and development. This is a blended program based on the 7020-10 model with a strong focus on learning on-the job and social learning. 70 20 10 Experiental Social Formal learning learning learning Work-related collaboration Peer learning Learning program On-the-job and coaching support High performance support Mentoring potential development 31 Employee development Employee development is a priority for Ficosa. Since 2011, No. of employees with access to performance and career Ficosa has adopted a system-wide performance which development review focuses on setting performance goals for employees according to their duties and area objectives. A mid-year review has been implemented to update the existing objectives with new information that may have happened during the first half of the year. Every site decides the performance goals at the beginning of the year, taking into account process implementation and local conditions and 2,286 sharing this decision with corporate development. 2,026 1,743 The soft competencies of each person are also assessed, generating development opportunities for each person. Finally, it is important to highlight the informal mutual feedback that is generated between employee and manager throughout the year, which is at the base of the main dynamics of people development generated in Ficosa. 2014 2015 2016 % employees that fulfilled the performance and career development reviews 76% 73% 82% 2014 2015 2016 Successfactors Until 2015, the company had different Human Resource (HR) systems and tools that supported personnel administration processes and that needed a global and integrated solution. To improve the efficiency, Ficosa has implemented a new Human Resources Information System named SuccessFactors. This new tool is an employee-centric system and enables each employee to complete HR tasks more quickly and perform strategic HR activities more frequently such as its annual goals, performance program, training program, etc. In 2017, Ficosa expects the different modules to be fully integrated within the different countries where the company operates. Employee training Contributing actively to the professional development of Each year, each site defines a quantified and budgeted the employee is the best way to increase the company’s annual training plan and submits it to the formal approval by leadership position by improving its competitiveness. At the corresponding Plant Manager, Country General Manager Ficosa we understand that the best way to learn is to build or Region/Business Unit Director. on previous knowledge and experience, and to put into practice what our employees learn in their job positions. Thus, working along with some of our best professionals is The company collects the annual training data of each site the most valuable and direct way to improve our employees’ to detect improvement areas in the training activity achieved knowledge. worldwide. This hands-on experience is complemented in each case with specific training programs given by professionals in our company, as well as business and training institutes. No. of training hours provided to employees 2016 (h) Average training hours per employee 2016 (h/employee) 165,871 *16.8 h Training investment 2016 (€) Average cost of training per employee 2016 (€/employee) 1,413,932 143€ More than 60% of the training sessions are related with manufacturing, quality, health & safety or engineering contents. Between 2015 and 2016, the manufacturing plants in Maia (Portugal), and Mexico incorporated an external Social Responsibility training as part of its employee training programs. *The company is using the average workforce at the end of the year to calculate the ratio. 33 Knowledge management In Ficosa, knowledge management is a vital element to ensure sustainability over time and communication in a global environment. In this regard, we define Corporate Knowledge Owners and Local Knowledge Owners to generate, disseminate and improve Knowledge in the plants, technical & development centers. Furthermore, we implemented a Knowledge Management Process with the aim of transferring our knowledge to Ficosa standards Local knowledge owner documents. Furthermore, the company will produce training Corporate knowledge owner materials on the basis of Ficosa standards that will focus on error prevention, practical cases & activities that ensure learning through close-to-reality situations and evaluation Key figure to generate, Key figure to spread tools. The Local Knowledge Owner will be the responsible disseminate and improve Knowledge in his/her site of adapting any training material to train employees in his/ Knowledge of the FICOSA and provide feedback to her site. Corporate Operations standard training plan In order to ensure that all the employees have the technical and Handling of Chemicals. These training courses serve knowledge required to perform their duties successfully as a basis for each site’s OHSE Specialists, who will have and are familiar with Ficosa’s tools and methodologies in the to adapt them to their manufacturing plant. operations area, Ficosa has implemented a personalized operations training program for plant positions that includes diverse training modules related to assembly, injection A Pilot program has been implemented in Cookeville in process, OHSE, quality, supply chain, painting process, 2016 to make sure that all the employees have technical lean manufacturing, etc. knowledge to properly perform in their job positions. Starting from 2017 and based on the pilot program in Cookeville, each site will have to implement the Corporate To develop this new program, different areas of the plants Operational training program for plant positions. All materials have designed specific training materials & contents developed for the specific training plant in Cookeville will adapted to Ficosa standards and processes (e.g. case be used to define an on-line corporate operational training studies, practical exercises & evaluation). For example, program that will be available on Ficosa intranet through the Corporate OHSE department has developed and SuccessFactors. In the future, a corporate operational taught 6 specific courses: OHSE Introduction, Emergency training program will be developed for project management Response, Waste management, Personal Protective and purchasing positions. Equipment (PPE), “5S” method, LockOut/TagOut (LOTO) International assignments One of our aims as a company consists of promoting Ficosa defines a specific International Assignments the development of our people through the creation of a Management procedure to guarantee the application of dynamic and attractive environment where opportunities homogeneous practices within all the sites of the company. for lateral, vertical, functional and geographical movements The company guarantees in any case that employees always exist. In this sense, international assignments are coming back to their home country have a job position a key part of people development at Ficosa. Employees with the same level of classification than they had before benefit by gaining international experience, growing the international assignment and a salary level in the home personally and professionally; Ficosa also benefits by country equivalent to the level of the last position developed expanding the distribution of knowledge and skills, in the destination of expatriation. expanding technical expertise and promoting a consistent global culture. 35 Employee communication & satisfaction Soria · Flexible hours / labor flexibility · Full acceptation for half time working Ficosa wants to foster a strong and effective communication requests for parents with its employee to make sure that they understand where the organization is headed and are kept up to date with key · Sport promotion (free rent, discount) information about the company. In this regard, the company · Physiotherapy service for employees has developed different channels to communicate with its employees, such as intranet, suggestion box, employee · Partnership with the Chamber of newsletter, round table meeting with plant manager, oneCommerce for priority nursery services on-one interviews, town hall meeting, etc. Viladecavalls At local level, some countries, such as France, China, · Time flexibility for employees Mexico, Portugal and Turkey have developed an employee and subcontractors survey in the last 3 years. The results were presented to · Medical services the top management and were followed by an action plan. In 2017, the manufacturing plant in Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland) will carry out a specific employee survey. · Welfare campaigns (Healthy week, Workshop: Way to Workplace health success) · Total Wellness program promotion & work-life balance Ficosa is working to make sure that the entire workforce · Welfare campaigns (responsible receives an annual medical examination in all the countries consumption, how to prevent where it operates. The Workplace health promotion and AIDS, healthy lifestyle) work-life balance initiatives depend on each site and are led by the Human Resources department. In some locations, the company has already implemented some initiatives: The company is defining a specific program to make sure that all the sites implement measures related to workplace · Psychology service for all health promotion and work-life balance, including formal employees objectives for the prevention of stress. In Soria (Spain), the company has conducted a specific survey to measure the · Welfare campaigns and monthly potential impact of psychosocial risks and work-related marketing concerning health stress experienced by its workers. In Dieuze (France), the and safety (Healthy food, stress members of the Health & Safety Committee and the HR prevention, etc.) department have received specific training on psychosocial risks. In Morcone (Italy), the company has conducted a · Sport promotion (discount) specific study to identify any improvement in its company · Health Insurance offer to all workplace ergonomics process. employees · Medical insurance · Welfare campaigns · Welfare campaigns (Campaign day “without a cigarette”, Campaign day “fight against the diabetes”) · Sport promotion (free rent) · First Aid Team · Full acceptation for part-time working · Welfare campaigns · Partnership with requests for parents (vaccination) an association for nursery services · Partnership with a pension fund to enable employees over 50 years to be part-time 37 Commitment to health and safety Occupational Health and Safety Management At Ficosa, we consider the management of health & safety We adopted a common approach across the company to as an integral and fundamental part of our business. manage health & safety. In addition to strict compliance We believe that all injuries, occupational illnesses and with legal regulations, we carry out our own OHSEQ incidents can be prevented, and we will strive for zero policy and implement stringent OHS standards and harm by: procedures for employees as well as contractors to ensure the safety and wellbeing of all people in our sites. • Complying with the laws, regulations and Ficosa operational policies and standards The corporate team is responsible for formulating any new OHS standards and procedures. Furthermore, • Establishing measurable OHS objectives and targets, the department is responsible for establishing a global recognizing and celebrating their achievement system for collecting the main OHS data from all the • Identifying, assessing and controlling hazards and countries and ensuring that each subsidiary complies impacts, and adopting an approach that will strive to with the internal standards and procedures. Each plant eliminate or reduce the risk to an acceptable level has specialists in charge of implementing the company’s health & safety instructions and systems. • Informing employees, contractors, visitors and the public of these hazards and impacts • Identifying , implementing, monitoring and reinforcing Plant managers are held accountable for the OHS the safe behaviors we expect in our business to performance of each plant, and all employees are eliminate unsafe acts and practices expected to take personal responsibility for their actions, and to be involved in improvement initiatives and • Providing appropriate OHS training to employees and developing and setting standards. Creating the right contractors safety culture at our sites is important. It takes strong • Investigating incidents and sharing the experiences leadership and an active commitment to safe operating learnings to prevent them from our workforce. Operational facilities certified OHSAS 18001 (%) In 2016, 16 plants were certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001 – the international standard for Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) which represents 88% 88% of operational facilities. In 2016, the manufacturing plants of Chongqing (China), Shenyang (China) and Cookeville (USA) were not OHSAS 18001 certified. Nevertheless, all the manufacturing plants are carrying out internal OHS audits on a regular basis. In 2016, one of the new initiatives implemented this year has been the introduction of new OHS questions into the Corporate Quality Audit “3Q3” led by the quality department. 39 Occupational Health and Safety training The company is investing in training to make every employee introduction, emergency response, personal protective aware of the OHS risk associated with their duties. In recent equipment (PPE), “5S” method, LockOut/TagOut (LOTO) years, corporate development has designed different and handling of chemicals. These training materials provide learning modules that will be implemented in each site next the guidelines for the OHS Specialists to create their own year. The main goal is to ensure a skilled OHS team and training courses adapted to the plant. prepare them for any changes within the company. Furthermore, some sites have implemented practical The different training modules include specific cases and training to make sure that its employees respond correctly best practices aligned with our operating management to any safety risks. For example, Ficosa’s manufacturing with the aim of guiding our workers on staying safe. The plant in Brazil has offered a course that included practical training materials that have been developed and taught by and theoretical training to ensure participants have the the Corporate OHS included 6 different courses: OHSE skills and confidence to know what to do in case of fire. No. of OHS training hours provided to Average OHS training hours employees (h) per employee (h/employee) 25,186h 2.6*h % hours of training dedicated to OHS Improvement actions (No.) 15.2% 2,288 In 2016, the company launched various awareness campaigns on OHS aimed at promoting safety in the workplace. Through internal and external audits, certification, and special safety programs and training, the safety standards at Ficosa manufacturing plants are continually improving. *The company is using the average workforce at the end of the year to calculate the ratio. 2016 main performance Because OHSAS Recordable Incident Rate (ORIR) is one of the primary safety measure, we have defined a specific annual performance goal in our ORIR at corporate level and for each manufacturing plant. Each plant manager is responsible for successfully achieving our annual goals. Ficosa Ficosa indicators of FY 2015 FY 2016 Goals priorities objectives progress results results 2017 Local Occupational Safety and Achieve an (OSHA) protection Health Administration Recordable Incident 1.61 1.22 1.60 of Human (OSHA) Recordable Rate Below 1.60 Helth Incident Rate (ORIR) 41 ORIR is a measure widely used in the U.S. industry to track ORIR on-the-job injuries. The ORIR in the tables represents the number of Ficosa employee and contractor injuries (apart from minor first aid cases) per 200,000 hours worked. The lower the number, the closer we are to achieving our no injuries vision. Our ORIR improved in 2015 and 1.77 2016. Although this is encouraging, we continue to focus 1.61 our efforts on safety to reduce incidents, mostly due to 1.23 ergonomic issues, possible bum-cuts and burns in the injection or assembly process. 2014 2015 2016 Every month, we analyze the ORIR of each site to track not only what types of injuries tend to recur, but also in what (No. of OHSA recordable incidents*200,000/total number of hours worked). production process. This monitoring allows us to target our OSH training and action plan. Lost time severity rate ORIR Country 0.68 0.56 0.60 ORIR 2016 GOALS ORIR 2017 USA 0.58 0.65 2014 2015 2016 BRAZIL 2.50 1.85 (No. of days lost due to injuries*1,000/total number of hours worked) PORTUGAL 1.57 1.57 (0 in 2015 too) CHINA 0.49 0.59 SPAIN 2.25 2.00 Total number of OHSA Recordable Incidents MEXICO 0.86 1.00 GERMANY 4.35 3.50 TURKEY 2.15 1.79 ITALY 0.46 0.46 120 118 99 POLAND 0.00 0.5 FRANCE 0.80 0.80 2014 2015 2016 0 The main incidents that could face our employees are related with ergonomics and bump-cut and occurred fatalities during mainly during the injection and assembly process. 2015 2016 Case Studies: Ergonomic improvement in Turkey and Germany Ficosa’s manufacturing plant in Wolfenbüttel (Germany) has improved its manufacturing process to mitigate ergonomic risks due to overexertion when changing very heavy fixtures manually. In this regard the plant has implemented a wagon which transports the incoming/outgoing fixtures just by sliding fixtures on the wheels. In 2016, the manufacturing plants of Bursa and Gemlik (Turkey) carried out an external ergonomic risk assessment to understand what could cause harm to people in their workplaces. This assessment enables the plants to implement different workplace improvements. Awards and recognition The manufacturing plant in Bursa (Turkey) has participated in the “Golden Glove and Golden Suggestion” competition which was held by one of the biggest Union in Turkey, MESS (Turkish Employers’ Association of Metal Industry). The purpose of the competition was to increase awareness and support and encourage efforts in the Occupational Health and Safety field. The evaluation was done in three different categories: best practice, recommended implementation and suggestion. As a result of this competition, 15 companies out of 135 were selected by a Jury. The award ceremony was held on November 2016 in Istanbul. During the ceremony, Ficosa won a prize in the “Golden Suggestion” category thanks to its Volvo Mirror Assembly Line ergonomic improvement project. 43 Action planned for next year onward Ficosa still wants to improve its performance in terms of OHS and make sure to achieve zero incidents and injuries in all the plants where it operates. In this regard, the corporate OHS team will work on different sets of actions, including: • Defining a new ORIR objective at corporate and plant level. In 2017, the main goal is to maintain a corporate ORIR below 1.25. • Increasing the employee awareness through local campaign and introducing OHS management review by plant. • Reviewing the information on the plant’s activities and data which is compiled periodically, making sure that it is prepared in accordance with the standards and criteria used by Ficosa and ensuring the accuracy of this information. • Improving the OSH training program by increasing the training offers and sharing the internal training material prepared by the corporate OHS team. 45 Commitment to environment The increasing global population and the rapid growth of Furthermore, the company has developed a first gearbox world economy have complex and diverse connections actuator based on an electronic control system that with the global environment. They also affect the improves the features and allows freedom of design and environment in numerous ways. At Ficosa, we recognize positioning in the cabin. that the global expansion of its corporate activities is also reflected in an increased use of natural resources and higher energy consumption and release of substances into In addition to strict compliance with legal regulations, we the environment. In this regard, we perform our activities carry out our own OHSEQ policy , which ensures prevention paying special attention to protecting the environment and of the environment and the mitigation and adaptation to an efficient use of natural resources. Paint application and climate change through energy-efficient processes and injection machines are one of the most demanding aspects responsible resource and waste management. of our industry and the technology used must meet high expectations of quality and cost efficiency while remaining environmentally responsible. We focus our actions on reducing energy consumption and Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions and improving waste management, in order to be the most At Ficosa, we are committed to bringing and offering safer, sustainable supplier for our clients. The corporate OHSE more connected and efficient systems for the automotive team is working with all the plants to define specific targets and mobility sectors, and to reducing our environmental to reduce waste generation and energy consumption. In impact as we do so. Our commitment to the environment 2016, all the manufacturing plants have implemented the extends to our whole activity cycle from R&D product corporate reduction targets to reduce carbon footprint, design to acquiring raw materials and manufacturing and electric consumption and waste generation, and specific the use and disposal of our products. For example, the action plans for achieving them. Furthermore, every company is working on a new shift-by-wire system that manufacturing plant has defined its individual environmental covers multiple advantages such as reduction in weight goals adapted to the specificities of each site. and fuel consumption and maximization of cabin space. Operational facilities certified ISO 14001 (%) 94% The Group’s commitment to environmental protection For example, the manufacturing plant of Dabrowa Gornicza is one of the main priorities and is clearly integrated into (Poland) has integrated green criteria in the purchasing our activities through the implementation of an integrated process of injection, blowing and welding machines by management system in the different sites where the selecting only new machines with lower energy consumption. company operates. Furthermore, the plant has implemented a new leakage monitoring water system that enables the plant to measure the water consumption in each section and identify any leak Ficosa’s environmental management model is based on that may occur in the site. the international ISO 14001 standard. In 2016, only one manufacturing plant in China (Shenyang) was not 14001 certified. The site has started its activity in 2016 and will be ISO 14001 certified in 2018, once the construction of the painting facility will be completed. Plant Emission The ISO 14001 system provides a structure that enables Management every site to manage, assess, and continuously improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the management of their A current challenge is to reduce volatile organic compounds environmental impacts. The corporate OHSE department (VOCs), which readily evaporate and become gaseous in is responsible for formulating any new environmental the atmosphere. VOCs are carbon-based materials (for standards and procedures. Furthermore, the department example hydrocarbons, halogenated, sulfonated and is responsible for establishing a global system for collecting polyelemental organics), that can be toxic and create the main environmental data from all the countries and adverse health and environmental impacts. The company ensuring that each subsidiary complies with the internal has implemented different system and control standards standards and procedures. in its manufacturing plants to monitor and reduce the amount of air pollutants emitted during their operation. Furthermore, the company is committed to mitigating its In recent years, the company has been committed to environmental impact by implementing new eco-friendly improving the environmental data gathering process of technologies and improving its production process. each site by identifying and mitigating any gap between For example, the manufacturing plant in Cookeville has the current state of information and that required to reach reached an agreement with the State of Tennessee, as the desired state. part of a plant operating permit, to reduce VOC emissions from 231 tons per rolling 12-month period to 11.84 tons per rolling 12-month period thanks to the implementation The company ensures that all the manufacturing processes and use of a RTO (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer) in the are in line with the best environmental practices. Every painting process. year, each subsidiary shares its improvement regarding this matter. Case Studies: improvement in the painting process & injection machines Why is it important? The painting and injection process accounts for the largest share of environmental impact during the manufacture of Ficosa products in terms of air emissions, energy consumption and waste generation. The paint shop is the manufacturing area that causes most concern within the industry as it is a health and safety hazard because VOC emissions. Furthermore, the injection process is a large energy consumer and contributes to carbon dioxide emissions. What are we doing? In Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), the company invests in new of the air on spray booths. Besides, the automation of the spray booths, which allow increasing capacity by 24% painting process with robots will improve OHS conditions for while reducing the usage of chemical components and operators. Wet filtration on spray booths will improve paint paint waste. With this investment, the company succeeds waste separation. in reducing its injection waste by 30%. Furthermore, the company has reduced its energy consumption by installing more efficient heat exchanges in paint shop. The manufacturing plants in Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), Taicang (China) and Soria (Spain) are also planning to implement a RTO system in their painting process between In Soria (Spain), the company is distilling used paint in order 2016 and 2017. The implementation of the new system will to obtain pure solvent, which can be used as cleaning agent enable the companies to reduce their VOC emissions. or can be sold. The manufacturing plant in Soria (Spain) has implemented a In Bursa (Turkey), the plant has decreased its water new process aspiration for its injection machines with the aim consumption in the paint shop by using a new coagulant. of reducing any pollutants emissions to the atmosphere. Furthermore, the plant in Gemlik is implementing refrigerants R410 and R407 instead of R22 for its air conditioning system. Furthermore, the manufacturing plants in Taicang (China) has implemented a new servo-motor system in its injection In Tennessee (United States), the company is building a section with the aim of reducing its carbon emission. new paint shop in order to close an inefficient installation. Through this replacement, the site will reduce its energy consumption associated to the painting process by 41%. Furthermore, the company is working to increase the recovery The new painting process emits less Volatile Organic of cleaning solvents and other chemicals and to reduce the Compound (VOC) and enables less consumption of fresh air amounts of these substances emitted from its plants. due to RTO (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer) and recirculation 49 Addressing Climate Change In a world often said to be carbon-constrained, reducing CO2 emissions is a task to be tackled by all companies. Since 2016, we have defined a corporate guideline to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions annually at corporate and site levels. Each plant manager is responsible for successfully achieving our annual goals. Ficosa indicators of FY 2015 FY 2016 Ficosa objectives % priorities progress results results Addressing Aim to reduce our GHG GHG emission Climate emissions intensity (Scope (KgCO2eq/k€ net 52.6 55.2 5% Change 1 and 2) by 3% annually sales) In 2016, our GHG emissions have increased by 5%. This increase may be explained by the new manufacturing plant in Shenyang (China) and the implementation of new blinkers and die casting processes in Soria (Spain) and Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), which consume large amounts of energy. Nevertheless, most of our sites achieved their annual goals: Greenhouse Gas Emissions intensity by sites (KgCO2eq/k€ net sales) 80,00 70,00 60,00 50,00 59.22 40,00 2016 30,00 39.89 Target 38.28 20,00 26.95 22.50 10,00 14.86 14.81 10.12 4.71 ) ) in) in) l) y) nd lia ) ico sil ) pa pa ga ola a) éx ra (S (S tu rke (Ita hin (M (B or (Tu (P E DC RIA (P ZA ON (C AS LO VL AIA LIX NG LIN U A SO M NIC RC A SA PA OS RS -M GE R O IC O RO ES SGO -M TA & SA FIC IR BL LE A RS DO M CA CA B RO W RO OB E IR D AB M E SC Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by type of source (t CO2eq)5 Since 2014, we have been conducting an inventory of our GHG emissions, using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Own fleet of vehicles 853 Scope 1 Fossil Fuels of stationary facilities 9,250 8,397 Total GHG emissions Scope 2 Electricity 65,362 54,383 54,383 Scope 3 Waste generated in operations 1,729 1,637 Water consuption Source: the emission factors considered for calculating the CO2 emission related to electricity consumption is 92 the electric mix (KgCO2eq/KWh) provided by each electricity supplier. The other emission factors come from the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. 5. The total GHG emissions reported does not take into account the purchase of green energy in Spain. 51 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 TOTAL USA 1,058 13,693 426 15,177 BRAZIL 98 1,127 4 1,229 PORTUGAL 81 2,137 55 2,273 CHINA 808 11,099 25 11,932 SPAIN 3,446 9,440 445 13,331 MEXICO 461 6,670 132 7,263 GERMANY 479 200 14 693 TURKEY 827 3,325 92 4,244 ITALY 382 1,043 14 1,439 POLAND 1,302 5,422 514 7,238 FRANCE 308 227 8 543 TOTAL 9,250 54,383 1,729 65,362 The 2016 inventory found that our Scope 1 and Scope 2 We calculate our Scope 3 emissions from our waste emissions were 63,633 metric tons of equivalent carbon generation and water consumption. Nevertheless, we are dioxide (CO2eq). According to the GHG Protocol, Scope planning to expand Scope 3 of our carbon footprint by 1 includes direct GHG emissions from sources that are quantifying other indirect emissions associated with our owned or controlled by the company. These include our activities. manufacturing plants and company-owned vehicles. Scope 2 includes indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by the company. Since more than 85% of our GHG emissions are attributable to waste generation and energy to be used in our manufacturing plants, we are tackling climate According to the GHG Protocol, Scope 3 includes change through energy efficiency, renewable energy and indirect GHG emissions that occur in the value chain of improvement in waste management. the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. Energy efficiency and renewable energy Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in Ficosa is to mitigating its impact on climate change by defining mainly about reducing energy consumption and improving a strong energy strategy based on energy efficiency, energy efficiency. In this regard, the company is committed increased use of renewable energy and improved manufacturing process. Ficosa Indicators of FY 2015 FY 2016 Ficosa objectives % priorities progress results results Addressing Aim to reduce our energy Energy intensity Climate 109.7 105.4 -4% intensity by 3% annually (kWh/k€ net sales) Change. In 2016, the company reduced its energy intensity by 4%. Furthermore, 50% of our manufacturing plants achieved their annual goals: Reduction of electric consumption by sites (kWh/k€ net sales) ) ) nd ico ola ly) éx ) y) (P (Ita ) (M in e SA AS pa rk ZA NE (S (Tu IC Y, U LIN sil ) A LIX RN CO a) (K SA ra RI OR hin (B SO EM GO M LL E & O A (C I O RS SG RS YV ED UL E OW NG B B PA RO BL BR RO I CA EL CO O IR IR M CA DA M TA SH ES SA 0,00% -5,00% -10,00% 2016 -15,00% Target -20,00% -25,00% -30,00% Ficosa engages in a variety of energy saving activities global operation to undertake energy audits and implement in its manufacturing process to reach the lowest energy mitigation projects ahead of global regulation. consumption in its sector by introducing highly efficient equipment, improving manufacturing techniques and adopting energy saving lighting. The manufacturing plants in Portugal, Italy, France and Spain have already audited their energy consumption and are now defining an action plan to reduce it. The The Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) and the European manufacturing plant in Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland) will audit country regulations that transpose it is a driver across our its energy consumption at the end of 2017. 53 Energy management in Brazil The manufacturing plant in Brazil was chosen to participate The main goal of the plant is to promote a culture of in a selection of industries interested in implementing energy efficiency in its DNA by including energy aspects ISO 50001requirements, with the assistance of “Servicio in the decision-making processes, from system design to Nacional de Aprendizaje Industrial”. operation and increasing energy awareness among staff members at all levels. Case Studies: Energy Efficiency in Turkey & Germany 74% of electricity consumption at the manufacturing plant In order to reduce its electric consumption and its CO2 in Bursa (Turkey) comes from the injection area. For this emission, the manufacturing plant in Wolfenbüttel (Germany) reason, two projects have been carried out to reduce has replaced the old neon lamps located outside the plant electricity consumption: the implementation of a waste heat with new LED lamps. This implementation has allowed the recovery system from compressor to heat the injection area, plant to reduce its CO2 emission from 21,054 Kg CO2eq and the installation of a new led lighting system. The other to 2,098 Kg CO2eq. manufacturing plant in Gemlik (Turkey) has implemented an automatic system that turns off the lighting and electricity system after 5 minutes without production in 13 assembly lines. In 2017, the plant is planning to implement the same system in the rest of the assembly lines. Renewable energy Furthermore, increased use of renewable energy is critical to the transition to a low-carbon economy. The company Renewable energy GHG emissions is striving to reduce emissions by using renewable energy. consumption in Spain avoided (tCO2eq) From March 2016, 100% of the electricity in Viladecavals (kWh) (Spain), Soria (Spain) and Sant Guim (Spain) come from renewable sources. Other manufacturing plants, such as the ones in Dieuze (France) and Wolfenbüttel (Germany) 24,004,250 7,393 are using renewable energy and are planning to increase their renewable power consumption. Responsible resources and waste management Indicators of FY 2015 FY 2016 Ficosa priorities Ficosa objectives % progress results results Aim to reduce our waste Waste generation 4.6 4.5 -2% Responsible generation by 3% annually (Kg/K€ net sales) resource and waste management Aim to reduce our water Water consumption 0.23 0.20 -13% consumption by 3% annually (m3/K€ net sales) The company launched various awareness campaigns aimed at promoting waste recycling and reuse within the company. In 2016, the company achieved its corporate goal to reduce its waste generation by 3% annually. Some sites exceeded the current goal of the company. Reduction of waste generation by sites (% de reduction) ) nd y) y) ola ke (P ) r r ke A ain (Tu (Tu CZ ) p A I sil (S RS LIK RN e) ra GO nc (B DC BU EM ra O VL RS SG A (F UL A E OW ZE PA OS RO BL BR IR EU O FIC M CA DA DI SA 0,00% -1,00% -2,00% -3,00% -4,00% 2016 -5,00% Target -6,00% -7,00% -8,00% -9,00% -10,00% 55 Case Studies: Good practices of waste management The manufacturing plant of Dieuze (France) has The manufacturing plant in Bursa (Turkey) has managed to implemented a strong material recycling program than reduce 50 tonnes of cardboard by promoting the use of allowed the company to save more than 100,000 € in recycled packaging among its local suppliers. material cost, by increasing the recycling of injected parts and reducing the generation of scraps. Over the years, the manufacturing plan in Shelbyville (USA) has used a lot of foam. It was very popular because it was The manufacturing plant of Maia (Portugal) has organized light and clean, prevented scratching, and allowed more an employee competition to raise the awareness about parts to be placed in a container than traditional dunnage. the waste generation and recycling within the company. Nevertheless, foam, which is not biodegradable, was going Furthermore, the company has organized a campaign into the trash to be landfilled. In 2016, the plant decided “Electrao Empresa” to promote the recycling of electrical to define a specific target to reduce the use of foam by appliance. 25% by 2017. In 2016, the plant has already succeeded in reducing the use of foam by 50%. Action planned for next year onwards Ficosa wants to continue reducing its environmental impact and make sure that all its plants are energy efficient. In this regard, the corporate OHSE team will work on different sets of actions, including: Mitigation of Climate Change Knowledge and Good Practice Exchange Ficosa’s new environmental strategic line focuses on the Next year the company will hold an environmental forum reduction in GHG emissions through energy efficiency, the where manufacturing plants will be able to share their purchase of renewable energy and the reduction in waste actions, best practices and/or procedures implemented generation. Furthermore, the company will work to improve that contributed to the protection of the environment so the gathering and consolidation of environmental data, that other plants can take advantage of the knowledge making sure that they are prepared in accordance with acquired and the results achieved. the standards and criteria used by Ficosa and enhancing the accuracy of this information. Finally, the company is committed to increasing the reporting on GHG emissions derived from scope 3 categories. Environmental Risk and Opportunities In 2017, the corporate OHSE department will implement a new methodology for all plants in order to identify the main environmental risks and opportunities related to Ficosa environmental aspects, compliance obligations and other issues. 57 Commitment to society Responsible management of the supply chain Ficosa’s commitment to sustainability extends to its supply chain. Ficosa continues to focus its efforts on improving management and implementing sustainability standards through its supply chain, mainly through two instruments: 1 2 Implementation of quality and sustainability Adaptation of the General criteria in its supply chain Purchasing Conditions Any Ficosa supplier has to show evidence that it has an established effective quality management system in place certified by a third party. Ficosa recommends all its suppliers to certify their Quality Management system according to ISO/ TS 16949 standard. Suppliers certified ISO 9001 (%) Suppliers certified ISO/TS 16949 (%) 100 100 100 45 40 33 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 The General Purchasing Conditions establish the relationship In addition, any new supplier has to fulfill a Specific Company between Ficosa and its suppliers. The purchase orders sent Self-Assessment and be approved by the Ficosa audit to suppliers by any Ficosa company or any of its subsidiaries process. The aim here is to examine the supplier’s suitability or affiliates have to be accepted in accordance with these to provide over the term by using specific indicators, terms and conditions. In addition to all applicable laws and including financial and quality criteria as well as general regulations to be observed by the suppliers, it is also their corporate aspects. obligation to respect social responsibilities and duties, especially but not limited to the requirements based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Ficosa regularly monitors the performance of its suppliers Labor Organization (ILO) conventions. and evaluates them to confirm its performance versus the defined targets. These assessments enable the company to track the improvement of its suppliers and determine the Any supplier who wants to be included in the Ficosa Supplier potential support that they may need from Ficosa. Panel must comply with the environmental regulations and requests of the country where the product is going to be produced and/or used, including but not limited to the Directive of end-of-life vehicles ELV (2000/53/EC and its updated Annex II), REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), CLP/GHS (Classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures) and the DoddFrank-Act in respect to Conflict Minerals. Conflict Minerals In the last years, there has been an increasing international % of suppliers for which conflict mineral focus on “conflict minerals” emanating from mining information is available operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. Armed groups engaged in mining operations in this region are believed to subject workers and indigenous people to serious human rights abuses 100 100 and are using proceeds from the sale of conflict minerals 80 to finance regional conflicts. On August 22, 2012, in response to these concerns, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted a final rule to implement reporting and disclosure requirements related to “conflict minerals”. The “conflict minerals” are cassiterite (tin), columbite-tantalite (coltan), gold and wolframite (tungsten), as well as their derivatives and other minerals that the US Secretary of State may 2014 2015 2016 designate in the future (Dodd–Frank Section 1502). For that purpose, Ficosa implemented an annual supplier’s inquiry and collect from all its suppliers the Standard Survey (EICC/Gesi template) on conflict minerals. The collected information is internally processed and provides useful information to monitor suppliers and report to clients about the company use of minerals for each plant. 61 Social responsibility Soria: The decentralized locations are responsible for charitable · Collaboration with social institutions (FADESS, AECC, projects, donations and other social initiatives. The social LINCECI, etc.) initiatives depend on the site-specific challenge and are led · Blood donations campaigns by the Human Resources department. Examples of Ficosa social initiatives in locations where the company operates: · In-kind and financial donations (computers, etc) · Sponsorship of sports activities Viladecavalls: · “Take Action” plan for involving the employees in social issues · Campaign against cancer · Blood donations campaigns · Inkind donations (clothes) · In-kind and financial donations to several institutions, such as “Rarissímas” (an institutuion that supports children with rare diseases), “National League Child Hope-Renaissance”, “House of the People of Vermoim”, “Institute of Social Support A Life A Smile” · Collaboration in several initiatives with the City Hall of Maia (culture, sport) . Participation in several campaigns, among which we highlight the collaboration with the Holy House of Mercy of Maia through the delivery of baskets of food of first necessity with aid processes approved by this institution · Blood donation campaigns · Painting donations for the maintenance of school sponsored by Ficosa · Fico Jugueton” Donation of toys for children of low income families · Collaboration with the Red Cross · Recycle to help · Visiting to nursing home · Program “Adopt a tree” for promoting reforestation · Small citizen program (training program to elementary students) · Sponsorship of sports · In-kind donations for hospitals · Donations of books and toys for activities children of low income families · Supporting found for employees through the campaign “No keeping, and their families in difficult financial Yes sharing” situations 63 Case Studies: Ficosa & Uniraid UniRaid consists of a 10 day itinerary through the Moroccan “The satisfaction of achieving what we came for by sharing desert with cars which are at least 20 years old. The main with them more than 60 kilos of school supplies and clothes, objective of this adventure is the will of helping those who and watching them be so happy about it was extraordinary. It are in need as well as surpassing several challenges which only took us four days of navigation to realize that teamwork promote the value of mutual support and the need for can actually move mountains, and especially in such a teamwork. Every team has to bring a minimum of 30 Kg of competitive world like the one we live in where cooperation clothes, school supplies or food, in order to give them out is gradually gaining more importance. In this raid it was clear to the different desert villages as they pass by. In the 2017’s to us that working together can help you achieve anything. edition, the RedFury Team, integrated by two industrial We thank all of our sponsors, we thank Ficosa, because engineering students, counted on Ficosa’s sponsorship if it wasn’t for them we wouldn’t have been capable of to complete such a project. Thanks to their collaboration, accomplishing such challenge.’’ Ficosa helped the team to share more than 60 Kg of school supplies and clothes and to cross the finish line after 3.500 Km of desert sand, heat, mechanical problems and fatigue. Visits to the factory The company organizes factory visits in different countries where the company operates. These visits enable the company to attract new joiners and demonstrate the strength of their manufacturing capabilities. Every year, the manufacturing plants in Gemlik (Turkey), Maia (Portugal) and Soria (Spain) organize visits to the factory for students. The students can visit our different production areas (injection of plastic, smelting, painting and assembly of rear-view mirrors), where the managers explain to them the characteristics of the production process. The manufacturing plant of Viladecavalls (Spain) has organized visits for MBA IESE and the students of the La Vall school. In Morcone (Italy), the plants have arranged an Open-house dedicated to the environment for the families of employees. The day included awareness games for children and the plantation of flowers and plants in the external part of the plant. In Mexico, the company every year organizes an Open House for all the families of employees. 65 Case Studies: Social collaboration in Portugal Since 2015, the plant in Maia (Portugal) has been collaborating with a social organization that works with people with physical and intellectual disabilities. Every year, the plant donates wooden pallets to the organization, which serve as raw materials for creating new products that are manufactured by workers with physical and intellectual disabilities. Case Studies: FIRST® LEGO® LEAGUE Open European Championship 2016 The competition, FIRST® LEGO® LEAGUE Open European In the 2016’s edition, the Kronos Team, integrated by 7 Championship, focuses on engaging children in science students from Colegio La Vall de Bellaterra, counted on and technology through play and learning. The young Ficosa’s sponsorship to participate in the event. The group participants, between 10 and 16 years old, come from ended up with the second prize in the best presentation around 45 nations and from 6 continents. In 2016, the category. competition took place in Tenerife, Spain. 89 FLL-Teams from 40 countries from all over the world competed in the FLL 2015/2016 Trash Trek challenge at the OEC. The teams had to find solutions for better recycling, waste management and waste reduction. 67 Innovation in our products Ficosa vision of innovation is based on a commitment to the most advanced technology. In this regard, the company invests in the research and development of products and solutions based on the fields of connectivity, safety and efficiency to maintain its position of leadership and anticipate the needs of the automotive, medical equipment, consumer electronics and industrial sectors. The company is now a technological partner of a vast majority of automotive companies from all over the world and seeks new ways to bring about further optimization and contribute to sustainable mobility. R&D Capabilities Research centers · Viladecavalls With great dedication to innovation and a clearly global · Wolfenbüttel / Lindau (Denso JV) focus, we have created a solid network of R&D centers in Europe, North America, South America and Asia. They · Dieuze are divided into centers of expertise focused on the same product family and local engineering centers closely · Porto located to customers’ design centers. · Gemlik R&D Capacities (No.) This strong commitment to innovation has also resulted in high added value job creation. Ficosa is convinced that · Sao Paulo the company needs an excellent and experienced team of engineers on board to face the new challenges of the company. · Detroit (Mi) 833 · Monterrey 135 640 550 698 110 135 530 · Korea (Joint-venture) 415 · Tokyo (Office) ·Shanghai · Pune (Joint-venture) 2014 2015 2016 Laboratory & Prototypes Product Engineering The Technology Centre in Viladecavalls (Spain) acts as the driving force for the group’s global research efforts and fuels the 13 development centers we have around the world. 71 We also collaborate, both nationally and internationally, In 2016, the company has invested nearly 6% of its annual with other companies, engineering firms, universities and revenue in R&D in order to give its customers the most technical centers on studies, training, advisory services, innovative solutions possible. Ficosa currently holds 470 technology transfer, validations, tests, etc., that allow us active patents and it is one of the most active companies to develop products with greater value added, exchange in Spain in terms of patenting. synergies, optimize and share resources and, above all, generate and manage knowledge. R&D Expenditure (thousand €) 64,316 Innovation in high-value products Ficosa is convinced that its success and future are founded on innovative products that benefit people and help them to have safer and more efficient ways of driving. SAFETY VISION The Challenge Actions to reduce death and injuries on roads are urgently needed. About 1.25 million people die each year as a result of road traffic crashes. Without action, road traffic crashes are predicted to rise to the 7th leading cause of death by 2030. Over the last decades, the EU has made great progress in reducing road fatalities. Between 2001 and 2010, Europe cut the number of road deaths by 43% in spite of the increased traffic volumes, and reduced it by another 17% since 2010. Nevertheless, there is still work to do to achieve the ambitious road safety target of halving the global number of deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes by 2020 (Source: 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development). Collaboration with national and international program (I_HeEro) Harmonized eCall Europen Deployment • Ficosa is participating in the deployment of eCall service in Europe. The deployment project is aimed at the preparation of the PSAP in EU Member States for the deployment of eCall based on 112 as reference implementations. In these projects, 14 EU participating Member States and 1 associated country analyzed the feasibility and robustness of the eCall service with pilot installations on both the PSAP and vehicle side. After March 2018, the system eCall will be installed in all new type of cars and light vans sold in the European Union. 73 ESCAPE (European Safety Critical Applications Positioning Engine) • ESCAPE (European Safety Critical Applications Positioning Engine) is a threeyear project funded under the Fundamental Elements program of the GSA (European GNSS Agency). Its aim is to exploit the services offered by Galileo, the European satellite navigation system, by designing a dedicated reliable and accurate engine natively targeted for the automotive safety-critical applications. • The project, kicked-off in October 2016, is led by Ficosa in collaboration with Renault, GMV, ST Microelectronics, IFSTTAR and ISMB. As project coordinator, Ficosa manages the financial and contractual matters of the project and acts as the bridge for all communications between GSA and the consortium. Ficosa also leads the development of the engine’s hardware and software. C2C-CC (Car to Car Communication Consortium) • The CAR 2 CAR Communication Consortium (C2C-CC) is a nonprofit, industry driven organization initiated by European vehicle manufacturers and supported by equipment suppliers, research organizations and other partners. The C2C-CC is dedicated to the objective of further increasing road traffic safety and efficiency by means of cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems (C-ITS) with Vehicle-to-Vehicle Communication (V2V) supported by Vehicle-toInfrastructure Communication (V2I). • It supports the creation of European standards for communicating vehicles spanning all brands. As a key contributor, the C2C-CC works in close cooperation with the European and international standardization organizations. In cooperation with infrastructure stakeholders the C2C-CC promotes the joint deployment of cooperative ITS. What we are offering our customers ERA GLONASS SYSTEM • For the first time, the company has manufactured telematic modules certified for ERA GLONASS. The ERA GLONASS system is the Russian equivalent to the European eCall system. The emergency system inside the vehicle consists of a telematic unit (In Vehicle Telematic Unit, iVTU) that incorporates a special SIM card as well as a user interface module. The safety systems and emergency services are fundamental to save lives on the road. Getting an immediate alert in the event of an accident and knowing the exact location of the crash site cuts emergency services’ response time by 50% in rural areas and 40% in urban areas. V2X (VEHICLE-TO-X) UNITS • Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication is the passing of information from a vehicle to any entity that may affect the vehicle, and vice versa. It is a vehicular communication system.The main push for V2X is safety, with energy savings also being important. In addition, V2X technology offers a range of everyday convenience benefits. For example, V2X systems integrate automatic payments for tolls, parking, and similar fees. • V2X systems are mainly geared toward safety, and they can be programmed to be aware of all surroundings in order to help prevent collision. In a traditional vehicle, V2X systems can convey important information to the driver regarding inclement weather, nearby accidents and road conditions, and the dangerous activities of nearby vehicles. Similarly, in autonomous vehicles, V2X provides extra information beyond the reach of the vehicle’s existing system. As V2X use expands, its advantages will become more pronounced. • V2X communication is based on WLAN technology and works directly between vehicles or the infrastructure, which form a vehicular ad-hoc network, as two V2X senders come within each other’s range. Hence it does not require any infrastructure for vehicles to communicate, which is key to assure safety in remote or little developed areas. It is particularly well-suited for V2X communication, due to its low latency and the ability to communicate instantly. It transmits messages known as Common Awareness Messages (CAM) and Decentralized Notification Messages (DENM) or Basic Safety Message (BSM). The data volume of these messages is very low. The radio technology is standardized as part of the WLAN IEEE 802.11 family of standards and known in the US as WAVE (Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments) and in Europe as ITS-G5. • The main motivation for vehicular communication systems is safety and eliminating the excessive cost of traffic collisions. According to World Health Organizations (WHO), road accidents annually cause approximately 1.2 million deaths worldwide; one fourth of all deaths caused by injury. Also about 50 million people are injured in traffic accidents. If preventive measures are not taken road death is likely to become the third-leading cause of death in 2020 from ninth place in 1990. A study from the American Automobile Association (AAA) concluded that car crashes cost the United States $300 billion per year. It can be used for automated traffic intersection control. • There has been a significant rise in the use of electronics in vehicles. Vehicles today have shifted from being conventional vehicles to intelligent vehicles and are equipped with communication systems that alert to or assist the driver in a potential accident. Moreover, the rising consumer demand for convenience features has forced various OEMs to incorporate V2X communication systems. The implementation of V2X communication will not only increase safety but will also provide an enhanced driving experience. 75 Intelligent Rearview Monitor System (IRMS) • In March 2016, Ficosa has developed an intelligent interior mirror (IRMS), the first product codeveloped with Panasonic as a result of the alliance between both companies. This system, which has an integrated display in the structure of the interior rearview mirror, works as a mirror or as a monitor that relays images from the camera located at the rear of the vehicle, according to the driver’s needs. The intelligent interior mirror provides a significant added value to the conventional mirror, enhancing the driving experience and increasing safety and driving comfort. This solution extends the rearward field of vision up to a value of 50°, which considerably reduces blind spots. • Ficosa is already working with severals vehicle manufacturers on the development of mirrorless cars that will be on mass production after 2019. The rear-view and side-view mirrors are replaced by three cameras and a special screen to show drivers what is behind and around their cars. The car’s software stitches all of the video feeds together for a very wide view of the road. Camera Monitor System (CMS) • In 2015, the company developed an electronic mirror composed of cameras and displays which implies an alternative option to the exterior rear-view mirrors of the car. This pioneering system, also known as CMS, means an authentic revolution for the automotive industry as well as an important progress towards the autonomous car. The electronic mirror offers a new safer and more comfortable driving experience through the inclusion in the vision systems of Advanced Systems Driver Assistance (ADAS), such as the traffic detection function, which provides information to the driver about the vehicles around it. Currently, Ficosa is working with an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) on the integration of CMS, customizing it according to its requirements. Sensors and Cameras Cleaning • Ficosa has patented a product that expels water and air to remove dirt from sensors and cameras. Any dirt that adheres to the lens can disable its function and affect the driver’s visibility. In that sense, this innovative product removes dirt from cameras and sensors through a hybrid system that expels water and/or pressurized air depending on the need and lenses position, guaranteeing at all times a proper performance. The first 3 production orders have been booked for this system. COMMUNICATION & CONNECTIVITY The Challenge The automotive industry is undergoing a series of transition, the industry moving towards digitalization and connected mobility. While automotive digital technology has traditionally focused on optimizing the vehicle’s internal functions, attention is now being drawn to developing the car’s ability to connect with the outside world and make the care experience safer, more comfortable and more informed. What we are offering our customers SMART CONNECTIVITY MODULE (SCM) • Ficosa is working to create a more interconnected world, where communication has no limits. In February 2016, Ficosa presented the latest technological developments in automobile connectivity carried out by its Advanced Communications Business Unit at the Mobile World Congress 2016 in Barcelona. The company has developed a pioneering system that allows all the passengers to have connectivity simultaneously and independently. This innovative solution was created to merge Smart Connectivity Module (SCM) designed by Ficosa with one of its telematic 4G LTE connectivity modules. The new product called SCM is able to integrate into a single device the following features: 4G internet connection, WiFi hotspot, Bluetooth, GPS positioning for each specific market, analog radio services (AM/FM), digital radio (DAB) and satellite radio (SDARS). It also incorporates the mandatory emergency call in Europe (eCall) and Russia (ERA GLONASS), as well as optionally the V2X service (for communication vehicle-to-vehicle or vehicle-to-infrastructure). Connected Police Car • In March 2016, Ficosa presented the Connected Police Car, a vehicle equipped with the most advanced technology that converts patrol cars into real mobile police stations. This project, carried out in collaboration with Telefónica, has been presented at SICUR 2016 (International Security, Safety and Fire Exhibition). The Connected Police Car project, which is in its pilot phase, has already been implemented in seven cars currently circulating in the provinces of Madrid, Zaragoza and Valencia. After this trial period, it is expected to be implemented in 150 to 200 patrol cars throughout Spain. Rearview mirror that incorporate electronic toll function • In September 2016, Ficosa and Panasonic signed the first contract for co-developing a product. Both companies will produce an interior rearview mirror for a major European manufacturer (OEM), which will incorporate an electronic toll function that allows the automatic payment of motorway tolls without having to stop the vehicle. The project, which will last for seven years, is valued at 50 million euros and will be produced in Ficosa’s plant in Viladecavalls (Barcelona). 77 EFFICIENCY The Challenge The reduction in greenhouse gas global emissions the progress on decarbonization economy and the expected growth in mobility in the upcoming years highlight the need for efficient and environmentally sustainable vehicle technologies. Collaboration with national and international program Alise Consortium • Ficosa is participating in the ALISE consortium. ALISE is a pan European collaboration focused on the development and commercial scale-up of new materials and on the understanding of the electrochemical processes involved in the lithium sulphur technology. In this collaboration, Ficosa is working on the development of the full Battery Pack, using the Li-Ion modules developed. The Battery will include a Battery Management System (BMS) adapted to the new LiS chemistry developed during the project. 3Ccar • Ficosa participates in the European collaborative project 3Ccar founded by the ECSEL Joint Undertaking. The 3CCar solution brings together a consortium of 50 partners from 11 countries covering the complete value chain from the semiconductor supplier up to the vehicle manufacturer. The main goals are improving the efficiency and reducing the complexity of the electric vehicles control architecture and its subsystems. In this project, Ficosa is working on a new concept of On-Board-Charger (OBC) for optimizing the manufacturing and materials costs, while improving volume, weight and reliability. RIS3CAT (Research and Innovation Strategies for Smart Specialization) • Through the Notecar project, Idneo is working on a new concept of OBC for high-voltage electric and hybrid vehicles batteries. The main objective is to minimize the device and simplify its industrialization. The new concept will be offered to manufacturers who are interested in improving the current technology, and will serve as a basis for the development of new devices for different sectors, such as the renewable energies. This project is in line with the Greentronics project and the working group called Eco-mobility created through the RIS3CAT R&D Strategy and leaded by Ficosa. CAR-NET (Cooperative Automotive Research Network) • The Cooperative Automotive Research Network, initiated by SEAT, Volkswagen Group Research and Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC), is an open hub for industrial and academic partners from the areas of automotive and mobility research & innovation. • Ficosa is a member of this knowledge hub for automotive science and technology, focused on urban mobility, and based in Barcelona. Its ambition is to become a benchmark in this area, in close alliance with European counterparts. CARNET is a cooperation platform for the mobility industry, local universities and institutional partners that has the following strategic goals: a) Organizing urban mobility activities in Barcelona b) Contributing to strengthening the automotive sector in Spain, and Catalonia in particular c) Recruiting proactively for the automotive industry d) Networking to seek international research funding (in cooperation with international partners) What we are offering our customers Battery Management System • Ficosa has been developing jointly with german OEM’s the new generation of Battery Management System. The focus areas of the e-mobility lay mainly in efficient and reliable high-voltage energy control. On-Board Charger System • The company is working on the promotion of a new integrated concept of On-Board Charger (OBC) with Panasonic. The OBC is a system that is able to provide energy to charge Electric/Hybrid vehicles batteries, such as cars, buses or motorbikes. The technology under development fits on AC network as well as DC infrastructure. 79 Idneo Idneo provides services of development, validation and The company commitment to internationalization has also manufacture of technological products to clients of played a key role in the company’s growth. With presence global scope. in the United States, Germany and France through local partners, Idneo invoiced 26% of its sales abroad, representing 51% more than the previous year. In the last four years, Idneo has doubled its turnover by exceeding 9 million of euros and has increased its workforce by 40%. Idneo has now a team of more than In 2019, Idneo expects to increase by 77% (base year: 300 professional engineers, highly qualified and with a 2014) by opening offices in the United States and wide expertise in Ficosa targeted markets: automotive, Germany and focusing on new sectors beyond the medical equipment, consumer electronics and industrial automotive industry such as the field of medical devices sectors. and Industry 4.0. On-board Ventures At Ficosa, we understand that innovation is a must Onboard Ventures’ mission is to establish a mutually if we want to stay a leader in a dynamic competitive beneficial business relationship with start-ups. This landscape. At the same time, we are experimenting every open innovation initiative aims to identify start-ups in the day how difficult it is to bring a technology concept to a automobile, mobility, industry 4.0, medical equipment consolidated business. In this context, the company has and smart vision systems sectors that can benefit from decided to create Onboard Ventures, an open innovation Ficosa’s and Idneo’s know-how. This new business unit eco-system with the aim of: is based on allowing start-ups to take advantage of all Ficosa’s and Idneo’s potential to develop their ideas and projects successfully and generate new business • Exploring innovative and business models to gain new opportunities by offering different ways of partnering business opportunities for Ficosa and Idneo with them, such as commercial/ technical agreement, licensing, joint production, services as equity or access • Accessing entrepreneurial talent and energy to capital. • Being a group reference for Entrepreneurship initiatives • Networking with Universities, VC, accelerators and other corporate ventures In 2017, the business units will implement two main programs: 1 Discovery: This program is designed for early and seed stage projects. The main goal is to move from Minimum Valuable Products (MVP) to delivering products with our engineering capacities. 2 Open Innovation: This program is designed for projects in a growing stage, having customers already on board and looking for scaling capacity. This program offers any start-up the chance to create a joint venture, through a commercial deal giving them access to Ficosa’s and Idneo’s portfolio and promoting projects to give them global reach. 81 APPENDIX 1 – OHSQE POLICY Ficosa’s integrated management policy is based on With this aim, Management affirms its commitment to Upper Management’s commitment and the participation and responsibility for implementing, maintaining and of all the staff in order to ensure continuous improvement continually improving an integrated management system, in their work. based on: It must be communicated and understood by the whole Company and reviewed periodically. It must be of interested parties’ domain. It must be appropriate to the nature of our Company (activities, products and services). 1.The organization’s values and philosophy of operations, clearly established in the MISSION, are the guidelines for each member of Ficosa. 2.Ficosa permanently believes that each product and project developed for our customers shall fulfil and exceed their expectations regarding time, quality, safety and cost. 3.The company firmly believes that excellence in each project and product are achieved with the participation of all the people that comprise Ficosa. Daily enthusiasm and permanent challenges for improvement are essential for this purpose and each leader’s responsibility. 4. Occupational health and safety is a fundamental part of our work; that is the reason why we are committed to supporting and fulfilling the policies and regulations related to the preservation of our personnel health. 5. The development of our Company must be guided toward continual improvement in our work (in occupational health and safety, quality and environment). It is our obligation to improve the effectiveness of our Integrated System every day. 6. Respect for nature and the observance of universally declared pollution prevention and control principles shall be kept as a reference framework for the performance of our activities. The development of our organization can and must walk alongside the preservation of the environment and the mitigation of and adaptation to climate change. 7. Environmental questions are a common issue, therefore, each of the internal members (workers and collaborators) and external members (suppliers and subcontractors) have the right and the moral obligation to participate in their implementation and to collaborate in their maintenance. 8. Ficosa has a framework for establishing objectives and goals for occupational health and safety, quality and environment, and reviewing these objectives is a high priority function in the development of our Company. These objectives must be based on the stakeholders’ requirements, as established in the MISSION. 9. Compliance with current legislation and regulations on occupational health and safety, quality and environment for Ficosa. Ficosa reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this third CSR report, Ficosa describes its actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations. 83 Grupo FICOSA Gran Vía Carlos III, 98 08028 Barcelona (Spain) Tel + 34 93 216 34 00 Fax + 34 93 490 10 63 www.ficosa.com © 2015 Grupo Ficosa and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is a Ficosa Public Information.
