2 0 1 6 CO R P O R AT E RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FOCUSED ON THE FUTURE A BOUT KOS MOS E N E R GY FROM THE MOMENT KOSMOS 2 Letter to Stakeholders Kosmos Energy is a pathfinding oil and gas exploration and production company 6 Oil and Gas Lifecycle focused on frontier and emerging areas along the Atlantic Margin. Our assets ENERGY BEGINS OPERATIONS IN A include existing production and development projects offshore Ghana, large 6 Financial Highlights discoveries offshore Mauritania and Senegal, as well as exploration licenses with COUNTRY, WE ARE COMMITTED TO significant hydrocarbon potential offshore São Tomé and Príncipe, Suriname, 7 B usiness Principles in Action Responsibilities to Morocco, and Western Sahara. As an ethical and transparent company, Kosmos ACTING IN THAT NATION’S LONGis committed to doing things the right way. Our Business Principles articulate the Stakeholders Ethical Conduct company’s commitment to transparency, ethics, human rights, safety, and the TERM INTERESTS. WE UNDERSTAND Our Workplaces environment. Kosmos is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under Kosmos and the Environment the ticker symbol KOS. For additional information, visit www.kosmosenergy.com. THAT WITH MAJOR DISCOVERIES Kosmos in Society Commercial Responsibilities – SUCH AS OUR RECENT NATURAL A BOUT T H I S R E P O RT 16 C onnecting Dallas to the World Through Art Our 2016 report, “Focused on the Future,” explains how corporate responsibility GAS FINDS OFFSHORE MAURITANIA 18 D eveloping STEM is a fundamental part of Kosmos Energy’s day-to-day business, and how we are making a positive difference in our host countries. The report reviews the AND SENEGAL – COME MAJOR Education in Dallas 20 Ghana application of our Business Principles and supporting policies across each stage of the upstream project lifecycle. We include information in the report based RESPONSIBILITIES TO HELP BUILD 26 Special Feature: on internal discussions, external stakeholder feedback, and consultations with third-party experts. The report is designed to communicate our progress on A BETTER FUTURE FOR ALL. Kosmos Innovation Center the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we support 30 Mauritania and endorse. In addition, this report is guided by the International Petroleum 34 Senegal Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) standards for voluntary reporting in the oil and gas sector and by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For 38 Tortue Gas Project an index of where information related to the Ten Principles and IPIECA reporting 42 Suriname standards is located, please see page 54. This report has not received external assurance from an independent reviewer. 45 Special Feature: Creating a Safety Culture We appreciate your interest in our company and welcome your feedback on how in Technical Schools we can improve our reporting. Please contact us at CorporateResponsibility@ kosmosenergy.com. 46 São Tomé and Príncipe 48 Morocco 50 Western Sahara 53 Special Feature: Preserving the Environment in Our Own Backyard 54 IPIECA/API/IOGP Content Index 57 2016 Performance Data On the Cover: (L) A Kosmos Energy employee in Mauritania discusses upcoming operations with a fisherman on the beach in Ndiago, Mauritania. (R) Two local entrepreneurs learn firsthand about challenges in the agricultural industry during a Kosmos Innovation Center market research tour of farms in Ghana. for these young people to start and scale their businesses, focusing first on the agricultural sector. We have a vested interest in seeing Ghana succeed and so we are doing all we can to help create a healthy, diverse, and thriving economy. It’s FELLOW in our company culture to take S TA K E H O L D E R S on tough challenges, so we are trying to grapple with the difficult problems facing agriculture – the country’s most important sector When Kosmos enters a country, we expect and largest employer. Just as we first unlocked the potential of a that we will be operating there for many years. moribund oil and gas industry when A graduate of Kosmos-sponsored English we entered Ghana more than 10 classes at a vocational training center in That is why we work so hard to ensure we start ANDREW (ANDY) G. INGLIS years ago, we want to help breathe Chairman of the Board Nouakchott, Mauritania is awarded her new life into Ghana’s agricultural off in the right way. and Chief Executive Officer sector. It’s our view that success in graduation certificate by Kosmos Energy one area can contribute to success Vice President and Mauritania Country in others. Manager Mohamed Limam. F or Kosmos, this means beneficial to both country and and embodies our differentiated In its inaugural year, the KIC building relationships based company. This notion of “country approach. mentored 44 young entrepreneurs on trust and supporting the and company” is always our In Mauritania, for example, where society organizations, and media The KIC is our way of investing in interested in starting businesses country’s economic development touchstone. youth unemployment is a pressing outlets working to promote good Ghana’s future beyond oil and gas. to address under-served needs in through investing in people and issue, we partnered with Start-Up governance and transparency in Working across the country’s key agriculture, with two promising their capabilities. We aim to be a Mauritania and the International the oil and gas sector. Our goal I NVESTIN G IN GHA N A’ S FU TU R E industries, we are marrying the enterprises ultimately receiving long-term partner, deeply engaged Labor Organization (ILO) to is to help Senegal prepare for Not surprisingly, our efforts have art of entrepreneurship with the the seed funding and technical create a center for promoting the day when major hydrocarbon in helping our host nations create blossomed most fully in Ghana, science of innovation to benefit the assistance required to turn their entrepreneurship where young production begins. a brighter future, because we where we have been doing business Ghanaian economy for the long ideas into viable businesses that can people can learn the skills required know our future success is fully for more than a decade, and where term. We are doing it by partnering modernize the agricultural sector. to start new businesses. In addition, connected to theirs. RISI N G TO N E W C H A LLE N G E S we launched last year the Kosmos with talented young entrepreneurs we increased and expanded our In 2017, the KIC will build on its early This approach is underpinned by Innovation Center (KIC), an exciting who have good ideas and big investments in English language With our natural gas development success and expand its activities. our Business Principles, which new initiative that demonstrates aspirations for helping their country. and business administration training taking shape offshore Mauritania We will put a second cohort of guide our behavior and ensure we the seriousness with which we take By bringing together the best minds through the Centre de Formation et and Senegal, and an active promising young entrepreneurs make decisions that are mutually our engagement with the country in Ghana, we are acting as a catalyst de Perfectionement Professionels, exploration program underway, through a cycle of mentorship with the largest vocational training we will have to raise our level of the aim of investing in two additional center in Nouakchott. As the oil and performance to meet ever higher ag-tech start-ups at the end of the gas industry grows in Mauritania, expectations. The future holds The Kosmos Innovation Center encourages process. In addition, we will provide and creates an ecosystem of several challenges: young entrepreneurs to unlock the a tailored acceleration program businesses within its supply chain, potential of Ghana’s agriculture sector. to help scale up existing smallit will require people with the right • Continuous Improvement to-medium sized agribusinesses skills and expertise. in Safety – In 2016, we met that have a demonstrated proof our safety target with a total In Senegal, we have committed to of concept. Offered to selected recordable injury rate of 1.3 and supporting the government in the companies, the program will target marked our fourth straight year creation of an oil and gas institute their key barriers to growth and without a lost time incident. We intended to develop the leaders help get them ready for additional and operators of the country’s cannot allow ourselves to become investment. petroleum industry. In addition, complacent. We must stay Kosmos has focused its early focused on protecting our people B U IL DIN G SKIL L S A N D EX PERT ISE social investments on enhancing and contractors while continuing IN MAU RITA N IA A N D SEN EG A L the capability of the national oil to drive toward an injury and company, Société des Pétroles incident-free workplace. In 2016, our investments in people du Sénégal (Petrosen), through and capability also impacted • Accelerating the Delivery of training and supplying powerful Mauritania and Senegal, where Sustainable Economic Benefits – new workstations that can analyze we have made a series of major Our proposed floating liquefied the complex seismic and drilling discoveries of natural gas and now natural gas (FLNG) project data from offshore exploration. face the challenge of developing offshore Mauritania and Senegal We have also organized and the resources in a manner that facilitated workshops to deepen the has the potential to be an engine creates broad-based economic knowledge of various government of growth. LNG exports could opportunity for the two countries. agencies, parliamentarians, civil make both nations important energy suppliers for many years 2 3 • Taking Leadership in Fishermen wait by their pirogues on a beach in In 2016, Kosmos drilled exploration wells Transparency to the Next Level – Ouakam, Senegal, one of the communities where offshore Mauritania and Senegal. Being transparent in everything Kosmos regularly interacts with stakeholders. we do requires courage; it takes true commitment, but is the right thing to do. We have set a standard for transparent behavior by publishing our host government contracts, along with payments to governments at the project level and in aggregate. We are seeing constant demand from stakeholders around the world who want to better understand how the oil and gas industry works. Kosmos wants to go beyond the box-checking exercise of making information publicly available and increase its engagement with stakeholders at every level to ensure they have the depth of knowledge needed to hold governments and industry accountable for managing oil and gas revenues appropriately. I am confident that we can address these challenges and do so in an open and collaborative manner, working with host governments, local communities, and business partners to find mutually beneficial solutions. CON TIN U IN G OU R JOU R N EY TOGETHER Although this report is filled with many positive stories, we know our journey is far from complete. to come, connecting them to become destinations of choice There is much more we can learn important world markets and for business. about our host nations. And there is generating billions of dollars in much more we can – and will – do With our FLNG project moving revenues that could be invested in to continue being a force for good forward, there is a growing the development of other sectors in the countries where we work. In expectation that more local – such as health, education, and the end, Kosmos is striving to be people and businesses will infrastructure. Our FLNG project known as the company that took be hired. Kosmos intends to is also expected to make available partnership seriously – listening staff its international offices a plentiful and competitively carefully, looking after the country’s predominantly, or exclusively, priced source of fuel to power the best interests, practicing humility, with local nationals. In addition, growth of electricity in Mauritania and investing in people to create a we expect to work with our and Senegal, which over time host governments to continue sustainable legacy. could enable the creation and investing in people and their skills expansion of local industry, so there is a talented pool of leading to significant direct qualified individuals ready to step and indirect job growth. And into jobs as they are created. Our finally, the successful execution intention to do business in our of such a large capital project host countries for the long term will enhance the attractiveness Andrew G. Inglis is reflected in our desire to build of both countries for further Chairman of the Board capacity so local people can play international investment. Our aim and Chief Executive Officer a major role in the development is to help Mauritania and Senegal of the industry. 4 5 OI L A N D G AS P R OJ E C T L IF E CYC L E PHASE 1 Entering a new market MOROCCO PHASE 2 Exploring the block through site and WESTERN SAHARA seismic surveys MAURITANIA PHASE 3 Undertaking SENEGAL exploration drilling PHASE 4 Appraisal drilling PHASE 5 GHANA Development SÃO TOMÉ PHASE 6 SURINAME and PRINCIPE Production F I N A N C I A L H IGH L I GH TS BUSINESS Year Ended (in thousands, except volume data) 2016 2015 2014 PRINCIPLES Revenues and other income Net income (loss) $385,355 (283,780) $471,556 (69,836) $882,738 279,370 IN ACTION Net cash provided by operating activities 52,077 440,779 443,586 Capital expenditures 644,510 777,204 528,414 Total Assets 3,341,465 3,203,050 2,926,859 Kosmos Energy was founded in 2003 with the goal of creating value for all Total long-term debt 1,321,874 860,878 748,362 of our stakeholders: investors, employees, and the governments and citizens Total shareholders’ equity 1,081,199 1,325,513 1,338,959 of our host countries. We recognize that creating steady, long-term returns Production (thousand barrels of oil per day) 19.21 23.4 23.4 can only be achieved by advancing the societies in which we work. Sales volumes (million barrels) 6.8 8.5 8.7 Total proved reserves (million barrels of oil equivalent) 77 76 75 In 2013, we adopted the Kosmos Energy Business Principles to formalize this Crude oil (million barrels) 74 74 73 commitment by articulating the values that have always guided our actions. Natural gas (billion cubic feet) 15 14 14 The Business Principles are also informed by what our stakeholders have told 1 1 .3 million barrels of lost production due to mechanical issues with the Jubilee FPSO turret bearing were paid to the company under us about their expectations of a responsible company. its Loss of Production Insurance policy in 2016. The Business Principles define how we conduct our business and the TOTA L E M P LOY E E S E MPLOYE E DIST RIB U T IO N standards to which we hold ourselves accountable. The Business Principles 267 are supported by more detailed policies, procedures, and management 2016 United States: 71% 192 Ghana: 17% systems which are referenced in this report and on our website. The Mauritania: 4% 256 Business Principles reflect our values across six areas: Responsibilities to 2015 Morocco: 2% 187 Senegal: 4% Suriname: 1% Stakeholders, Ethical Conduct, Our Workplaces, the Environment, Society, Total Employees U.S. Employees São Tomé and Príncipe: <1% and Commercial Relationships. 6 7 1 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE RESPONSIBILITIES TO STAKEHOLDERS • E • S  ntrepreneurship and Innovation – Linking to the entrepreneurial spirit and cando attitude that is at the heart of Kosmos’ culture, the same spirit that led to the company’s founding.  cience, Technology, Engineering and Math Strong and supportive relationships and political risk committee governments at the time of (STEM) Education – Linking underpin our business and create evaluates company performance licensing to ensure alignment to the deep expertise of our value. Our stakeholders are any against our Business Principles with national priorities and geologists, geophysicists, and interested or potentially affected and advises management on industry needs. Kosmos aims engineers who give Kosmos party, including shareholders, issues of potential political, to become a partner of choice. its technical and operational employees, governments, societal, or security risk. We are open about our business edge. By investing in STEM communities, business partners dealings with host governments education, we will help to • E  mployees – We aim to provide a create the next generation of and suppliers, and civil society. We because transparency builds stimulating and rewarding work technical experts. believe we have unique corporate trust and accountability. The environment through a culture responsibilities to each of these “Performance Data” on page 57 • B  usiness Partners and Suppliers – that promotes entrepreneurial groups: of this report lists the payments We will allocate contracts thinking, facilitates teamwork, Community leaders in the Western Region we made to governments in 2016. through a fair and transparent •  Shareholders – We aim to create and embraces ethical behavior. participate in a consultation meeting attractive returns and manage Directors, officers, and • C  ommunities – We believe in process, and adhere to our regarding operations offshore Ghana. our business risks. Kosmos employees are required to engaging local communities in Business Principles in our Energy’s board of directors comply with all aspects of the a manner that creates economic operations. We aim to work with focuses on building a successful, Business Principles and our and social opportunity and suppliers, both local and multiKosmos also engages in public private dialogue to advance peace, long-term future for the company Code of Conduct in their work respects human rights. Investing national, who share our values policy discussions occurring in support of the recently launched and ensures we maintain good activities and in representing the in community relationships and standards. Our employees globally on energy and corporate Sustainable Development Goals. corporate governance. The board company. We do not tolerate ahead of drilling operations is and contractors are prohibited responsibility. Kosmos has been To date, more than 130 companies is comprised of 10 members, discrimination. a key part of our approach in from misusing confidential a formal supporter of the United from nearly 40 countries have including eight independent every country. Our Stakeholder information to indulge in, or • H  ost Governments – We Nations Global Compact since joined Business for Peace. Kosmos directors. The board of directors Engagement and Community assist others to participate in, seek to collaborate with host 2013. The UN Global Compact is a has been an active participant has five standing committees: Development Policy explains insider trading. We expect our governments and contribute to voluntary initiative for businesses in this initiative and serves on its audit; nominating and corporate the standards to which we hold employees and contractors national development. Our goal that are committed to aligning steering committee. governance; compensation; ourselves accountable when to respect confidential and with host governments is to their operations and strategies with external affairs and political interacting with communities. We proprietary information and we develop a shared agenda based universal principles in the areas of risk; and health, safety and have published this policy on our similarly work to protect the on mutual trust and respect. human rights, labor, environment, environment. The external affairs website at: www.kosmosenergy. intellectual property of others. We begin engaging with host and anti-corruption, and take com/responsibility. In 2015, actions that advance societal goals. “Since our entry into Mauritania in 2012, we have been • C  ivil Society – We will engage we reviewed our global social with and listen to civil society, very successful in implementing our Business Principles, investment programs to better recognizing the role civil society which has enabled us to maintain and develop understand their impacts and plays in holding governments relationships of trust with all our partners: government, “One of the ways Kosmos engages its employees align their focus areas with and companies accountable. host communities, civil society and other national our business. As a result of the We are always open to having is through volunteer activities with long-term local stakeholders. We continue to work seamlessly, based review, we enhanced program meaningful dialogue with civil partners. In Dallas, we volunteer with Habitat for design and project selection on local resources, with a particular focus on capacity society about the challenges Humanity, the Salvation Army, and the North Texas criteria to ensure our efforts are inherent in exploring for oil and building, environmental protection and increasing the In September 2013, UN Secretary Food Bank. Each of these organizations has a proven sustainable and complementary gas. Sometimes we will disagree, local impact of our activities. Our way of working is very General Ban Ki-moon launched track record and is committed to serving and adding with local and national but we believe listening and much in line with the expectations of the Mauritanian the business leadership platform, development priorities. Our new engaging in debate deepens value to the lives of those who live in the Dallas-Fort Business for Peace, to mobilize government and people, which makes our partnership approach was implemented in our understanding of the issues. Worth community.” greater engagement of business in strong, sustainable and beneficial for all parties.” 2016 and targets the following We seek non-governmental support of peace as a complement MARY ANDREWS areas: organizations (NGOs) as valued MOHAMED LIMAM to government action. Led by the Treasury Manager • O ceans and Coasts – Linking partners in our social investment Vice President and Country UN Global Compact with a multito where Kosmos conducts its programs. Our relationships with Manager, Kosmos Energy stakeholder steering committee, operations and where relations civil society in the countries and Mauritania this platform seeks to elevate and with fishing communities communities where we work strengthen support for business are vital to protection of our create mutual value and are contributions and for publiclicense to operate. central to our success. 8 9 2 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE ETHICAL CONDUCT 3 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE OUR WORKPLACES The Business Principles are We exercise care in the selection São Tomé and Príncipe, Senegal, Kosmos aims to be a worldtheir ideas. We base employee supported by robust compliance of vendors, suppliers, and and Suriname. We advocate for class exploration and production recruitment and advancement on policies and methodology, contractors, and we impose the the adoption of EITI by our host company known for delivering merit. including our Anti-Corruption same high standards of conduct governments. excellent results and being a “My role in Human Resources in Ghana is progressive We seek to hire and develop local Compliance Policy and that we observe in our own workplace of choice for some of and employee-friendly. I joined Kosmos in 2011 as the employees for our international Procedures, which align with the company. We use a risk-based the best people in the industry. Administration Supervisor and soon realized that I operations. We are proud that in U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices process to evaluate third parties We want our employees to have wanted to build my skills in Human Resources. I was Ghana and Mauritania, 100 percent Act (FCPA) of 1977, the U.K. who will work on our behalf. careers that are professionally promoted from within to my current role. At Kosmos of our employees are citizens of Bribery Act of 2010, as well as We conduct background due challenging, personally rewarding, those countries. This level of local Energy Ghana, we endeavor to provide opportunities best practices in anti-corruption diligence when appropriate to and focused on delivering value employment is a long-term target for personal and professional growth. We transition compliance. Kosmos regularly make sure we have obtained to our stakeholders. In 2016, we for Kosmos in all of the countries evaluates its anti-corruption full disclosure. In addition In 2014, we made a policy hired 27 new employees to bring employees into more challenging leadership roles by where we have operations. We are measures and performance. to providing all third parties decision to disclose payments our total number of employees investing in training and development of our staff.” also committed to investing in the with copies of our Business to governments at the project at year end to 267 worldwide. development of our employees. EVA SCHANDORF Principles and Anti-Corruption level, as laid out in the European We incorporate the ideas and ANTI-CORRUPTION For example, employees hired in Union Accounting Directive, Human Resources and Compliance Policy, we routinely experiences new employees bring All Kosmos employees, board Ghana, Mauritania, Morocco, São Administration Manager, conduct in-country training for which is designed to improve while retaining our unique culture Tomé and Príncipe, Senegal, and Kosmos Energy Ghana members, and key contractors are key contractors and suppliers corporate accounting practices and upholding our Business required to attend yearly antiSuriname have rotated through on compliance and supplement and transparency. We believe this Principles. corruption training, and certify our U.S. headquarters on special in-person training with online type of disclosure is beneficial that they have read, understood, Kosmos focuses on recruiting, assignments or for training. These training modules. to investors, civil society, and will comply with our Antiretaining, and developing a diverse development opportunities have and local communities, and Corruption Compliance Policy. Kosmos conducts an annual and capable workforce that enabled them to assume greater reflects evolving international We recognize fundamental labor To further ensure comprehension, internal audit of the company’s embraces our Business Principles responsibility and handle the expectations. Kosmos is proud rights and require contractors all employees are required to compliance with its business and entrepreneurial culture. We increasingly complex work that to be the first U.S. oil and gas to adhere to international labor pass a test on the substance of ethics policies and periodically are an equal opportunity employer we are moving to local offices. We company to disclose project-level standards and local laws. We the policy. conducts audits on third parties. and do not tolerate discrimination, augment our internal programs payments to governments despite do not permit child, forced, or We maintain and respond to a harassment, or intimidation of any with external development not being legally obligated to bonded labor at our operations or Whistleblower Hotline as a vehicle kind. Employees are respected opportunities through our do so. among our suppliers. for employees, third parties and and encouraged to contribute Education Reimbursement Policy. others to report, without risk of We believe our approach to Kosmos is a relatively small retaliation, potential violations of transparency helps us better company with a fast-paced, any Kosmos policy. manage social and political issues, collaborative work environment establishing Kosmos as a partner and a high level of employee of choice and mitigating barriers engagement. We have instituted “At Kosmos, we work every day to ensure that our TRANSPARENCY to growth. programs to ensure employees business partners, whether vendors, service companies, Kosmos continues to be an remain engaged as the company or other energy companies, are aligned with our culture industry leader in promoting evolves. These programs include transparency by disclosing town hall meetings, during which of ethical business practices. Nothing is more important the terms of our petroleum senior management provides an than knowing that our business partners share our agreements and reporting operational update and holds an commitment to corruption-free, fair, safe, and legal payments made to our host open forum, as well as monthly transactions.” governments around the world. cross-departmental lunches with We are a Supporting Company members of the Kosmos senior ALISSA EASON of the Extractives Industries leadership team. Vice-President, Legal Transparency Initiative (EITI). and Contracts Employees at Kosmos are encouraged to Kosmos is a member of the EITI contribute ideas that improve operations steering committees in Ghana and Mauritania, and plays an and deepen relationships with stakeholders active role in the EITI process in in our host countries. 10 11 4 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE KOSMOS AND THE ENVIRONMENT As part of our ESIA process, we assess potential effects on sea birds such as those pictured here in Mauritania’s Diawling National Park. Kosmos values the natural areas decisions about the location • Significance of impacts and where it does business, both land and size of potential oil and gas evaluation of residual impacts and sea, and strives to prevent deposits. • Documentation of the or minimize potential adverse Prior to seismic acquisition or assessment process impacts on the environment. Our drilling operations, Kosmos Health, Safety, and Environmental Kosmos’ ESIAs may also include completes environmental and (HSE) management system, records of public consultation social impact assessments (ESIA) The Standard, was reviewed and supporting technical as standard practice. The process and refreshed in 2016, a process documentation. used satisfies International Finance we now conduct on an annual Conducted offshore, our seismic Corporation (IFC) guidelines, basis. The Standard sets clear acquisition activities also provide as well as those reflected in the expectations and performance unique insight into the presence Equator Principles. The key process measures that we use to plan and of marine life, including marine elements of an ESIA generally monitor our corporate, country, mammals, sea turtles, and sea consist of the following: and project-level activities. The birds. Where possible, we share Standard is available on our • Initial screening of the project this data with scientists and local website. and scoping of the assessment marine research institutes. Since process After license acquisition, the first 2013, we have contributed data for and TEN fields. While we do 2016, we continued requiring stage of the upstream oil and gas • Examination of alternatives papers on Clymene dolphins in the emergency. These simulations are not participate in the Climate personal and occupational safety project lifecycle is the acquisition Eastern Tropical Atlantic, whale adapted and created new to reflect Disclosure Project (CDP), Tullow Oil training for all employees to • Stakeholder identification of seismic data. In 2016, Kosmos and dolphin occurrence offshore the evolving nature of our business participates in the CDP, reporting reinforce our safety culture. (focusing on those directly completed or began seismic Ireland, and sea turtle populations activities. Our local leadership emissions and management affected) and gathering of surveys offshore Mauritania, offshore Morocco. teams and HSES advisors are processes on behalf of the Jubilee environmental and social Senegal, and Suriname. Our baseline date Kosmos also supports a mentored through these exercises co-venturers, including Kosmos. geologists and geophysicists use marine biodiversity initiative in to develop their ability to lead on Our management will revisit the geophysical data acquired in • Impact identification, prediction, Mauritania, the Biodiversity Oil the ground during an incident. this decision when Kosmos has “We firmly believe that geophysical exploration can these surveys to create detailed and analysis and Gas Program, to improve operated hydrocarbon production. be conducted in a responsible manner, minimizing In addition to training personnel, images of the earth’s physical • Generation of mitigation or understanding and protection Kosmos carefully considers the impacts to the environment and to communities. We characteristics which then enable management measures and of the ecosystems offshore technology and drilling equipment SAFETY PERFORMANCE conduct robust scientific studies and analysis for each us to make more informed actions Mauritania. This ambitious that it uses. We base our decisions We finished 2016 with a Total seismic survey to assess the impact to the environment. research project is being carried on our Well Integrity Management Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Similarly, we engage with local communities to out by the Mauritanian Institute System which governs well of 1.3 and a Lost Time Incident for Oceanographic and Fisheries design and how wells are drilled, understand their concerns, working to design a Rate (LTIR) of 0.0, against our Research in collaboration with the completed, and tested. We believe survey that will allow those communities to conduct global targets of 1.5 and 0.5, Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea in safe and efficient operations their operations in harmony with ours. Prior to each respectively. We had zero fines Research based in the Netherlands. that are consistent with strong and zero spills. As we strive geophysical survey, an Environmental and Social Impact More information about this well governance procedures and for continuous improvement in Assessment and Management Plan is produced in line program is available on page 33. internationally recommended best safety performance, our 2017 with regulatory guidelines and adopting international We plan for an effective and practices. performance targets are <1.25 timely response to emergencies best mitigation practices.” Kosmos believes climate change TRIR, <0.5 LTIR, zero spills and that could impact personnel, the is real and influenced by human zero fines/penalties. We aim to be DAVID WILSON environment, local communities, or activity. At this time, Kosmos does an injury-free workplace no matter Manager, Operations our assets. In 2016, we continued not operate any of its producing where in the world we operate Acquisition Geophysics our regular program of conducting assets. Kosmos’ only oil and gas and recognize that each individual several crisis simulation drills with production is offshore Ghana, needs to play a role in this internal and external stakeholders where our co-venture partner, effort – through safety vigilance, A seismic vessel collects data to help us improve our ability to Tullow Oil, operates the Jubilee awareness of surroundings, and offshore Suriname. respond in the unlikely event of an focusing on the task at hand. In 12 13 5 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE KOSMOS IN SOCIETY 6 BUSINESS PRINCIPLE COMMERCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES understand and mitigate any We seek to apply the U.N. Guiding At Kosmos, we see our interactions relevant local legislation. During this operations. Kosmos hosted potential adverse impacts from the Principles on Business and Human with local business partners as a process, we often identify areas for several forums during the year activities, and collect information Rights in all our operations. A key way to contribute to the countries additional training within our local which gathered management “Kosmos’ behavior in the communities in Senegal is that enables future operations to element of the Guiding Principles in which we operate, in addition supply chain. representatives from each of the underpinned by a deep respect and a real willingness benefit workers, communities, and is for companies to evaluate to paying taxes, fees, and other contractors providing support We seek to maximize the amount of to ensure communities can make the most of the local businesses. within their risk assessments the payments to host governments. goods, services, and employment in Mauritania and Senegal in benefits of our activities. This is reflected in an inclusive extent to which the company’s In fact, in the event of exploration a collaborative effort to share Upon establishing a country that we source locally. Our local activities may pose risks to those success, we see oil and gas perspectives on organizational and participatory approach based on continuous office to oversee our operations, content approach aims to enable around them. In 2015, we hired development as an engine of challenges and goals, crew resource communication and dialogue that allows the different we complete an assessment people to access jobs, and to enable a third party expert to conduct economic development. management, and showing clear stakeholders to influence Kosmos’ social investment to identify social investment businesses to access supply chain a labor rights risk assessment of leadership in HSES. Kosmos opportunities and potential We maintain high standards for our opportunities through Kosmos. and community engagement activities, and which our operations in certain countries considered this initiative to be partners from the community. suppliers and commercial partners This is more challenging at the helps to build collaboration of the majority of the to better understand our risks especially important during another In 2015, we reviewed our social in terms of safety, the environment, exploration stage when there are communities for the success of our operations.” during exploration, as well as risks year in which the industry business investment programs worldwide and anti-corruption. Suppliers are few non-technical jobs created and that could arise with oil or gas climate, combined with a planned MAMADOU MAR FAYE to better understand their impact. required to adhere to our Business highly specialized equipment is discoveries. We believe adopting pause in drilling activity, affected The result of the review led to Principles. Their willingness to often sourced globally. External Affairs Manager, a proactive approach to human morale among our contractors and a new approach, implemented observe the standards articulated Kosmos Energy Senegal rights is good risk management. In 2015, we assessed our could have led to a lowering of in 2016, that better aligns with in our Business Principles and approach to local content, both standards. community, government, and Kosmos seeks to implement supporting policies is a key at the corporate level as well as in company priorities. the Voluntary Principles on consideration in the selection Forum participants identified Mauritania where we had active Security and Human Rights in process. real-world challenges, such as drilling operations. The assessment HUMAN RIGHTS our operations. Although port maintaining institutional knowledge When a potential local supplier was completed by an international facilities are often secured by state in an aging workforce, cross-cultural Kosmos aims to be a trusted Kosmos has a deep commitment is found to be outside our HSE firm with relevant expertise and security providers, we use private understanding in multi-national partner, good corporate citizen, to respecting and promoting standards, we often work to found that we needed to update security providers for our office companies, and maintaining morale and catalyst for positive change. human rights. Our Human Rights provide the necessary training or certain policies and contract operations. We have conducted and focus in uncertain business While governments have the Policy, available on our website, certification to elevate them to language as well as improve crosssecurity assessments and conditions. Workshops were principal responsibility for ensures that our behavior toward the standard. This is frequently functional cooperation to optimize training sessions for these private coupled with visits to field sites to ensuring citizens benefit from employees, contractors, and the case, as we operate in a local content. contractors that incorporate the further assess operations safety. oil and gas development, we external stakeholders is both number of countries with nascent Voluntary Principles as guidance. An example of greater crossrecognize that Kosmos must responsible and respectful. We oil and gas industries. In 2015, we Our goal is not only to prevent functional collaboration is a recent behave responsibly. We are have conducted human rights organized contractor forums in potential human rights abuses, infrastructure survey covering both more likely to have a sustainable training sessions for employees both Mauritania and Senegal to but also to encourage security Mauritania and Senegal in which business if we work with a range and incorporated human rights provide training and reinforce our “I have managed procurement for Kosmos in Senegal providers to serve as advocates for a multi-disciplinary team visited of stakeholders, promote good into our social impact assessments HSE-related expectations. Local and protecting and promoting human public and private ports, quarries, since 2015. Since day one at Kosmos Energy Senegal, I governance, and maximize the to understand our potential risk multinational contractors attended rights. We are participating in the cement companies, transportation have been impressed by how we use local procurement opportunities we create for those exposure. these sessions in anticipation of Voluntary Principles process with providers, and other businesses increased activity and re-committed to contribute to the long term success of our business around us. the Government of Ghana, which to assess their ability to support a Since it is important for community themselves to working within our and also the development of local communities. I think Prior to seismic operations or members to achieve redress if is the first country in Africa to join large-scale construction project. standards. increasing the input of local labour, goods and services exploration drilling, we conduct they suffer harm as a result of the Voluntary Principles Initiative, One of the key aims of the survey environmental and social our operations, we maintain and and we plan to implement the Ensuring that our suppliers and was gathering sufficient information in our different projects is making a major contribution impact assessments to consult publicize mechanisms in every Voluntary Principles in developing contractors fully understand their to maximize the use of local vendors to the growth of the local economy. Indeed, sustaining with potentially impacted country for addressing grievances. our gas project offshore Mauritania contractual obligations regarding and materials. For example, we and impacting communities in a positive manner is one communities and create wellIn addition, we have trained and Senegal. anti-corruption provisions is vitally are now assessing the feasibility of of our main motives in developing our supply chain.” informed operating plans. These employees and contractors to important. Our local procurement using local quarries to supply stone assessments help us develop handle and resolve grievances professionals offer one-on-one for the construction of a breakwater. ANNE-MARIE GAYE a baseline of socioeconomic appropriately. sessions with our suppliers to Procurement Coordinator, In 2016, Kosmos launched a conditions before activities begin, explain our requirements under Kosmos Energy Senegal program to continue strengthening our policies, the U.S. Foreign relationships with the key Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the contractors that support drilling UK Bribery Act of 2010, and other 14 15 CONNECTING DALLAS TO THE WORLD THROUGH ART We believe that through our search for oil and gas – and the way we do business – we can have a positive impact on the places where we work by connecting people, bridging cultures, and deepening understanding. Art has the same power. In 2015, the Dallas Museum of several important masterworks Art (DMA) announced Kosmos that were on view in the first as the presenting sponsor of the exhibition. Keir Collection of Islamic Art for Kosmos’ partnership with DMA its inaugural years of exhibitions is an extension of our desire to and installations. The partnership engage with the communities between the museum and the where we live and work, and company provides $800,000 foster appreciation for the art of support over five years for and culture of these communities. a series of special exhibitions, Although the process of installations in the museum’s bridging cultures begins with the collection galleries, and a preservation of historic artifacts, prospective touring exhibition. it develops most fully through the The sponsorship also includes study of art and what it reveals resources to facilitate loans of not just about the artists and the items from the Keir Collection works themselves – their form, to other U.S. and international their style, and their content institutions. – but also the social, political, Assembled over the course and cultural circumstances of five decades by noted art that shaped them. When this collector Edmund de Unger knowledge is shared, it becomes a (1918-2011), the Keir Collection is catalyst for deeper understanding recognized by scholars as one of and greater trust. the world’s most geographically The people of Dallas will enjoy and historically comprehensive, the fruits of the scholarship encompassing almost 2,000 now taking place at the DMA on works in a range of media that the Keir Collection and will be span 13 centuries of Islamic art. able to view and learn from the The first exhibition, Spirit and collection for free. Those beyond Matter: Masterpieces from the Dallas will be able to access the Keir Collection of Islamic Art, ran art online through high resolution from September 18, 2015 to June photographs thanks to the 30, 2016, and showcased more museum’s ongoing digitization than 50 masterworks from the project. Works of art that are collection marking the first time essentially being discovered for many of the featured works had the first time will soon be available been on display in North America. to all. More than 115,000 people visited the exhibition. By supporting the display of the Keir Collection – and the In April 2017, the DMA opened scholarship and knowledge it The Keir Collection of Islamic Art will generate – we are doing our Gallery in a newly redesigned part in Dallas for the benefit of Sabiha Al Khemir, the Dallas Museum of Art’s gallery space that increased the increasing the understanding of number of works on view from senior advisor of Islamic Art, explains the people everywhere. the collection, as well as retained historical significance of a rock crystal ewer from the Keir Collection of Islamic Art. 16 17 DEVELOPING STEM EDUCATION IN DALLAS Teachers conduct science experiments as part of a workshop with the Kosmos STEM Teacher Institute. Each day at Kosmos, we use the fundamentals of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) to do our jobs. We interpret seismic data to identify potential oil and gas deposits. We plan deepwater drilling operations targeting prospects located more than three miles below the ocean floor. We study the rocks we bring to the surface to better understand where oil and gas might be found. Being at the forefront of science and technology is how we play our part in helping to meet the world’s energy needs and how we create value for our shareholders. BUILDING CAPACITY area attend a week-long Summer IN SCIENCE Academy, where they are grouped according to their level of comfort “Participating as a guest speaker in the Kosmos Energy The shortage of people with and expertise in sciences – pretraining in the STEM disciplines STEM Teacher Institute has given me an opportunity to service teachers, novice teachers, poses a potential long-term threat “pay it forward” to all the teachers that made science to many businesses, including our advanced teachers, and mentor and engineering interesting to me as I was growing up. teachers – rather than by grade own. In 2015, Kosmos announced During our STEM institute talks, we demonstrate actual level. a partnership with the Perot industry examples of very simple equations, such as Museum of Nature and Science Instruction continues through how we compute depth of drilling using the travel time to face this challenge headthe academic year with five on by helping Dallas teachers professional development and speed of sound, and how we differentiate oil from develop their ability to train and sessions held on weekends twice water in our deep reservoirs using an electrical circuit. inspire young people in the STEM a month, for which they receive For many teachers, this represents a unique opportunity disciplines. continuing education credits to interact with actual STEM professionals who entered The Kosmos Energy STEM Teacher required for teachers by the Texas the industry because of that one teacher that made the Education Agency. The teachers Institute is an innovative program are also mentored throughout the subjects engaging.” designed to improve the quality academic year. of formal science instruction for GUIDO PAPARONI participating kindergarten through In addition to providing funding Ghana Subsurface Manager 12th grade teachers, and increase for the program, Kosmos interest and engagement among engineers, geologists, and their students in STEM subjects. geophysicists have served as Through this program, teachers guest speakers on science-related enjoy professional development topics, including the practical opportunities and access to application of scientific principles the Perot Museum’s network of in business. educators and vast resources. The program positively impacted The program, which is now in its about 4,800 students during second year, involves a formal the 2015-2016 school year, with application process for teachers participating teachers reporting to ensure they are invested and increased confidence and committed. Chosen teachers from creativity in teaching the STEM across the Dallas-Fort Worth disciplines. 18 19 expenditures decline. The company Kosmos and its partners made asset has successfully reached an expects to generate significant free good progress in 2016 toward important inflection point and is cash flow in the current oil price converting the Jubilee FPSO to expected to generate free cash flow environment, providing greater a permanently spread-moored from operations in the years ahead GHANA balance sheet strength that will support growth. facility, following mechanical issues with the turret bearing. to enable Kosmos to grow. The revised operating procedures Safety and Environmental Production from the TEN fields implemented at Jubilee field have Performance started on time and was delivered worked effectively and remediation on budget. The 11 wells in the Our active monitoring of safety activities are progressing as initial phase of development – five and environmental compliance in planned, with the FPSO spread2017 marks the tenth producers, five water injectors, moored at its current heading in Ghana contributed to strong HSE and one gas injector – have been performance in 2016. There were anniversary of our discovery completed. At year-end 2016, late February 2017. The next phase of the remediation work involves no Lost Time Incidents (LTIs) for of the Jubilee Field in production from the TEN fields was any of our operations in Ghana in modifications to the turret for longapproximately 50,000 barrels of 2016. Tullow Oil is the operator the Tano Basin offshore oil per day gross. Initial production term spread-moored operations and planning for this work is of the Jubilee Field and reports Ghana – one of the largest testing and results from the 11 wells on the safety and environmental ongoing among the partnership at TEN suggest reserves estimates discoveries offshore West and the Government of Ghana. performance for Jubilee for both Ntomme and Enyenra are operations. We continued to invest Africa in the previous two consistent with expectations. With the value of Jubilee field intact in safety training throughout decades. The successful and the delivery of TEN, our Ghana the year, which helped sustain performance gains achieved in fast-track development prior years. produced first oil within 42 months of discovery. Gas to Power Kosmos continues to promote the use of natural gas to generate power. The Jubilee Partnership supplied on average approximately 60 million cubic feet of gas each day in 2016 to the Ghana National Gas Company’s onshore processing facility at Atuabo and onward flow to the Aboadze power plant for fuel to generate electricity. Kosmos continues to advocate for a national plan to expand Ghana’s gas infrastructure to meet the country’s domestic power needs in a more cost Ghana is the only country where role in stakeholder engagement, efficient and sustainable way. Kosmos produces oil and gas. We secondment of top talent to the GHANA are a non-operating co-venturer operations, social investments, ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING of the Jubilee Unit, comprised of and other activities to increase Tullow Oil, Anadarko Petroleum, assurance that Ghanaians receive As a long-term partner in Ghana, DEEPWATER PetroSA, and Ghana National benefits from hydrocarbon Kosmos regularly engages with TANO BLOCK WEST CAPE THREE POINTS Petroleum Company (GNPC). production. a wide range of stakeholders, BLOCK Tullow Oil is the operator of the including local communities, Jubilee field and thus oversees MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT contractors and suppliers, civil daily operations related to oil and society, media, and academia. We gas production. It is responsible In 2016, our Ghana asset reached JUBILEE communicate regularly with these for much of the data reporting a turning point with the startstakeholders to understand their associated with how the field is up of oil production from the concerns about our industry and managed and produced. Although Tweneboa, Enyenra, and Ntomme its impact on the country. We share Kosmos does not oversee day-to(TEN) fields. With oil and gas information that improves mutual Gulf of day operations of the Jubilee field flowing from both Jubilee and TEN, understanding of the role of the oil Guinea Ghana is now delivering increasing The FPSO John Evans Atta Mills began oil – that responsibility is left to the and gas industry. field operator – we take an active production and cash flow as capital production at the TEN fields in August 2016. 20 21 To supplement our formal Civil Society papers on social responsibility, as Linguists representing traditional chiefs grievance mechanism, we have well as health and safety. attend a commissioning ceremony for Kosmos maintains regular contact stationed Community Liaison with a range of civil society a new water treatment facility in the Officers (CLOs) in KosmosIndependent Advisory Council organizations in Ghana, such as the Western Region. branded offices in local villages. African Centre for Energy Policy, Kosmos took an important step in The CLOs solicit and respond the National Resource Governance 2014 to demonstrate our long term to feedback from people in the Institute, and the Ghana Extractive commitment to Ghana by creating community. This provides a fixed Industries Transparency Initiative an independent advisory council spot for communities to reach (GHEITI). GHEITI is an important comprised of respected Ghanaian Kosmos in person without having forum that Kosmos uses to engage business leaders who advise the to travel to our primary office in on issues of revenue transparency company and serve as a sounding Accra. Our CLOs and other staff and anti-corruption. In 2016, Ghana board as we work to support also participate in local festivals, completed its fifth oil and gas Ghana’s socio-economic needs such as the Kundum Festival, as reporting cycle. Kosmos has been and management of oil and gas part of our commitment to respect a part of the process since the resources. local traditions and customs, and beginning. We are a private sector support the well-being of the In 2016, we added three new member of the GHEITI multicommunities in which we operate. business leaders to the advisory stakeholder group, which oversees Kosmos takes a practical and the public reconciling of payments council, bringing the total to six long-term view of its relationship and receipts between government members: with the fishing community in and extractive companies. • Abena Amoah, founder and Ghana, focusing on collaboration chief executive officer, Baobab that addresses issues and solves Media Advisors; problems. Working closely with Editors and journalists are • Mansa Amoa Awuah, founder and the Jubilee/TEN Partners and the important stakeholders as they managing director, Saki Publicity Ghana National Canoe Fishermen regularly write about domestic oil Limited; Council, in 2016 our Community Liaison Officers engaged fishermen and gas activities and their work • Joe Winful, retired senior partner, and communities on exclusive often shapes public understanding. KPMG; and advisory zones related to the To deepen understanding of the industry and ensure reporting • Philippe Ayivor, retired executive, Jubilee field, Jubilee operational The Coca-Cola Company; issues, TEN field installations, and is more informed, we hosted an on the arrival of FPSO John Evans educational workshop for media Atta Mills. We also consulted with fellows in collaboration with the Local Communities benefits to, the communities commitment to doing business in communities regarding planned Africa Center for Energy Policy. directly associated with our Ghana, and the manner in which While our legal license to operate Journalists from 20 different operations. The area directly we monitor and respond to our seismic operations. We discussed is granted by the national publications came together onshore from the Jubilee and grievance mechanism. the location of the seismic survey, “The normal expectation of every company is to government, we seek to obtain to develop their knowledge TEN fields includes the six coastal the duration of the survey, the operate efficiently and effectively to ensure that they the broad support of, and bring Kosmos has two primary of the industry. The subjects districts of the Western Region, specifications of the seismic vessel approaches to managing explored in the workshops were meet the expectations of their stakeholders especially where we have centered much of and support vessel, and seismic grievances. The first is a formal equipment configuration. based on feedback from earlier shareholders. Their official obligation to the host our local community engagement. grievance mechanism that enables engagements with media and also country is only to pay appropriate taxes and obey the During meetings, we encourage The Government of Ghana is members of the community from local journalists who had community members to have an currently finalizing its National laws of the country. Kosmos has gone beyond that and to raise concerns and submit already participated in oil and gas “It is critical to learn the knowledge and culture of open dialogue with our company Action Plan for implementation have gotten involved with the growth and development complaints. Five grievances were training programs. our local communities. With this background we are by visiting our offices, contacting of the Voluntary Principles on of Ghana. Their support for youth and focus on a logged through this formal channel better placed to listen patiently, understand their views us by phone or email, or using our Security and Human Rights. vital sector like agriculture is looking forward to the in 2016. All of the grievances Business and Academia grievance mechanism. Kosmos has supported this and collaborate with them. For us it is a continuous concerned our social investment next generation and positioning the country for an In the Western Region, we projects in the Western Region. process by participating in multiIn 2016, Kosmos co-sponsored the process, exploring opportunities for mutual benefit Society of Petroleum Engineers’ impressive economic take off. I will just say that Kosmos regularly meet with the fourteen Our grievance management stakeholder roundtables to and approach for maintaining our relationship with discuss key issues that can help annual African Health, Safety, has redefined their business to include the human traditional councils within the has matured over the years, communities in Ghana.” six coastal districts, the Fish and has not only helped narrow with implementation. In addition, Security, Environment and Social element.” Processors’ Associations of the communication gap with we trained all Kosmos Energy Responsibility Conference and RICHARD QUAICOE JOE WINFUL Ankobra and Ekpu Communities, communities, but has also allowed Ghana security personnel on the Exhibition in Accra, which brought Community Relations Kosmos Energy Ghana as well as communities that members of the community to Voluntary Principles on Security together government, the private Supervisor, Kosmos Energy Advisory Council Member benefit from our social investment become part of the decision and Human Rights in 2016. These sector, academia, and nonGhana projects. The main topics of making process with regard to our personnel provide security for our governmental organizations from conversation include social local activities. employees and office operations in across Africa. Several employees investment projects, our ongoing Ghana. from our Ghana office presented 22 23 addition, Kosmos has worked focused on offering opportunities hard to build a network of local for young people to develop Water quality is inspected at a Kosmossuppliers, and provided training technology skills. After listening sponsored Water Heath Ghana facility in “As an impact investor, being on the Advisory Council is and capacity building ourselves to the interests and needs of Kwabenya. a great fit. It is not always that you find a company that to bring them to international communities, Kosmos built a is so passionate about the kind of legacy it builds and industry standards. new information technology (IT) preserves for its host country. Though in a non-operator center and provided equipment We continue to support social role, Kosmos Energy, through many of its initiatives for a second IT center in the investment in Ghana through Western Region in collaboration continuously improves the fortunes of the people of Kosmos-initiated programs, as well with the Ghana Education Service, Ghana. I am happy to partner with a company which as those led by the Jubilee Unit. district assemblies, and traditional In 2016, we took a new approach looks out for the good of the country.” councils. The two technology to social investment in Ghana by centers are in the Jomoro District ABENA AMOAH consolidating our efforts into the and Nzema East Municipality, Founder and CEO, creation of the Kosmos Innovation respectively, to serve local schools. Baobab Advisors Center. Page 26 describes the The objective is to help community Kosmos Innovation Center in detail. members, particularly young Each year we contribute to people, develop their IT skills and the Jubilee Unit and TEN then use the acquired skills for Development social investment their studies, including passing programs, which focus largely the Basic Education Certificate • Seth Kwasi Dei, founder, Leasafric on vocational training. These Examination. and Blue Skies Ghana Limited; initiatives are overseen by a As part of our plan for the • Ishmael E. Yamson, nonteam of representatives from sustainability and day-to-day executive chairman, Standard the Jubilee Unit companies, management of the centers, Chartered Bank Ghana Limited, including Kosmos. These Kosmos setup a printing house and former Chairman of Unilever projects are carefully designed at the New Nzulezo Center as a Ghana Limited and Ghana in collaboration with communitystrategy to internally generate Investment Promotion Centre. level stakeholders to ensure their funds and to ensure continuity and long-term sustainability. For more Members of the council were easy access to IT for the schools’ information on the Jubilee Unit and selected based on their business pupils and rural communities. TEN Development social projects, knowledge, diverse points of view, visit our website at In a similar collaboration with local and history of success leading www.kosmosenergy.com/ghana. communities, Kosmos developed companies in Ghana. By listening the Teacher’s Resource Center to the advice and insights of these In the community, Kosmos’ as a multi-use space for local business leaders, Kosmos is playing capacity building initiatives teachers to receive training, hold a more active role in helping Ghana develop the full potential of its oil and gas resources to Children attend school in Takoradi, the support Ghana’s development. capital of Ghana’s Western Region. There is natural alignment between Kosmos and Ghana when it comes to creating a well-managed and increasingly productive petroleum workshops, and work together to worked with the Safe Water Upon completion of this project sector. develop teaching aids for schools Network to build water filtration in 2016, the total development in the Beyin and Atuabo areas. An systems for over 28,000 people included construction of three existing building near a school in from 20 villages in the Western water purification facilities, training POSITIVE IMPACTS Beyin was renovated to house the Region. The project received such of three operators from local Kosmos is committed to playing center. The Teacher’s Resource a positive community response communities, and implementation its part in creating positive Center focuses on training teachers that Kosmos decided to expand of a monitoring program to development outcomes for host in instructional methods to our support of water projects to gauge sustainability. In addition, countries from our oil and gas improve literacy among the local other parts of the country. health and hygiene education and discoveries. In Ghana, sourcing population. A steering committee monitoring activities are being We currently partner with Water goods and services locally and of education and community implemented to ensure improved Health Ghana, a subsidiary of hiring Ghanaian nationals is an leaders oversees the center’s daily health outcomes. The community Water Health International, to important way that we achieve this operation. water stations completed in 2016 provide clean drinking water for goal. In 2015, Kosmos achieved now supply approximately 39,000 Kosmos has supported clean the villages of Kwabenya (Greater a major milestone by employing people with clean drinking water. drinking water projects in Ghana Accra), Amanase (Eastern Region), a 100 percent Ghanaian staff. In for the last five years. We first and Nyanyano (Central Region). 24 25 KOS MOS I N N OVAT I O N C ENTE R “The agricultural sector was After more than a decade of helping to develop the oil and gas industry, we not foreign to us but the launched the Kosmos Innovation Center (KIC) in 2016 to help Ghana build Kosmos Innovation Center AgriTech Challenge made us a brighter future by applying innovation and technology to some of the take a second look at what we country’s key challenges. knew. We were overwhelmed by the opportunities in the In its first phase, the KIC has turned its attention to agriculture – the largest sector in Ghana’s economy. The KIC agriculture value chain. Now has focused on the nexus between information and communications technology (ICT) and agriculture, with the we have created a business goal of inspiring young entrepreneurs to transform Ghana’s agricultural sector. solution to improve productivity To achieve results that drive change, the KIC uses a three-pronged approach: Collaboration, Incubation, and Acceleration. in the sector. We look forward to building a solid business even before we step out of incubation.” COLLABORATION INCUBATION ACCELERATION GHALANI TEAM Through workshops, Through a formal competition Through technical assistance conferences, and other events, focused on innovation, the KIC and capital investment, the KIC the KIC brings together the challenges young entrepreneurs is accelerating the development best and brightest minds from a to use technology to develop of promising small businesses. range of fields, such as business, commercially viable solutions After a stringent screening technology, finance, academia, to address challenges within process, selected companies TROTRO TRACTOR AND agricultural aggregators, who often the inaugural AgriTech Exchange, and others, to talk through the agriculture. At the end of will receive a range of support GHALANI WIN INAUGURAL have to manage relationships with an interactive and informative challenges in improving Ghana’s the competition, selected aimed at helping them grow. AGRITECH CHALLENGE thousands of small-holder farmers, brainstorming session in which agricultural sector. These entrepreneurs receive seed to efficiently organize, manage, and experts in agriculture, business, In September 2016, Kosmos carefully selected individuals funding, technical assistance, monitor these farmers to improve and technology gathered to define announced the winners of the share their knowledge, inspire and mentorship to help them productivity and reduce risk. the most pressing challenges Kosmos Innovation Center AgriTech each other, and work together turn their ideas into reality. facing Ghana’s agricultural sector. Challenge, the formal competition TroTro Tractor and Ghalani to develop practical solutions. The Meltwater Entrepreneurial In a highly competitive selection that invited young entrepreneurs were selected from an original School of Technology (MEST) process that followed the event, to use innovation to develop field of more than 100 young is the KIC’s key partner in the young entrepreneurs pitched commercial solutions to challenges entrepreneurs from all over Ghana inspiring budding entrepreneurs preliminary ideas to a panel of within agriculture. After nurturing who entered the competition, to use technology to transform judges drawn from the Ministry their ideas through research and which began in April 2016 with agriculture in Ghana. collaboration, and pitching them to a panel of expert judges, winners of the competition received US$50,000 in seed funding. In addition, they received one year of technical assistance and mentorship from the KIC and MEST to help turn their ideas into viable businesses. TroTro Tractor Limited is developing a platform that uses mobile phones and GPS units to connect farmers to tractor operators within their vicinity, enabling them to request, schedule, and pre-pay for tractor services. The platform gives farmers greater access to mechanized Young entrepreneurs with the Kosmos farming equipment. Kamal Deen of TroTro Tractor learns about Innovation Center work on business plans Ghalani is creating farm growing corn from a local farmer during a during a Collaboration Session. management software that helps KIC market research trip. 26 27 KIC Agribusiness Specialist Benjamin Gyan-Kesse works with a young “We joined the Kosmos entrepreneur on a market research tour Innovation Center as individuals to farms across Ghana. with different objectives. We came to the end of the programme as a team with a product, a business, and the goal of making agriculture an attractive sector for other youth entrepreneurs to participate.” TROTRO TRACTOR TEAM of Agriculture, academia, and and preparing for a 13-day field which were pitched to the panel private sector enterprises. Just 44 research tour. The KIC-sponsored of expert judges in late June 2016. entrepreneurs were selected to research tour took participants Entrepreneurs who progressed move forward to the second stage to five regions in Ghana – Greater through this first-round pitch of the competition. Accra, Volta, Eastern, Ashanti, and continued working on their business Brong-Ahafo – to interact directly plans in advance of the final pitch in In May 2016, the 44 young with farmers and agribusinesses to August 2016 that ultimately selected entrepreneurs – known in the test their assumptions and collect the winners. program as “AgriTechies” – valuable input. attended a series of lunch-and-learn Commenting on the successful programs aimed at deepening their The 44 young entrepreneurs, program, Kosmos Energy understanding of the agricultural who formed into 11 teams, vice president and country sector, studying the challenges continued to refine their ideas manager Joe Mensah said: “We identified in the AgriTech Exchange, and formulate business proposals are on to something big. This program encourages smart young entrepreneurs to look at agriculture differently. With the type of innovation fostered by the KIC, our young people can make agriculture a more dynamic sector Katie Sarro, Managing Director, an unstoppable combo that has additional ag-tech start-ups and attractive career path with MEST said, “We’re thrilled to be already demonstrated a lot of at the end of the process. In plenty of opportunity. I am thrilled working with Kosmos Energy on promise. We’re proud of what addition, we will provide a tailored with the tremendous response that the Kosmos Innovation Center we’ve accomplished thus far and acceleration program to help we have gotten from young people and AgriTech incubator. This is a we look forward to continuing to scale up existing small-to-medium who want to be a part of this effort mutually beneficial partnership mentor and nurture these promising sized agribusinesses that have a to transform Ghana. As we move whereby each party brings AgriTech startups through funding, demonstrated proof of concept. on to the second competition in their respective strengths to the incubation, and technical support.” Offered to selected companies, 2017, I would like to encourage other table. We especially appreciate the program will target their key In 2017, the KIC will build on its early companies to join us as we invest in Kosmos’ dedication in bringing barriers to growth and get them success and expand its activities. these promising young people and the necessary expertise within the ready for future investment. The AgriTechies pose before the lunch We will put a second cohort of the businesses they are creating to agriculture sector. That, combined and learn on the challenges in agribusiness promising young entrepreneurs For more information about the improve agriculture in Ghana.” with our expertise in building through a cycle of mentorship Kosmos Innovation Center, visit in Ghana. world-class tech companies, is with the aim of investing in two www.kosmosinnovationcenter.com. 28 29 to cement factories, railroads, and trucking companies, to assess their Kosmos’ operations in Mauritania are ability to support the construction based out of the Port of Nouakchott. associated with our natural gas MAURITANIA project by providing raw materials and logistics. The team also visited with many local and national government stakeholders in the mining, port, and transportation sectors to solicit their input and support. The result of the trip Kosmos currently holds was a thorough assessment of petroleum contracts for four goods, services, and infrastructure available locally, which we plan blocks offshore Mauritania to use as much as possible as we – C6, C8, C12 and C13 – develop the Tortue gas field. A more detailed description of this Kosmos works hard to apply the covering over 31,000 square infrastructure assessment can be United Nations Guiding Principles kilometers. Kosmos has built found on page 41. on Business and Human Rights in on the exploration success Our exploration activities are every country where we work. Our “The BGP Programme was founded in order to provide supported out of the Port of ongoing presence in Mauritania information about the vulnerability of the Mauritanian we had offshore Mauritania includes a small office staff and Nouakchott. In 2016, we relocated waters to human activities, reduce the environmental in 2015, when we made two our operations to a new area related office services. During operations, we also employ highly risk off offshore development, and strengthen the major discoveries of natural of the port in order to allow for skilled labor and services for drilling protection of marine biodiversity. While Mauritania’s future expansion. The relocation gas. In 2016, we acquired was completed safely and without and seismic surveys, as well as the coast is quite famous for wildlife, experts had very management of the shore base at little information about marine biodiversity in deeper more than 6,000 square incident. Prior to the move, we held a Health and Safety workshop to the Port of Nouakchott. waters where oil and gas activities were beginning kilometers of seismic data as reinforce our expectations of our In late 2015 we conducted a labor to take place. Thanks to the BGP research, we now part of a larger survey that employees and contractors, both rights risk assessment of our know that the waters offshore Mauritania are globally multi-nationals and those based operations in Mauritania using a will eventually cover a total locally. significant for large numbers of seabirds and marine third party expert. The purpose of 11,000 square kilometers. As part of our seismic program, of the study was to deepen our mammals. For example, up to one million seabirds understanding of potential labor can be encountered along Mauritania’s narrow shelf Kosmos has supplemented national requirements by developing risks in our workforce and our break, coming from the North and South hemispheres its own guidelines for seismic supply chain and to identify to forage in these waters outside their breeding season. surveys based on international areas for further analysis and We also discovered that these seabirds concentrate best practices and specific improvement. in well-defined and predictable areas around the recommendations from the Joint The assessment’s recommendations shelf break together with marine mammals such as Nature Conservation Committee, included: The second phase of our MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT an advisor to the United Kingdom humpback, sperm and blue whales. Understanding • Conduct a more detailed and being able to predict such biodiversity hotspots exploration program offshore on national and international Atlantic BLOCK In 2016, we focused on scaling assessment of working conditions C6 Mauritania, in the third quarter of up our office staff and reviewing conservation. This productive will help the oil and gas and fishing industries mitigate Ocean at the port, with a particular 2017, is focused on finding liquids. collaboration resulted in heightened potential impacts to biodiversity. Therefore, investing supply chain opportunities for emphasis on safety and work We are currently maturing and measures to protect sea turtles investing in local content. Our hours in biodiversity research in Mauritania’s deeper water ranking our prospect inventory with and marine mammals offshore office in Nouakchott is staffed is a way for Kosmos to not only reduce its own risks, the expectation that we will test Mauritania. • Conduct human resource BLOCK with 100% Mauritanian citizens, but more importantly to contribute to sustainable C12 two independent multi-billion barrel management capacity reviews for and we prioritize the personal During our seismic operations, prospects on the basin floor fan our local office and all vendors development in the region.” and professional development of we work closely with the Institut fairways offshore Mauritania. These • Trace and map key vendor supply these employees. We have also Mauritanien de Recherches DR. KHAIRDINE MOHAMED two wells will test approximately chains ABDALLAHI MAURITANIA introduced training programs Océanographiques et de Pêches 4 to 5 billion barrels of oil BLOCK for local suppliers and their staff (IMROP) to ensure that we are also Coordinator of Resource C8 equivalent of unrisked, gross • Deploy training and capacity focused on workplace health and contributing to scientific knowledge Research and Environment potential. We believe they are building programs that promote SENEGAL safety, as well as labor rights. about the Mauritanian offshore Program, Institut some of the largest prospects the diversity Mauritanien de Recherches BLOCK environment. We rely on local C13 industry will drill anywhere in the In 2016, Kosmos sent a multi• Internal harmonization and Océanographiques et des experts to help develop the best world during the next 18 months. disciplinary team to Mauritania coordination of standard setting, Pêches (IMROP) marine research possible. to conduct an infrastructure performance monitoring and data assessment, which included tours of analysis. ports and quarries, as well as visits 30 31 highlight our commitment to valuable forum for us to engage on doing things the right way, and transparency and anti-corruption Researchers with the Biodiversity Oil and explain our planned seismic initiatives. Gas Program analyze marine mammal and “I support the activities and operations of all finance activities. These consultations were sea bird activity while on a marine survey and accounting matters for Kosmos Energy Mauritania attended by NGOs, fishermen, offshore Mauritania sponsored by Kosmos. POSITIVE IMPACTS such as Treasury, Accounting and Budgets, and Tax and local religious, economic, and government leaders. We One of the first social investment Compliance. Since joining Kosmos in 2015, I have had heard a general concern from projects that Kosmos developed the opportunity to develop my skills and fully integrate was providing English language civil society over offshore oil and into a unique team with an innovative spirit.” training for students at Centre de gas projects, but also excitement for the economic possibilities as Formation et de Perfectionement SIDATY DOUMBIYA long as operations are conducted Professionels (CFPP), the largest Accounting Assistant, transparently. We used the vocational training center in Kosmos Energy Mauritania community consultations as an Nouakchott. We had learned opportunity to remind stakeholders from a needs assessment that the of our grievance mechanism in students were often being excluded Mauritania and how it works. from job applicant pools for which they were qualified because they The stakeholders had a number did not have sufficient English In 2016 we reviewed all of our of questions which are addressed language skills. Thus, 2016 was vendors’ contracts and payroll. by the seismic environmental and the third consecutive year that we master’s program, a joint master’s We aim to reassure the fishing and projects that had been successful Over the course of the year, we took social impact assessment. These have provided English classes for degree program on managing scientific communities interested in in the region. Thus, in 2016 Kosmos corrective actions related to late questions covered impacts on fish students at the CFPP. In response impacts from the extractive sector, this area that Kosmos understands developed a rural electrification payment of wages in two instances and marine biodiversity, waste to student and staff suggestions, held at the University of Nouakchott their concerns, takes environmental project in Ndiago in partnership and terminated one contract due to disposal, and job creation. The Kosmos has also provided and the University Gaston Berger and social risks seriously and will with the local community and the non-compliance with our Business consultations concluded with an lessons in basic management of Saint Louis, Senegal. The not only work to mitigate risks but Ministry of Energy. Principles and related policies. We open invitation to continue dialogue and entrepreneurship skills. We master’s degree program was also endeavor to have a positive ultimately had little operational on our activities, as well as a Kosmos is building solar partner with the International developed by the International impact in the area. In 2016, we activity in Mauritania in 2016. As commitment to keep stakeholders installations in remote areas of Labor Organization (ILO) office in Union for Conservation of sponsored BGP researchers on our workforce and vendors prepare informed of our progress and plans. Ndiago that are not connected Mauritania on an employability skills Nature (IUCN), United Nations a multi-week marine survey to for drilling and development to the power grid. The project is Kosmos serves as a member of the training program for the students Development Programme (UNDP), increase knowledge and data activities in 2017, we will be actively designed to deliver electricity Mauritanian Extractive Industry enrolled in the English classes. the German Development Institute about biodiversity in the waters prioritizing and pursuing the for more than 2,000 local people. Transparency Initiative (EITI) (GIZ), MAVA Foundation, Global offshore Mauritania. The results recommendations stemming from While we pursue development of It is our hope that reliable power Steering Committee. We believe Environment Facility (GEF), the of their research are available at the labor rights risk assessment. the country’s natural gas resource, will lead to increases in quality that the best way to promote World Wildlife Fund (WWF), and http://www.kosmosenergy.com/ we aim to enhance national of life. Additional electrification economic growth and fight the two universities for students responsibility/environment.php. capacity in the oil and gas industry is expected to improve health ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING corruption is through cooperation from Mauritania, Senegal, and and related fields. An early initiative While many of our social programs and indoor air quality; increase and transparent engagement with other African countries. Kosmos We believe that being a great is a multi-year partnership with are based in Nouakchott and connectivity through mobile device a range of stakeholder groups. is supporting the GAED master’s explorer is not enough to be the Gérer les impacts des activités support national development, charging and better access to radio The EITI in Mauritania has been a program by providing our successful – we must also engage extractives (GAED) international we believe it is also important to and television; and result in greater employees as guest lecturers, with local people and listen to benefit coastal communities in the productivity in economic activities. hosting field trips and internships, their concerns. Our gas discoveries Ndiago region, which is directly and providing financial support. Fisheries are a key income offshore Mauritania mean that we onshore from our license areas near provider in the Ndiago region. will have a presence in the country Mauritania’s Biodiversity Oil and the border with Senegal. Because Understandably, the local for many years to come. We want Gas Program (BGP) is a publicthere was little demographic and community strongly prioritizes the to be a welcome investor, both to private partnership supported economic information available on safety of its fishermen and their our host governments and local by the Ministry of Environment the Ndiago region when we entered vessels, as well as the safety of communities. To achieve this goal, and Ministry of Energy. Kosmos is Mauritania in 2013, we began our those engaged in ancillary activities we endeavor to build relationships pleased to be engaged with the work in the area by conducting a such as fish processing. After with stakeholders through BGP team and provide support community needs assessment. consulting with representatives engagement and listening. for marine research and policy The assessment identified energy of the community and monitoring development. The BGP Program In 2016, we led community access as a local need in Ndiago. usage of previously donated items, aims to bring stakeholders together consultations as part of our During stakeholder meetings, in 2016 we provided additional to improve marine biodiversity environmental and social impact community and local authorities safety gear and fish processing protection, regulatory capacity, and assessment process for seismic had suggested that the local equipment to the Ndiago surveys and drilling. We met with Young people learn entrepreneurship skills during “Start-up engagement among the various economy could greatly benefit from community to reduce health risks Week,” hosted by Start-Up Mauritania. Kosmos began supporting groups that use the ocean. Kosmos local representatives as part of an electrification projects. The needs and improve working conditions. Start-Up Mauritania in 2016, both through event sponsorship and has participated in BGP stakeholder Environmental Impact Assessment assessment had also highlighted participating in their professional mentor program. dialogues, as well as served as an to introduce the company, several solar panel installation industry resource for the program. 32 33 offshore Mauritania and Senegal contractors. The workshops were assessment report helped us with a 100 percent success rate. coupled with field visits to further better understand potential social We are currently maturing and assess operational safety. and environmental impacts of the ranking our prospect inventory project, as well as public concerns, SENEGAL with the expectation that we will test a further multi-billion barrel oil ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING Our Dakar-based external affairs which led to more informed impact management plans and project equivalent prospect on the basin planning. floor fan fairways offshore Senegal and communications staff have continued to maintain and The ESIA process included during the next 18 months. broaden relationships with local extensive public consultations. communities, municipal authorities, Kosmos and the ESIA team initiated MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT Kosmos has an operating public technical services, civil public consultations early in the Kosmos opened its office in Dakar society, and journalists in Dakar, process to identify stakeholders’ interest in two exploration questions and concerns. In total, in September 2014 to support the as well as the coastal communities blocks offshore Senegal upcoming drilling program and stretching from Dakar to Saint approximately 1,000 people were establish a visible presence in the Louis. The coastal communities informed and consulted directly – Cayar Offshore Profond in two waves of public meetings country. Previously, Kosmos had are familiar with Kosmos from and Saint Louis Offshore spent more than a year working communications related to our organized by Kosmos and the Ministry of the Environment. Profond. The license areas almost exclusively in fishing seismic campaigns and drilling communities onshore from our activities as well as our social Stakeholders asked questions are adjacent to, and on trend license areas to introduce the investment activities. We regularly and shared concerns during with, our blocks offshore company, begin building productive visit coastal communities and public the consultations. We received relationships, and prepare for technical services to share updates feedback about fishing, neighboring Mauritania. both seismic surveys and drilling on our operations offshore. environmental protection, and activities. potential interference of the Since those early days, we have Environmental and Social Impact drillship with other maritime continued to build our small but Assessment vessels. The assessment found that capable team in Dakar which no impacts on artisanal fisheries Ahead of drilling activities is comprised predominantly were expected from the routine conducted in 2016, Kosmos of Senegalese nationals. We operations of the exploration partnered with international experts have provided development program, but there was a potential and local Senegalese companies to opportunities to our Senegalese for interaction between support prepare a thorough environmental staff through training workshops vessels and small fishing boats. and social impact assessment and special assignments to enhance (ESIA) for our proposed drilling To mitigate this, both the rig and their capabilities. activity. The process and final support vessels were equipped with In 2016, Kosmos launched a program to continue strengthening relationships with the local A journalist from a local radio station and multi-national contractors covers Kosmos’ social investment activities that supported our drilling in Saint Louis, Senegal. operations. An important aspect We announced the results of approximately 91 kilometers of the program involved an HSE two successful exploration wells southwest of the Guembeul-1 Atlantic forum conducted in Dakar which Ocean offshore Senegal in 2016, which well, also discovered a very large brought together management both discovered significant deposits gas deposit and confirmed that a representatives from each of the ST. LOUIS of natural gas. The Guembeul-1 well, prolific inboard gas fairway extends contractors supporting Kosmos OFFSHORE which was located approximately approximately 200 kilometers from PROFOND operations in a collaborative effort five kilometers south of the basinthe Marsouin-1 well in Mauritania to share perspectives regarding opening Tortue-1 gas discovery through the Tortue area on the organizational challenges, crew offshore Mauritania, demonstrated maritime boundary all the way to resource management, and ways reservoir continuity, as well as the Teranga-1 well in Senegal. to show leadership in areas such as static pressure communication with In early 2017, Kosmos announced safety, health, and the environment. Tortue-1, suggesting that a single another major discovery of Kosmos considered the focus on SENEGAL large gas accumulation stretches natural gas offshore Senegal safety to be especially important CAYAR across the maritime boundary OFFSHORE with the results of the Yakaar-1 during a year which saw weakness between the two countries. PROFOND exploration well. Kosmos has now in oil markets and a pause in The Teranga-1 well, drilled in the drilled six consecutive successful drilling activities which could affect Cayar Offshore Profond block exploration and appraisal wells morale and focus among certain 34 35 radar scanner systems that would little immediate benefit, and transparency in partnership with We have also invested in workshops pick up another marine vessel in the this was explained during the the Senegal EITI Committee. We to deepen the sector knowledge of Kosmos’ employees participate in a area even if the vessel did not have consultation meetings. In the event brought independent international other government agencies, such meeting in our office in Dakar, where we signal/communication systems on of exploration success, Kosmos experts to Dakar to present at the as the Ministry of Economy and had ten employees at year-end 2016. board. Further, the support vessels works with the government to workshop, and attendees included Finance. Our goal is to help Senegal established a navigation routing determine ways that benefits can civil society, parliamentarians, and prepare for the day when offshore plan from the shore base to the rig flow to local people. However, industry representatives. hydrocarbon production begins. that minimized risks of interference even during the exploration In addition to meeting regularly Our support for capacity building with populated fishing areas. We phase, Kosmos is committed to with civil society, a Kosmos extends beyond government recruited Fisheries Liaison Officers creating economic opportunity representative was invited to be the to include civil society. When a from the area to engage with local both through its core business and keynote speaker at the Regional 24-person delegation from Senegal artisanal fishermen to ensure their its social investment programs. Parliamentary Network for Good – comprised of EITI committee vessels were in compliance with We are committed to optimizing Governance of Resources, an members, parliamentarians, and safety measures. the participation of capable local event held in Dakar which included civil society groups – visited their suppliers so as to increase the While it was true that negative members of parliament and civil counterparts in Accra to learn linkages between Kosmos’ business impacts to marine fauna could society from Senegal, Mauritania, more about Ghana’s experience and the Senegalese economy. have occurred from routine Burkina Faso, and Guinea Bissau. embracing transparency and Kosmos provided global positioning has been working in the Saint Louis Further, Kosmos has developed a operations, the magnitude and Kosmos also hosted a workshop good governance, Kosmos systems, solar lamps that illuminate area for more than 30 years, to social investment plan that takes extent of these impacts were in Dakar for editors and journalists hosted the group at its office and night fishing and serve as distress implement a project addressing into consideration local needs and almost uniformly negligible or low, from TV, radio, newspapers, participated in the productive beacons, and life vests to the fishing several environmental risks that development priorities. and very localized. Implementation and websites to deepen their discussion. Similarly, Kosmos associations. The associations are are impacting the quality of life of proposed mitigation measures Throughout the ESIA process, we knowledge and understanding of invested in sending two civil society now selling the equipment to their of fishing communities along the further reduced the potential for engaged a range of stakeholders the oil and gas sector. representatives to attend a Natural members at a subsidized price. The Langue de Barbarie. The key environmental impacts. In the in order to gain support for the Resources Governance Institute revenue generated can then be components of the project include: At various times during 2016, end, drilling operations proceeded drilling project. The ESIA team (NRGI) summer school in Cameroon used by the associations to: Kosmos corresponded with • A mangrove reforestation effort without incident. spent considerable time building on responsible management of stakeholders in Senegal who • Invest in more equipment thereby to combat coastal erosion, which relationships with key regulators, the extractive industry. One of the During the ESIA consultations, had questions about how we creating a virtuous cycle of safety includes tree planting and the agencies, ministries, and coastal sponsored participants was from community members regularly acquired our licenses to explore consciousness introduction of a community fishing communities. Each of Senegal’s Human Rights Committee inquired about benefits to the offshore Senegal, the nature of environmental observatory these constituencies participated (Comité Sénégalais des Droits de • Invest in the fishing associations’ local population and job creation. the transaction involved, and our in the ESIA process (through l’Homme), and the other from the social funds, which provide a • Interventions to improve fishing Exploration drilling creates future plans. In keeping with our consultations, reviews of materials, Senegal EITI. safety net for fishermen and livelihoods, including providing commitment to transparency, or facilitating meetings) and their families who have suffered biogas as an alternative source of we published the exchange of ultimately supported the outcome Fishing Communities and the work-related accidents resulting energy to women working in fish letters on our website: www. and Kosmos’ plan of activities. Environment in disability or loss of their processing and the introduction kosmosenergy.com/responsibility/ equipment, and of 500 artificial reefs on the The results of the ESIA have been correspondence-with-stakeholders. In 2015, we conducted a detailed “In its approach to transparency in Senegal, Kosmos Senegal River incorporated into a comprehensive php. review of social investment • Invest in capacity building has established a program of capacity building for Environmental and Social opportunities and potential programs for association • A waste management effort to civil society, to allow civil society organisations to play Management Plan for Kosmos’ POSITIVE IMPACTS partners in Senegal to inform our members who seek to improve combat pollution in the area, more fully their role of observers and advocates around drilling operations in Senegal. approach. This included extensive their livelihoods. including the revival of local Comprehensive impact assessment Supporting capacity building engagement with NGOs, civil groups to collect and process the oil and gas sector. It is within this framework that initiatives in Senegal is one way Decisions regarding the use and prior to exploration drilling is a society, and government bodies household waste. I was able to attend a summer school on extractive that Kosmos aims to make a disbursement of funds are made crucial step for Kosmos everywhere to understand concerns and contribution to the country. We locally by the multi-stakeholder Up to 30,000 people will benefit industries governance at the Centre of Excellence for the we operate, and we continue to identify development priorities. have committed to support the group that manages the from the project’s activities, Governance of the Extractive Industry in Francophone learn and improve our processes In 2016, we began to expand our government in the creation of the associations. including 3,000 women working in Africa in Cameroon in August 2016, taught by the with each ESIA we conduct. social investments accordingly, National Institute for Petroleum and fish processing. with a focus on coastal and fishing Kosmos’ focus on social Natural Resource Governance Institute. The training Gas to provide higher education Transparency communities. investments in coastal communities Le Partenariat’s approach is highly allowed me to learn about all aspects of the extractives and training to develop the leaders, extends to activities aimed at transparent and participative. Local industries and to improve the quality of my analysis As part of our commitment to managers and operators of the Based on information gathered protecting the environment. In communities were heavily involved and interventions around the oil and gas sector.” transparency and good governance country’s new petroleum industry. from fishermen and their families 2016, we conducted a 12-month, in the development of the project, wherever we operate, Kosmos during the consultation process transparent and competitive which helps to increase community PAPA SALIOU SAMBOU We have also focused our early continues to engage with a range for our pre-drilling ESIA, Kosmos request for proposals process ownership and support. A technical social investments on enhancing Comité Sénégalais des Droits of stakeholders in Senegal on worked with seven artisanal fishing the capability of the national oil to identify a preferred social monitoring committee will be de l’Homme issues of transparency in the oil associations known as the Conseils company through training and investment partner to work with created to oversee the project’s and gas sector. Kosmos developed Locaux de Pêche Artisanale to us in the fishing communities of execution and will be comprised the donation of powerful new and sponsored a workshop on develop a novel and sustainable Saint Louis, northern Senegal. of relevant local government workstations that can analyze the oil and gas industry and program that improves safety and Following this, Kosmos joined with departments and agencies, as well complex seismic and drilling data. protects livelihoods. Le Partenariat, a leading NGO that as community groups. 36 37 TORTU E N AT U R A L G AS D EVELO P M ENT O FFS H O RE development that bring additional gas resources into production. has been meeting monthly since November 2015 to move the project ensure the site and development concept are environmentally MAU R ITA N I A A N D S E N E GAL Both President Aziz of Mauritania forward. Since then, the Working sound, and that any potential social Group has made significant impacts are properly addressed. and President Sall of Senegal fully progress on the plan for developing The assessments will include support the project. They have Kosmos opened a significant new the gas resource. extensive public consultations with asked the ministries of energy hydrocarbon province when it local communities, comply with all and the national oil companies to discovered a large accumulation ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL applicable laws and regulations in BLOCK work with Kosmos to develop an of natural gas under the deep C6 IMPACT ASSESSMENT Mauritania and Senegal, and meet intergovernmental cooperation waters offshore Mauritania and AHMEYIM-2 international standards. agreement which will establish In June 2016, we reached an Senegal. Success was the result of the terms and plan for how to important project milestone. A In anticipation of the ESIA, applying the company’s proprietary MAURITANIA TORTUE-1 commercialize the Tortue gas near-shore site was agreed by both Kosmos organized and facilitated knowledge of the overlooked Upper SENEGAL resource, which will be shared governments as the location of the a joint meeting of regulators from Cretaceous structural-stratigraphic equitably between the two gas processing and liquefaction Mauritania and Senegal during play concept to the unique GUEMBEUL-1 countries. A Working Group facilities. Since then, we have been which the governments discussed conditions of this region in which BLOCK comprised of the national oil preparing for an environmental and similarities and differences in sands bypassed the continental C12 companies, representatives of the social impact assessment (ESIA) to their ESIA requirements and shelf and deposited in deeper water. Ministries of Energy, and Kosmos ultimately agreed to accept a single, With successful wells in 2015 and 2016 at Tortue-1, Guembeul-1, and Ahmeyim-2, Kosmos completed its appraisal of the cross-border Tortue natural gas resource. The scale and MAURITANIA BLOCK quality of the gas field, and the C8 exploration potential of the rest of BLOCK C13 the basin, attracted the attention TORTUE of several major international oil SENEGAL companies who expressed their interest in partnering with us. ST. LOUIS OFFSHORE Following a thorough farm-out PROFOND process, BP was chosen as the right partner to help Kosmos advance the CAYAR Tortue gas project at pace and take OFFSHORE PROFOND forward a multi-well exploration program that will benefit both Mauritania and Senegal. Atlantic ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL Ocean BENEFITS Kosmos and BP are already working with the governments of Mauritania and Senegal on the first phase to power the growth of electricity in years. Once gas production begins, of the project to produce gas Mauritania and Senegal, which over the benefits could be significant. from the field. Both governments time would enable the creation and A preliminary analysis by Wood recognize the many benefits the expansion of local industry, leading Mackenzie, an internationally gas discovery and project will bring to direct and indirect job growth. In respected consultancy, suggests over the long term. For example, addition, the successful execution of that over 30 years, this first phase LNG exports could make both such a large project would enhance of development could contribute countries valuable energy suppliers the attractiveness of both countries nearly $29 billion in value added for many years to come, connecting for further international investment. GDP to Mauritania and Senegal. them to important world markets Assuming government budget The current development concept and generating billions of dollars in distributions remain in line with – which involves anchoring a revenues that could be invested in historical trends, that incremental floating liquefied natural gas the development of other sectors GDP could build about 16,000 facility on the maritime border Local stakeholders in Cayar, Senegal – such as health, education, and kilometers of roads, 60 hospitals, between Mauritania and Senegal – participate in the public consultation for infrastructure. The project could and 2,300 schools. These economic will produce approximately eight the validation of the drilling Environmental also make available a plentiful and and social benefits would multiply trillion cubic feet, or about 225 competitively priced source of fuel with subsequent phases of and Social Impact Assessment. billion cubic meters, of gas over 30 38 39 comprehensive ESIA submitted place in Saint Louis with nearly Later in 2016, Kosmos completed Planning for the ESIA’s first round In addition to identifying technically • Technical English language through their respective processes 150 stakeholders commenting on a thorough environmental baseline of public consultations in both feasible options, the team also training for a range of for review and approval. This various aspects of the project. sampling program – including countries continues with these carefully considered potential local stakeholders in the academic collaborative approach reflects the Community members inquired collecting sediment samples and meetings expected to begin in impacts to communities – both system, government, suppliers cross-border nature of the project, about benefits to the local water columns – for the near-shore, mid-2017. positive and negative. Once the and our workforce as well as the recognition that population in the form of training subsea pipeline, and deepwater technically viable options were • Leadership, management and both countries are invested in the and jobs, and expressed concerns maritime areas where facilities MULTI-COUNTRY identified by the team, each were technical training for the first project’s success. about the need to protect the or equipment will potentially be INFRASTRUCTURE SURVEY evaluated against HSES, social, cohort of a national workforce environment and fishing grounds. located. These samples will provide and market influences to help • Partnerships with international Once the ESIA’s terms of reference Kosmos completed a pre-front These concerns and our responses the data needed to understand differentiate those that would best universities and training providers were agreed by both countries, end engineering study in October will be included in the final report environmental conditions before, benefit local communities. • A dedicated project manager to a public inquiry process was 2016 evaluating several options for to the Regional Development during, and after development and ensure high-quality collaboration requested in Senegal and took developing the Tortue gas field. Committee. production activities. CROSS-BORDER CAPACITY and progress. The options evaluated included the BUILDING AND SOCIAL In addition to the government, use of FLNG processing vessels INVESTMENTS we are closely coordinating with to liquefy and store gas so it can Kosmos uses a state-of-the-art drillship, other oil and gas investors in be offloaded to an LNG carrier As part of its commitment to the Atwood Achiever, to support our Senegal on this initiative to leverage and shipped to market. It was investing in people to create a exploration program. partnerships and ensure strong discovered that long frequency vibrant, productive, and wellwave swells which predominately managed petroleum industry, industry collaboration. affect the Senegal and Mauritania Kosmos has provided financial and Kosmos and BP are also committed coastline from the deepwater practical support for a master’s to supporting capacity building in development area to the coastline degree program at the Université Mauritania. At this stage, we are limit the ability to offload the des Sciences, de Technologie et de working with the government to liquefied gas from the FLNG Médecine (USTM) in Nouakchott, assess Mauritania’s specific needs processing vessel to the LNG Mauritania and the Université as a country with a history of oil and carrier. A sizeable breakwater wall Gaston Berger (UGB) in Saint Louis, gas production, and develop a plan closer to shore is therefore needed Senegal. for addressing them. to shield the FLNG vessels and Each year, approximately 30 safely offload to the LNG carrier. students from Mauritania, Senegal, NEXT STEPS Building such a breakwater will and other African nations are While we have made considerable require a large amount of raw trained in subjects related to progress since the gas discoveries materials (up to 3 million tons of managing the impacts of the were first announced, a lot of work rock and 200,000 cubic meters extractives sector. The master’s remains to be done. The Working of concrete material depending degree program encourages Group continues to meet regularly on the final design selected) and cross-border cooperation between to discuss the commercial, legal, considerable logistics support. Mauritania and Senegal, and and technical framework for the Since the feasibility of economically supports the development of a joint project, with the goal of sourcing raw materials and cadre of graduates who could signing a formal intergovernmental establishing construction support work for government agencies, cooperation agreement later this in-country was a source of national oil companies, oil and gas year. uncertainty at this stage of the operators, environmental or social project development, Kosmos consultancies, or non-governmental With BP as development operator, sent a multi-disciplinary team to organizations. we have committed to a full set Mauritania and Senegal to conduct of activities in 2017, including Kosmos and BP have also offered an infrastructure assessment, engineering and a drill stem to support the Senegalese which included tours of ports and test, which should enable a final government in the creation of the quarries, as well as visits to cement investment decision by 2018, with National Institute for Petroleum and factories, railroads, and trucking first gas expected in 2021. Success Gas to provide higher education companies, to assess their ability will require continued cooperation and training to develop the leaders, to support the Tortue construction and a significant investment from managers, and operators of project by providing raw materials Kosmos, BP, and the two national oil Senegal’s new petroleum industry. and logistics. The team also visited companies. In 2017, Kosmos and BP expect to with many local and national undertake activities such as: government stakeholders in the mining, port, and transportation • A long-term jobs and opportunity sectors to solicit their input and assessment to inform curricula support. and goals for the proposed institute’s future growth 40 41 which in turn could lead to an by serving as an Alternate on the POSITIVE IMPACTS increased risk of injury to the MSG. In 2016, Kosmos sponsored Our social investment projects crew. Prior to beginning the a delegation from the Ministry of in Suriname have been designed survey, Kosmos worked to model Natural Resources and Ministry of in close collaboration with SURINAME the force of the currents on our equipment and carefully delineate Finance to attend the EITI Global Conference in Lima, Peru. Kosmos Maatschappij Suriname N.V. (Staatsolie), the national oil the seismic zone to ensure safe continues to be a vocal supporter company, to ensure alignment operations. We also conducted of the EITI in Suriname and is with government priorities and a large-scale emergency encouraged that the Surinamese community needs. In 2016, we preparedness exercise with the government has announced its continued supporting projects seismic contractor and local intention to move towards EITI Kosmos holds exploration government response agencies. candidacy. in our focus areas of STEM education and the coastal licenses offshore Suriname The survey was completed Regarding Environmental and environment. For more on our without incident. for Blocks 42 and 45. Social Impact Assessments, safety culture project with During the seismic operation, Kosmos has held multiple technical schools in Suriname, Suriname represents a see the case study on page 45. Kosmos hired fisheries liaison community and stakeholder top-ranked opportunity officers (FLO) from among the meetings as part of our ESIA in Kosmos’ exploration local population who sailed on process in advance of seismic Preserving coastal life the two seismic vessels to serve and exploration drilling activities. portfolio and we continue Mangroves grow abundantly as familiar primary points of During these meetings, along Suriname’s coastline and to mature significant contact for artisanal fishermen community members, nonprevent coastal erosion. The and commercial fleets. We also governmental organizations, prospects offshore for deployed a Passive Acoustic and other interested parties area of Weg naar Zee, north of Paramaribo, has in recent drilling. Additionally, over Monitoring system and used have the chance to learn about years experienced frequent Marine Mammal Observers on our planned operations, ask the past four years, we the seismic vessels to record questions, and raise any concerns. flooding and erosion due to the loss of mangrove forests. The have built relationships sightings and behavior of marine We also take the opportunity to flooding and rising sea levels species to ensure that operations provide information on our local with stakeholders, listened did not harm marine mammals or grievance mechanism, so that have affected nearly 3,000 local community members, including to community members, turtles. Our standard operating external stakeholders are able to artisanal fishermen, local farmers, procedures require operations contact the company and know developed local employees, and bee keepers. In addition, to be shut-down if mammals are how to register any complaints and implemented various erosion has threatened to sighted within 500 meters of the should an issue arise. destroy two important cultural seismic energy source. social and environmental and religious sites. projects. ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING Kosmos’ stakeholder engagement Kosmos employee Sharan Tjon Kwie Sem in Suriname has largely centered visits with a student at the MylTyl School, on promoting transparency, where Kosmos donated specialized IT supporting local communities, equipment and software for children MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT over 6,500 square kilometers and preparing for operations with disabilities. In 2016, Hess Corporation joined of additional seismic data over through Environmental and Social BLOCK 45 Kosmos and Chevron as a partner Blocks 42 and 45. Because the Impact Assessments (ESIA). The in Block 42. The agreement area offshore Suriname has very ESIA process includes public with Hess is consistent with strong sea currents, we spent consultation meetings where Kosmos’ business strategy of additional time and resources Kosmos informs stakeholders BLOCK 42 retaining operatorship through developing an understanding of planned operations including exploration and collaborating of the region’s physical potential environmental and with industry-leading partners characteristics and their potential social impacts and the mitigation Atlantic Ocean who bring technical and regional impact on operational safety measures planned to minimize or before conducting the seismic eliminate such impacts. GUINEA expertise, as well as strong financial capabilities. Hess joins survey. If not properly monitored and incorporated into survey Suriname is in the process of our existing partner, Chevron, in becoming an Extractive Industries Suriname. plans, ocean currents can disrupt Transparency Initiative (EITI) seismic operations in a number of Kosmos conducted our third candidate country and has set SURINAME negative ways, such as equipment seismic campaign offshore up a Multi-Stakeholder Group damage due to extreme force Suriname in late 2016, acquiring (MSG). Kosmos was nominated to on streamer cables and winches, represent the oil and gas sector 42 43 Kosmos supported a project with Conservation International to build Sediment Trapping Units to B U ILDIN G A SA FETY CU LTU R E AT reverse erosion in a coastal area of Suriname. TECHN ICA L SCHOOLS IN SU R IN A ME “Approximately 2500 students and 300 teachers from NATIN, LTS2 and AMTO are visiting the NATIN campus Kosmos’ top priority is ensuring sustainability. The team selected a at J. Lachmonstraat every day. The high number the safety of our workers and combination of training providers of people using heavy machinery in the practical the integrity of our operations. to teach both practical and facilities increases the risk of accidents. NATIN aims to Nothing is more important to theoretical safety concepts: us, and we strive to eliminate implement internationally known and accepted safety • SafeStart is a global “train the standards. Kosmos Energy has international experience incidents and injuries. When trainer” program that teaches Staatsolie let us know that in implementing and maintaining safety standards, behavioral based safety there had been a fatality at and NATIN is benefitting from this experience through techniques. Participants learn Natuurtechnisch Instituut (NATIN), our current Safety Culture Project in partnership with to recognize the state-to-error a lower technical school in patterns that cause most injuries Kosmos. This project will make our trained students Paramaribo, we started thinking in the classroom, workplace, on more employable because they will be more capable about how we could use our the road, and at home. expertise to help build a safety of creating safe workplaces.” culture at the technical school. • The “Health and Safety C. Y. GRÜNBERG – Foundations at Work” course WIJNGAARDE In 2016, Kosmos launched from the National Examination a multi-year safety culture Director NATIN-MBO Kosmos has partnered with both naturally and planted by approval process, dispersant use, Board in Occupational Safety program at the NATIN campus (Suriname Institute for Conservation International and local researchers. The next step and monitoring plans. Kosmos and Health, or NEBOSH, is Natural Resource and Anton de Kom University of in this project is to quantify and also shared a desktop geographic with the goal of establishing an accredited program that Engineering Studies) Suriname to mitigate the coastal document the effectiveness of information system (or GIS) study a safe learning and working teaches practical skills in risk erosion at Weg naar Zee by the STUs and potentially extend we conducted to identify and map environment for all students identification and risk reduction. building Sediment Trapping the STU project to other coastal environmentally sensitive areas and staff members. The NATIN Units (STUs). These structures areas of Suriname experiencing along the shores of Suriname and campus also houses two other The SafeStart program includes promote sediment deposition similar problems with erosion. Guyana. We designed a web based schools, Surinaamse Technische instruction to certify teachers at the NATIN campus to become The program launch in late 2016 and create conditions for halting geoportal that could be used to School 2 (STS2) and Avond SafeStart trainers. Safety experts was met with enthusiasm from and reversing erosion. Mangrove access data in the unlikely event of Middelbare Technish Opleiding Enhancing oil spill response students and teachers alike. juveniles will be able to grow in an oil spill. The workshop concluded (AMTO). The program was worked with the teachers capabilities The kick-off event was held at the newly formed mud banks, with an interactive exercise that developed through consultation to administer the SafeStart program, thus ensuring ongoing the National Indoor Stadium to The government of Suriname tested the notification processes with the staff at NATIN, STS2 and reinforcement of safety concepts. accommodate all 2325 student approved a National Oil Spill identified in the Suriname Oil Spill AMTO, as well as the Ministry of The NEBOSH program is an participants at once. Participants Contingency Plan in May 2016. Contingency Plan. Education and Staatsolie. The intensive program offered to staff shared stories of how they were Subsequent to this approval, project steering team evaluated at the technical schools to help able to take what they had learned “In the endeavor to protect and save the vulnerable Kosmos has taken steps to build several options for safety course Building capacity in medical care and apply the safety concepts local capacity in emergency providers against the criteria of them identify and control potential coastal area near our capital Paramaribo, Conservation not only at school, but also with preparedness through various The Academic Hospital Paramaribo applicability, scalability, and level hazards on campus in order to International Suriname and the Anton de Kom reduce accidents and injuries. their families at home. Although workshops and training exercises. is the largest hospital in Suriname of time and resources required for University are jointly applying nature based solutions and serves as a major medical Kosmos will continue to play In July 2016, we organized and a supportive role, teachers at that could combat coastal degradation in a sustainable research hub for the country. led an interactive workshop for the NATIN campus have now way. By building wooden, permeable dams along the Since the government of Suriname Kosmos Energy Suriname Country Manager government ministries, NGOs, developed their own Health and has prioritized developing the coastline, we try to trap as much sediment as possible and other stakeholders on the and Vice President Tom Fauria presents on Safety Committee to oversee and hospital, Kosmos has committed in order to create ideal living conditions for mangroves role and use of dispersants the importance of a strong safety culture. ensure the sustainability of the to supporting the hospital over to grow back. With the much needed measurement during oil spill response. Kosmos safety programs. at least three years. Throughout personnel provided an overview equipment that we obtained with Kosmos’ support, we 2016, Kosmos worked with hospital It is critical for students at NATIN, of its corporate plans, emergency can keep better track of our interventions. I believe that personnel to identify needs and STS2 and AMTO to internalize and response organization, materials the deployment of these instruments is helping to form create a plan for how Kosmos practice skills and attitudinal shifts and equipment stockpiles for and other oil and gas operators around safety before graduating new ideas on mangrove rehabilitation in Suriname.” containing and eliminating in Suriname can work together and entering the workforce. As surface spills and subsea PROFESSOR DR. to build the hospital’s research Suriname’s extractive industries SIEUWNATH NAIPAL discharge of hydrocarbons to the and patient care capabilities. continue to grow, it is our goal environment which could result Chair of Climate Change and Kosmos will support the provision that safety be fully integrated into Water at the Anton de Kom from drilling operations. of surgical tools, process the country’s vocational technical University of Suriname Global subject matter experts improvement studies, and skills education, which will help build presented information on the role of training for the hospital. the safety culture of the Suriname dispersants, the subsea dispersant workforce for years to come. 44 45 impacts of a seismic survey on and results in real benefit to the both São Tomé island and Príncipe people of São Tomé and Príncipe, island through the preparation of Kosmos has engaged with the SÃO TOMÉ an environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA). During this government to understand its national development priorities and “Kosmos started a large seismic campaign in early February 2017 in the Sao Tome and Principe Exclusive AND PRÍNCIPE process, we participated in public consultation forums, met with a formulate a strategic plan. São Tomé and Príncipe enjoys Economic Zone. Before starting the survey, we engaged with the key stakeholders and fishing communities variety of government and civil across the two islands to inform them about our high levels of literacy compared to society stakeholders, engaged with many other developing and underoperations and to introduce our grievance mechanism. fishing communities, and established developed countries. However, We are also actively engaged in social investment a formal grievance mechanism for In 2015 and 2016, Kosmos individuals potentially impacted by the country’s demographic, with a activities in support of local education. We donated majority of the population under acquired acreage in four our activities. the age of 20, presents significant vehicles for transportation of teachers to rural schools blocks offshore São The assessment included extensive challenges in the education sector and plan to build new classrooms and schools to consultation on both islands, which which need to be addressed. significantly decrease the average number of students Tomé and Príncipe. These presented several opportunities According to recent government per classroom.” blocks cover an area of for interested parties to provide data, the key challenges are: feedback. This feedback was NELSON ASSUNÇÃO approximately 25,000 • An average of 80 students per External Affairs Manager, incorporated into the assessment. classroom significantly affecting square kilometers and To keep stakeholders informed, a Kosmos Energy São Tomé the quality of education and Príncipe are adjacent to a proven community engagement program was also conducted ahead of the • Inadequate use of technology petroleum system in seismic acquisition. The program due to lack of infrastructure and training affecting the pace of Equatorial Guinea and included members from Kosmos, Galp, Agencia Nacional do Petroleo development Gabon. de Sao Tome e Principe (ANP-STP), This initiative is being overseen and • Inadequately trained teachers the national oil company, the local monitored by a steering committee affecting the quality of instruction. NGO MARAPA, and the Ministry of comprised of Kosmos, several Fisheries. Kosmos has agreed to build and government agencies, and the refurbish classrooms, school national oil company. Based on this work, we are confident campuses, and associated facilities. that the seismic survey’s design As a first step, Kosmos has Once these classrooms and other meets or exceeds international procured two mini-buses that will facilities are completed, the Ministry standards. be used to transport teachers to of Education, Culture, and Science remote schools in Porto Alegre and will take responsibility for staffing ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING Santa Catarina. the schools with qualified teachers or teachers-in-training, as well as The longer term strategy includes Kosmos is committed to the maintenance and repair of the adding new classrooms to existing transparency and active promotion classrooms and facilities. The goals schools in Neves and São Marçal of the Extractive Industries of the initiative include improving and building new secondary Transparency Initiative (EITI) in each access to quality education, schools in Santana and Mont of our host countries, including São Kosmos reached an agreement in prepare for a planned 3D seismic including a reduction in the average Café. Kosmos is currently working Tomé and Príncipe, which has been a 2016 with Galp Energia to farm out campaign in 2017 that will be the number of students per classroom, with the Ministry of Education, in Gulf of member country since 2012. Kosmos a 20 percent non-operated stake largest data acquisition in our and preparing students for the conjunction with ANP-STP, to move Guinea established and maintained an in blocks 5, 11, and 12 offshore São company history, covering nearly future labor market. the project forward. ongoing dialogue with the Director Tomé and Príncipe, bringing the 16,000 square kilometers. of EITI in São Tomé and Príncipe and company in across all of our acreage PRÍNCIPE We are committed to working the multi-stakeholder group. As in BLOCK 5 and enabling us to jointly explore the Prior to beginning our seismic survey offshore São closely and transparently with local other countries, Kosmos has been basin with full technical alignment. Tomé and Príncipe, Kosmos conducted community SÃO and international stakeholders invited to become a member of the TOMÉ As a Portuguese company, Galp BLOCK 6 to safeguard São Tomé and multi-stakeholder group. consultations with local fishermen. brings to the partnership strong Príncipe’s unique biodiversity. By above-ground capabilities which EA BLOCK 11 should prove valuable as we progress toward drilling. following international standards and engaging in dialogue with POSITIVE IMPACTS international and local organizations, Under the terms of our production BLOCK 12 we believe oil and gas exploration sharing contracts with the GABON MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT government, Kosmos is obligated can proceed in a responsible and environmentally-sensitive manner. to spend approximately $3 million In 2016, Kosmos appointed a on social investment projects over country manager in Sao Tome and Kosmos and its partners spent four years (2016-2019). To ensure opened an office. We have since more than a year developing a deep this funding is managed properly focused on hiring local staff to help understanding of the potential 46 47 Through workshops on a range Through the Enactus program, university students are connected to business leaders who of topics – such as transparency, resource governance models, and advise them on entrepreneurship projects. stakeholder engagement – we have MOROCCO helped to promote sustainable development in the oil and gas sector in Morocco. For several years, ONHYM has been developing a corporate responsibility strategy and program. In early 2017, Kosmos’ staff led a workshop with Since entering Morocco, ONHYM senior leadership on social Kosmos has conducted investment strategy, with a special focus on Kosmos’ activities in several 3D seismic surveys northwest Africa. and drilled one exploration plans for small and medium sized convener and training partner well in the Foum Assaka enterprises. for Moroccan companies and block, which failed to Corps Africa matches Moroccan non-governmental organizations to enhance delivery of social encounter commercial youth with local communities to POSITIVE IMPACTS investments. implement poverty-reduction hydrocarbons. Based on Kosmos’ social investments in projects. Kosmos has supported One initiative of this partnership these drilling results and Morocco focus on entrepreneurship Corps Africa volunteer fellows was a conference on “Privateour other work in the area, and skill-building, with the goal of each year since the program Public Partnerships for Sustainable supporting economic development. started in 2013. In 2016, Kosmos Development and Corporate we made the decision in sponsored two volunteers in Social Responsibility.” We This theme reflects Kosmos’ 2016 to relinquish some entrepreneurial spirit and company villages near Essaouira. In the gathered Moroccan and American culture, and is in line with Morocco’s village of Iriq, a volunteer created business leaders and government of our acreage offshore an association for women focused representatives to discuss national priority of decreasing youth Morocco. Kosmos currently unemployment. on skills development and financial developing responsible business education. This association was practices through public-private holds the Essaouira Block In 2016, Kosmos partnered with the first in this region to encourage partnerships. The 80 attendees and plans to acquire seismic Enactus on a program expansion local women to learn new skills included multinational and to Agadir. Enactus is a Moroccan and to provide exposure to new Moroccan companies optimizing data there in 2017. organization that connects technologies and educational their corporate responsibility university students, academics, programs. Kosmos also supported strategies, as well as nonand business leaders through a Corps Africa volunteer who governmental organizations entrepreneurship-based projects, refurbished part of a community interested in learning how to with the aim of starting new building to create a safe space effectively partner with the private businesses following the program. for women to work on literacy sector. In Agadir, students formed groups and artisan products, while also MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT means we now have a smaller to develop and market innovative In addition, Kosmos worked with providing a nursery school for their footprint in Morocco, we continue to projects such as cosmetics lines Mercy Corps and the Department Atlantic In 2016, since we did not have any children. The volunteer taught have an office in Rabat. using traditional plants, new of Fisheries in an effort to build Ocean operations in Morocco, Kosmos courses in literacy, environment, composting products, and a solar capacity for women’s fishing focused on decommissioning our and health to local villagers. powered water heater. Over 900 cooperatives in the Agadir region. ESSAOUIRA operations and equipping the port ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING BLOCK of Agadir to support industries students in Agadir participated in We have worked closely with the Maroc en Action Program other than oil and gas exploration. competitions by giving business Office National des Hydrocarbures The decision to relinquish two of our pitches and receiving feedback on Kosmos Energy has partnered et des Mines (ONHYM) – Morocco’s MOROCCO licenses in Morocco also led us to their approach and product ideas. with Mercy Corps, a leading national oil company – and other “Being the CEO of my INJAZ Al-Maghrib team, Future rethink our presence in the country, international NGO, in Morocco government stakeholders to INJAZ Al-Maghrib is a non-profit since 2014, in collaboration with a Light Junior Enterprise, taught me how to turn and ultimately make the difficult increase awareness of international that partners with the private sector decision to reduce staff in our Chevron Corporation subsidiary. challenges into opportunities. Thanks to this experience, best practices regarding the to train students in Arab countries in Agadir and Rabat offices. Because Working with Mercy Corps was I can already see myself as a young leader of the future.” management of hydrocarbon entrepreneurship skills. Kosmos has it is never easy to take steps that based on the idea that we were MAURITANIA resources. By supporting capacity supported the program in Morocco MOUNA AZEROUAL impact the lives of employees uniquely positioned to encourage building activities early, we believe since 2013. In 2016, we partnered INJAZ Al-Maghrib participant and their families, we provided partnerships across private, governments can be better with INJAZ Al-Maghrib to expand in and CEO of Future Light full severance benefits to help civil society, and government prepared to manage the potential both Agadir and Dakhla, benefiting Junior Enterprise our colleagues move to the next sectors in Morocco. This included benefits of resource development over 1,500 students. In Agadir and phase of their careers. Although establishment of the Mercy Corps more effectively. Dakhla, business leaders mentored the closing of our operations base Center of Excellence to be the students who developed business 48 49 Community Relations Coordinator stakeholders to discuss our in Dakhla. The Community experience in the region. In 2016, Relations Coordinator – a former Kosmos participated in an investor Peace Corps volunteer – speaks event in Stockholm hosted by a “Kosmos Energy has supported our traditional music WESTERN SAHARA Hasanniya, the language of the Saharawi people. During the last socially responsible investment firm, or SRI. Several Scandinavianand poetry festivals. These festivals have encouraged the younger generation to give more importance to two years, Kosmos held more than based firms engaged with us their Hassaniya culture.” 200 meetings with local people in a fruitful dialogue about our HABIBOULLAH DLIMI and has been involved in open experiences on the ground in forums over that time. We listened Western Sahara and about ethical President of the Albadiya Association for the to opinions and concerns about oil considerations in this unique Kosmos completed its first and gas exploration and the future political environment. Promotion of Hassaniya Culture and Camel Racing exploration well offshore of the region from a wide range of Despite our active engagement local stakeholders, from elected Western Sahara in early with international stakeholders, we officials to unemployed youth, in know that some groups continue 2015. The well encountered both public and private settings. to disagree with our approach hydrocarbons, but not in We are aware that many to doing business in Western Sahara and was disappointed with companies, investors, NGO’s Sahara. In 2016, for example, the this outcome coming as it did commercial quantities. In after several years of engagement and other stakeholders may Norwegian Council on Ethics 2016, Kosmos concluded a have limited exposure to the published an assessment of our between Kosmos and the Council. complexities surrounding the activities in Western Sahara and Our response can be found at new petroleum agreement https://www.westernsaharaoil. status of, and investing in, the recommended divestment. Kosmos with the Kingdom of Western Sahara. For this reason, fundamentally disagrees with com/additional-resources/kosmosengages-with-the-norwegianMorocco to continue we have actively engaged with the Norwegian Council on Ethics’ a wide range of international view of our activities in Western council. exploring offshore Western Sahara. We plan to acquire additional seismic data in the Boujdour Maritime block in 2017. DOING BUSINESS IN WESTERN remains relevant and specifically SAHARA applicable on the matter of Atlantic investment in Western Sahara. In Ocean Kosmos and the Office National our view, economic development des Hydrocarbures et des Mines of the territory can and should BOUJDOUR (ONHYM), on behalf of the proceed in parallel with the MARITIME Government of Morocco signed BLOCK U.N. mediation process without a Joint Declaration of Principles adversely affecting the latter’s committing that the people of progress or outcome. For more Western Sahara will benefit in an WESTERN information, please visit SAHARA effective and equitable manner www.westernsaharaoil.com. from any potential hydrocarbon development and will be consulted in the process. This achievement ENGAGEMENT AND LISTENING has been recognized by many Kosmos maintained a constant stakeholders as a significant step presence on the ground in Kosmos chairman and chief executive forward. Western Sahara for more than officer Andy Inglis meets with workers on We view the 2002 U.N. Legal two years with our placement the Atwood Achiever drillship. Opinion as our touchstone as it of an American expatriate 50 51 POSITIVE IMPACTS private sector to train students in entrepreneurship, based on the cultural festivals. For example, Kosmos was one of the sponsors PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT IN OUR OWN BACKYARD In 2015, Kosmos partnered with Junior Achievement program that of the Dakhla Ramadan Festival in AMIDEAST on a vocational training has been successful in promoting 2016, which featured traditional initiative in Dakhla. The program entrepreneurship in the United singing and games and was was designed to bridge the gap States for nearly a century. INJAZ attended by thousands of local between a university education Al-Maghrib organized a series of people for five consecutive nights. and the needs of the job market educational workshops for middle for unemployed youth. While the These events were especially and high school students in Dakhla students participated in computer popular due to lifestyle changes to learn about entrepreneurship lessons, accounting and other among the Sahrawi people. Over from local business leaders. courses, English lessons were the last few decades the Saharawis These workshops culminated in undeniably the most popular have transitioned from a primarily an event in which high school parts of the course. Proficiency in nomadic lifestyle to an urban one. students formed companies and English helps young people find This has naturally led to cultural presented their ideas to a jury of jobs in tourism, the fishing industry, changes. Many Sahrawi elders local business leaders. The winning and local government. worry that the younger generation team in Western Sahara was led by is not learning the history of their Based on feedback from an all-female trio from Dakhla who culture. Our experience has been participants, we have decided to created a monopoly-style board that the Saharawi people are proud partner again with AMIDEAST to game which showcased local of their rich culture and are eager launch English courses in Dakhla tourist attractions. The team was for organized opportunities to and Boujdour starting early in 2017. awarded with a trip to Casablanca enjoy it. In 2017, we plan to sponsor The courses will target populations for the national competition. new educational components to that can most benefit from English these festivals. such as those in the hospitality, Promoting local culture fishing and artisanal sectors. Kosmos has promoted Saharawi INJAZ Al-Maghrib is a nonculture and built a positive profit who partners with the reputation in Dakhla by sponsoring Sawtooth Mountain is an iconic peak located in the Davis Mountains of West Texas. KOSMOS ENERGY HELPS with global private equity firm deal is that we have kept private THE NATURE CONSERVANCY Warburg Pincus and several of land in private ownership, while PRESERVE A WEST TEXAS its other portfolio companies to safeguarding significant habitat LANDMARK provide $1.2 million in funding. and a vista that is enjoyed by millions.” With our main office located in Sawtooth Mountain is a landmark Dallas, Texas, Kosmos recognizes on the Scenic Loop, the famous Rising to an elevation of 7,686 the importance of preserving 75-mile stretch of road between feet, Sawtooth Mountain is located unique parts of Texas for Highways 166 and 118, where the twenty-two miles northwest of future generations. Consistent Chihuahuan Desert meets the sky Fort Davis. While the region is with our sustainability efforts islands of the Davis Mountains. widely considered one of the most around the world, we decided scenic areas of Texas, it is also one “Sawtooth is an iconic part of in 2016 to support The Nature of the most biologically diverse. the Texas landscape,” said Laura Conservancy’s work to establish a There are several rare plants Huffman, Texas state director pair of conservation easements on and animals found in the Davis of The Nature Conservancy. “As Sawtooth Mountain, located in the Mountains that are found nowhere Texas continues to grow at record Davis Mountains of West Texas. else in Texas. Mountain animals and speed, we’re in a race to conserve birds like black bear, mountain lion, The two easements protect more the characteristics of our State and golden eagle also find a home than 2,500 acres in this important that make it so special. The owner in these mountains. region. The landowner donated a of the property, together with large portion of these easements Warburg Pincus and its portfolio In states such as Texas, where 95 so the Conservancy was able to companies, have done an amazing percent of the land is privately Graduates of Kosmos’ English language purchase them for $1.5 million, thing by enabling us to safeguard owned, conservation easements classes pose with their certificates and the nearly a million dollars under the this ecologically important and serve as a critical tool to protect local director of AMIDEAST in Dakhla. appraised value. Kosmos joined revered site. The beauty of this important lands and waters. 52 53 IPI E C A /A P I /I O G P CO NTENT I ND EX Kosmos Energy’s corporate responsibility reporting is informed by the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting. Also shown in the index below are the locations of information demonstrating our support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, both in this report and in other sources, such as our publicly available policies and on our website, www.kosmosenergy.com. Indicator Global Compact Page Number in Indicator Global Compact Page Number in Indicator Where Reported Indicator Where Reported Number Principle 2016 CR Report Number Principle 2016 CR Report ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY CR Report: Business Principles 13 CR Report: Business Priciples 8, 12, 14 E1 Greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 CR Report: Performance Data 57 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 22, 23, 31, 32, 35, 36, 43, 47, 51 Local community CR Report: Case Study 39, 40 SE1 E2 Energy use Not reported impacts and engagement www.kosmosenergy.com: Society and Communities Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement E3 Alternative energy sources Not reported and Community Development Policy* E4 Flared gas Not reported Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement SE2 Indigenous peoples and Community Development Policy* ECOSYSTEM SERVICES CR Report: Business Principles 12 SE3 Involuntary resettlement Not applicable Biodiversity and E5 7, 8, 9 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 31, 46 ecosystem services 53 CR Report: Business Principles 9, 14 CR Report: Case Study CR Report: Operations Spotlights 24, 32, 36, 41, 43, 47, 49, 52 CR Report: Case Study 16, 18, 26-29, 53 E6 Fresh water CR Report: Performance Data 57 SE4 Social investment CR Report: Performance Data 59 LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* E7 Other air emissions 7, 8 CR Report: Performance Data 57 www.kosmosenergy.com: Society and Communities CR Report: Business Principles 13 LOCAL CONTENT E8 Spills to the environment 8 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 44 57 CR Report: Business Principles 11, 15 CR Report: Performance Data CR Report: Operations Spotlights 24, 30, 38 SE5 Local content practices 6 Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement CR Report: Performance Data 57 and Community Development Policy* Kosmos did not have any hydrocarbon discharges to www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People E9 Discharges to water 8 water in 2016. Indicators E8 and E9 are combined in our Performance Data as“Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluid Spills.” CR Report: Business Principles 11, 15 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 24, 30, 38, 46 CR Report: Performance Data 57 CR Report: Performance Data 58 E10 Waste 8, 9 SE6 Local hiring practices 6 THE STANDARD* Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* E11 Decommissioning Not reported www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People CR Report: Business Principles 9, 11, 15 HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS Local procurement and CR Report: Operations Spotlights 24, 30, 31, 38, 41 SE7 WORKFORCE PROTECTION supplier development Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* CR Report: Business Principles 12, 13, 15 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 21, 29, 31, 35, 45 HS1 Workforce participation 1 www.kosmosenergy.com: Health, Safety, Environment and Security CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE THE STANDARD* HS2 Workforce health 1 www.kosmosenergy.com: Health and Safety CR Report: Business Principles 13 Occupational injury and HS3 1 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 21 illness incidents 58 CR Report: Performance Data PRODUCT HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK Not applicable HS4 Product stewardship Kosmos Energy’s activities are limited to the exploration for and the production of oil and gas. We produce oil in Ghana only as a non-operator. PROCESS SAFETY AND ASSET INTEGRITY www.kosmosenergy.com: Environment HS5 Process safety 7, 8, 9 THE STANDARD* *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ 54 55 IPI E C A /A P I /I O G P CO NTENT I ND EX (CON TIN U ED) 2016 PER FOR MA N CE DATA Indicator Global Compact Page Number in ENVIRONMENT Indicator Where Reported Number Principle 2016 CR Report The Environment data presented in this report is for Kosmos operated assets only. Waste and air emissions are measured in tons, with greenhouse gas emissions measured in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. The data represents drilling rigs as well as seismic and SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS (CONTINUED) support vessels. HUMAN RIGHTS In 2016, Kosmos did not operate any drilling in Ghana. We drilled exploration wells offshore Mauritania and Senegal and conducted seismic surveys offshore Mauritania, Senegal and Suriname. The Atwood Achiever drillship sat offshore Mauritania during CR Report: Business Principles 8, 14 a pause period from June through December 2016. Human rights due CR Report: Operations Spotlights 23, 31 SE8 1, 2, 4, 5 diligence www.kosmosenergy.com: Human Rights 2014 2015 2016 Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* Ghana Mauritania Morocco Mauritania Morocco Senegal Mauritania Senegal Suriname CR Report: Business Principles 14 WASTE (TONS) SE9 Human rights and suppliers 1, 2 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 31 Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* Hazardous 7.93 318.03 338.53 184.00 92.00 10 298.67 112.44 10.54 Non-Hazardous 15.54 1,343.78 1,617.25 115.00 542.00 14.16 296.8 114.11 82.9 CR Report: Business Principles 14 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 23 TOTAL 23.47 1,661.81 1,955.78 299.00 634.00 24.16 595.47 226.55 93.44 SE10 Security and human rights 1, 2 www.kosmosenergy.com: Security Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* Recycled/reused/treated 36% 15% 22% 27% 56% 34% 54% 43% 10% BUSINESS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY AIR EMISSIONS (TONS) CR Report: Business Principles 10 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 1,572.27 19,019.73 31,525.16 35,225.94 12,591.45 17,914.02 51,893.95 20,815.17 20,530.75 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 23, 32, 36, 43 SE11 Preventing corruption 10 www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Mono-Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 29.18 432.25 702.89 654.20 233.28 332.52 964.32 387.47 381.10 Kosmos Energy Anti-Corruption Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 3.79 16.96 18.88 44.18 15.39 13.97 64.80 25.96 25.66 Compliance Policy* Methane (CH4) 0.09 158.91 292.10 2.22 1.05 1.01 2.88 1.13 11.55 CR Report: Business Principles 10, 15 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCS) 0.98 27.13 47.14 12.54 8.10 11.19 32.50 13.00 12.83 Preventing corruption www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics SE12 10 Greenhouse Gases (GHGS) 1,574.16 22,356.84 37,659.18 35,272.56 12,613.50 17,935.23 51,954.43 20,838.84 20,773.30 involving business partners Kosmos Energy Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy* OTHER CR Report: Business Principles 8, 10 CR Report: Performance Data 57 Fines and penalties 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Transparency of payments SE13 10 Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement Freshwater use (m3) N/R1 N/R N/R 12,855.00 5,108.00 2,915.20 1,728.00 3,082.00 3,744.00 to host governments and Community Development Policy* www.kosmosenergy.com: Transparency Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Drilling Fluid Spills Public advocacy and CR Report: Business Principles 9 SE14 10 1.  N/R indicates metrics not reported in previous years. We reported on new metrics as a result of materiality discussions, benchmarking, and improved lobbying reporting processes. LABOR PROTECTION CR Report: Business Principles 8, 11 PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS (USD) 1 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 31 Workforce diversity and 58 The Payments to Government data are reflective of direct payments made to government entities by Kosmos Energy on operated SE15 1, 6 CR Report: Performance Data inclusion projects. Please see the footnotes below for further detail on the payments we made to our host country governments in 2016. www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People www.kosmosenergy.com: Careers Ghana Mauritania Morocco7 Senegal Suriname CR Report: Business Principles 11 SE16 Workforce engagement Signature Bonus — 4,000,000 — — — www.kosmosenergy.com: Careers Surface Rentals 18,000 58,000 — 97,000 — CR Report: Business Principles 11, 15 Workforce training and Training2 175,000 953,000 — 600,000 — SE17 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 24, 30, 35, 41 development www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People Permitting Fees 61,000 — — — — CR Report: Business Principles 10, 14 Taxes 3 5,675,000 579,000 861,000 151,000 257,000 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 22-23, 43, 47 Income Taxes4 2,232,550 — — — — Non-retaliation and CR Report: Performance Data 59 SE18 1, 2, 3, 6 grievance system www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Other 5 — 53,000 4,000,000 — — Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* TOTAL 8,161,550 5,643,000 4,861,000 848,000 257,000 Royalties (in barrels of oil)6 370,007 — — — — 1.  Our project-level disclosures are available on our website at www.kosmosenergy.com/responsibility/transparency.php. 2. Represents payments made directly to government for satisfaction of training obligations per the Petroleum Agreements and/or Petroleum Sharing Contracts (PSCs), as applicable. In addition to the numbers above, Kosmos made payments to third party training providers and/or national oil company employees in accordance with training obligations per the PSCs totaling $1.0 million for Morocco. 3. Primarily local payroll-related taxes and withholding taxes on interest payments in Ghana. These values are exclusive of withholding taxes remitted on behalf of service providers. 4. In addition to this, Kosmos Energy paid the U.S. government $11.7 million in income tax payments during 2016. 5. Primarily relates to costs associated with withdrawing from the Tarhazoute Offshore Area of Interest in Morocco. 6. Royalties represent the production entitlement to the Government of Ghana paid in barrels of oil out of Kosmos’ working interest share of production. *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ Based on the annual average of daily Brent prices in 2016, this is worth approximately $16.2 million. 56 7. Not reflected in the numbers above are payments to the port authority in Morocco primarily for leased use of port facilities in the amount of $75,000. 57 2 01 6 PE R FO R M A N C E DATA (CON TIN U ED) HUMAN RESOURCES SOCIAL The data on our workforce is point-in-time as of December 31, 2016. We prioritize hiring and training local staff from the countries in We define Social Investment Spending as payments that will directly impact the constituents of social investment projects. Not which we work. The ‘Local Employment’ metric does not include employees in our U.S. office, and we define Expatriates as employees reflected in the numbers below are indirect costs related to social investment, such as needs assessments and reimbursable expenses in our local country offices who are living and working on a long term assignment in a country not of their origin. Turnover includes incurred by our in-country social investment personnel. All of the Social Investment Spend is for Kosmos-initiated projects, with the voluntary turnover in our U.S. office in Dallas, TX as well as in our global operations. exception of the Jubilee Unit and TEN Development Project in Ghana. That value represents our participating interest in the social projects of our non-operated assets. 2014 2015 2016 We have grievance mechanisms in place in every region where we have drilling and seismic operations. In Mauritania, we received one EMPLOYEES AND HIRING grievance into our mechanism in 2016 regarding a vendor who was not paying workers on time. We initially worked with the vendor to understand underlying reasons, but it became clear that unpaid wages were a persistent issue with the vendor and the contract was Total Employees 234 256 267 ultimately terminated. New Hires 31 54 27 In Ghana, we received five grievances into our grievance mechanism in 2016. The two grievances resolved in 2016 concerned issues Turnover 5% 7% 6% with our potable water social investment projects in the Western Region. The remaining three unresolved grievances were also related to issues with the potable water project. We continue engagement with the concerned parties, in partnership with the SafeWater TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY Network and traditional councils, in efforts to resolve these grievances with a mutually-agreeable solution. United States 155 187 192 Ghana 46 43 45 2014 2015 2016 Mauritania 5 5 10 SOCIAL INVESTMENT SPENDING (USD) Morocco 24 16 5 United States 214,000 510,000 $ 462,000 São Tomé and Príncipe 0 0 1 Ghana 711,000 461,000 833,000 Senegal 0 1 10 Suriname 4 4 4 Jubilee Unit and TEN development project 1 1,509,000 1,040,000 185,000 Mauritania 38,000 396,000 305,000 Contractors Morocco 185,000 216,000 88,000 United States 54 28 14 Ghana 2 0 0 São Tomé and Príncipe N/A — 69,000 Mauritania 4 16 11 Senegal N/A 106,000 422,000 Morocco 76 3 1 Suriname 141,000 143,000 104,000 São Tomé and Príncipe 0 0 1 Western Sahara 95,000 90,000 42,000 Senegal 0 6 3 Other2 257,000 205,000 — Suriname 0 0 0 TOTAL $ 3,150,000 $ 3,167,000 $ 2,510,000 LOCAL EMPLOYMENT (%) Local 88% 94% 92% GRIEVANCES LOGGED / GRIEVANCES RESOLVED Expatriate 12% 6% 8% Ghana 8/5 8/2 5/2 WORKFORCE GENDER DISTRIBUTION (%) Morocco 1/1 0/0 0/0 Female Male Female Male Female Male Western Sahara 0/0 0/0 0/0 United States 34% 66% 32% 68% 33% 67% Ghana 27% 73% 28% 72% 27% 73% Mauritania 0/0 0/0 1/1 Mauritania 60% 40% 60% 40% 30% 70% Suriname 0/0 0/0 0/0 Morocco 38% 62% 50% 50% 40% 60% Senegal N/A 1/1 0/0 São Tomé and Príncipe 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 100% 1. Kosmos Energy’s participating interest in social investments of the non-Kosmos operated Jubilee and TEN Partnership, which may not necessarily Senegal 0% 0% 0% 0% 50% 50% represent actual payments made to the operator during the reporting period. 2. Represents social investment in countries where Kosmos no longer has operations. Suriname 25% 75% 25% 75% 25% 75% SAFETY Kosmos reports safety data for our global operations, including both employees and contractors. The definitions of the safety data reported are consistent with those used by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). Lost Time Injury Frequency represents the number of lost time injuries (fatalities and lost work day cases) per million work hours. Total Recordable Injury Rate refers to recordable injuries (fatalities, lost work day cases, restricted work day cases, and medical treatment cases) per million hours worked. The Recordable Injuries in 2016 were two instances of crushed fingers on the Atwood Achiever, and one hand injury on a supply vessel. 2014 2015 2016 Total Man Hours 1,972,242 2,103,056 2,314,907 Fatalities 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency 0 0 0 Total Recordable Injury Rate 2.03 .95 1.3 58 8176 Park Lane, Suite 500 | Dallas, TX 75231
