13 November 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 PO Box 2444, Kew 3101 E pauline.bernard@courtheath.com.au T 0418 825 109 www.courtheath.com.au COVERING EVERY ANGLE WITH INTEGRITY Table of Contents Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive ........................... 2 1. Human rights principles ....................................................................... 3 1.1. Assessment, policy and goals ................................................................... 3 1.2. Implementation ......................................................................................... 4 1.3. Measurement of outcomes ........................................................................ 4 2. Labour Principles .................................................................................. 5 2.1. Assessment, policy and goals ................................................................... 5 2.2. Implementation ......................................................................................... 5 2.3. Measurement of outcomes ........................................................................ 6 3. Environment principles ........................................................................ 7 3.1. Assessment, policy and goals ................................................................... 7 3.2. Measurement of outcomes ........................................................................ 7 3.3. Implementation ......................................................................................... 8 4. Anti-Corruption ................................................................................... 10 4.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals ................................................................. 10 4.2. Measurement of Outcomes ..................................................................... 10 4.3. Implementation ....................................................................................... 10 5. Development Goals ............................................................................. 11 Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 1 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE I am pleased to reaffirm CourtHeath’s support for the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Covering the period from 13 November 2016 to 13 November 2017, this second annual Communication on Progress outlines steps taken by CourtHeath to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to transparency in sharing this information with our stakeholders through our primary communication channels. CourtHeath is a small consulting firm based in Melbourne, Australia. Our business provides probity and procurement advice and associated services to government departments and agencies, local government and not-for-profit organisations. We uphold the principles of the UN Global Compact in our own small-scale operations and have enshrined these principles in our business processes. However, we anticipate that our greatest impact will be our ability to influence the practices and purchasing approaches of public sector agencies, so that government behaviour upholds the Global Compact’s principles. This is likely to be primarily in the areas of anti-corruption training, awareness raising (integrity, anti-corruption, whistleblower protections etc) and upholding labour rights in the supply chain (through our procurement work). CourtHeath supports human rights initiatives relevant to our sphere of operation including workplace diversity. We also support clients that promote environmental initiatives in Victoria. In 2016 we commenced this journey, establishing our presence in the Victorian public sector as a Global Compact participant and an ethical and values-based organisation. We have developed a new website giving prominence to the UN Global Compact. We have successfully applied for appointment to panels that provide access to government probity and procurement business. This will enable us to raise awareness of the UN Global Compact principles with government purchasers and policy makers. We were pleased to sign the CEO Statement of Support for the Sustainable Development Goals alongside 32 leaders from the Australian business community. CourtHeath was also proud to sign An Open Letter to Academic Institutions about educating future managers and leaders on business and human rights. Pauline Bernard Managing Director November 2017 Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 2 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx 1. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1.1. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS CourtHeath is committed to respecting human rights in its work. Despite being a small consulting organisation, which does not have direct experience of human rights violations, we aim to encourage government agencies to engage in ethical purchasing and effective social procurement. This approach emphasises propriety in allocating public funds to further human rights, the creation of positive and sustainable social externalities, and the mitigation of inequality through empowerment of disadvantaged communities. More broadly, we endorse the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and aim to incorporate its standards in our policy and practice. Through rigorous due diligence, we pledge to avoid infringing the rights of others, and to take steps to avoid negative human rights impacts resulting from our work. We will adhere to international human rights standards in our activities and our relationships. This includes taking steps towards respect, protection and fulfilment for such rights as freedom of association and collective bargaining; the effective elimination of child labour; the elimination of all forms of racial and gender discrimination; and the realisation of a workplace which positively empowers its employees and people of the broader world without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, physical ability, or mental illness. Beyond these basic commitments, we intend to implement measures, which positively contribute to the realisation of human rights, in particular through the creation of a diverse, inclusive and accessible workplace. We believe this pledge places us in line with best-practice international standards regarding human rights. Among the human rights risks in the Australian government procurement sector are discrimination against disadvantaged groups based on gender, disability, race or ethnicity. Our specific human rights goals are to achieve improved effectiveness of ethical procurement as measured by purchasing agencies including effective tendering provisions. “Our specific human rights goals are to achieve improved effectiveness of ethical procurement as measured by purchasing agencies including effective tendering provisions.” Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 3 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx 1.2. IMPLEMENTATION We have offered all staff practical ethics training provided by the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply, which has raised staff awareness of human rights risks in procurement supply chain management. We have also trained CourtHeath staff about the Global Compact and its Ten Principles. CourtHeath has articulated responsibilities to respect, protect and fulfil human rights in the Our People policy. This policy is overseen personally by the Managing Director, ensuring strong leadership on human rights issues within the company. We have introduced clients to social enterprises and organised a function for a client with catering from a local enterprise that supports people experiencing mental illness. On 3-4 October, a number of CourtHeath employees attended the IBAC Corruption Prevention and Integrity Conference in Melbourne. This conference brought together industry leaders and renowned practitioners across public, private and academic sectors, to explore how our public sector can prevent corruption and strengthen integrity. Speakers included Stephen O’Bryan QC, Commissioner, Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission, Victoria, Andrew Greaves, Victorian AuditorGeneral, and Deborah Glass OBE, Victorian Ombudsman. 1.3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES This is our second year as a member of the UN Global Compact. We have a diverse staff whose needs we strive to accommodate. We have contributed to social justice initiatives globally, including • International Anti-Corruption Day http://www.courtheath.com.au/2-6-trillion-stolen-through-corruption/ We have a publicly available complaints policy to ensure accountability for human rights issues within our small company and would deal with alleged human rights issues through this confidential mechanism in accordance with the Our People policy. Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 4 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx 2. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2.1. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS In keeping with the pursuit of equitable, transparent and accountable government and corporate institutions, CourtHeath recognises the importance of collective and individual labour rights. We affirm our commitment to the International Labour Organisation’s Core Conventions, and especially to the freedoms of association and collective bargaining and freedom from all forms of employment discrimination. Our work aims to promote ethical sourcing and procurement, working towards the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, as well as the effective abolition of child labour. We have a diverse staff whose needs we strive to accommodate. We embrace flexible working hours and working from home, where this is the choice of the staff member in question. We are committed to providing compensation and benefits for employees, for instance in the case of workplace injuries. Our policy encourages adherence to the UN Global Compact labour principles from our business partners and suppliers. CourtHeath staff participate in committees advocating inclusion, for example digital accessibility for people with a disability and diversity in the legal profession. 2.2. IMPLEMENTATION We have offered all staff practical ethics training provided by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply, which has raised staff awareness of labour rights risks in procurement supply chain management. We have also trained CourtHeath staff about the Global Compact and its Ten Principles. Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 5 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx 2.3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES CourtHeath is a small consulting organisation which has had no reported incidents of labour rights violations. Our awareness raising activities relevant to this area have included attending following event: On 6 April 2017, we attended the Global Compact Network Australia Modern Slavery Forum. Endeavouring to build business’s capacity to engage in the discussion around the possibility of an Australian Modern Slavery Act, and to respond to their modern slavey risks, the forum explored: • What modern slavery is • How businesses can identify and address their modern slavery risks • How the regulatory landscape is shifting • How leading businesses are responding • Where the Australian Government is at on the issue. And publishing the following blogs: • Have your say by 28 April 2017: part 1 http://www.courtheath.com.au/have-your-say-by-28-april-2017-part-1/ • Have your say by 28 April 2017: part 2 http://www.courtheath.com.au/have-your-say-by-28-april-2017-part-2/ Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 6 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx 3. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 3.1. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS CourtHeath has a publicly available environmental policy outlining its commitment and approach to environmental sustainability. This Policy can be accessed through our website at www.courtheath.com.au. We are committed to improving environmental performance across all of our business activities, and encourage our business partners and members of the wider community to share that commitment. We practice sustainable procurement, purchasing goods and services that are less damaging to the environment and human health. As a small business, the major items we purchase are commuter transport services, stationery and power. In its professional advisory services, CourtHeath has made a commitment to promote environmental sustainability. Where appropriate, we seek to educate and influence others (clients, community and sub-contractors). We are mindful of the opportunities that government purchasers have to set behavioural expectations of suppliers and the supply chain. This opportunity often arises in our procurement advice and particularly as we are drafting market invitation documents. We work with our clients to ensure that the specifications they publish reflect current best practice and identify suitable alternatives (both goods and services) which are environmentally friendly such as energy saving, recycled content, water saving, low toxicity or other significant attributes. We can direct clients to the full range of activities related to purchasing goods and services ranging from contracting for an entire service to purchasing small assets such as office equipment. Green purchasing spans the entire life cycle of the product or service from inception and design through to contract management and disposal of any redundant assets. 3.2. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We aim to use the following criteria to measure our progress on environmental sustainability goals: • Ensuring that our office equipment and stationery (including lighting and paper products) are sourced sustainably • Ensuring that suppliers (such as website hosting providers and office providers) meet sustainability standards relevant to their various operations • Ensuring that our transport arrangements are sustainable where possible Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 7 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx Our awareness raising activities relevant to this area have included publishing the following blogs: • Global risks lead to global opportunities – Part 3: Resistance to life saving medicine http://www.courtheath.com.au/global-risks-lead-to-global-opportunities-part-3-resistance-tolifesaving-medicine/ With antibiotic resistance on the rise, an optimistic viewpoint may help stem the risk of resistance to life saving medicine. • Global risks lead to global opportunities – Part 4: A generation wasted http://www.courtheath.com.au/global-risks-lead-to-global-opportunities-part-4-a-generationwasted/ The prospect of losing a generation to worldwide youth unemployment presents a huge challenge that demands creative responses. • Global risks lead to global opportunities – Part 5: Food security: Sustainability saves lives http://www.courtheath.com.au/global-risks-lead-to-global-opportunities-part-5-foodsecuritysustainability-saves-lives/ Reducing food waste, seeking alternative diets and smart farming are some of the innovative ways the issue of global food insecurity can be addressed. 3.3. IMPLEMENTATION We communicate our own environmental practices and achievements to our customers with a view to encouraging environmental impact considerations in procurement activities. Initiatives undertaken by our organisation in reducing our environmental impact include: • Recently, we upgraded lighting in our home offices to low energy LED lights to reduce electricity and corresponding greenhouse emissions. • We use recycled paper products where possible. We recycle paper and printer cartridges. We dispose of our e-waste including redundant equipment through recycling depots. We print double-sided to save paper. • We have retained the services of a secure document destruction service provider that practices recycling. • Where possible our personnel take local trains and trams, car pool or cycle to work. Our regular taxi service is a hybrid vehicle with lower emissions which is the most energy efficient taxi available in Melbourne. • When selecting a website hosting provider in 2014, our internal web developer researched the environmental credentials of suitable Australian contenders. We identified the company Crucial as a host, as they support eco-friendly business. Crucial also donates to the ‘Plant a Billion Trees’ initiative through its carbon offset program. In 2013/2014 Crucial offset its entire year of carbon emissions by sponsoring the Tasmanian Native Forest Protection project “Climate Friendly”. This project sponsors jobs for Australian workers and assists with the protection of large tracts of land and wildlife. Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 8 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx CourtHeath has selected serviced offices that have a strong environmental track record and commitment. Our serviced office provider measures and monitors its environmental performance and has achieved significant savings as outlined below. This provider has NABERS 2.5 star energy rating and 3 star water rating offices. Our serviced office provider has undertaken a sustainable office fit-out using low irritant paints to prepare the office suite and used recycled materials for the office furniture. During the 2013/14 year our serviced office provider Investa has: • reduced water consumption by 37% • reduced gas emissions by 9% • reduced power consumption by 25% • reduced greenhouse emissions by 31% • achieved greater recycling of waste from its fit-out project. Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 9 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.1. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS It is CourtHeath’s policy to pursue all its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner. In doing business anywhere in the world, neither CourtHeath nor any person associated with it may offer, pay, promise, authorise or receive any bribe, kickback or illicit payment. CourtHeath has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. We actively promote awareness about anti-corruption practices amongst our public sector clients. Our goals over the next year are to continue to provide education for all staff and relevant clients about corruption, as well as what to do if one should encounter it. 4.2. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES CourtHeath aims to make measurable progress according to the following criteria: • Participation in anti-corruption dialogues and events • Raising awareness of corruption and probity issues through training, social media and stakeholder engagement • Assisting clients to achieve transparent and accountable probity processes 4.3. IMPLEMENTATION On 1 September, CourtHeath was present at Australia's first national, multi-sector, multi-stakeholder dialogue on bribery and corruption convened by the Global Compact Network Australia in Melbourne. The Dialogue provided a platform for engagement and open dialogue between Australian businesses, government / regulators, academics and civil society, and an opportunity to explore the practical steps each stakeholder group can take to strengthen ethical business practices and reduce corruption and bribery in Australia and wherever Australian businesses operate. Our awareness raising activities relevant to this area have included publishing the following blogs: • New tendering protocols for construction in Victoria http://www.courtheath.com.au/new-tendering-protocols-for-construction-in-victoria/ New requirements applicable to Victorian public construction came into force on 1 March 2017. • Preventing corruption in the public sector http://www.courtheath.com.au/preventing-corruption-in-the-public-sector/ IBAC’s quarterly e-newsletter offers invaluable insights into public sector corruption and corruption prevention. Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 10 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx 5. DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth Valuing diversity, CourtHeath supports opportunities for full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with a disability. SDG12 Ensure responsible consumption and production Supplier diversity enhances resilient sustainable and adaptive supply chains. CourtHeath’s work in government procurement aims to increase awareness about ethical procurement and sourcing responsibly, considering the entire supply chain. SDG 16 peace, justice and strong institutions CourtHeath contributes to building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions working with public sector clients in procurement, seeking to promote accountability and to reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms. SDG 17 Partnership for the goals On a daily basis, CourtHeath works to encourage and promote effective public-private partnerships, ultimately fostering sustainable development. Our work to promote ethical supply chains is central to government’s public-private partnerships. Pixel Perfect Pty Ltd trading as CourtHeath Consulting ABN 15 006 514 209 Page 11 of 11 CourtHeath UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nov 2017 v3.docx
