1 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report summarises TUI Group’s progress between 1st October 2015 and 30th September 2016 on the Better Holidays Better World (BHBW) strategy. It aligns with the TUI financial year unless otherwise stated. The report is designed to be relevant to a wide stakeholder audience, including employees, customers, and other online stakeholders. As well as following our strategic framework for 2015-2020, we’ve tried to respond to emerging issues of material importance to our business and our stakeholders. This report covers data and progress on activities from businesses owned or controlled by TUI Group. In addition to embedded data collection systems in our offices, airlines, group product and purchasing and human resources platforms, there is also a bespoke web-based software tool for sustainability, introduced in 2013. We requested that PwC provide assurance over the carbon emissions data of TUI Group Airlines, refer to the assurance statement on our website. 2 CONTENTS 4 Welcome from Fritz Joussen and Thomas Ellerbeck 5 Highlights for 2016 6 About TUI Group 7 Our Approach 7 Better Holidays Better World framework 7 Better Holidays Better World as part of TUI corporate ctrategy 8 Sustainability governance 9 Materiality, the UN SDG’s and Key Themes facing our industry 11 Stakeholder dialogue and TUI’s partners 12 Benchmarks and achievements 14 Step Lightly 16 Aviation 18 Cruise 20 Ground operations 22 Make a Difference 24 Customers 26 Hotels 28 Destinations 30 Lead the Way 32 Research and innovation 35 TUI Care Foundation 38 Care More 40 Interview with Dr Elke Eller, TUI Group HR and Labour Director 41 Engagement 42 Diversity in leadership 44 People development 46 Employee volunteering 48 Data index 51 Modern Slavery statement 54 Global Compact statement 3 Welcome to our Better Holidays Better World which indicates to us that our drive to create an In 2017 – marks the UN Year of Sustainable report 2016. environment in which our employees thrive is on Tourism. It’s an opportunity for the travel FRITZ A couple of highlights from the second year track. industry to take stock, celebrate its achievements and continue the push for more transparent and JOUSSEN of reporting against our Better Holidays Better World strategy really stand out for me. The second was our performance in Investor Indices: we were named industry leader by the responsible business. As a company committed to ‘Lead the Way’, TUI will continue to be at the The first is the feedback from our TUIgether Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). We also forefront of that movement. CHIEF employee survey. This is as you can imagine made it onto the Climate A list of the Carbon EXECUTIVE a complex exercise for a business with 67,000 Disclosure Project and were ranked among OFFICER, employees, but the insights it gives us are so Europe’s most efficient airlines. There’s a lot TUI GROUP valuable for understanding what motivates more we can do to meet sustainability challenges, and inspires our employees. In the survey we but receiving these honours is an important Fritz Joussen included a question about TUI’s credentials as benchmark that shows we’re on the right path. TUI Group Chief Executive Officer an environmentally responsible company and we were extremely pleased that this year’s This report outlines our progress against our result puts us in the ‘high performer’ businesses Better Holidays Better World 2015-2020 strategy; category. For me this really underscores how it also includes our report on progress as Better Holidays Better World is bringing us signatories to the 10 principles of the UN Global into line with the world’s best companies. Our Compact and our first statement on Modern colleague engagement score, which measures Slavery, an important and challenging issue. engagement with TUI as a company to work for, also moved up 4 points in the past year, to 77, 2016 has been a successful year for TUI. Both One area where we fell short this year was With 2016 chalking up 6.3 million ‘greener and THOMAS commercially and in the integration of the Better Holidays, Better World strategy right across the our 2020 commitment to improve our carbon efficiency by 10%. For the first time in eight fairer’ holidays (customers selecting hotels that have achieved sustainability certification) there ELLERBECK business we have worked hard to achieve our 2020 goals. But we also know we have to stretch years our progress stalled, specifically in regard to TUI Airlines where efficiency deteriorated can be no doubt that the appeal of sustainable holidays has gone mainstream. There is further and continue to find better ways of doing by 1.2% compared to the previous year. still ground to cover to meet our 2020 MEMBER OF THE things, and one example of this is the exciting There were a number of reasons, but a key commitments and we know the shared GROUP EXECUTIVE evolution of the TUI Care Foundation. contributor was unexpected changes in airline global challenge of meeting the Sustainable COMMITTEE routings and occupancy levels due to shifts in Development Goals (SDGs) is immense, but we D I R E C TO R By the close of 2016, TUI funding for good customer preferences away from East to West are confident TUI has the right frameworks in C O R P O R AT E & causes had reached €6.6 million and TUI Mediterranean destinations as a result place to lead in making a difference. E X T E R N A L A F FA I R S Care Foundation was launched as a groupof geopolitical developments. wide umbrella for supporting these initiatives going forward. Our recent research among 2016 has been a year of change around the world our holidaymakers suggests that customer and TUI is no exception. Having launched three enthusiasm to see TUI maximise the positive strategic focus areas in 2015 (Step Lightly, Make impacts of tourism is high and we believe that a Difference, and Lead the Way), I am delighted Thomas Ellerbeck, the TUI Care Foundation does exactly that that we are now adding ‘Care More’ to that Member of the Group Executive Committee with a focus on promoting education and strategic set. The focus will be on our employees Director Corporate & External Affairs opportunity for the next generation, protecting and how TUI aspires to be the best place to work the natural world, and supporting destination so they can go further in providing our customers communities to thrive. with truly unique and memorable holidays. 4 TUI fly Germany and TUI Airlines continue 6.3 million ‘greener 1,170 hotels certified Thomson Airways to be up to 30% more & fairer’ holidays to a Global Sustainable ranked #1 and #2 most carbon efficient than (in hotels with Tourism Council sustainability certification) efficient charter airline the industry norm recognised certification in the 2016 global *see page 16 for details standard atmosfair index 846,000 TUI Collection 100% of our Cruise excursions with operations certified sustainability at to ISO 14001 their heart 4.1% reduction in 77% of TUI groupCO2 emissions per owned hotels had cruise passenger night sustainability compared wth 2015 certifications 22% 77 Funds for research and good causes up 22% year-on-year 41 projects Colleague engagement score of 77 (+4 points on €6.6 2015) million 18.8% part time Supporting 41 projects €6.6 million raised in 20 locations to date Women in 29.4% 18.8% employees for research and through the TUI Care of managerial working part time good causes Foundation positions 5 ABOUT TUI TUI PROFILE GROUP OUR VISION Destinations Employees 180 Discovering the world’s diversity, exploring new horizons, experiencing Group owned foreign countries and cultures: travel broadens people’s minds. At TUI we create unforgettable moments for our customers across the world Aircraft MORE THAN COUNTRIES 67000 hotels MORE THAN 140 300 and make their dreams come true. We are mindful of the importance of WORLDWIDE travel and tourism for many countries in the world and the people living there. We partner with these countries and help shape their future – in WORLDWIDE a committed and sustainable manner. We, the 67,000 TUI employees. Think Travel. Think TUI. Our Strategy In 2015 TUI Group launched it’s five year Better Holidays Better World 2015 – 2020 strategy. The strategy was built around the following three core pillars: 1) Step Lightly, where we committed to operate the most carbon-efficient airlines in Europe and cut the carbon intensity 14 5 of our operations by 10% by 2020. 2) Make a Difference, where we committed to deliver 10 million ‘greener and fairer’ holidays per year by 2020, enabling more local people to CRUISE SHIPS TOUR OPERATOR AIRLNES share in the benefits of tourism. 3)  Lead the Way, where we committed to invest 10€ million per year by 2020, to support good causes and enhance the positive impacts of tourism, using the TUI care Foundation to support this work. In 2016 we have evolved the strategy to include: 4)  Care More, where we have committed to achieve a colleague engagement score of over 80 aligning us with the top 25 global companies by 2020. 6 HOW SUSTAINABILITY SUPPORTS OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL We have a leading position as an integrated tourism company MARKETING AVIATION DESTINATION SERVICES ACCOMMODATION & SALES A compelling reason to A better flight on Europe’s A richer, more authentic Memorable holidays in well run choose a TUI holiday most carbon-efficient airlines destination experience hotels with enthusiastic employees OUR PILLARS: care more Reducing the environmental Creating positive Pioneering sustainable Building the best place to work impact of holidays change for people and tourism across the world where people are passionate communities about what they do UNDERPINNED BY OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 7 SUSTAINABILITY AT TUI TUI Group has a committed and experienced team of sustainability professionals, working in close collaboration with senior management at Group and at divisional level to help ensure that TUI’s business and sustainability strategies are aligned. Our sustainability colleagues’ role is to drive uptake of more sustainable business practices across the TUI Group and along its supply chain, and to advise the TUI Care Foundation on destination project proposals and implementation, with the aspiration of raising the leadership bar across our industry sector. MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Minimum twice yearly agenda slot and update report TOURISM & SOURCE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY As the Better Holidays Better World strategy embeds more widely MARKET BOARDS SUSTAINABILITY WORKING GROUP Regular update COMMITTEE within the organisation, so the relevance and governance of presentations to these Monthly video sustainability within the business has evolved. In addition to more Minimum twice conference comprising Boards as necessary. yearly meeting of all sustainability regular audiences with the most senior management teams in the sustainability leads colleagues at source business, we work closely with our Group Risk, Marketing and RISK OVERSIGHT from source markets market and platform External Affairs colleagues not just to identify and mitigate risk COMMITTEE and platforms (TUI level. but also to develop fresh opportunities for sustainability work at Annual update to Airlines, Group Product this committee and & Purchasing, Cruise, TUI and in destinations. Having worked hard over the years to meetings with Group Risk Hotels & Resorts, develop more sustainable holiday offerings, our aspiration moving Department at regular Destination Services, forward is to bring the product advantages of sustainability more intervals to review risk Communications & register. External Affairs) to life for our customers, driving greater awareness and appreciation of how sustainability enhances the authenticity and enjoyment of their experience, whilst improving the benefits for host communities. OPERATIONAL WORKING GROUPS Animal Welfare, Customer Sustainability Communications, Human Rights, Sustainable Jane Ashton, Accommodation Director of Sustainable Development, TUI Group 8 KEY THEMES FOR TUI AND THE TOURISM SECTOR SUSTAINABLE FUELS FOR AVIATION ECONOMIC BENEFIT FOR TOURIST From our engagement with stakeholders there are some important Supply, cost and distribution are among the DESTINATIONS existing constraints on more widespread use Tourism can be a powerful force for good – recurring themes which we are often asked for a response to. of sustainable fuels for aviation. Through boosting economies, creating employment and We have outlined those themes and our response below: industry organisations, our collaborations with enhancing cultural understanding. Through the TUI other stakeholders and our own investment Care Foundation we focus on ‘thriving destinations’ (for example in algae-based products in Bonaire) to go beyond the impact our tour operations are we are committed to development in this area. already bringing and find new and innovative ways to help destination communities prosper. ANIMAL WELFARE WITHIN TOURIST MODERN SLAVERY AND WIDER EUROPEAN EMISSIONS DIRECTIVE WATER SCARCE DESTINATIONS ATTRACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS REPORTING (EED 2012/27/EU) Water remains a key priority. Beyond measures to Excursions that allow people to see and interact TUI welcomes the push for greater transparency in TUI Group is working to meet the EU Energy control usage, hotels are finding innovative ways to with animals remain very popular with our global supply chains under the UK Modern Slavery Efficiency Directive (EED). Compliance has already address supply problems. Desalination projects are customers. We follow emerging research closely to Act and we will publish our first statement in 2017. been met in the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Austria, a key component of our work and have made a big inform our understanding of what is acceptable and As well as reporting on existing good practice, we Spain and Belgium, and audits for other European impact in destinations where they are in operation. considerate for the animals involved. On this basis will discuss any challenges we face and our plans countries are taking place in 2017. We hope the we have banned elephant riding and shows and moving forwards. process will help in our drive to achieve further are working closely with travel trade associations energy reductions across TUI’s operations. and industry peers to raise the industry bar. Our suppliers are audited in line with the ABTA 2013 global animal welfare guidelines https://abta.com/ working-with-the-industry/animal-welfare CO² EMISSIONS FROM AVIATION Our airlines rank amongst the most carbon efficient in Europe and we welcome the CO² EMISSIONS FROM CRUISE GENDER PAY opportunity to work with the industry to create SHIPS (DIRECTIVE 2015/757) Reward and remuneration is part of our overall a cleaner future, including meeting IATA’s goal We support the drive for increased efficiency and approach to diversity and developing a more EU CSR DIRECTIVE (2014/95/EU) for carbon neutral growth from 2020. TUI is aim to use cutting-edge technology in new ships diverse leadership team. Collecting broader data We welcome the move toward reporting on broadly supportive of CORSIA, the ICAO’s and retrofit existing ships where feasible. We sets to ensure we are compliant with the UK a broader set of issues and with increasing global carbon offsetting scheme, as a way to monitor performance data from our ships and will Gender pay regulations coming into force in April transparency. We are already adjusting our create a fair solution, stopping competitive ensure we are compliant with the submission of a 2017 will improve our understanding and inform reporting practices in readiness. distortion through EU ETS. verified emissions report in April 2019. our human resources approach. 9 MATERIAL Risk: 1 Safety & Crisis Management 2 Compliance Medium High 3 Social Responsibility f or Employees 1 ISSUES FOR TUI 4 Child Protection 5 Climate Change 3,9 6 Guest Awareness 7 Waste TUI Group carried out a formal materiality assessment 8 Water as part of developing the Better Holidays Better World 2 9 Development of Sustainable Products 2015-2020 strategy. Using qualitative and quantitative Engagement in D  estinations Involvement by TUI 10 methods, the business invited feedback from a wide 11 CorporateGovernance range of stakeholders on the issues shown in the matrix 3,5 3 12 Human Rights 7 5 4 alongside. In addition to detailed interviews with top-tier 6 13 Biodiversity 8 stakeholders, the process included a shorter feedback Low 13 9 14 Energy mechanism asking participants from five European 10 15 Sewage Treatment 16 14 11 16 Stakeholder Management markets to prioritise from a list of 26 material issues. 15 17 Landscape The intention is to repeat this assessment process in 3,4 12 24 19 18 18 Supply Chain 2017, the mid-point in our 2020 strategy. 17 19 Diversity 20 21 22 20 Demographic Development 23 21 Innovation Management 22 Staff Development 2,7 23 Support of E ducation System 2,8 3,1 3,4 3,7 4,0 4,3 24 Fostering Art & Culture Relevance for TUI TUI alignment with UN Sustainable Development Goals: Award-winning Microalgae triple use water production 2000 new apprenticeships desalination at in Bonaire as by 2020 in TUI UK in addition Robinson hotels part of our to 500 positions each year in Majorca and International UNITED NATIONS Tourism skills for disadvantaged youth in in TUI Germany and over 250 in the Netherlands and Belgium Maldives sustainable aviation fuels strategy recruitment programmes Dominican Republic SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND MATERIALITY Launched in 2015, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a helpful ‘big picture’ way to view the material impact of our activities. In 2016, we reviewed our activities against the goals and intend to use them as a benchmark in future to assess the relevance of our initiatives. Sustainable tourism is specifically mentioned in three of the goals— SDG 8 on decent work and economic growth, SDG 12 on sustainable consumption and production, and SDG 14 on life below water. The SDGs were an important factor in the development of the TUI Care Foundation—our primary Support for platform for funding detination initiatives—and will inform sustainable agriculture Worldwide beach cleans, turtle Work with Global Sustainable protection projects our strategy going forwards. Tourism Council recognised programmes in Turkey, certifications such as Travelife Crete and Lanzarote Partnering via TUI to safeguard hotel working Carbon intensity reduction Care Foundation conditions targets across all TUI’s with many NGOs on business operations projects 10 OUR STAKEHOLDERS KEY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PLATFORMS In addition to our sustainability annual reports, we have developed a number of platforms to strengthen dialogue with selected stakeholder groups. 67,000 TUI Care Foundation An internal digital NGOs produced and distributed community was a magazine to its established to build cross partners and all TUI market co-operation Senior Leaders to and collaboration on colleagues 20m update them on the sustainability at TUI strategic direction of the Foundation. 180 Our Public Affairs team Our Destination Services customers focussed its quarterly Policy Agenda document Team launched an interactive sustainabiity on sustainability which game for employees. was delivered over a lunch and learn session in Berlin destination with key stakeholders. communities Some of our Business Units For the second year our Governments Investors continue to produce their own Environment Reports more targeted to their TUIgether employee survey included a question on how environmentaly responsible specific stakeholders. This employees considered TUI and is the report for TUI Cruises achieved a score of 75 putting Academia published in September 2016. TUI in the ‘High Performing Company’ category. Market Research Markets within the Suppliers Industry carried out in 2016 provided us with the TUI Group produced their own sustainability Partners most comprehensive feedback yet on reports for engagement with their local Media customer perceptions on stakeholders. This is the sustainability and issues report for TUI Benelux. most material to them. 11 PARTNERSHIPS TUI collaborates with other organisations through the TUI Care Foundation and other channels. The following partnerships in particular help shape our strategic thinking. DRIVING PROGRESS TUI and the German Agency for International TUI is a founding member of Futouris, the TUI is a key sponsor and Board Member of the TUI have worked with Plan Nederland over many Development Cooperation (GIZ) are partnering sustainability initiative of the German tourism Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC) and years on a range of destination project like the in destinations. i.e. the TUI Care Foundation and sector. Its members are committed to working we promote GSTC’s standards to accommodation TUI Academy in the Dominican Republic and GIZ provide placements in sustainable tourism together in order to improve living conditions, suppliers and destinations. Jane Ashton, Director youth training in Brazil. to smooth the transition of women into the job preserve biodiversity, and promote environmental of Sustainable Development was a keynote market in Namibia. and climate protection worldwide. speaker at their AGM in Korea in 2016. A TUI colleague represents the German TUI is a long term member of Sustainable TUI is part of the UNWTO’s sustainable tourism TUI were a founding partner when the Travel Industry Association DRV in the destination and Aviation in the UK and participates on a number task force for the UNEP 10 year framework for Foundation was established in 2003 and since then sustainability committee at ECTAA the Group of the working groups and is the business lead sustainable consumption and production. we have worked with them on joint initiatives to of national travel agents’ and tour operators’ on the Waste working group. build thriving destinations. The Travel Foundation associations within the EU. does invaluable work to ensure tourism benefits people and the environment in destinations. 12 ADVOCACY JAN 2016 Vakantiebeurs (Dutch travel fair), Utrecht Jane Ashton, Director of Sustainability OCT Global Sustainable 2016 Tourism Conference, Korea Jane Ashton, Director of Sustainability ACTIVITY IN MAR 2016 International Tourism Bourse, Berlin Thomas Ellerbeck, Member of the Group Executive Committee Wybcke Meier, CEO, TUI Cruises OCT International Centre for 2016 Responsible Tourism Ian Corbett, Sustainability Business Manager, TUI UK & Ireland 2016 Elise Allart, Director, TUI Care Foundation conference, Dublin Harald Zeiss, Sustainability Manager, TUI Deutschland NOV Global Sustainable Melvin Mak, Sustainability Manager 2016 Tourism Council, Athens TUI Benelux A key component of TUI’s strategy MAR UN/International Initiative Jane Ashton, Director of Sustainability Thomas Johnston, Senior Sustainability 2016 for Peace through Tourism Manager for Products and Purchasing to ‘Lead the Way’ is to influence and Global Peace Award for NOV World Travel Market, Fritz Joussen, CEO engage the wider industry on issues Empowered Women in 2016 London Garry Wilson, Managing Director, Tourism, ITB that we know our stakeholders care Product & Purchasing APR World Travel and Tourism Jane Ashton, Director of Sustainability Jane Ashton, Director of Sustainability about and where collective progress 2016 Council Cconference, Dallas is needed. Over the past year, a large NOV Airports Going Green Tom Sutherland, Environment Manager, MAY Travelife Conferences, Tom Johnston, Senior Sustainability 2016 Congress, Amsterdam TUI Netherlands number of senior personnel have 2016 Montenegro & Cyprus Manager for Group Product and NOV Antalya Turkish Hoteliers’ Fritz Joussen, CEO spoken at a range of forums about the Purchasing 2016 Conference industry’s most material issues and JUNE International Centre for Julia Melnik, Communications and PR DEC COP22, Marrakesh Jane Ashton, Director of Sustainability 2016 Responsible Tourism Manager, TUI Nordics TUI’s response to them. Conference, Finland 2016 SEPT Cyprus Sustainable Tourism Arantxa Garcia, Head of Sustainable 2016 Initiative Development for Destination Services BENCHMARKS AND AWARDS In 2016 TUI was listed on the DJSI Index for the 11th TUI gained top ranking from CDP for carbon TUI Group is included in the Ethibel Excellence year running. This year we achieved a DJSI world disclosure, management and performance and Investment register Throughout the year we track our listing as well as Industry Leader position for our made it onto the Climate A list, ranking us in Sector. We were also included in the ‘Gold Class’ the top 9%. TUI Group were long listed in the Register performance against a number of category in the yearbook for 2016. Deutscher Nachhaltigkeitspreis 2016 externally-recognised benchmarks. TUI is also listed on; FTSE4Good, STOXX Global This is particularly important to the TUI Nordic brands Fritidsresor and Startour ESG Leaders ECPI Ethical Index TUI Group named as a finalist in Innovation Denmark ranked most sustainable travel company in category 2016 Tourism for Tomorrow Awards investor community and provides a the 2015 Sustainable Brand Index TUI NL won the Costa Partner Award helpful performance yardstick for a for Sustainable Tourism TUI Nederland won 2016 Sustainable Travel wide group of stakeholders. Jane Ashton, TUI Group Director of Sustainable Award, TM Travel Awards Development won the Global Peace Award for TUI fly Germany and Thomson Airways were Empowered Women in Tourism TUI Group winner of the “CSR Job Award ranked #1 and #2 respectively in the worlds index Germany“ (category Co-operation) of most carbon efficient charter airlines TUI fly NL won sustainability award at schiphol Aviation Awards 13 REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 14 HIGHLIGHTS TUI Airlines 4.1% TUI fly Germany €67 million O U R B E T T E R H O L I D AYS B E T T E R W O R L D continue to reduction in and Thomson saved through 2 0 1 5 2 0 2 0 S T R AT E G Y CO M M I T M E N T be up to 30% CO2 emissions Airways ranked #1 environmental We will operate Europe’s more efficient than the per cruise passenger and #2 most efficient charter airline in efficiencies since 2012 most carbon-efficient industry norm night compared with 2015 the 2016 global atmosfair index airlines and reduce the carbon intensity O U R I M PAC T 5 tour operator airlines | 140 aircraft | 14 cruise ships | 180 destinations | 1,600 stores | >300 group-owned/managed hotels of our operations by KPIs AND PROGRESS IN 2016 10% by 2020 P R O G R E S S AG A I N S T 2 0 2 0 CO M M I T M E N T S We will reduce TUI Airlines’ carbon We will reduce carbon emissions We will reduce carbon emissions emissions per passenger km by 10% per cruise passenger night by 10% from our offices, retail shops and In 2016 carbon emissions per passenger km In 2016, carbon emissions per cruise brochures by 20% were 66.8g CO2, an increase of 1.2% passenger night were 110kg CO2, a 4.1% Carbon emissions from 50 major compared with 2015 (66g) but nonetheless reduction compared with 2015 (114kg). offices totalled 20,085 tonnes of CO2; a 1.2% reduction against the 2014 baseline. 1,600 retail shops generated 9,676 tonnes of CO2 and 5,984 tonnes of CO2 resulted All TUI cruise ships will be “ All TUI airlines will be ISO 14001 from brochure production. This is a 5.2% ISO14001 certified reduction against the 2015 baseline. All five tour operator airlines maintained In 2016, 14 cruise ships out of 14 were their certification to ISO 14001 standard ISO 14001 certified (100% of our ships). certified. Our hotels will reduce carbon emissions per guest night by 10% The renewed focus of the Our airlines will source food, beverages Our cruise operations will make improvements in water consumption, In 2016, average carbon emissions per guest night from TUI Hotels & Resorts business on efficiency and and other supplies responsibly waste management, and sulphur and was 9.5kg of CO2, a 4.0% reduction The airlines are in the process of nitrogen emissions compared with 2015. greater centralisation will help completing a responsible sourcing review, which will be used to set targets in 2017. TUI Cruises reduced sulphur by 24.8%, nitrogen by 20.1% and water by 2.4% in driving emissions down.” We will segregate cabin waste per guest night. Our ground transport fleet will reduce carbon emissions per and work with destination airports passenger kilometre by 10% to improve waste management In 2016, carbon emissions from our coach John Murphy, Director, Airline Operations and recycling transport companies were on average Award-winning activity in Schiphol airport 28.3g of CO2 per passenger kilometre, a in Amsterdam has generated 6.1% increase compared with 2015. 8.5 tonnes of segregated waste in 2016. 15 AVIATION COMMITMENT BY 2020 We will drive environmental improvements across our aviation operations TUI Airlines comprise Europe’s 7th largest More than 80% of TUI’s carbon footprint STATE-OF-THE-ART AIRCRAFT fleet, with about 140 aircraft across five is from our aircraft and so activity among We operate a modern fleet with an D I D YO U K N OW? tour operator airlines serving about 13 our airlines is a primary focus for our average age of less than eight years. In million holiday customers each year. We ‘Step Lightly’ activity. Following several September 2016, TUI committed to also operate Corsair, a scheduled airline. years of improved CO2 efficiency, 2016 buying 11 new aircraft to ensure our fleet On average TUI Airlines carbon intensity is saw the first year-on-year efficiency loss remains modern and efficient. This about 30% less than the industry norm. in TUI airlines since 2008: an average of includes 10 new Boeing 737 MAXs 66.8g CO2 per passenger kilometre in incorporating the latest technology such T U I AI R L I N E S’ CAR BON E FFI CI E N CY VER SUS T HE LAR G EST 2016 versus 66g CO2 per passenger as CFM International LEAP-1B engines, AI R L I N E S I N EUR OPE* kilometre in 2015. There were a number of advanced technology winglets and other reasons for this decline, including improvements to deliver the highest Scheduled average 95.0 significant and unexpected re-planning of efficiency and reliability on the market. Global average** 94.1 passenger routes away from Turkey and Egypt to Western Mediterranean routes. Budget average 78.8 However, against the baseline year for our Better Holidays, Better World strategy TUI AIRL I NE S CAR B O N I NT E NSI T Y TUI Group average 66.8 2015-2020 our carbon efficiency 2015/16 2014/15 g C02e/rpk g C02e/rpk** 20 40 60 80 g CO2 /rpk performance still showed an 20% REDUCTION TUI Airline g CO2/rpk 66.8 66.0 +1.2 67.5 improvement. TUI Airlines’ comparative E F fleet T U I GR OU P AI R LI N E CAR BON performance was recognised in November E FFI CI E N CY FY08 TO F Y16 Corsair g CO2/rpk 82.4 79.8 +3.3 83.2 2016 by the independent climate The new aircraft will International Year % +/protection organisation atmosfair, which deliver 20 percent lower Thomson g CO2/rpk 63.8 63.7 +0.2 64.4 FY08 ranked TUI fly Germany and Thomson Airways Airways as the world’s most carbonfuel use and 20 percent FY09 0.3% TUI fly g CO2/rpk 71.4 69.6 +2.6 72.1 efficient charter airlines. fewer emissions than the FY10 -2.6% Belgium aircraft they replace. FY11 -0.3% TUI fly g CO2/rpk 64.4 63.4 +1.6 65.0 Germany FY12 -3.8% TUI fly Germany and Thomson *Data from the four largest budget and four largest TUI fly g CO2/rpk 64.1 63.8 +0.5 64.7 FY13 -3.2% Airways ranked #1 and #2 most scheduled airlines in Europe based on passenger numbers. Latest publicly available data, January 2017. Netherlands FY14 -4.4% efficient charter airline in the TUI fly g CO2/rpk 61.4 60.6 +1.3 62.0 FY15 -2.4% 2016 global atmosfair index **Global airlines emissions metrics, taking an average Nordic of UK short & long haul and non-UK international FY16 1.2% operations (UK Government). * rpk = Revenue Passenger Kilometre 16 TUI was also the first European airline to take receipt of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner back in 2011; we now have 14 B787s in the fleet and Magdalena Golebiewska WASTE AT AIRPORTS Group Environment and will have 17 by 2019. The B787s are scheduled to deliver 20% lower Reducing waste from flights is currently limited by infrastructure Fuel Manager, TUI Airlines fuel use and emissions than the aircraft they replace. constraints. While airlines can collect and segregate waste on board NEW TECHNOLOGIES TO DRIVE EFFICIENCY aircraft, without proper recycling facilities at source or destination airports everything goes back into general waste. To tackle this, TUI Many modern technologies can also be ‘retrofitted’ to existing aircraft Netherlands has worked with Schiphol airport – one of Europe’s busiest and we continue to make changes to our fleet, such as introducing – and partners Suez and Kluh to build a waste facility. Completed in July winglets where possible. At TUI fly Belgium we operate our own 2015, the facility allows recyclable waste from TUI aircraft to be design team of professionals, who are licensed by the airline segregated into four streams (paper, glass, cans and plastics). By July manufacturers to carry out changes to our aircraft. This means we 2016, 8.5 tonnes of waste had been sorted at the facility. The TUI can make improvements faster: in the past year, for example, Netherlands team is now looking to repeat this success at Eindhoven and TUI fly Belgium made modifications to the underside of Embraer Tell us a little bit about yourself Brussels airports. There are even proposals to use products produced aircraft, applying air inlets and new wheel farings to make them from the ‘waste’ – such as fleece blankets – on board our flights. I’m Polish but I have lived in the UK since 2005. Before my current more aerodynamic. role, I worked at Thomson Airways for more than two years as the SEGREGATED WASTE ON INBOUND FLIGHTS TO AMSTERDAM Airline Environment Manager. I studied environmental protection 2500 7.0 and environmental management in Poland and in the UK. Our business took the decision in 2016 to create the One Aviation Paper Average segregated waste per inbound flight (kgs) As well as changes to the aircraft itself, platform with the vision that using a single platform would help our 5.8 Glass technology plays an important role in how 2000 four airlines achieve greater efficiencies and share best practice. PET flights operate and in crew administration. My role within One Aviation is developing strategic thinking on 5.0 5.0 Cans For example, tablets and smartphones fuel and environment across the airlines and keeping in touch with Average industry developments and best practice in the field. Total segregated waste (kgs) are now used on-board for flight 4.4 segregated 4.2 waste per inventory, crew sign-in, on-board sales 1500 and a range of other activities that were inbound flight (kgs) What are some of the most interesting things you previously paper-based. work on? 2.8 3.0 My role includes bringing people together internally to continually 1000 2.5 2.3 improve our environmental performance. I also get to engage 1.9 with some of the key organisations shaping sustainable aviation, Please turn to our ‘Lead the Way’ section to read more about our including various airport authorities and aviation service providers. continued investment in new technologies in aviation. 1.5 1.3 For example, I lead the Waste & Recycling Working Group for UK 500 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 0.7 1.2 Aviation Industry’s Sustainable Aviation initiative and roles like this 0.9 1.0 help me continually push myself – and the business – further. Changing how we buy things and working with our suppliers to 0.8 improve sustainability practices is a powerful way for TUI to make a real difference right along the value chain. A survey on responsible 0 What sustainability initiative are you most proud of? 0 OCT 15 NOV 15 DEC 15 JAN 16 FEB 16 MAR 16 APR 16 MAY 16 JUN 16 JUL 16 AUG 16 SEP 16 OCT 16 NOV 16 sourcing was conducted in 2016 across all TUI airlines. A number of That’s hard to say! Working with Boeing on our ecoDemonstrator locally-sourced products are already available – for example, honey initiative to test new aircraft technologies was exciting because you from a producer in Ostende is offered on TUI Benelux flights. get to look into the future and see the innovations that are coming. ISO 14001 AND EMAS The aim of the survey was to see what is currently in place, set clear But at the other end of the scale I’ve worked with engineering guidance and targets on responsibly-sourced products, and more In 2009, TUI fly Nordic was the first charter airline to achieve ISO colleagues at our Luton hangar on a waste segregation improvement accurately report back on performance. Our Group Environment and 14001 certification, and now all five of our tour operator airlines have programme. That initiative has grown to sorting eight waste streams Fuel Manager will be working further on this with a team of been certified to the global environmental management standard. TUI from papers and plastics down to different metals and even nuts international graduates and supplier management, procurement fly Germany has also aligned its 28 aircraft with the European EMAS and bolts. It shows what is possible in every area of our business. and in-flight retail teams in 2017. standard. EMAS involves rigorous measurement and evaluation of environmental performance, requiring ongoing data collection Watch a video about the ecoDemonstrator throughout the year as well as external publication of data. here (www.youtube.com). 17 CRUISE COMMITMENT BY 2020 We will drive environmental improvements across cruise operations D I D YO U K N OW ? TUI Group operates 14 cruise ships SCRUBBERS release their treated wash water into across three brands – TUI Cruises, One of the most significant environmental the sea. Hapag-Lloyd Cruises and Thomson technologies on board Mein Schiff 5 is In most areas, such as ports and coastal Cruises. In the past year we have made the exhaust gas treatment system, also and river zones, we are required to great strides with energy efficiency known as ‘scrubber technology’. The operate closed loop, but TUI Cruises is across our cruise business, achieving hybrid scrubbers from TUI Cruises make the only cruise company currently using a 4.1% reduction in CO2 emissions per it possible to operate temporarily in a zero-discharge operating mode in areas passenger night. These savings are completely closed-loop system with all where this is not legally required. For thanks to a continuous programme effluents and residues kept inside the example, in the summer of 2016 we ran of refits to existing ships as well as ship, meaning there is zero discharge. BREAKDOWN OF TUI GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT IN FY2016 closed-loop continuously for nearly three our investment in newer vessels with Ships operating open-loop systems months in the Baltic due to its sensitive the best available environmental Carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) tonnes 2015 / 2016 ecosystem, generating zero discharge technologies. from the hybrid scrubber. Since 2014 Airlines & aviation 5,842,427 4.1% LAUNCH OF MEIN SCHIFF 5 with its first new build, TUI Cruises has 2015 2016 Hotels & resorts 510,719 114kg 110kg exceeded 2020 regulatory requirements, In July 2016, Mein Schiff 5 went into making TUI Cruises among the cleanest Cruises 686,791 service for TUI Cruises as one of the cruise fleet worldwide. By operating our most energy-efficient, low-emission Major premises & shops 32,617 scrubbers around the clock, TUI Cruises ships in the world. Three further vessels goes much further than the global sulphur Ground transport 17,751 are in the pipeline for launch in 2017, limit of 3.5% in fuel: emissions from our 2018 and 2019. 4.1% reduction in new ships are below 0.1% sulphur. In 2020, Scope 3 (other) 71,713 CO2 emissions per the global cap will fall to 0.5% sulphur – Group 7,162,018 passenger night still significantly higher than our newly built ships are achieving today. 18 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS ACROSS OUR CRUISE OPERATIONS Our Scrubber CLOSED LOOP TUI Cruises reductions per guest per night (compared with 2015) Technology OPEN LOOP Hybrid scrubbers make it possible to operate in a completely NaOH closed-loop system ​ 20.1% 24.8% – ​all effluents and *Our other cruise residues ​are ​kept inside nitrogen sulphur companies are reduction reduction implementing the ship, resulting in improved zero discharge. Ships reporting operating open-loop systems to systems release their report on these treated wash water into metrics in future. the sea. HAPAG-LLOYD CRUISES ADD TO THEIR FLEET OPERATING IN REMOTE AND Hapag-Lloyd Cruises has ordered two new ships SENSITIVE LOCATIONS for 2019. These will be built between shipyards From the Amazon to the Arctic, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises in Norway and Romania and come equipped helps its customers discover some of the most with state-of-the-art environmental technology. remote and dramatic landscapes in the world. Visiting DI D YOU KN OW? With PC6, the highest Polar Class designation such locations carries particular responsibilities. In for passenger ships, they will be able to cruise in the Arctic, Antarctic and Kamchatka we are using Our excursions are polar regions in the Arctic and Antarctica, as well as warm water destinations such as the Amazon. diesel oil in place of heavy fuel oil and calculate our itineraries based on speeds most likely to reduce designed not just to Most onboard zodiacs are equipped with Torqeedo electric motors to reduce air and noise emissions fuel consumption and emissions. Our excursions are designed to respect local flora and fauna and draw respect local flora and while allowing landings in otherwise inaccessible attention to their ongoing conservation. In addition, fauna but to draw expedition areas. our guests have the option of offsetting the CO2 emissions from their sea passage with Hapag-Lloyd attention to their ongoing In addition to benefiting from the new technology that comes with modern vessels, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises, in which case we cover 25% of the cost. conservation Cruises is upgrading its existing fleet. On MV CERTIFICATION TO ISO 14001 Bremen we have made improvements enabling All five TUI Cruises vessels (Mein Schiff 1, 2, 3, the bow thrusters and stabilisers to operate with 4 and 5) have ISO 14001 and 9001 certification. environmentally friendly bio-oil. A ballast water Hapag-Lloyd Cruises engages Columbia Cruise treatment plant has been installed to prevent Services as its ship management contractor and harmful micro-organisms from being discharged its ISO 14001 certification covers the fleet of four into the seawater. We have also started maintaining Hapag-Lloyd vessels. All five Thomson cruise propeller shafts using seawater as a lubricant rather vessels (Thomson Dream, Thomson Celebration, than oil, a practice unique in the cruise industry. Thomson Majesty, Thomson Spirit and TUI Discovery) are also certified, meaning our full cruise fleet is 100% aligned to the global standard. 19 GROUND OPERATIONS COMMITMENT BY 2020 We will drive environmental improvements across our ground operations D I D YO U K N OW? €67 million saved through environmental efficiencies since 2012 * an approximate figure for savings that have been tracked, gross of any upfront investments required, part of previously identified cost savings. MAIN DRIVERS OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN TRAVEL AGENCIES 400,000 TUI’s ground operations make up 9% of our total carbon East to West Mediterranean destinations meant that emissions footprint and consist of major office premises, hotels, retail efficiency from transport was adversely effected – 28.3g of CO2 Annual consumption 2014 (kWh) 60% shops and transport vehicles. We have about 50 major per passenger kilometre, which was a 6.1% increase on 2015. Share of total consumption 300,000 48.9% offices (those containing 100 people or more) located across 45% Europe and beyond. Our retail portfolio consists of more than 1,600 shops in 11 source markets. With more than 1,000 200,000 shops between them, the UK and Germany are our largest 30% 30.7% source markets. Our ground transport operations sit within the Destination Services division and in 2016 included four 100,000 15% companies – Ultramar (Spain), Tantur (Turkey), Aeolos (Cyprus) 10.6% 2.4% and SMDTT (Morocco). Hotelbeds was sold in 2016 and so will 6.8% 0.7% 0 0% not be included in reporting going forward. As with aviation, the ELECTRICITY LIGHTING OFFICE & OTHER AC & HOUSEHOLD HOT WATER & HEAT SYSTEM COMMUNICATION COOLING UTENSILS SUPPLY knock-on effect of a mid-season shift in customer demand from GENERATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS 20 *from German Travel Agencies EED results SIMPLE STEPS CARBON FOOTPRINT Sometimes the simplest operational practices can have the biggest impact. For example, training of colleagues driving our coaches includes instructions to park vehicles facing into the sun rather than side-on. As a result, the heat impact on the vehicle is reduced by about 15-20%. In destinations where 81.6% the heat climbs to over 35°C, the maximum vehicle Airlines & aviation standing running time is 30 minutes. These small differences make our customers more comfortable as well as reducing environmental impact. MAKING TRAINING DIGITAL There are many other examples of small changes 9.6% DI D YOU KN OW? that make the way we operate more sustainable. Destination Services has in the past year developed Cruises The TUI Northern a new game to supplement team training on Region (Nordics and sustainability issues. Rather than adding to paperbased training materials, the game is downloaded UK) will be brochure and navigated using a smartphone or tablet. Read free by 2020 more about the game in the Training section of our ‘Care More’ pillar. 7.1% Hotels & Resorts* ENERGY REDUCTION IN RETAIL TUI UK announced in July 2016 that by 2020 it will completely remove brochures from its retail experience. In place of brochures TUI UK will provide DI D YOU KN OW? GROUND OPERATIONS an enhanced digital experience at every customer touchpoint. It will include technology that recognises a customer as they enter a store, digital screens 0.5% Sustainability training on resorts and mobile technology to help customers search Major premises & shops is delivered through a smartphone seamlessly for their perfect holiday and free in-store customer wi-fi. and tablet-based game In Germany an audit of energy consumption in stores was carried out with data showing that heat, electricity and lighting are by far the biggest consumers, thus efficiency activities to further 0.2% Ground transport reduce consumption will be developed in 2017. ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS As a global provider of systems and software to manage utility data, EnerNoc will help us take the data from our utilities further. Built-in benchmarking and target setting gives us the opportunity to drive efficiency savings. TUI’s 600 UK stores will be the first to deploy EnerNoc methodology at retail. While 1.0% still in the early stages, our use of EnerNoc provides Scope 3 (other) an opportunity for steady consumption reductions. *Hotels covered in Make a Difference section 21 CREATING POSITIVE CHANGE 22 O U R B E T T E R H O L I D AYS B E T T E R W O R L D HIGHLIGHTS 6.3 million ‘greener 1,170 hotels 846,000 TUI 77% of TUI 2 0 1 5 2 0 2 0 S T R AT E G Y CO M M I T M E N T and fairer’ holidays certified to a Global collection Group owned in 2016 (in hotels Sustainable Tourism excursions with hotels had We will deliver 10 million with sustainability certification) Council recognised certification standard sustainability at their heart sustainability certifications greener and fairer holidays a year by 2020, O U R I M PAC T 20 million customers | 67,000 employees | 180 destinations | >300 group-owned/managed hotels | 214,000 beds enabling more local KPIs AND PROGRESS IN 2016 people to share in the All hotels in our tourism business portfolio will subscribe to credible Our hotels will include innovative • Customer research into sustainability was carried out in 2016 and will provide benefits of tourism sustainability certifications We have delivered 6.3 million ‘greener and environmental features, invest in skills training for staff, develop local market-leading analysis on this theme. fairer’ holidays and have the equivalent of skills and favour local sustainable Our colleagues will be ambassadors 1,170 hotels certified to a Global Sustainable procurement of sustainability Tourism Council standard. TUI has also In 2016, 54% of employees in owned P R O G R E S S AG A I N S T included a sustainability component in and concept hotels were receiving In our TUIgether employee survey across 2 0 2 0 CO M M I T M E N T S contracts with all accommodation suppliers all TUI employees, a score of 75 against vocational training and there were 3,600 outlining minimum expectations and the benchmarks for colleagues view of TUI as an apprenticeships in place. requirement to work towards credible environmentally responsible company puts Also, in 2016 90% of employees were us in the ‘high performer’ category. sustainable certification. nationals of the country and 79% of food was from within the country. We will develop and roll out the TUI Our destination management Average carbon emissions per guest night companies and excursions will meet “ EcoResort standard to drive exemplary at TUI Hotels & Resorts and International sustainability performance our sustainability standards Concepts was 10.1kg of CO2, energy Our EcoResort hotels continue to be consumption per guest night was 27.9 kWh Our customers went on 846,000 TUI leaders. Going forward will review the and fresh water use 478 litres per guest night. Collection excursions in 2016, up 30% programme and find fresh ways to evolve on 2015. There are 170 TUI Collection The key to this success the concept. We will communicate about excursions in 41 destinations. These excursions are selected against unique, is our relationship with We will develop a support forum for sustainability throughout the customer journey local and sustainability criteria. TUI has also included a sustainability our suppliers.” hotels to share sustainability learnings and drive improvements • TUI UK in consultation with the wider TUI Group developed a Customer component to our contract with all destination management companies We continue with our programme of Communications Toolkit to be rolled out outlining TUI’s minimum standards of road shows to help hotels approach the in 2017. sustainability expected in relation to the Garry Wilson, Managing Director certification process – in 2016 there were • TUI Netherlands launched a fresh and provision and operation of transportation, Product and Purchasing three road shows. We also provide specific well-received range of ‘in-room’ customer excursions and destination handling consultancy support on certification to communications. services for TUI’s customers and hotels where appropriate. destination operations. • A customer-facing video on sustainability Our online data collection from our owned at TUI was commissioned in 2016 for and concept hotels provides more detailed launch in 2017. feedback for hotels submitting data. 23 CUSTOMERS COMMITMENT BY 2020 We will help customers and colleagues to create positive change D ID YO U K N OW? CUSTOMER RESEARCH ON The research will inform how we communicate SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS and engage with people on sustainability going forward. We have also developed a ‘toolkit’ for TUI MARKETS marketing colleagues with detailed guidance Better understanding how we can better engage on using sustainability in communications. To people in sustainability is a priority for TUI and engage better with people on sustainability we will be key in our progress with Better Holidays, want to make sure all communications maintain a Better World. This is the reason that in late 2016 credible, relevant and authentic standard. During TUI undertook its largest piece of research to 2017 that toolkit will be adapted to ensure a local PAST date on customer attitudes and interest relating Working for over 25 years to improve the social and fit in source markets. environmental credentials of our business to sustainability. More than 3,800 people in six countries took BETTER WORLD DETECTIVES part in a detailed survey of attitudes and Better World Detectives goes from strength perceptions regarding sustainability, ‘green’ to strength, with more than 700 schools hotels, sustainability labelling and the TUI downloading our materials in the past year. The PRESENT Defining a clear sustainability programme, Better Holidays, Care Foundation. Notable feedback to emerge programme looks to engage 7-11 year olds in how Better World, with clear 2020 goals to lead in our sector included: to live and travel in a sustainable way. • desire for help in making sustainable choices with better signposting at In addition to existing materials, 2017 will see INVEST €10 OPERATE DELIVER ACHIEVE A a new competition for children to produce MILLION EUROPE’S 10 MILLION COLLEAGUE point-of-booking PER YEAR MOST GREENER ENGAGEMENT • a pronounced enthusiasm for the work of TUI advertising materials on how adults should travel ENHANCE CARBONAND FAIRER SCORE OF Care Foundation and strong confidence that the more sustainably. TUI UK has committed to THE POSITIVE EFFICIENT HOLIDAYS OVER 80 showcase the winning work to customers and IMPACTS OF AIRLINES funds are invested in worthwhile causes • high expectations of TUI’sresponsibility to runners up will have the opportunity to adopt TOURISM drive global standards in animal welfare in and follow a GPS-tagged turtle. excursion venues. FUTURE Embed ‘better business’ storytelling and experiences into our brand 24 ACCESSIBILITY more sustainable holiday option. For example, As a business we want to make sure our icons were used to show if a hotel has sustainability customers are able to make the most of the certification and during the campaign a couple facilities, excursions and experiences on offer. In of hotels were profiled for their really innovative 2016 we looked into how we could co-ordinate approaches. At TUI Family Life Pascha Bay hotel, and scale up activities and best practices from for example, kitchen oil is used to power lawn our accessibility working groups across the Group. mowers to keep the grounds beautiful, while at To help us we engaged with Whizz Kids in the our TUI Family Life Aegean Park hotel in Greece UK, one of our 2017 charitable partners, who are boreholes have been dug to raise cold groundwater well-positioned to help us develop our practices in to the surface to keep buildings cool. Hourly this important area. Also in 2017 the decision was social media updates were also used to share DISABILITY SNOWSPORT UK As part of the training, I was able to learn taken to recruit a specialist to support the business sustainability facts and highlights. more about the organisation and its Crystal Ski, our ski holiday operator in specifically on accessibility issues. The Green Friday team was motivated by a desire amazing ethos as long as you can move the UK, has been partnering since 2010 to make sustainable choices easier for customers. your head, you can ski down a mountain! GREEN FRIDAY with Disability Snowsport UK, the UK’s Following the campaign’s success, Green Friday There are no age limits: anyone from age 5 Green Friday took place on 9th December 2016 leading charity providing access to adaptive will be repeated in 2017, with TUI inviting all tour to 90 is welcome. and was an initiative designed to be transparent, skiing and snowboarding for people with operators to join the initiative and help the industry informative and to raise awareness. The idea is disabilities. Since then we have fundraised go further, faster, in guiding customers towards What was the volunteering to have a single day where the priority focus is on their behalf with our customers and sustainable choices. experience like? on ‘greener and fairer’ holiday options and how colleagues, and in 2016 raised €68,500 to add to the £320,000 previously raised. It was very rewarding but also challenging. customers can make more sustainable choices The individuals on the trip are from when booking. For 24 hours, the Green Friday We have also provided support with TUI employee volunteers accompanying their different backgrounds and there is a wide campaign was showcased on the TUI Nordic page range of disabilities among those on the trip. in Denmark, Sweden and Norway with speciallydisabled guests on ski trips to the French Alps. One of these volunteers was Tom The day is set up so that helpers provide designed infographics explaining how customer support both on and off the mountain; choices make a difference and how to take the Johnston, Sustainability Manager for Products & Purchasing and he tells us below aiding the skier and the instructor during a little more about the trip. tailored ski lessons and ensuring the safety, welfare and enjoyment of skiers when back in the hotel and around town. A typical day How long have you worked at TUI? would involve me waking up and ensuring I have been at TUI for six years. I first joined those skiing in the morning were awake, on the International Management graduate dressed and prepared for skiing, had eaten programme. and taken any necessary medication, and accompanying skiers to start their lessons. What did you know about We would all meet for lunch and dinner as Disability Snowsport before a group, which provided a great sense of volunteering? a group holiday and all skiers, instructors I was aware of the long-standing and helpers had a fantastic week in Austria. relationship between TUI’s Crystal Ski Volunteering with DSUK is something I’d do business and DSUK and that about 30 TUI again without hesitation, as I feel I helped employees supported that partnership each an amazing group of people make the most year through volunteering. DSUK started of their week of skiing, while learning a lot with activity weeks for individuals with about myself personally and making great cerebral palsy and has grown to include friends in the process! all disabilities and learning difficulties, as well as feeder programmes for Paralympics squads and snow sport development programmes. 25 HOTELS COMMITMENT BY 2020 We will work with hotel suppliers to increase their positive impact on the local community and to protect the environment TUI Group owns/manages more than 300 In 2016 the number of certified understand what certification entails hotels and partners closely with about establishments grew by 23% and now and how to meet the challenge. 200 ‘concept’ hotels. Customers would stands at 1,170 hotels. The number of recognise these hotels as Sensatori, ‘greener and fairer’ holidays taken by TUI’s Product & Purchasing Team Sensimar, TUI Blue, Robinson, RIU, customers in 2016 climbed to 6.3 million – also worked on a ‘Green Tracker’ TUI Magic Life, and Family Life. We also an increase of 12.5% on last year (5.6m). programme, which supports hotels with work with thousands of accommodation practical guidance through the Travelife suppliers in the 180 destinations to which With support from the Travelife team, certification process. This online tool our 12 million tour operator customers we continue to encourage more hotels was piloted at three hotels in 2016: one to move towards certification. In 2016, achieved Travelife Gold immediately upon travel each year. there were three road shows (Limassol, audit completion and the remaining two Hotels must be CERTIFICATION Paphos, and Montenegro) to help hotels required minor improvements to achieve taking action on: Certification is central to our Gold level. A full review of the pilot is commitment to offer ‘greener and currently underway, taking in feedback fairer’ holidays. It is a credible way of from hotels involved in the trial as well Environmental showing whether our hotels go further In 2016 the as other stakeholders, with a view to updating and amending the tool for wider issues than others when it comes to social and number of certified roll-out. environmental issues. We encourage accommodation our hotels to aim for certification that grew by 23% and To read about the work of our Social is GSTC (Global Sustainable Tourism now stands at 1,170 hotels. The International Management graduates issues Council)-recognised or approved, and we number of ‘greener and fairer’ on the commercial benefits of Travelife are strong supporters of the certification holidays taken by customers in certification to our hotels, refer to the programme Travelife. 2016 climbed to 6.3 million ‘Lead the Way’ section of this report. to achieve certification 26 IN-HOUSE HOTEL SCHOOLS Every year since 1996, TUI Deutschland has been awarding For a number of years our Robinson Clubs have held in-house hotels that work particularly hard to protect the environment apprenticeship programmes in Morocco, Turkey and Greece, and exercise their social responsibility. To participate, hotels with training delivered by Robinson Managers. This is over and must hold a valid Sustainability Certificate recognised by the above the apprentices we take from state-run initiatives in Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC). The assessment those countries. In Greece, Robinson Club Daidalos in Kos is a additionally takes account of what guests say about the hotel’s partner of the Mentoring Dual International (MENDI) project, environmental performance. 202 hotels were awarded which provides high-quality apprenticeships for hotel clerks, TUI Umwelt Champion status in 2016. serving staff and chefs. Since 2013, more than 200 training places have been offered and in 2016 a further 17 apprentices SUSTAINABILITY IN NEW-BUILD HOTELS joined that alumni group. Funding will continue in 2017. In On the previously uninhabited island of Orivaru, 750 workers are Robinson Club Agadir, 92 students were trained in 2016, busy building the second Robinson Club in the Maldives. Energy adding to the 600 who have been through the programme efficiency is a pivotal element of the design and the innovative since 2008. Across the five Robinson Club Hotels in Turkey, heat-recovery system and new air conditioning technology will a further 58 were in training in 2016. Since 2003, 363 local cut consumption as well as costs. Operational sustainability alumni have successfully been employed as reception, will be enhanced by high-standard sewage treatment and an bar and chef staff. in-house unit to turn seawater into drinking water. It is estimated that the operational cost of running the hotel will be reduced by ROBINSON RESORTS LEADING THE 35% thanks to the technologies being implemented. PROGRAMME In Europe a project got underway in 2016 to further Robinson resort Trained Total number of regenerate the historic Tuscan estate of Castelfalfi keeping as in 2016 graduates from much of the original architecture as possible while introducing Hotel School modern systems and technologies. The resort has installed a Biomass plant – Il Castelfalfi Club Daidalos 17 217 biomass plant, which will consume about 3.5 tonnes of biomass each year from the hotel and its grounds and is expected to reduce fuel requirements by 95%, making the resort practically Club Agadir 92 692 self-sufficient with only a small reserve of fuel kept for emergencies. The doors to Il Castelfalfi by TUI Blue Club Pamfilya 58 363 open in March 2017. Along with consultants MACE and the Travel Foundation, TUI’s TUI GOLD AWARDS AND UMWELT Product & Purchasing team also carried out a full review of two reconstructed and refurbished units in Croatia. The aim CHAMPION PROGRAMME was to understand how environmental and social sustainability Across our source markets there are a variety of ways in considerations can be incorporated during planning, design, which we seek to give profile to the hotels which are making build and launch phases of refurbishment and new-build significant strides in sustainability. In Germany the longprojects as well as ongoing operations. The work identified best established Umwelt Champion programme recognised 202 practices to share with other accommodation partners and hotels for achieving certification to a recognised sustainability highlighted areas for improvement in all future new-build or standard and meeting high customer satisfaction scores. And refurbishment projects. Work is ongoing to create a framework each year TUI UK and TUI Nordic celebrate the work of its around these considerations to guide our internal teams and hoteliers with its Annual Gold Awards. There are 18 categories external partners in future builds. overall, including a category for sustainability. This year the winning entry was Conca Park Hotel in Sorrento, which has a range of sustainability initiatives largely focused on reducing waste. By involving its producers, suppliers, staff and guests, Conca Park has set an ambitious target to be waste-neutral by 2020 and leads the way with its commitment to the highest sustainability standards. 27 Water desalination – Club Robinson, Maldives DESTINATIONS COMMITMENT BY 2020 Our destination management companies and excursions will meet our sustainability standards D I D YO U K NOW? AC RO SS ALL CO U N T RI E S LO CA L F O O D A N D S E ASON A L & SUSTAINAB L E P R O D U C T S A RE BY FA R T H E MOST At the heart of the Better Holidays, Better World strategy is FY16 FY15 SIGNIFICANT F O O D T RE N D S the desire to build thriving destinations. From the food our customers eat to the excursions they take and the people who % serve them, we endeavour through our Destination Services % of employees who 90% 89% Local authentic food 73 72 82 72 66 68 80 team to make the experience a sustainable one that allows are nationals more local people to benefit from tourism. Research conducted Made with seasonal & 65 79 68 55 66 77 sustainable products 68 in the last quarter of 2016 showed that across all markets the % of employees from 62% 60% A grab and go station 49 54 53 37 26 48 two strongest food trends among our guests were the desire the local region at the hotel 45 for authentic local food and food made with seasonal and sustainable ingredients. % of food that is 79% 81% Food truck/street food 34 40 36 32 29 24 44 country-sourced 34 Special kids’ food 36 35 34 27 28 42 TUI COLLECTION EXCURSIONS DIY barbecue 33 37 36 31 33 28 36 % of food that is sourced from 48% 50% We know from our work with The Travel Foundation and PwC the local region Alternative cereals 36 31 33 25 28 40 instead of wheat & rye 32 in 2015 (http://www.thetravelfoundation.org.uk/casestudy/ Food from the home 42 31 31 22 14 52 measuring-tourisms-impact/ ) that tourists’ discretionary 32 spending has a significant local impact and successful excursions *information provided by through TUI Brand Insights from approx. 300 country owned, controlled and concept hotels Cooking classes 25 28 26 20 22 19 34 Top 2 most significant food trends per market 28 really do help generate thriving destinations. In the in Curaçao, engaging them and other local last year 846,000 customers chose TUI Collection stakeholders in making the destination a better excursions. place to live. Based on that experience, TUI NL is This represents 20% of all excursions sold by seeking to go further by introducing local children TUI Destination Services and a huge 30% to the children of our guests. We believe local year-on-year growth in customers choosing children are well placed to share the story of their excursions with a sustainability component, home region and advise other visiting children on demonstrating a clear customer interest in how best to spend their time there. This electronic sustainability within destination communities. link between host and visiting children is under development and, when established, will play a part TUI Collection excursions showcase the value of in growing knowledge and understanding across activities that are local, responsible and unique. cultural boundaries. A new addition to the programme in 2017 will be the ‘Pirates of…’ programme, where children TUI has worked in close partnership with Jamaica have the opportunity to become a pirate at the the Travel Foundation since 2003 and values destination they are visiting and participate in the organisation’s unique ability to support For destinations to thrive as a result of swashbuckling adventures and treasure hunting us on the ground and around the world as tourism, it is important that visiting guests activities which introduce themes of recycling, we implement projects that drive thriving venture beyond the hotel gate. Since clean oceans and biodiversity. destinations. Some of the initiatives we have 2012 we have partnered with the Travel continued to work on together in 2016 are Foundation in Jamaica to better understand ANIMAL WELFARE why some guests resist going out. As well Excursions that allow people to see and experience outlined below. as identifying tourist fear of ‘hassle and animals remain very popular with our customers. Croatia hustle’ in Jamaica, we also found a lack Recent customer research we commissioned of information in hotels on what to see showed that about 70% of customers wanted the Mainstream tourism is growing rapidly in and do and few quality local products and option of excursions to animal attractions. A further Croatia, accounting for more than one-fifth crafts on offer. Building on a steady stream 60% said they would only feel that way if those of annual GDP. To support the sustainable attractions met global animal welfare standards. of successful initiatives, a project outline growth of tourism in Croatia, TUI became for future activities including training We follow closely the latest research and findings part of a local stakeholder project that programmes, development of marketing on what is acceptable and comfortable for the brings together the Travel Foundation, materials and improved governance of local animals involved. As a result we have now stopped local residents and industry partners tourism has been established – and funding all attractions involving elephant rides or shows. in Split-Dalmatia county, where two secured – for 2017. We also work closely with our industry peers to refurbished four-star hotels have opened continually improve our insights and audit suppliers for mainstream Western European tourists. Cape Verde against established sector guidelines agreed in 2013. To address local stakeholder concerns about the impact of redevelopment, a training Employing 38% of the working population All suppliers of listed TUI excursions featuring programme was run in 2016 to help 20 local and accounting for 40% of GDP, tourism animals must comply with the ABTA guidelines is extremely important to the emerging businesses benefit from the opportunity. (Global Animal Welfare Guidance for Animals in economy of Cape Verde. With rapid growth, A Project Discovery volunteer participated Tourism) and are audited against these. In 2016, however, comes a challenge to protect the in this project and further opportunities third party audits of 37 of animal attractions environment, ensure that local businesses featured by TUI were conducted by independent to align the hotels with local community needs are being explored. We know that our and communities can benefit from auditors and we plan to review another 100 in 2017. customers expect an authentic experience tourism and help local entrepreneurs and INSPIRING CHILDREN IN in the place they are visiting and by craftspeople to offer authentic excursions collaborating with people in destinations, we and handicrafts to the influx of new guests. DESTINATIONS work hard to ensure that expectation is met. As part of a Destination Council, TUI is TUI Netherlands has traditionally engaged with children in destination communities who have a supporting specific projects relating to vested interest in the sustainable development water, waste, clean beaches and local crafts. of those locales. With the support of partner GreenKidz, TUI NL established children’s councils 29 PIONEERING SUSTAINABLE TOURISM 30 O U R B E T T E R H O L I D AYS B E T T E R W O R L D HIGHLIGHTS €6.6 million raised for Supporting 41 projects Funds raised for 2 0 1 5 2 0 2 0 S T R AT E G Y CO M M I T M E N T research and good in 20 locations to date research and good causes through the TUI Care causes up 22% We will invest €10 million Foundation year-on-year per year by 2020, to support good causes O U R I M PAC T €10 million project investment target by 2020 | 100% of customer donations to TUI Care Foundation go directly to projects and enhance the positive impacts of tourism, using the TUI Care Foundation KPIs AND PROGRESS IN 2016 to support this work We will improve our understanding Our airlines, cruise operations and Sign-off has been given to a research of the impacts of holidays hotels will pilot new technologies centre costing €30,000 and providing 20 and practices local jobs and will be built as part of our In the year since the TIMM research AlgaePARC sustainable fuels initiative in P R O G R E S S AG A I N S T – to establish the commercial value of A range of new technology initiatives is in 2 0 2 0 CO M M I T M E N T S Bonaire. sustainable certification – was published, place across our business: a group of TUI International Management Graduates has taken the research • a pilot for single-engine taxiing is underway. We will invest in empowering forward. In 2016 we have also undertaken young people a risk profiling initiative to help forecast • closed-loop testing in our Mein Schiff Funding is now agreed for empowering sustainability risks and their impacts vessels is increasingly facilitating “ young people in 2017. as well as potential mitigation in operations with no disposal of waste emerging destinations. wash water except onshore. • desalination projects in the Maldives We will invest in protecting and Majorca are enabling both the natural environment Tourism is a key development locations to use desalinated purified water in place of plastic water bottles, Funding is now agreed for protecting the natural environment in 2017. driver in many countries eliminating on average 400,000 plastic bottles per hotel. around the world.” We will invest in innovative projects that support thriving destinations We will collaborate on initiatives to Funding is agreed for supporting thriving Thomas Ellerbeck, Member of TUI Group scale up sustainable aviation fuels destinations in 2017. Executive Committee and Chairman of the In the past year TUI has begun work Board of Trustees, TUI Care Foundation on a sustainable fuels strategy with the objective of identifying opportunities for TUI Airlines to support the development of supply chains for sustainable aviation fuels. 31 RESEARCH & INNOVATION COMMITMENT BY 2020 We will innovate for a more sustainable future for tourism, and share our findings with the industry POTENT IA L CO S T S AVIN G W I T H T RAVE L I FE PE R H OT E L EVOLVING THE TIMM commercial benefits of sustainability was GREECE RESEARCH – INTERNATIONAL expanded with an investigation into the SPAIN €0.09 TUI Benelux worked €0.27 guest night MANAGEMENT GRADUATES commercial benefits of certifying hotels guest night In 2015, TUI undertook a major project with partner ANVR on to the Travelife sustainability standard. TURKEY in collaboration with PwC and the carbon management Seven members of the TUI International €0.27 Management graduate cohort of 2016 guest night The Travel Foundation. The aim was to calculator initiative, determine the measurable impacts – set up a project to calculate the bottom which won an award for line benefits of Travelife certification to both positive and negative – of tourism on a destination. The result was the excellence and innovation TUI hotels which had volunteered for MEXICO DOM REP TIMM (total impact measurement and in tourism. audit and already submitted energy and €0.54 €0.90 water data. guest night management) project, a ground-breaking guest night step forward for the tourism sector. Through a detailed analysis of over Based on analysis of TUI’s owned and controlled hotels in 2014/15, In 2016 our work to assess the 250 accommodations in more than Travelife certified hotels achieved substantial operational cost savings compared to non-certified units 32 20 destinations, analysis suggests that a hotel with a Travelife certification is more likely to achieve more efficient energy ANVR CARBON CALCULATION EXAMPLE FOR consumption management than a non-certified hotel. Research 18 DAY TRIP TO CUBA also showed that customer satisfaction scores for ‘Accommodation 142KG NIGHTS Meet the TUI Overall’ were higher for Travelife certified hotels than non-certified International hotels. As well as improvements in energy and water management processes, the potential return is determined by seasonality, Management occupancy management and general business improvement policies. Total: graduates 1,641KG The process of certification is widely believed to tighten up ROUND-TRIP 1,983kg 150KG BETHANY TO CUBA LOCAL practices and this research confirms there are commercial benefits CO2 TRANSPORT BLACKBURN and business efficiencies to be gained. The analysis will be rerun this year on a wider set of hotels to grow the data set and include a broader, more robust set of indicators such as repeat-booking data, 50KG customer satisfaction scores and customer perception of TravelifeEXCURSIONS certified versus non-certified hotels. ROBINSON HOTELS DESALINATION WORK 13th Edition of the UNWTO awards for excellence and innovation IN MALDIVES AND MAJORCA in tourism as well as the WTTC Tourism4Tomorrow award for Robinson Club Maldives is committed to sustainable water processing Innovation 2016. and waste reduction. In 2013 it began producing its own sparkling INNOVATION GROUP UK AND SURREY LUCIAN DANIELE water. This has eliminated the need to manufacture, transport and UNIVERSITY COLLABORATION BUTAS CASCIARO dispose of 400,000 plastic bottles a year. The process involves osmosis The TUI UK business appointed its first head of innovation in July to desalinate and purify seawater to make drinking water, which is 2016 and has established a dedicated innovation team. This group turned into sparkling water by adding minerals and carbonic acid. The brings together people from the UK and the wider TUI Group with sparkling water is then decanted into 7,500 re-usable glass bottles that the goal of developing customer-centred innovations. Early-stage can be cleaned and refilled onsite. dialogue has begun with the Surrey University School of Hospitality & Tourism and its Digital Research Department. With a range of options on the table – from embedding PhD students within TUI business segments to investigating the potential for virtual reality to replace paper – the scope for collaboration is exciting and farreaching. STEPHANIE VALÉRIE WORKING WITH WRAP TO IMPROVE DARVILL DE LAAT WASTE MANAGEMENT ON BOA VISTA TUI is working with the specialist waste NGO, WRAP, to reduce the environmental impact of solid waste generated through tourism in Cape Verde, while maximising benefits to the local economy. Tourism to Cape Verde is increasing by about 6% annually, CARBON MANAGEMENT CALCULATOR particularly to the islands of Sal and Boa Vista for which tourism AT TUI BENELUX is the primary economic activity. According to research, hotels in As part of a collaboration with ANVR (the Dutch Tourism Board) Sal contribute 60% of the total waste volume, which equals about and other tour operators, TUI Benelux can provide customer data 30 tonnes per day. Our collaboration with WRAP aims to decrease on the carbon footprint of every roundtrip (for example, a 17-day the volume of solid waste going to landfill from the accommodation tour of Sri Lanka) within the Kras hotels portfolio. With data now ANNA MAXIMILIAN sector, improve waste management practices and encourage the GANTHALER ORANSKI collected for between 180 and 200 tours, the project team is public sector to adopt similar practices. We also aim to support working on customer communications. The carbon management new and diversified local livelihood opportunities through waste calculator initiative on which TUI Benelux worked with partner management and disposal initiatives. ANVR won an award in the research and technology category of the 33 SUSTAINABLE FUELS BESTENZIRKEL DRIVING INNOVATION IN GERMANY INNOVATING TO REDUCE FUEL USAGE In 2016 TUI began developing a sustainable fuels strategy to identify Since 2011, TUI Deutschland has hosted an annual TUI Best During 2016, Thomson Airways supported a project aimed at which options we should pursue to ensure high-option value at a Practice Sustainability Circle (called TUI Bestenzirkel) for TUI reducing fuel costs as well as the airline’s carbon footprint. sensible cost. The opportunities from sustainable fuels will only be hoteliers to extend their sustainability knowledge and expertise. Undertaken by Intercede Ventures Limited in collaboration realised if the airline industry joins governments, airport authorities In the six years since launch we have had 87 participants with the University of the West of England, the project used a and fuel producers to address the key issue of commercial availability. (57 hoteliers and 30 TUI reps) and 36 speakers. The network specially designed and patented prototype instrument called TUI wants to be part of that dialogue. brings together key TUI personnel with sustainability experts IASA to collect thousands of surface condition measurements from within the travel and tourism world. In 2016 year the focus from Thomson Airways aircraft to determine which areas, or • ENGAGEMENT was ‘innovative water systems’, with companies presenting a ‘zones’, on the surface of an airplane are contributing to ‘drag’ We participate in the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group. As an range of technologies, including water management systems to and require cleaning. influential convenor within the sustainable fuels community, SAFUG allow waste water from bathrooms and kitchens to be diverted is an important information exchange and decision-making forum for The trial demonstrated that IASA and zone cleaning can to garden irrigation. While primarily a knowledge exchange, TUI. significantly reduce annual fuel consumption and carbon Bestenzirkel leads to innovations finding their way into our hotels: footprint. The next phase of development involves trials with a • RESEARCH this year, for example, the Galo Resorts Hotel in Madeira adopted new, easy-to-use version of the IASA instrument with stand-off/ Extension of the AlgaePARC project in Bonaire. Our aim is to develop a new water technology to protect against new deposits and laser technology. When the system is commercialised, airlines an environmentally-friendly technology for microalgae products that corrosion called Aqua 4D-system. can contract to have aircraft surface conditions monitored. The also creates diversified economic activities for the island including system is paperless and data is automatically transmitted to production of sustainable jet fuel. A research facility, located in SINGLE-ENGINE TAXIING SAVES FUELS create monthly reports for the airline so it can plan zone cleaning unused salt pans, will be built at a cost of €30,000, and employ up for cost savings and carbon footprint reductions. to 20 local residents in the research and development sector. With algae growing already underway, the facility will focus on finding NORDIC INITIATIVE (NISA) the optimum algae-growing environment. As algae can be grown in In parallel with our internal work on sustainable fuels, TUI Nordic ponds and tubes in the sea, it does not divert valuable arable land to has been involved in co-sponsoring a report on the development feedstock production for fuel. process for sustainable jet fuel in the Nordic countries. The report explored the potential of advanced sustainable jet fuel for GHG reduction and mitigation and included recommendations on how to make best use of available Nordic know-how, feedstocks and production facilities. Among its conclusions were that developing sustainable bio jet fuels could yield multiple potential benefits including reduction of GHG emissions and negative environmental impacts, development SINGLE-ENGINE TAXIING TRIAL of new technology, as well as economic growth and job creation. On behalf of TUI Airlines, Thomson Airways trialled an Significant barriers to overcome include a high price gap between innovation in which planes only use a single engine to taxi to the fossil and sustainable jet fuels, lack of a shared definition of runway. TUI aircraft have for some time used only one engine what ‘sustainable’ actually means, absence of coherent crossto taxi from the runway to the gate, but traditionally used two government policies and access to risk capital, as well as engines from gate to runway. Though a simple concept, the singlecompeting uses for livestock feed. engine taxiing practice completely alters the technical set up for take-off, so a test programme was needed before roll-out. On a The report recommendations will now be considered at national Boeing 737 aircraft, the trial showed that adopting single-engine policy-making level by Nordic nations and within businesses like ours. taxiing saves about 40kg of fuel per take-off. Each airline is in the process of reviewing the outputs from the trial and adapting to their own practices. 34 TUI CARE FOUNDATION 41 PROJECTS IN 20 L O C AT I O N S COMMITMENT BY 2020 We will collaborate with destinations on the sustainable management of tourism “ The social contract between TUI and the communities in which we operate is at the very heart of the TUI Care Foundation. We are convinced that we are perfectly placed to work with holidaymakers, employees and other stakeholders to bring positive change to tourist destinations and help STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT WITH Group while operating independently. local communities can benefit from those local communities prosper.” BETTER HOLIDAYS, BETTER WORLD Within the past year TUI Care Foundation has evolved its broader commitments and tourism. In addition to these three focus areas, TUI Care Foundation’s activities sit within collaborated with destinations in three TUI Care Foundation will allocate specific Fritz Joussen, Chief Executive Officer, the ‘Lead the Way’ pillar of the wider specific areas: education and training funding for emergency relief as and when TUI Group TUI Better Holidays, Better World 2020 initiatives for young people; protection of required. In 2017 TUI Care Foundation strategy. It benefits from the collective the natural environment; and sustainable will evolve these focus areas further and expertise and resources of the entire TUI livelihoods in thriving destinations where develop clear targets. 35 NEW HORIZONS EDUCATION AND SKILLS FOR THE NEXT PROTECTING THE NATURAL WORLD “ GENERATION In the past year TUI Care Foundation has agreed funding In the past year TUI Care Foundation has agreed funding for for protecting the natural world in Curaçao for example. education and skills for the next generation. Below is a sample of the projects that will be funded. Curaçao We are all well aware of the GreenKidz Curaçao teaches children about environmental Girl Centre in Windhoek travel industry’s power to create The TUI Care Foundation granted scholarships conservation and waste recycling. The team includes environmental experts, multimedia specialists change. Tourism is much more than simply for a hospitality education so that twenty and financial professionals. The charity’s aims sun, sea and sand. For many people in young women from the Girls Centre on the grounds of the Namibia Football Association overlap with three key values of TUI Care Foundation: education, environmental protection the world it is the key to a more secure (NFA) in Windhoek could train in tourism. and the long-term strengthening of the island as and prosperous life. We are also aware, As a destination Namibia welcomes more holidaymakers each year, which increases the a green and healthy destination. however, that tourism can bring challenges number of jobs available in the tourism sector. And with the GreenKidz Curaçao inspires primary school for both man and nature. At TUI Care help of a hospitality education these young women have the children to conserve nature and helps them identify small everyday steps that can make a opportunity of developing a successful career. In 2016 a successful Foundation we want to strengthen the introductory course in hospitality training for 20 which ran at the difference. Five schools participated in the 2015 pilot year, rising positives that tourism brings and find NFA Girls Centre. As a result of this course, 12 of the participants to 15 schools in 2016 and 30 schools are anticipated for 2017. It is anticipated that over the course of three years the initiative in 2016 are going forward to complete a full-year restaurant solutions to the challenges.” management course in 2017. will reach 8000 children. More and more volunteers are offering to work as guest GreenKidz teachers. The children transfer their Thomas Ellerbeck, Chairman, TUI Care Foundation Dominican Republic knowledge and motivation to their families and are helping to The child protection organisation Plan has been active worldwide positively change attitudes towards environmental protection on for decades with a focus on the advancement of children – the island. especially girls. Opening up future opportunities for those not “ able to benefit from a growing economy and improving living THRIVING DESTINATIONS conditions in the holiday region is what unites Plan and the TUI In the past year TUI Care Foundation has agreed funding for Care Foundation. thriving destinations. Below is an example of the Through the TUI Academy, 150 young women and men are projects covered by that funding. From small beginnings back in trained for roles in the tourism sector in the Dominican Republic. Lanzarote 2011 the Foundation is evolving As well as learning professional skills sought by the local Founded on Lanzarote in 2003, Grevislan is a hospitality industry, participants learn to protect their interests, into something with proven capacity to look after their health and manage time and money so that they company that employs people with learning disabilities who would otherwise have few change lives and livelihoods for the better. can go on to become strong, independent career men and women. opportunities in the regular labour market. The Advisory Committee is extremely Zanzibar As well as inclusive and diverse employment benefits, Grevislan projects tend to promote excited at the direction TUI Care Founded in Zanzibar in 2010, the non-governmental Kawa Training and enhance traditional agriculture in an Foundation is taking and I am proud to be Centre has been certifying young people as tour guides since 2011. Young Zanzibarians are trained as tour guides, which increases their chances environmentally friendly way – such as drying local organic fruit leading it forward.” of gaining qualified jobs and helps the country to build a competitive for commercial sale. local tourism sector. With the help of the TUI Care Foundation, about 30 TUI Care Foundation has been funding the Grevislan initiative students have completed courses; 80% have gone on to find permanent for two years, during which time plant craters across some Jane Ashton, Chairperson, TUI Care Foundation positions and the permanent employment rate among women students 122,000 square metres of land have been converted to organic Advisory Committee is 100%. Students and teachers develop guided tours that are operated farming for the cultivation of grapes to then be produced into by graduates and tour operators for a fee. In addition, Kawa earns local organic wine. income from English and computer courses, giving it a valuable revenue stream over and above charitable donations. 36 GOVERNANCE The last year has been an exciting one for TUI Care Foundation. From establishing itself as the independent corporate foundation for TUI Group in 2015, it has gone on to launch a website with an interactive portal through which potential partners can approach the foundation, welcomed Thomas Ellerbeck, Member of the TUI Group Executive Committee as Chairman of the Board of Trustees and set up an Advisory Committee. The Board of Trustees is chaired by Thomas Ellerbeck and includes among its membership: Nicolaas Willem Visser – Counsellor for Agriculture and Nature in North Africa Frank Oostdam – Director and President of the ANVR, the Dutch association for travel companies Dagmar Wöhrl – Head of Economic Co-operation in the Bundestag Jeremy Ellis – TUI UK Director, Marketing & Customer Experience The Advisory Committee draws on personnel from across the TUI Group from Sustainability, Communications, Hotels & Resorts, Destination Services and Product and Purchasing. Second meeting of the Advisory Committee, Dalaman, September 2016 37 BUILDING THE BEST PLACE TO WORK 38 O U R B E T T E R H O L I D AYS , B E T T E R W O R L D HIGHLIGHTS Colleague engagement 18.8% employees Women in 29.4% 2 0 1 5 2 0 2 0 S T R AT E G Y CO M M I T M E N T score of 77 working part time of managerial (+4 points on 2015) positions We will achieve a colleague engagement score of over 80 – aligning us with the top 25 global O U R I M PAC T 67,000 employees | 11 source markets | 180 destinations companies – by 2020 P R O G R E S S AG A I N S T 2 0 2 0 CO M M I T M E N T S KPIs AND PROGRESS IN 2016 “ Employee engagement score aligned Leadership team reflective of the People development in the hands of with ‘high-performing companies’ diverse nature of our business employees In 2016, 77% of employees participated The proportion of women in leadership 2,000 new apprentice positions by 2020 Contented employees create in the TUIgether employee survey. The score was 77 compared with 73 last positions decreased slightly from 31.3% to 29.4%. However, the percentage of were announced at TUI UK & Ireland in 2016, in addition to the 569 positions unique holidays.” year. 80 or more is the ‘high-performing company’ score that we are targeting. women on the Supervisory Board at TUI AG stands at 35%. While the largest that exists in Germany. Also in 2016, TUI launched the Global60 programme to group of employees is between the ages foster international career development Dr. Elke Eller, of 21 and 30, more than 13.6% are over and fast-track culture spreading across Following the 2015 TUIgether survey, TUI Group HR and Labour Director the Group Executive Committee (GEC) 50 years of age. our business. is increasingly available to employees through monthly video chats, ‘lunch and learn’ sessions, employee days and travel workshop work experience for GEC members. 39 CARE MORE: THE MISSING PIECE OF THE JIGSAW THE NEW TUI GROUP HR STRATEGY OUR VISION Think travel. Think TUI. The Better Holidays, Better World strategy, which was launched In 2016, the new Group HR Strategy was developed in order to ensure in 2015, did not include an employee pillar. In the past year lasting achievement of our goal to “create the best company to work Trusted. Unique. Inspiring. that HR strategy has evolved and we are delighted to be for”. Apart from further underlining our joint corporate values, the OUR VALUES incorporating a fourth pillar, ‘Care More’, to our Better Holidays, focus is on five strategic areas including: Engagement, Leadership, “The best company to work for.” OUR GOAL People Engagement Better World strategy, which reflects the fundamental role of People Development, Organisational Effectiveness and HR Function TUI employees in living and breathing the strategy within our Development. The strategic areas outlined in the TUI Group HR PEOPLE ORGANISATION HR FUNCTION business. We want to build the best place to work where people Strategy form the basis of our approach to ‘Care More’ in the context KEY STRATEGIC ENGAGEMENT LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT EFFECTIVENESS DEVELOPMENT are passionate about what they do. Therefore, our target is to of the Better Holidays, Better World sustainability strategy. For each AREAS reach an engagement score of more than 80 by 2020. area, specific projects have been defined to support the cultural STRATEGIC HR TUIgether, Performance and Talent Management, OneShare, PROJECTS International Careers, Learning@TUI etc. To mark this important milestone for sustainable development transformation and the sustainable progression of the business. at TUI, we sat down with Dr. Elke Eller, TUI Group’s HR and Labour Director who joined the TUI Group Executive Board in 2015 to lead Human Resources. WHAT ROLE DOES HOW DO YOU BRING “CARE WHY ARE GOOD PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY HAVE IN MORE” TO LIFE? MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEE HOW YOU ENGAGE WITH AND People engagement is the key. One of the SATISFACTION SO CRUCIAL TO MANAGE TUI EMPLOYEES? most inclusive ways in which we engage TUI? Our organisation is only sustainable if with employees is through our TUIgether It is our employees who create the we nurture the talent within the ranks employee survey. What is important to product. They are the ones in direct of our 67,000 employees. We want me about the TUIgether process is that it contact with customers. Customers are employees at TUI to feel content in their facilitates continuous dialogue between happy with their holiday if the people role and proud of the organisation they employees and management. And we who guide and accompany them are work for. And our HR strategy is based know that it is working: from a score in fantastic. So TUI has a vested interest on this vision. So it was a logical step to 2014/15 of 73 we achieved a score of in employees who feel good about the incorporate HR into TUI’s sustainability 77 in 2015/16, which is fantastic. We are company, engage and are prepared to strategy. The manifold sustainability targeting a score of over 80 by 2020 to ‘Care More’. But people will only engage activities have a direct impact on how ensure we are aligned with the best of the if they know why. They need to be aware TUI is perceived within the company. high-performing companies but progress of the big picture and feel part of it. We know from our annual TUIgether to date has been really satisfying to see. Therefore, a common ground is crucial. employees survey that our environmental performance interests and motivates our WITH OPERATIONS IN 180 But beyond the survey I engage with DESTINATIONS IS IT POSSIBLE employees. Our engagement score of 75 employees through a number of in this area exceeds the high-performing TO UNITE ALL THE MANY company benchmark of 74. This is channels, as do other members of the CULTURES WITHIN TUI GROUP? Group Executive Committee. There are You can’t measure everything by the something of which we are very proud. video chats, lunch sessions at a range same yardstick. It makes more sense to WHAT ARE THE KEY of locations open to anyone who puts ask about our common DNA: What is STRATEGIC THEMES FOR themselves forward, employee days where it and what would we like it to be? Our HR AT TUI IN 2017? our CEO Fritz Joussen answers questions corporate values, Trusted, Unique and Within our HR strategy we have defined in town hall style meetings and days spent Inspiring, reflect the common ground initiatives at TUI covering areas from how ‘in-store’ with our store-based colleagues. very nicely. They are so global that they we reward employees through to flexible can be understood anywhere, regardless working, training and development But this kind of engagement can not of cultural or regional differences. TUI and beyond. These work streams only be found at the Group Executive Group is undergoing a wider ranging cluster into some key focus areas, Committee. By making engagement an process of transformation. That makes it notably engagement, leadership, people integral element of our leadership model all the more important to define cultural development, organisational effectiveness for all managers throughout TUI, we bring foundations for our partnerships and and HR function development. ‘Care More’ to life. convey them to our employees. 40 ENGAGEMENT TUIGETHER the Group Executive Committee are open to employee questions A cornerstone of ‘Care More’ is our employee survey TUIgether. on a range of issues, making themselves available online via The annual survey is rolled out worldwide and findings from the monthly video chats, through lunch opportunities and employee first survey (2014/15) provided input for the group-wide HR days, when they visit stores, or during twice yearly country visits. GLOBAL HEADCOUNT strategy developed during 2016. TUIgether includes a range of 30 Sep 2016 30 Sep 2015 Var. % measures designed to strengthen the open feedback culture at INFORMATION AND CONSULTATION restated TUI and enhance employee engagement. The engagement index A range of committees represent employees in the TUI Group, at Germany 10,170 10,047 +1.2 climbed by four points from 73 to 77. This represents strong national and international level, both works-based and sectorprogress towards the target of over 80. The response rate also based. They range from local works councils at specific sites to Great Britain 13,409 13,036 +2.9 rose by 11 percentage points from 66% to 77%. central company works councils and ultimately the corporate works council for all employees of the Group in Germany. Based Spain 8,967 9,115 -1.6 The wide-ranging set of questions included one asking if on their statutory rights to participate in decision-making and Other EU 19,895 19,301 +3.1 employees believed TUI to be an environmentally responsible to propose measures, they ensure that employees’ interests are organisation. The score was 75 on this question and rose by five taken into account in all matters. North & South America 3,768 3,428 +9.9 percentage points compared with last year. This exceeds the “high Other regions 7,032 7,922 -11.2 performance” benchmark of 74. At European level, the TUI Europa Forum promotes integration across Europe for our international workforce by organising proper TUI Group 63,241 62,849 +0.6 As a result of our annual employee survey the Group Executive information and consultation procedures in cross-border issues Discontinued operations 3,538 13,187 -73.2 Committee (GEC) has established ‘TUIgether Lunch, Chat, Talk affecting the interests of employees in two or more countries and Experience’. As part of this process the CEO and members of within the European Economic Area. Total 66,779 76,036 -12.2 41 DIVERSITY IN LEADERSHIP PROPORTION OF WOMEN IN MANAGERIAL POSITIONS 30 September 2016 Executive Board First management Second management level below level below Executive Board Executive Board LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT top level of management, equipping Our internal mentoring programme also TUI AG participants to lead successful and supports our managers and employees Management responsibilities at profitable business areas. ‘Horizons’ through the creation of a platform for Actual One female 10% 22% TUI call for continuing professional is a development programme for knowledge transfer and exchange across Target At least one 20% 30% development. Identifying and fostering leaders identified as potential countries and functions. This initiative female our leadership talent plays a key role in successors for senior leadership was launched by TUI Nordic and securing the long-term success of our roles and ‘Perspectives’ is aimed at successfully rolled out to TUI Belgium TUI Deutschland company. young management talent. Almost 70 and TUI Netherlands under the theme Actual 20% 36% 40% employees participated in one of ‘Leadership of multicultural teams in TUI runs three group-wide talent these programmes during 2016. In times of change’. Target 20% 30% 40% programmes; Global High Performance Leadership, Horizons and Perspectives. addition to these programmes group companies have established local TUI fly ‘Global High Performance Leadership’ development programmes targeting Actual 0 40% 44% is a format that builds key skills for the high-potential employees. Target 20% 30% 40% 42 In 2016 TUI Group employed 66,779 people, 56% of whom were female. The largest group of employees SECURITY, HEALTH AND SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS aged between 21 and 30 years old TUI faces a range of different threats with regard to security, TUI is committed to protect, respect and remedy human health and safety, including medical incidents and natural rights throughout our worldwide operations, in line with disasters as well as crime and terrorist threats. As we become applicable laws, conventions and regulations. more closely integrated, co-ordination of a Group-wide security, Human rights are a component of our Code of Conduct, health and safety network is therefore a priority for TUI. Supplier Code of Conduct, employee training programmes Well-managed event and crisis management ensures the right and Travelife certification activity. We are also signatories to support is provided to our customers and employees when the UN Global Compact and UN World Tourism Organisations needed, drawing on the full range of resources and experience OTHER STAFF INDICATORS, TUI GROUP Global Code of Ethics and work continuously with stakeholders available across a global group. TUI has structures in place, 30 Sep 2016 30 Sep 2015 to improve our responsiveness to human rights issues. To including crisis centres that can co-ordinate in the event of an support us with this work we recruited additional resource to incident, care teams to support guests locally in emergencies or Employment structure work with Sustainability and HR teams on human rights, and in crisis situations, as well as close contact with foreign offices in Number of employees 66,779 76,036 particular modern slavery. We have also established a working source-markets and foreign ministries worldwide. We draw on group on human rights, drawing on senior management from Employees – female 56.0% 56.2% the experience of our employees in tourism crisis management to major departments across our business to help with the ensure TUI Group’s integrated Group-wide safety management Females in managerial positions 29.4% 31.3% continuous process of analysing potential human rights risks. concept is state-of-the-art. A key driver has been the requirement under UK law to publish Employees in part time, total 18.8% 19.7% The approach at TUI is preventative and so in existing a modern slavery statement by April 2017. Our statement is destinations and potential destinations we undertake longincluded on p. 51 of this report. Employees in part time, female 28.8% 28.7% term monitoring of social, natural and environmental indicators. TUI signed up to Europe’s Diversity Charter in 2008 and made Employees – fixed-term employment contract 33.1% 30.8% This helps us better forecast longer term requirements and a pledge to promote a versatile mix within the workforce. potential impacts from infrastructure to employee training. Age structure TUI’s preventative approach also applies to employees to whom 67,000 TUI colleagues operate in about 180 destinations Employees up to 20 years 5.3% 5.4% we offer extensive occupational health opportunities through worldwide. While the majority are based in Europe, nearly our corporate sports programme, nutrition and psychological 11,000 are based beyond and with new destinations in Asia Employees 21-30 years 30.1% 29.3% counselling and flexible working models to help employees driving growth, the diverse profile of the workforce is set to Employees 31-40 years 27.1% 28.1% balance work and family life. As signatories to the ‘Luxembourg evolve further still. Declaration for Workplace Health Promotion in the European Employees 41-50 years 23.9% 23.0% Union’, we work collaboratively with organisations such as Women make up 56% of all employees at TUI and hold 29.4% European Network for Workplace Health Promotion (ENWHP) in of all managerial positions. The proportion of women on our Employees more than 50 years 13.6% 14.2% German supervisory bodies continued to rise last year. On implementing these measures. 30th September 2016, women accounted for around 38% of Average company affiliation members, up 8 percentage points year-on-year. In financial Up to 5 years 54.3% 56.9% year 2014/15 targets for women in managerial positions were 6-10 years 15.8% 17.0% implemented in three major companies in Germany. Additional measures were initiated to promote female executives and 11-20 years 20.2% 17.8% we aspire to grow this number throughout the Group at 21-30 years 7.6% 6.6% management level and are monitoring levels and setting targets to drive improvement. More than 30 years 2.1% 1.7% 43 PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT TRAINING opportunities across engineering, IT and retail build on the 5,500 apprenticeships Training and development opportunities offered since 2000 in the UK alone. We are central to providing customers are also working with the UK Industry with a unique holiday experience as Skills Board to recruit apprentice pilots well as ensuring that we create skilled To help employees embed sustainability and diverse leadership. In 2016, for from a more diverse group of candidates. In Germany, we currently employ 569 values, our Destination Services Team the second year running, the TUI apprentices in 12 different occupations Hospitality Academy was named as ‘Best has developed a digital game, featuring intermediate vocational education of and offer places as part of three university ‘sandwich courses’. The chapters on Better Holidays, Better World the Netherlands in the category tourism training rate in Germany is 5.7%. Of the & recreation’ and trained a total of 171 strategy, child protection, animal welfare students. Also in the Netherlands in 2016 183 trainees in Germany who completed their apprenticeships during 2016, more and sustainable excursion criteria TUI fly ran an internship programme for In the last year, TUI UK announced a than 70% were offered permanent 110 Cabin Attendants in partnership with target to introduce 2,000 new apprentice employment. 11 regional training institutes. opportunities before 2020. These 44 A FRESH LOOK AT SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING More than 22,000 employees already use the system and our goal Frederic Dewandel We are always keen to find new ways to integrate sustainability is to provide access in a range of languages around the globe to Performance and Fuel Manager into employee training. For some years it has been part of our every company employee. The system consists of more than 300 TUI fly Belgium and Trainee Pilot induction training and a key component of our International e-learning modules with more than 160,000 courses in the fields Management graduate programme. Last year, our Destination of Retail, Airline Academy, Finance Academy, Administration and Services Team also developed a digital game to help employees Destination Services. embed sustainability values, featuring chapters on Better Holidays, Better World, child protection, animal welfare and sustainable excursion criteria. The game will be launched to COMMITED TO employees in Destination Services in early 2017 before rolling ENCOURAGING out to other business areas. INTERNAL PROMOTIONS AND We also have specific training for people in key roles and on core I N T E R N AT I O N A L M OV E S issues, for example compliance, child protection, people trafficking (airline employees) and modern slavery. GLOBAL60 As the world’s leading tourism company, TUI Group needs its leaders to reflect the global nature of the organization, across cultures, businesses and borders. The Global 60 initiative strives to further encourage our employees to think about an international career that provides a unique experience. The goal is to move 60 people who are at junior or middle management level into an international role by the end of this financial year – and for this initiative to become business as usual once this goal has been reached. Is it usual to train to be a pilot while working in another role? Absolutely not, no! I am one of three trainees that TUI Belgium take onto this scheme every year following an assessment centre recruitment process. They BUILDING EXPERTISE IN OUR DESTINATIONS have had this programme in place in Belgium for six years; I know that the UK GRADUATE TRAINEES AT TUI Through TUI Care Foundation we have also established the TUI Thomson business is also considering it but it is really quite unique. I will be in Academy, which has a focus on developing skills and education this role for four years, simultaneously working and training. TUI offers an international graduate leadership programme in in destinations that benefit from additional investment and which 25 trainees from 15 different countries participate. They support. For example, working with Futouris on the ‘Sport for How do you think this professional opportunity take an 18-month journey through different departments of Development’ programme of the German Federal Ministry for has benefited you? the Group. Beyond commercial and operational placements, Economic Cooperation and Development, the TUI Academy In the same way that any person benefits from working in different parts of trainees are set a specific sustainability project. They also work supported an ‘introduction to hospitality’ initiative for 20 young a business. You learn to understand things from different perspectives and as a holiday representative at a minimum of one destination and women at the National Football Association Girls Centre in appreciate the work that other people do within the organisation to make the are supported and mentored throughout the programme by an Windhoek, Namibia. Alongside football, these young women whole business work. It has also given me the opportunity to do two things that experienced TUI leader. were given an introduction to hospitality skills in the hope that I really enjoy: sustainability and flying planes! this provides them with employment in the growing tourism TUI LEARNING SYSTEM sector in Namibia. Do you think this experience will influence the pilot that For all employees at TUI language training schemes, seminars you will become? on intercultural understanding and specific technical training The first course was so successful that the TUI Care Foundation programmes are offered. Our Learning Management System, I hope so. The appreciation I have for sustainability and its importance has gone on to fund a year-long certificate in restaurant ‘TUI Learning’, is designed to strengthen specialist and in business today – whatever business you are in – is something that has management as a follow up. That course will commence in management skills. influenced me a lot and I will take with me in my role as a pilot and outside of February 2017. work as well. But as a pilot the experience I have had will make me quick to embrace new initiatives that have a sustainability benefit. 45 EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING Each of our 67,000 employees is part of a community and were skills-matched to volunteer on a range of initiatives that employees find a range of ways to get involved locally. Here are met TUI Care Foundation criteria and offered no threat to local a few examples: employment. Projects have so far included helping with sports and arts at a day care centre, visiting and helping local elderly BEACH CLEAN UP residents, contributing to the TUI Care Foundation sea turtles Our resorts offer guests pristine shorelines and glittering blue protection initiative in Sal and working at a stray animal shelter. seas, but public beaches in some destinations in which we operate do not get the same care and attention. As participants The programme brings an extra pair of hands to important local for the past three years in the ABTA-led ‘Make Holidays Greener’ initiatives in these destinations and gives the TUI fly crew the campaign, we have deployed 1,300 TUI workers to clean up 56 opportunity to get acquainted in a meaningful way with local beaches in 14 countries, successfully collecting 9,843kg of waste. people and local cultures. Working with HR, TUI fly Netherlands is now building the programme to become a broader engagement SUPPORTING REFUGEES IN GERMANY and people development opportunity. Thirty colleagues from our HQ and TUI Deutschland offices in Hannover volunteered time in 2016 to deliver language training to refugees. In total, more than 1,000 lessons were taught to more than 300 refugees. The TUI Group supports its employees’ engagement in this project with a flexitime working policy. Since 2011, TUI UK has offered every employee a Discovery Day, which TUI FLY NETHERLANDS HELP ‘ON STOPOVER’ In November 2015, TUI fly Netherlands launched a project to allows them to spend a day a year bring together air crew ‘on stopover’ with TUI Care Foundation with a charity of their choice projects in Gambia and Sal, Cape Verde, where pilots and stewards could roll up their sleeves and get involved. Working closely with local partners, in 2016 more than 50 crew members 46 CELEBRATING 10 YEARS OF 2006 SRI LANKA TREES FOR LIFE PROJECT DISCOVERY! An employee programme we’re particularly proud of is Project Discovery. The project’s goal since its launch 10 years ago has been 2007 CYPRUS VILLAGE ROUTES for volunteers to make a positive difference and to stimulate sustainable tourism initiatives within TUI’s operations. Now in its 10th year, it has provided more than 100 2008 BRAZIL SUSTAINABLE EXCURSIONS employees the opportunity to work with charities on TUI’s behalf, benefiting our destination communities. Project Discovery gives participants an exceptional experience 2009 MEXICO JAM that a work or holiday trip alone could not achieve – it also breathes fresh life into BETTER WORLD CHAMPIONS BRING The volunteers worked with six local sports clubs corporate strategy and drives real change at ABOUT CHANGE and 14 young leaders from local secondary schools our destinations. 2010 MEXICO WHALE SHARKS Our UK retail business mobilises volunteers through to bring sports to children from four local primary its Better World Champions, who are responsible schools. for both sustainability and charitable activity. This SOME OF THE IMPACTS FROM 10 YEARS network of 24 people talks monthly and meets The programme is run by the charity Sportinspired OF PROJECT DISCOVERY 2011 CYPRUS STAKEHOLDER and is designed to help children become more ENGAGEMENT annually to energise each other, share ideas and drive change. Part of their role is to help their physically active and develop their confidence, Volunteers 105 location develop and achieve an annual fundraising leadership and employability skills while bringing the target. In 2016 Ambassadors exceeded £100,000 community closer together. Volunteer days 1,030 2012 KENYA BEACH SELLERS in fundraising, which was shared among selected charities. Providing extra inspiration at the event was Number of assignments 54 Commonwealth Games 100m silver medallist Since 2011, the UK business has offered every Rechmial Miller. Children participated in a range Number of destinations 19 2013 TURKEY LOCAL SOURCING employee a volunteering or Discovery Day each year, of activities including karate, gymnastics, Fit Ball, linking them up to their preferred charities with athletics and rugby, and at the end of the day their Number of SMEs trained 263 the help of our Better World Champions. The UK schools committed to integrate favourites into the has set a great example and other business areas school curriculum for a term. Number of customer 2,865 2014 CAPE VERDE MARKETING SUPPORT and markets are now developing similar networks. participants in research customers The Ambassadors also work hard to grow customer As a follow-up, the 14 young leaders from local interviewed contributions to TUI Care Foundation. secondary schools were offered work experience with TUI. 2016 was the first year TUI took part and Number of stakeholders 453 2015 MEXICO MUUCH KAAB consulted stakeholders SKINCARE THE TUI GAMES we have committed to get involved again in 2017. interviewed The TUI UK head office is in Luton and in 2016 about 50 employees participated in the first ever Hotels participating 45 TUI Games. 2016 JAMAICA CRAFTS TRAINING 47 DATA AT A GL A NCE GENERAL Number of employees 67,000 Number of destinations 180 Number of customers 20 million Number of group-owned/managed hotels >300 Number of aircraft 140 medium and long haul (5 tour operator airlines) Number of retail shops in Europe 1,600 Number of source markets 11 Number of years of environment reporting 27 Number of cruise ships 14 TUI carbon footprint in 2016 7,162,018 tonnes CO2 % carbon footprint relating to aviation 81.6% Grams of CO2 emitted across TUI Airlines 66.8g/revenue passenger kilometre % aircraft covered by ISO 14001 certification 95%, all 5 tour operator airlines (excluding Corsair) % absolute carbon emissions increase across 4.0% increase TUI Airlines Airline % increase in carbon emissions in 2016 1.2% increase Average carbon emissions 110 kg CO2/ cruise passenger night TUI ranking in atmosfair index #1 TUI fly Germany and #2 Thomson Airways are the two most efficient charter airlines worldwide with four TUI airlines in the top 10. Number of cruise ships certified to ISO 14001 100% (14 out of 14) 48 CDP climate change Featured on the A list in top 9% Savings from environmental efficiencies € 67 million (since 2012) % increase of emissions per passenger 6.1% kilometre from ground transport % decrease in CO2 emissions from offices, retail 5.2% shops, and brochures Result of three years of beach clean-ups for 1,300 TUI colleagues clean up 56 beaches in 14 countries collecting Making Holidays Greener 9,843kg of waste. Number of reusable drinking carafes at 7,500 for locally desalinated sparkling water. This saves 400,000 water Robinson Club Maldives bottles from disposal each year. Number of Greener & Fairer holidays 6.3 million Number of hotels certified to Travelife 1,170 % of guests that have a Greener & Fairer 41% holiday with TUI Number of beds in our global portfolio 214,000 Number of TUI Collection excursions 846,000 (+30% on previous year) sold in 2015-16 Number of Collection excursions on offer 170 excursions in 41 destinations in 12 countries 49 Average CO2 emissons per guest night 10.1kg CO2 Energy consumption per guest night 27.9 kWh Litres of fresh water use per guest night 478 % food sourced from country 79% % food sourced locally to hotel 48% Number of colleagues working in destinations 6,500 employees in 100 destinations that receive sustainability training € raised to enhance positive impacts of €6.6 million tourism % of funds generated from customer 80% contributions % colleagues who participated in TUIgether 77% of colleagues responded, for an engagement score of 77 (compared to score of 73 in 2015) Engagement score for colleagues who 75 (compared to 70 last year) agreed we are an environmentallyresponsible company Number of international career 60 international career moves through our opportunities for existing employees Global60 programme % of women in managerial positions 29.4% % of employees working part time 18.8% 50 MODERN ABOUT TUI SL AVERY GROUP S TAT E ME N T This statement is made pursuant to section 54 of the UK Modern About TUI Group and our supply chain Slavery Act 2015. It sets out the steps TUI Group has taken to TUI Group is the world’s number one tourism business. The broad portfolio gathered under prevent acts of modern slavery and human trafficking from occurring the Group umbrella consists of strong tour operators, 1,600 travel agencies and leading online in its business and supply chain up to and during the financial year portals, six airlines with around 150 aircraft, over 300 hotels with 214,000 beds, 14 cruise liners ending 30 September 2016. and a significant number of destination management companies in holiday destinations around the globe. This integrated offering enables us to provide our 20 million customers annually with an unforgettable holiday experience in 180 destinations. In 2015/16 financial year the TUI Group with a headcount of 67,000 recorded turnover of €17.2 INTRODUCTION billion and an operating result of €1 billion. The TUI Group’s share is listed on the London Stock Exchange in the FTSE index and in the regulated market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Our TUI Group respects all internationally proclaimed human rights as specified in the International extensive supply chain covers thousands of suppliers in more than 90 countries. The biggest Bill of Human Rights and expects the same of our suppliers and business partners. supplier category is our hotel partners, however our suppliers range from the manufacturers of aircraft and cruise ships, through to the laundry and other services provided to our hotels, to Modern slavery and its components of forced labour and human trafficking are of particular tourist guides and other services our customers use in destination. concern given their egregious nature and increasing prevalence. In this statement, we address how we seek to identify, mitigate, and prevent cases of modern slavery in our operations and A key feature of our corporate culture is our global responsibility for economic, environmental our supply chain. and social sustainability. This is reflected in more than 25 years of environmental reporting and engagement with sustainable tourism. In accordance with applicable law, conventions and regulation TUI is committed to respecting human rights throughout its worldwide operations. We have a number of policies and initiatives To find out more about the nature of our business, please click here. in place to monitor, identify, mitigate and prevent human rights impacts in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and will take remedial action where Aircraft Travel agencies Employees Group owned hotels necessary. In September 2014, TUI signed up to the UN Global Compact, committing the Group to 10 MORE THAN 150 1600 COUNTRIES 67000 WORLDWIDE MORE THAN 300 WORLDWIDE universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Moreover, TUI signed the UN World Tourism Organisation’s (UNWTO) Global Code of Ethics in 2012 – further underlining our commitment to respecting human rights. 14 CRUISE SHIPS 5TOUR OPERATOR AIRLNES 51 O  ur TUI tour operating businesses have incorporated environmental and social requirements into contracts for our biggest supplier group accommodation partners Sustainability Requirements for Accommodation Suppliers. We have reviewed these requirements to make POLICIES sure that they adequately cover human rights, in particular forced labour and human trafficking. These requirements are also outlined in our agreements with contracted Destination Management Companies. We are currently in the process of adapting these requirements for other areas of our procurement. We are working on an ongoing basis to improve and update our We also require our hotel suppliers to implement credible sustainability 3rd party certifications policies. recognised or approved by the Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC). Travelife is the certification body we work most closely with and we were involved in developing new, stricter The employee Code of Conduct commits us to respect and observe human rights. TUI Group criteria, which launched in 2014. One of the revisions has been the inclusion of the principles employees are also encouraged to report any wrongdoing to the ‘Speak Up’ Line. All employees of the Ethical Trading Base Code to strengthen the human rights components of the audit wherever they are in the world have access to a confidential reporting channel which allows process, including modern slavery aspects. In the financial year 2015/16 6.3 million TUI them to report concerns about illegal or unethical behaviour directly to a group function free holidaymakers (representing around 40% of our package holiday customers) stayed in from reprisal. Employees are specifically encouraged to report concerns about, among other certified hotels, with 1170 of our hotels now certified with schemes recognised or approved things, potential human rights issues. Group Legal Compliance closely monitors the hotline and by the GSTC. ensures ongoing employee awareness through e-mails, newsletter updates, websites, e-learning and posters in prominent areas. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards that we expect from suppliers and their employees, sub-contractors, agents and subsidiaries when working on our behalf. RISK ASSESSMENT Among other things the code includes guidance on human rights and labour laws, bribery and corruption, environmental impacts and support for local communities. TUI was the first major / DUE DILIGENCE player in the Travel and Tourism sector to introduce supplier codes of conduct in order to mandate standards and stipulate requirements of third party business partners, ensuring their alignment to TUI’s expectations for responsible and ethical business practices. During the financial year 2015/16 we began analysing our operations and supply chain to better understand the areas of our operations most at risk of abuses relating to modern slavery. T  he TUI Supplier Code of Conduct prohibits the use of forced and involuntary labour and We have established a working group consisting of senior management representing major requires that suppliers do not: departments to analyse the business areas and potential modern slavery risks. We record a. employ anyone against their will; and prioritise these risks in our Human Rights Risk Register, which was developed with the b. traffic in persons or use any form of slave, forced or bonded labour; support of a specialist human rights consultancy. With reference to various indices and reports c. require workers to surrender any government-issued identification, on human rights, and taking into consideration TUI’s impact in destinations, we were able to passports, or work permits as a condition of employment; or prioritise a number of areas, particularly long haul destinations, in which to focus our efforts. d. require workers to undergo excessive indebted labour: that is, where workers are required to pay a fee in connection with obtaining TUI Group also continues to working closely with travel trade associations, sustainability employment, expenses associated with recruitment, processing, or certification bodies and human rights groups to understand trends and risk areas. placement of both direct and contract workers, Suppliers shall be responsible for payment of fees and expenses in excess of an affordable W  hen purchasing TUI branded supplies for use in destination, such as uniforms and branded portion of a worker’s salary (a guide being one month of the worker’s merchandise, we prefer to work with partners who are members of SEDEX, a not for profit anticipated net wages). membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical business practices in global supply chains. The Code also provides detail on the following areas; general rights of workers, child labour, child protection from sexual exploitation, trafficking, anti-discrimination, working times and TUI Group has a third party due diligence programme in place for new suppliers to ensure they remuneration. are reputable ethical business partners. During 2017, a programme is underway to enhance this, and permit large-scale, automated screening of 1st tier third parties in the supply chain As part of a process of continuous improvement both codes are currently under revision to covering aspects of human rights and modern slavery. ensure better transparency and understanding amongst our employees and suppliers. 52 DE S T IN AT ION PERFORMANCE S TA K EHOL DER INDIC ATOR S INI T I AT I V E S S  adly, child sexual exploitation has become associated with tourism in various parts of the Performance measurement in preventing modern slavery world. We have a number of processes in place to ensure it does not happen in our operations, and those of our business partners. We are also taking a number of steps to support These performance indicators will assist us in assessing the effectiveness of the steps taken to adolescents and young children who are at risk of trafficking and/or commercial ensure business and supply chain are slavery free: sexual exploitation including: a. Number of customers staying in hotels with a GSTC certification*; TUI Care Foundation, the corporate foundation of TUI Group, has worked on a project in b. Number of colleagues trained on human rights in tourism; Brazil and is initiating one in the Dominican Republic aiming to promote the social, economic c. Actions taken to strengthen our policies; and personal empowerment of adolescents and youths at risk of commercial sexual d. Steps taken to initiate and strengthen supply chain management; exploitation. We will continue to work together with the Foundation to identify and support e. Number of modern slavery cases reported and actions taken in response; projects, which protect and empower the young generation in key destinations. f. Projects and partnerships initiated to uphold human rights in our destinations. Our businesses actively support several child protection projects and campaigns, and in 2015 TUI Group and RIU were named as Top Members of the Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel & Tourism. In 2016, we joined the Board of the Code as chairperson. We also sit on the UNWTO Child Protection task force. T H I S S TAT E M E N T W A S TRAINING APPROVED BY THE TUI EXECUTIVE BOARD AND THE TUI GROUP We conduct regular child protection training for all colleagues working for TUI Destination EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. Services to ensure they understand child protection and how to react and proceed when an incident occurs. We are in the process of training specific groups of colleagues about human rights and modern slavery, such as holiday representatives and purchasers working in high risk destinations. FRITZ JOUSSEN A  ll crew members of Thomson Airways participate in the Vulnerable Children & Trafficking CEO, TUI GROUP Training during their inductions, where they learn about how to spot trafficking and what to MARCH 2017 do if identified so. TUI Group is planning to roll out this training to its other airlines. What is more, for certain purchase categories several of our buyers undergo Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) training, which includes key guidance on modern slavery issues in supply chains. *Schemes approved and/or recognised by GSTC mandate the highest standards of human rights, child protection and social welfare in the tourism industry. 53 UN GLOBAL COMPACT TUI signed up to the UN Global Compact in 2014. We have openly pledged to respect the 10 Principles in all four areas: human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. This is TUI’s second progress report for the UN Global Compact. PROGRESS REPORT The Index below summarises the rules applied by TUI, the actions we implement and the outcomes we delivered during the reporting period FY2015/16. Where appropriate, we have included references to content elsewhere. PRINCIPLE RULE / ACTION OUTCOMES 1 AND 2 TUI Code of Conduct Training and worldwide whistleblower The whistleblower system called ‘Speak Up’ implemented in SUPPORT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS system is in place for reporting violations. 2013 was extended to all TUI jurisdictions in 2016. AND PREVENTION OF HUMAN (See annual report p. 125) RIGHTS VIOLATIONS TUI pledges to uphold all internationally proclaimed human rights as specified in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. TUI became a signatory to the UNWTO Global Code of Ethics in 2012. 3 TO 6 Signatories to The Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children In 2016 TUI Joined the Board of the The Code, taking FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION, from Sexual Exploitation in Travel and Tourism (“The Code”). the role of Chairperson. ABOLITION OF FORCED AND CHILD LABOUR, ELIMINATION OF Our hotels and those of our hotel partners are required to align TUI Group also sit on the UNWTO Child protection task force. DISCRIMINATION to a GSTC-recognised sustainability certification process, which includes Human Rights components, as part of the contractual 6.3 million ‘Greener and Fairer’ holidays in 2016 (holidays in relationship. (See p. 69) sustainability-certified hotels), equivalent to 41% of TUI holidays. Signatory to the German Diversity Charter, Engagement score for colleagues who agreed we are an Mixed leadership Programme. environmentally-responsible company Statement on Modern Slavery published online here. Formation of a Modern Slavery working group in 2016. 29.4 % women in managerial positions. 35% of supervisory Board is female. 50 employee representatives from 14 countries. 18.8% of employees working part time at TUI, over 10,000 of those employees are men. 54 PRINCIPLE RULE / ACTION OUTCOMES 7 Pre-emptive action on cruise emissions legislation. 8.2 million fewer pages of catalogues produced over two years PRECAUTIONARY ENVIRONMENT decreasing CO2 emissions in the segment. PROTECTION Emerging strategy on sustainable aviation fuels. Continued development of Bonaire AlgaeParc to improve our Phasing out of brochure printing and replacing with improved biomass production capacity resulting in € 30 000 investment and digital infrastructure. an agreement to employ 20 local people in 2016. Phasing out of paper-based processes. Zero brochures in Northern Region (TUI UK and Nordic) Paper-based flight inventory being replaced with smart phone and tablet applications. 8 Desalination of water in Maldives. (See annual report p. 57) 400 000 plastic water bottles eliminated from Maldives F&B inventory PRACTICAL COMMITMENT TO due to water desalination practices. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Biomass production in Bonaire. (See p. 35) TUI continues its investment with a £30 000 research centre and 20 new Beach cleaning as part of ‘Make Holidays Greener’ campaign. jobs for local people. In 2016 – 1300 employees cleaned 56 beaches in 14 countries collecting 9843kg of waste. 9 Modernisation of the aircraft fleet and continual commitment to Emissions down overall against baseline and overall 10% reduction DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION new technologies and processes. target. However FY 2015/16 emissions were up by 1.2%. OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES New cruise ships and industry leading hybrid-scrubber technology. Thomson Airways and TUI fly Germany took #1 and #2 slots in the (See p. 20) atmosfair index for most carbon-efficient charter airline. Waste Management infrastructure at airports. (See p. 18) TUI Airlines remain about 30% more efficient than the industry norm. Digital technology as a replacement to paper in flight TUI bought 11 new aircraft during 2016 which will deliver 20% inventory and training practices. fewer emissions than the aircraft they replace. 4.1% reduction in emissions from our 14 cruise ships against 2015 baseline. 55 For more information about sustainability at TUI Group, visit: www.tui-sustainability.com Contact: Jane Ashton Director of Sustainability TUI Group sustainability@tui.com
