GENERAL Period covered Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From : July 2017 To : July 2018 Almere, May 2017 To whom it may concern Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) I am pleased to confirm that Thermopatch BV supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Thermopatch BV will renew a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, THERMOPATCH Mr. J. Bausch Group Managing Director UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company name Thermopatch BV Submission date June 2017 Address Draaibrugweg 14 Membership date 2012/07/20 1332 AD ALMERE Country Netherlands Number of 60 employees Contact Name Linda Corbeau Position HRM assistant Sector HRM Telephone Number 0031365491111 Role, mission and strategy The Thermopatch vision: We commit to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The company’s core values of Safety and Health, Environmental Stewardship, Highest Ethical Behavior, and Respect for People are directly aligned with the values set out in the Global Compact. For over 80 years Thermopatch has held a premier position in developing heat seal machines, labels, direct imprint equipment, mending material and other related supplies for the laundry, dry clean and garment manufacturing industries. We not only strive to achieve the sales goals we set out for ourselves such as high quality and great customer service, we also set out a clear vision of what is required to sharing responsibility to achieve the collective goal of sustainable and energy-efficient manufacturing in order to making products safe and available, anytime anywhere and establish the conditions within our organization necessary for as one behavior to take root and succeed. Mission: Our mission is to promote socially, economically and environmentally sustainable development programs, building on our core knowledge and experience with an emphasis on individual policy tools and instruments and their effective combination. Strategy:  To actively build and support partnerships for development  To employ the knowledge, products and expertise of Thermopatch in development projects  To build local capacity and ensure sustainability by working actively with knowledge sharing and training  To support the development of innovative and cost effective products OUR BUSINESS AND ITS IMPACTS Thermopatch produces labels & images for linen and corporate workwear, sports garments and promotional clothing for which the highest quality and service standards are required. We have displayed this high standard since 1934. Thermopatch is now a leading company in this market. Our products can be divided into three categories: Identity products Label systems Heat seal equipment During the development stage of our products, we are constantly thinking about how we can make our products user friendly for our customers without compromising on quality. The results are a perfect print emblem, transfer or label with optimal washability and a lifetime warrantee. Thousands of satisfied customers experience this on a daily basis. Our international success is not just due to our innovative way of working and high quality of our products; it is also due to our service and fast deliveries. Thermopatch has several production locations and a worldwide network of distributors and sales advisors. The close proximity to our customer ensures a quick service. Additionally, in corporate identity products, Thermopatch offers very good support in services and supplier reliability. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses Our policy: Thermopatch acknowledges the importance of supporting and protecting the UN Human Rights Charter and continues in developing and renewing internal procedures. The respect for human rights is integrated in the human resource policy, which describes clearly the rights and obligations of employees and management. Activities implemented:  Thermopatch respects and protects human rights in her daily operations.  Thermopatch provides a safe and pleasant working environment to all it’s employees.  Thermopatch has developed internal procedures such as social media protocol in which the principles of mutual respect to each other is outlined  Thermopatch has appointed a social media manager who is monitoring these procedures inen externally  Thermopatch meets with the General Data Protection Regulations which will come into effect in May 2018 on privacy/data protection and data leaks.  Thermopatch respects and takes into account the traditions and rituals that are connected with the various religions en cultures of her employees Measurement of outcomes Thermopatch has not received any complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human right violations, nor was the Thermopatch organization involved in any human right incidences before or during the reporting period. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Business should uphold freedom of associations and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of force and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; Our policy: Our employment policy acknowledges our responsibilities to employees and the importance of creating and maintaining a working environment where the basic rights of all employees are recognized. Our employment procedures are built on the following principles:  Non-discrimination between employees of potential employees and equal opportunities for all:  Recruitment, promotion and development of employees based on each individuals attitude, abilities and skills  Provision of suitable training according to role and responsibilities  Employee remuneration that meets legal national standards  Effective communication with our employees  Provide healthy and safe working conditions for all our employees, including customers that come into contact with our business. Activities implemented: Renovation production and printing department  New machines have been taken into production meeting the highest safety standards to make production work easier and safer and, as a result, will prevent employees from getting health/back problems: Pallet seal machine and electrical pallet truck “rewinding” machine, which rolls up the heavy textile rolls automatically new slitting and cutting machines implementation of electric chain hoists and electric lift for textile rolls  Our office departments are equipped with height adjustable table systems that can be transformed quite simply into a standing workplace, in order to create the best ergonomic working position.  Recently a risk assessment has been held in the printing department to make sure there is no exposure to gases, dusts and solvents  We supply corporate clothing that meets highest safety standards for all our employees in the production department  We have effective programs put in place to manage health and to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements.  We make all employees aware of health and safety regulations and procedures that are relevant to their position for which we have appointed a certified Health and Safety Officer.  Thermopatch continually reviews its standards of health and safety and complies to European and National guidelines.  Every 5 year a preventive medical check-up is organized for all Thermopatch employees (last medical check-up in May 2016)  Thermopatch has implemented an active ageing policy due to the increase in the retirement age.  Regular review of our safety standards as required by European and national health and safety regulations. By undertaking a periodic Risk Inventory and Assessment we are constantly reviewing these standards. Measurement of outcomes The Risk inventory and Assessment is an important tool for Thermopatch to monitor and evaluate the performance in the field of environment, health and safety. Because Thermopatch has a relatively small company structure, employees can report any irregularities directly to the management. Thermopatch has received no grievances of complaints from employees or others in relation to labor rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labor rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Thermopatch puts her awareness of cultural differences into practice by employing staff of different cultural and religious backgrounds. Thermopatch received a Certificate from Social Services for her help and support. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Policy We acknowledge the importance of Thermopatch supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Thermopatch is actively working on reducing the negative impacts of our organizatons’ actions on the environment. Actions implemented: Extension of the digital production Resulting in less usage of chemicals (Ink) and wastage  New Digital Screen Imaging system An environmentally-friendly exposure unit which exposes the screen directly from computer-to-screen, through which the copy-room in the printing department is only using UV LED instead of inks.  Implementation of a new, environmentally-friendly production line Extruder, electric chain hoists, lifting system for textile rolls Minimizing heat, energy loss and fuel usage:  Office lighting We have undertaken a planned replacement of older inefficient office lighting by energy saving (40% off the office electricity bill) lighting. All light switches are being replaced with automatic office lighting activated by movement sensors (when movement occurs, light switches on).  Window panes Replacement of all windows with ultra-high efficient (double pane) windows  Central Heating Introduction of programmable heating controller (24/7 active clock program for energy efficient central heating) and insulating the water supply system to save energy.  Compressor Replacement of an inefficient compressor for manufacturing purposes by an energy saving compressor which automatically reduces compression levels to the all-zero state and provides production machines only compression when required.  Disposal hazardous waste All hazardous waste is disposed of using special recycle containers Digital archiving Company has a Digital Archiving Policy to minimize waste of paper.  Recycling Company has disposal containers for packaging materials for recycling purposes when possible.  Collecting toners/cartridges for charity purposes  Company cars All new company cars meet the Euro-5 norms and are expected to meet the latest standards requirements concerning low CO2 emissions. Gradually we will exchange all our company cars into hybrid cars.  Public transportation Company supports the use of public transportation during business travelling to reduce the amount of air pollution/global warming and transportation costs for the company itself (parking costs at the airport, car hire)  Waste water management To manage our global water program, we have implemented the online reporting system H2O Insight.  Awareness policy We have implemented a policy to create awareness among staff of the necessity and yields from operating energy-efficiently. Development of technologies:  Manufacturing process Thermopatch maintains environmentally responsible manufacturing processes by using water based materials and reduces wastage by optimizing and/or replacing inefficient manufacturing processes to ensure energy and resource efficient production.  Production Process The technological change of one of our production processes not only makes it possible for us to reduce the price of the raw material and work more accurately, at the same time we are able to drastically reduce the waste materials which creates a better working environment (cleaner, healthier) and save energy consumption. In June a new fully automatic silkscreen-washing machine is implemented. The machine meets all environmental requirements and saves the employee from heavy and dirty work.  Oeko-Tex standard Thermopatch products are certified with Oeko-Tex standard which means all components meet the required criteria (environmentally friendly) and conformity is verified by an independent organization (third party).  European Regional Development Fund A part of our innovations is subsidized with support of the European Regional Development Fund ERDF of the European Commission.  Thermopatch continues changing her manufacturing processes where possible and last year we accomplished a further reduction of 15-20% of ink waste by producing digitally instead of sreen printing. Measurement of outcomes The environmental performance of Thermopatch is set out through our entire manufacturing process and is measured by daily operational procedures. We will continue to strive to the highest level of safety with regard to the impacts of our organizations’s actions on the environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Policy Thermopatch acknowledges the importance to work against corruption. We do not offer neither receive any gifts, loan, fee, reward or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something which is dishonest, illegal or a breach of trust, in the conduct of the enterprise’s business. In line with this principle, Thermopatch will include an anticorruption policy in her Code of Conduct, in which will clearly state that we do not tolerate the direct or indirect offer, payment, solicitation or acceptance of bribes in any form. Facilitation payments are also prohibited. Should we discover that bribery or fraud allegations are imposed against any third party performing work for Thermopatch, we will review our relationship with that party and take appropriate action. Actions planned: Further set-up of anti-corruption policy in our Code of Conduct. This will conduct specific instructions to staff, such as requirements to avoid or declare potential conflicts of interest, and others that concern the offer or acceptance of gifts and hospitality. Measurement of outcomes There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, Thermopatch will take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment.
