Sustainable Momentum 2016 Sustainability Report Photo credits Cover: Carmen Constantin, Transalpina Road, Romania Page 6: Christian Vargas, Financial District Skyline, New York, New York Page 10: JangBoo Lee, Mt. Fuji, Honshu Island, Japan Page 12: Werner Schoeman, Grachtengordel, Amsterdam, The Netherlands Page 18: Joshua Zakkai, Cantal, France Page 20: Kate Turner, Sydney Harbour Bridge, Sydney, Australia Page 30: Carmen Constantin, Bigar Cascade Falls, Anina, Romania Page 38: Christian Vargas, Belmar Beach, New Jersey, USA Page 42: Josh Zakkai, Florencia Bay, British Columbia, Canada Page 44: Claudiu Constantin, Plaiul Nucului, Buzău, Romania Page 48: Christian Vargas, Laurel Hill Park, New Jersey, USA Page 52: Josh Zakkai, Killarney Provincial Park, Killarney, Canada Page 55: JangBoo Lee, Mt. Fuji, Honshu Island, Japan Table of Contents About Sustainalytics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 About This Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 The Year In Review: A Message From Michael Jantzi, CEO . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sustainability Context – Our Place In The World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Our Reporting Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Stakeholders Inclusiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Materiality Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Performance Disclosure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Material Issues: What We Do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Product and Service Quality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Client Satisfaction and Retention . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Product and Service Innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Clients’ Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Conflicts of Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Material Issues: How We Do Things . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Human Capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Professional Growth Opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Work-Life Integration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Equity and Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Energy Use and GHG Emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 Sustainable Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 What’s Next? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Appendix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 GRI G4 Index For “In Accordance” Core . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Endnotes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 3 About Sustainalytics Our Vision Sustainalytics believes that it is imperative for the global economy to become more just and sustainable. Our Mission Sustainalytics’ mission is to provide the insights required for investors and companies to make more informed decisions that lead to a more just and sustainable global economy. Our Values We have a positive impact on our world. We embrace diverse perspectives. We foster excellence through continuous collaboration. We are adaptable and entrepreneurial. We treat others as we like to be treated. Who We Are Sustainalytics is a global leader in ESG and Corporate Governance research and ratings. Over the last 25 years, we have brought together leading ESG research and advisory professionals to help our clients and deliver a high level of service and collaboration that has helped us to grow. Today, Sustainalytics supports hundreds of the world’s foremost investors who incorporate ESG and corporate governance insights into their investment processes. Company Structure Sustainalytics is a global company consisting of nine legal entities that are directly or indirectly owned by Sustainalytics Holding B.V. Sustainalytics Holdings B.V. is incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands as a private limited liability company. The company has its statutory seat and its principle place of business in Amsterdam.1 Shareholders As of December 31, 2016, shareholders consisted of ABN AMRO Mees Pierson, Michael Jantzi and senior staff, Mooncrest Holdings Limited, PGGM, Renewal Partners, Silver Box Holdings Limited and Triodos.2 Board of Directors Seven board directors, including the Chief Executive Officer. There is an Independent Chairman governance structure in place with two subcommittees of the Board – the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration and Employment Committee. Offices As at December 31, 2016, Sustainalytics had offices in Amsterdam (Headquarters), Boston, Bucharest, Frankfurt, London, New York, Paris, Timişoara Toronto, Tokyo, Sydney and Singapore as well as representative offices in Brussels and Washington D.C. The Tokyo and Sydney offices were opened in 2016 and, by the time of the publication of this report, we had closed our Singapore office (in early 2017). Employees As at December 31, 2016, Sustainalytics had 313 employees,3 including over 170 analysts with multidisciplinary expertise across more than 40 industry sectors. Clients Sustainalytics serves more than 400 clients4 across 18 countries, providing them with comprehensive ESG and corporate governance research and ratings. Our clients include asset managers, asset owners, NGOs, corporate issuers, international organizations, and academic institutions. 5 About This Report About This Report This annual report outlines Sustainalytics’ 2016 sustainability performance5. It adheres to the Sustainability GRI’s G4 Guidelines6 at the “core” level and focuses on the company’s key material issues7. To Reporting Group help you navigate the GRI disclosures, we provide a GRI Content Index at the back of this report • Rachel Birenbaum and we kept reporting periods consistent with previous years. • Vihra Toneva • Megan Wallingford As signatories to the UN Global Compact, the report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP). As we continue to strengthen our data collection and monitoring processes, management will consider using an external assurance provider. This is the fourth edition of Sustainable Momentum and the third one to be circulated externally8. As in previous years, it was written primarily for our employees, Board of Directors and shareholders. All photographs used in the report were taken by employees in the countries where we operate. Follow us on our journey to achieving a more sustainable and just economy and use Sustainable Momentum as a guide9. 7 The Year In Review: A Message From Michael Jantzi, CEO Over the past few years, we have witnessed responsible investing (RI), once a peripheral practice, move decisively into the mainstream. According to the Global Sustainable Investment Alliance, 26% of all professionally managed assets globally in 2016 integrated some environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria, representing a 25% increase compared to 2014. We are standing on the precipice of a major transformation of the global financial system and Sustainalytics is both proud and humbled by the role we are playing in this economic revolution. There is an oft-repeated phrase (often referenced on the internet as “an African proverb”) that states: “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.” The rapid transformation of our industry has compelled us to move fast, but, equally, our progress is inseparable from a spirit of collaboration that has defined us since inception. For 25 years, Sustainalytics has worked in collaboration with its clients and with responsible investment market participants and influencers to make ESG as integral to the investment process as P/E ratio, earnings momentum, EBITDA and other common financial metrics. In 2016, our collaboration efforts progressed even further as we cemented innovative partnerships with Morningstar, Glass Lewis and Advestis. Morningstar launched the industry’s first sustainability rating for mutual and exchange traded funds in partnership with Sustainalytics. As a result, our insights are reaching new segments of the investment community, including, for the first time, retail investors. Proxy voting and engagement are some of the most powerful ways of influencing corporate behavior and, by including our research in Glass Lewis reports, Sustainalytics is increasing our ability to affect positive change in this crucial part of the post-investment process. Finally, through our partnership with Advestis, we are leveraging the latest advances in big data and machine learning with ESG Signals. While ESG integration strategies historically have been largely qualitative in nature, this industry-first is providing investors with a quantitative tool that consistently and algorithmically analyzes performance-based correlations between ESG and financial variables. Another oft-repeated phrase, at least within Sustainalytics, is “the only constant is change.” While this mantra authentically reflects our reality, and our culture of embracing change has underpinned much of our success, it’s also true that this type of a working environment can place heavy demands on our people. On that note, whatever other achievements we amass, one of the things I continue to find most rewarding is that Sustainalytics brings together more than 300 creative, passionate and determined individuals who are bound together by mission. Nevertheless, although the results of our first-ever employee engagement survey highlighted broad satisfaction with What We Do and How We Do Things, it also identified several key areas which require our attention moving forward. Sustainability is a journey, and as we look ahead as a company, Sustainalytics aspires to implement a more systematic approach when it comes to measuring our operational footprint and running our business sustainably. Sustainalytics will seek to improve our efforts with respect to integrating sustainability considerations into business strategy, business management systems, goal setting and incentive structures, and management reporting. We believe that as a company that has built responsible investing into its very DNA, continuous improvement in these areas is critical if we are to fulfill our social responsibility of contributing to a greater global society. Michael C. Jantzi Chief Executive Officer Sustainalytics 9 Sustainability Context Sustainability Context – Our Place In The World Sustainalytics’ mission is to provide the insights required for investors and companies to make better informed decisions that lead to a more just and sustainable global economy. For us, a more just and sustainable economy is one that helps alleviate poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. In other words, one that supports the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It is through our relationship with hundreds of clients, who manage trillions in assets, that Sustainalytics has its greatest impact. Our success depends on the ability to deliver high quality ESG and corporate governance insights and tools to our clients, who themselves play a critical role in supporting the allocation of capital in a manner that leads to sustainable outcomes over the long-term. Accordingly, sustainability issues remain central to our thinking across all aspects of the business, including product development, delivery, support and service. In 2016, two momentous events solidified the place of sustainability in the mainstream investment community – the official entries into force of both the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In parallel, ESG integration continued its path to greater mainstream acceptance worldwide. Examples of this include Sustainalytics’ partnership with Morningstar – specifically, the launch of the industry’s first ESG scores for global mutual and exchange traded funds. And our partnership with Glass Lewis, established in 2016, started to facilitate the integration of ESG factors directly into the proxy voting and engagement processes. In addition to the impact Sustainalytics has through our clients, we also recognize our own responsibility – not only as an independent operating company, but also as an ESG and corporate governance research provider that evaluates the sustainability performance of others. Sustainalytics follows the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles, which includes the precautionary principle, based on which we have integrated sustainability risk assessments in fundamental business processes to minimize the negative impact on the environment. Accordingly, sustainability is at the core of how Sustainalytics’ global offices operate – from our human capital policies that stimulate diversity and personal development to our continuous efforts in offsetting our GHG emissions, detailed further throughout this report. Although this report highlights events in 2016, our commitment to sustainability is long-term. We are a company that has responsible investing as part of our DNA. We will continue to support investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies that ensure the resiliency of the systems upon which we all depend. 11 Our Reporting Approach Our Reporting Approach Sustainalytics’ reporting process is designed to identify, track and manage material sustainability issues on an ongoing basis using appropriate performance metrics. To support this process, we’ve created a reporting framework based on input from key stakeholders combined with the GRI’s four Principles for Defining Reporting Content: Sustainability context, stakeholder inclusiveness, materiality, completeness. The sustainability context was outlined in the preceding section while completeness refers to the scope and rigor with which topics are addressed. The other two principles are discussed below in greater detail. Stakeholder Inclusiveness Sustainalytics engages with various stakeholder groups during the course of the year. These interactions help shape our sustainability strategy. This happens either directly, by soliciting their feedback on relevant material issues, or indirectly through the way in which these interactions shape our approach to achieving our mission. Below is an overview of key stakeholders, the way and frequency with which we engage with them, their main concerns, our response and the way this relates to key material issues. 13 Figure 1: Sustainalytics’ Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Shareholders Board of Directors Senior Management Employees Core Stakeholders Industry Organizations Companies We Research Clients and Prospects Economy-Related Stakeholders Government Regulators Financial Service Sector Competitors and Other Players in the Financial Service Sector Environment & Civil Society The Physical Environment Trade Organizations Environmentaland Social NGOs Figure 2: Examples of Stakeholder Engagement in 2016 Stakeholder Method of Frequency Main Concerns Our Response Most Relevant Engagement Raised in 2016 Material Issues Shareholders • Annual General • Annually None cited — — Meeting • Required • CEO contact Board Board meetings Quarterly None cited — — Employees • CEO & • At least annually Need for a Sustainalytics • Equity & executive • As required dialogue between Connect 2016 Diversity company the employees Engagement • Work-life updates and the leadership Survey Integration • Other team in the company • Professional management Growth and Human Opportunities Resource communication channels Clients • Mid-year • Annually Interim instability • Invested in a • Product & client survey • As required due to transition series of cross Service • Formal client to new online team quality Innovation consultations in client platform initiatives • Product & multiple (Global Access); • Expanded and Service Quality locations on data quality and restructured our research timeliness the research innovation concerns team and plans processes to • The structured maximize collection of efficiency informal • Invested in feedback by specialized our client teams: quality servicing teams management, research operations, data services, developers Companies Solicit feedback • Annually Adapting ESG Added indicators • Product & we research on company • As required research to and adjusted our Service profiles as part company-specific processes to help Innovation of our research circumstances ensure that • Product & process company-specific Service Quality circumstances are better reflected in our research. Industry Memberships, Monthly None cited — — organizations position on governance body or committee, event participation and collaboration 15 Materiality In 2014, Sustainalytics used the GRI’s four-step materiality process (identify, prioritize, validate and review) to arrive at a list of ten key material issues10. Subsequently, we ranked these issues in terms of significance to both our organization and our stakeholders using a 3-tier system. Following an assessment by Sustainalytics’ Executive Team, it was concluded that the material issues identified in 2014, and reported on in 2015, still reflect the most substantial topics affecting the organization. To ensure that these topics are covered in an accurate and robust way, the Sustainability Reporting Group re-validated the findings of the 2014 materiality assessment. The weight of each issues was re-assessed and its position in the materiality matrix re-confirmed. The only change made during the revalidation was to “Conflicts of Interest”. We are restoring its original position in the matrix as it was after the full materiality analysis in 2014. The Sustainability Reporting Group concluded that it was no longer the most significant issue affecting the organization as it was in 2015. It is, however, still considered to be an important issue affecting both the organization and its stakeholders. Figure 3: Materiality Process based on GRI G4 Guidelines Review Feedback on the 2015 sustainability report was collected from stakeholders and processes Senior management reviewed the materiality matrix through a 2016 lens Validate The Reporting Advisory Identify Committee examined A list of 24 the 13 issues according potentially to their business impact material issues and plotted each were identified issue on a materiality matrix; 10 highly An internal data material issues were availability check identified was performed Senior management then grouped these issues according to a strategic Prioritize sustainability Employees, select board members and framework shareholders were asked to select the top 5 most material issues; 13 material issues were identified Figure 4: Sustainalytics’ 2016 Materiality Matrix 50 Product & Service Quality Significance to the Stakeholders (based on stakeholder survey) 40 Tier 1 Client Satisfaction & Retention Product & Service Innovation 30 Impact on Clients Conflicts of Interest 20 Professional Growth Opportunities Work-Life Integration Tier 2 Energy Use & GHG Emissions Equity & Diversity 10 Sustainable Procurement Tier 3 0 1 (Low) 2 (Med) 3 (High) Significance to the Organization (based on internal management assessment) 17 Performance Disclosure Performance Disclosure The Executive Team grouped the material issues according to a strategic sustainability framework, broken down into three areas: Products, Human Capital and Operations. Products relate to “What We Do” while Human Capital and Operations relate to “How We Do Things”. What We Do How We Do Things Products Human Capital Product and Service Quality Professional Growth Opportunities Client Satisfaction and Retention Work-Life Integration Product and Service Innovation Equity and Diversity Impact on Clients Operations Conflicts of Interest Energy Use and GHG Emissions Sustainable Procurement What we do The first set of performance metrics encompasses the material indicators that inform Sustainalytics’ decisions with respect to what we deliver to the market. We report on these issues through a products and services lens, focusing on five sustainability themes identified through the materiality assessment process: Product and Service Quality; Client Satisfaction and Retention; Product and Service Innovation; Impact on Clients and Conflicts of Interest. How we do things The second area of discussion encompasses those material indicators that inform Sustainalytics’ decisions with respect to managing the company. We believe that it is critical to integrate sustainability metrics and considerations into our management decision-making and reporting. It is not only the right thing to do, it also improves our understanding of our business. We report on these issues through a Human Capital and Operations framework, focusing on five sustainability themes identified during the materiality assessment process. Three themes fall under Human Capital (Professional Growth Opportunities, Work-Life Integration, and Equity and Diversity) and two under Operations (Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, and Sustainable Procurement). We use a traffic light system to report on progress with regards to the key performance indicators (KPIs): • Green to indicate that we were on target • Amber to indicate that we fell just short of our target • Red to indicate that we failed to meet our target by a more significant margin • Indicates there was no set target 19 Material Issues: What We Do Material Issues: What We Do In this section, we focus on five material issues that relate to our products: Product and Service Quality; Client Satisfaction and Retention; Product and Service Innovation; Impact on Clients; and Conflicts of Interest. Product and Service Quality Sustainalytics is committed to delivering superior quality products and services to our clients. We monitor the company’s products and quality processes continuously to ensure online access to ESG research and customized deliverables are completed on time with excellence. This is crucial to supporting the widespread adoption of ESG integration within the global investment community. As a mission-driven company, Sustainalytics’ business success is ultimately the best measure of our sustainability impact. In 2016, Sustainalytics met its revenue and new sales targets, while just missing its profitability and core cash creation objectives. Material Issue: Product and Service Quality 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Revenues Continue to support Ensure that key business improvements to the processes are in place to New Sales QMS process handle product change Profitability and roll-out Achieve internal KPIs Core Cash Creation Improve quality monitoring and reporting The responsibility for the implementation of quality standards resides with a dedicated Quality Management Team (QMT), which was created in 2016. The team’s mandate is to enhance operational excellence, driven by the voice of the customer, by providing business process support as well as tools and mechanisms for the research, operational and ICT teams to improve their efficiency and effectiveness. Moreover, Sustainalytics has a dedicated Data Management Team that safeguards the quality of company data used as inputs into Sustainalytics’ products and services11. 21 In 2016, the QMT initiated a large-scale, cross-functional project to address quality concerns and to promote a culture of operational excellence. The outcomes of this project included improvements to some of our critical tools and platforms: • Universe Management: In 2016, we improved the governance of Sustainalytics’ standard research universes. Research universes were clearly defined and rules were established for a newly-initiated quarterly rebalancing process supported by client communications. The process improvements have led to better control and more ownership over Sustainalytics’ universes with greater consistency across products and platforms. • Global Access12: We improved the management of our online client platform by implementing a more efficient and effective issue handling system. In addition, we improved communications so that our external stakeholders and client servicing teams are better informed about new developments. • Data Delivery: We improved the reliability of our company data through a monthly rebalance and quality assurance process. We also put into place end-of-gate quality assurance measures for proprietary data (including ESG scores and qualitative ESG analysis) to capture data gaps prior to publication. Furthermore, we improved the format, quality and consistency of custom client deliverables by setting up a dedicated production team and putting in place enhanced quality assurance (automated and manual). In 2016, Sustainalytics streamlined our core research processes to improve the efficiency of our ESG research and established a committee to ensure that assessments are done consistently across research teams, sectors and products. We worked to continuously enhance the analyst manual and clarify standard operating procedures for research teams. All ESG company report quality monitoring was aggregated into one interactive management dashboard, which facilitated improved analysis and response. Client Satisfaction and Retention Material Issue: Client Satisfaction and Retention 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Client Retention Rate Achieve client retention Prudently adjust the client rate of 95% retention target to 93.5% Leverage the enhanced Continue to develop new feedback mechanisms products and services in integrated since 2015 to line with new market execute targeted client needs, global trends and outreach our mission Solicit specific feedback on Expand our leadership the new products launched position as a provider of in 2015 (Global Access, second party opinion for Corporate Governance green bonds Research & Ratings and Carbon Solutions) Ensure the smoothest possible transition of clients to new products and services Fostering loyalty, collaborating and maintaining meaningful relationships with our clients is vital to Sustainalytics’ long-term success. In 2016, we expanded our client advisory and servicing teams as we believe in the “close-by concept” to capture local dynamics. Throughout 2016, we undertook client satisfaction surveys and leveraged targeted client outreach to inform our thinking with respect to product and quality improvements, and new product developments. To support our growing global client base, Sustainalytics hired additional client advisory personnel to provide local support from eight regional hubs (as opposed to five in 2015). We also expanded our capacity to support bespoke client work and custom research projects such as sustainability bonds and impact advisory. 23 Product and Service Innovation Material Issue: Product and Service Innovation 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Product Innovation Deliver improvements to Develop a new enhanced our online client platform analyst interface Process Innovation Launch new data Prepare our online client Digital Innovation services offering platform for major improvements to our Launch an enhanced main product offerings Carbon Solutions suite Continue to develop new Integrate state-of-the-art products and services in smart technologies to line with market needs, improve research global trends and our processes mission Leverage digital innovation to improve process efficiency In 2015, Sustainalytics made a major commitment to innovation as part of our strategic business plan. 2016 highlights included improvements to Global Access, our online client platform, and the soft launch of a state-of-the-art data services offering with select clients. We also successfully integrated smart technology solutions into the research process with efficiency gains expected to materialize in 2017. Operational Innovations Process innovation initiatives resulted in significant improvements in Sustainalytics’ production and delivery methods. We transformed the Product Innovation Team, created in 2014, into a Digital Innovation Team to reflect the increased importance of digital technology in Sustainalytics’ ESG research process. In 2016, the team established an innovation lab that identifies, explores and applies new technologies, including smart technologies and machine learning, to our existing and future products and services. The adoption of agile product development strategies improved the delivery of timely improvements to our online client platform. Product Innovations In 2016, in collaboration with Advestis, Sustainalytics launched ESG Signals, an innovative investment solution that provides investors with securities-level financial risk and opportunity signals based on ESG factors, trading patterns and financial information. ESG Signals was our response to asset managers’ need to support the integration of our ESG research into their quantitative models. Morningstar, a leading provider of independent research, launched the industry’s first ESG scores for global mutual and exchange traded funds in partnership with Sustainalytics. The Morningstar Sustainability Rating™ enables investors to evaluate funds based on ESG performance, with Sustainalytics’ research underpinning Morningstar’s fund ratings. Sustainalytics also partnered with Glass Lewis in 2016, a leading independent provider of global governance services. Glass Lewis began integrating Sustainalytics’ ESG Research & Ratings for approximately 2,300 global large and mid-cap companies into its proxy research over the course of the 2016 proxy season. In this way, Sustainalytics started to more effectively support the integration of ESG factors into a crucial part of the post-investment process. Clients’ Impact Material Issue: Clients’ Impact 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Impact Framework Broaden impact-oriented Continue to work towards Development product suite developing innovative new products and Contribute to emerging services that contribute discussion about systemic to creating a positive risks and opportunities impact and helps to address systemic ESG risks Sustainalytics’ impact on the global economy is determined by how clients use our products and services to inform their capital allocation decisions. The trend towards ESG integration across investor segments and asset classes increases our scale of influence and impact. As part of our long-term strategy, Sustainalytics expanded its access to market segments for which ESG historically has not been on the agenda. Worldwide, ESG integration continued its path to greater mainstream acceptance, and in 2016 Sustainalytics noted two big accomplishments in that respect by partnering with Morningstar and Glass Lewis. Sustainalytics’ partnership with Morningstar has allowed our company level analysis to become widely available to the retail investor market, driving increased awareness about ESG issues. Our partnership with Glass Lewis has resulted in a heightened awareness of ESG issues with both institutional investors and corporate issuers. Through these partnerships, and the work we do with our clients, Sustainalytics is continuing to help advance the field of responsible investing. Sustainalytics also furthered our conceptual thinking around an Impact Framework that assesses the contribution of business to broader social and environmental development goals. In 2016, we took further steps to broaden our impact-oriented product suite by incorporating positive impact product research indicators, including renewable energy and green transportation. Sustainalytics’ Sustainable Bond Services helps investors develop frameworks aligned with the Green Bond Principles and offers insight with respect to market best practices. We also incorporate the ESG performance of the client and the alignment of the Sustainability Bond with 25 client’s sustainability goals and objectives, thereby providing a holistic view of the Sustainability Bond to investors. The work Sustainalytics does in this space is impactful – we are helping to shift capital to a low(er)-carbon future and to projects that help support the SDGs more broadly. In 2016, Sustainalytics was the leading Second Opinion Provider with more than 50% market share. Consistent with Sustainalytics’ mission of pursuing a more just a sustainable economy – we highlight below how Sustainalytics’ research, analysis, insights and tools support our clients in advancing the SDGs. 2 ZERO HUNGER Access to Nutrition Index | Access to Seeds Index In 2016, the Global Access to Nutrition Index 2016, the India Spotlight Access to Nutrition Index 2016, and the inaugural Access to Seeds Index 2016 were published, for which Sustainalytics contributed with methodology development, research, analysis, report writing and company engagement. The Access to Nutrition indexes aim to stimulate large food and beverage companies globally to enhance access to nutrition for all, in developed and developing countries alike. The Access to Seeds Index facilitates the discussion on how the seed industry End hunger, achieve food can step up its efforts to address hunger in the least developed areas of security and improved the world. nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. 6 Green and Social Bond Services | Water Green Bonds Clean Water And Sanitation Sustainalytics helped issuers bring to market robust green bonds that contributed to sustainable water management projects globally. For example, Sustainalytics provided a second-party opinion13 on Jain Irrigation Systems’ (JISL) Green Bond. JISL, India’s largest producer of micro-irrigation systems, financed the development of micro-irrigation products that provided efficiency in irrigation, especially in India where flood irrigation is common. Ensure availability Sustainalytics also provided a second-party opinion on green bonds and sustainable management of water issued by the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (SFPUC). and sanitation for all. Both these bonds financed wastewater treatment, storm-water management, and infrastructure improvement projects for sustainable water management. SFPUC was also the first climate bonds certified water bond. 7 Green and Social Bond Services | Renewable Energy Green Bonds Affordable ANd Clean Energy Sustainalytics helped numerous issuers develop frameworks to finance renewable energy projects globally, and provided assurance that the bond proceeds were allocated, managed, and reported in a transparent manner. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. 8 decent work And Green and Social Bonds Services | Rural socio-economic Economic Growth development Sustainability Bond Sustainalytics helped Caja Rural de Navarra, a Spanish cooperative, to bring a robust Sustainability Bond to market. The Sustainability Bond funded a variety of projects to advance rural socio-economic development. Through its sustainability bond, Caja financed lending to develop sustainable agriculture, provide microfinance loans, and provide financing to SMEs with a focus on the rural towns in the Navarra, La Rioja, and Alava provinces. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable KnowTheChain Benchmark economic growth, full and productive employment The International Labor Organization estimates that 21 million people and decent work for all. around the world are victims of forced labor. In fact, forced labor in the private economy generates USD 150 billion in illegal profits annually. In 2016, Sustainalytics played a key role in launch of a new company ranking that focuses on this issue, the KnowTheChain (KTC) benchmark. Funded by Humanity United, KTC is an online resource to promote greater transparency and dialogue around the issue of human trafficking and forced labor in supply chains. Throughout 2016, KTC launched three sector-specific benchmarks examining the degree to which companies are addressing forced labor and human trafficking risks in their supply chains. The benchmarks covered the Information Communication Technology, Footwear and Apparel, and Food and Beverage sectors. Sustainalytics played a lead role in developing the methodology, conducting the research, evaluating the companies and identifying key findings. 9 INDUSTrY, INNOVATION Green and Social Bonds Services | MTR Corporation and Link REIT Green Bonds AND INFRASTRUCTURE Sustainalytics provided a second-party opinion for the Mass Transit Railway (MTR) Corporation Ltd., Green Bond. MTR is one of the world’s leading railway operators carrying an average weekday patronage of over 5.5 million in Hong Kong. MTR’s Green Bond financed low-carbon transportation, energy efficiency, sustainable transit stations, and climate change adaptation infrastructure for the city of Hong Kong. Sustainalytics also provided a second-party opinion for Link REIT, the first Build resilient real estate investment trust listed in Hong Kong. Link REIT’s Green Bond infrastructure, promote financed energy efficiency, waste and water management, and low-carbon inclusive and sustainable transportation infrastructure projects in Hong Kong. industrialization and Together, the MTR and Link REIT Green Bonds financed the creation of foster innovation. resilient infrastructure in an urban and metropolitan environment. 11 Sustainable Cities Green and Social Bonds Services | City of Mexico (CDMX) Green Bond and COmmunities Sustainalytics provided a second-party opinion on the City of Mexico (CDMX’s) Green Bond framework, which financed projects in the areas of sustainable transport, sustainable buildings, renewable energy, energy efficiency, pollution prevention, conservation and biodiversity, and climate change adaptation. Sustainalytics reviewed and provided an opinion on the impact of these projects in the context of CDMX’s environment, and in the context of the city’s environmental strategy and commitments. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. 27 13 CLIMATE ActioN Carbon Solutions Suite | Green Bonds Sustainalytics Carbon Solutions suite helps investor clients understand and address their investments’ exposure to carbon risks and implement low carbon strategies. In addition, our carbon foot printing offering allows investors to measure and reduce the environmental impact of their portfolios. Furthermore, the Climate Bond Standards Board made Sustainalytics an approved verifier, which authorizes Sustainalytics to assess whether Take urgent action to a bond’s assets meet the Climate Bond Standard’s environmental and combat climate change financial guidelines. and its impacts. 16 Peace, Justice Global Compact Compliance Service and strong Sustainalytics contributes to the promotion of peaceful and inclusive institution societies for sustainable development through our Global Compact Compliance Service. This service enables investors to identify companies implicated in severe, structural breaches of the United Nations Global Compact Principles, which are based on international norms. Sustainalytics takes a rights-first approach, which looks at fundamental human rights (as defined by core human rights charters) at risk. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. 17 Partnerships ESG and Corporate Governance Research and Analysis For the Goals During the past 20 years, Sustainalytics has worked with global investors to provide them with ESG research, enabling them to make more informed and sustainable investment decisions. Over that time, we have seen an increase in transparency among companies in both developed and emerging markets, improved sustainability performance among many of the companies we track, and an increase in the awareness of the importance of sustainability among investors, companies, NGOs and civil society. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. Sustainalytics also contributed to the emerging discussion about systemic risks and opportunities by actively participating in industry events and supporting clients with strategy development and implementation. Finally, our Thematic Research team advanced Sustainalytics’ thought-leadership work – in 2016, we published 23 reports on topics ranging from data privacy to the gender pay gap. Conflicts of Interest Material Issue: Conflicts of Interest 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Code of Conduct Implement processes to Expand our outreach to Implementation ensure 100% of employees ensure 100% of read and sign upon hiring employees read and and annually thereafter sign upon hiring and annually thereafter Sustainalytics has built strong relationships with the company’s stakeholders by focusing on providing outstanding products and services, and seeking to do business according to the highest ethical standards, wherever we operate and whatever the situation. To ensure that the company avoids entering commercial relationships that might jeopardize our integrity and research independence, Sustainalytics introduced a global Code of Conduct in 2015. All employees are required to review and sign the Code upon hiring and annually thereafter, and adhere to both its letter and spirit. In 2016, just over half of Sustainalytics’ staff signed off on the Code, which fell well short of our target of 100%. Despite this unsatisfactory start, Sustainalytics will persist in our efforts to advance the adoption of the Code of Conduct globally. Over the course of the year, Sustainalytics’ Compliance Manager received four reports of a possible conflict of interest and/or conflict with the Code of Conduct. None of these instances was deemed a conflict and no disciplinary actions were taken. There were no reports of misconduct. Memberships Global charters and principles to which Sustainalytics subscribes • U nited Nations backed Principles for • C limate Bonds Standards Board Responsible Investment (UNPRI) • Green Bonds Principles Global initiatives in which Sustainalytics participates • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Industry associations and organizations in which Sustainalytics holds a position on the governance body or participates in projects or committees • B elgian Sustainable and Social • N atural Capital Declaration Investment Forum (BELSIF) • Network for Business Sustainability (NBS) • BSAS Boston • Norwegian Forum for Sustainable and • BSAS New York Responsible Investment (NORSIF) • Building a Sustainably Investing • Pensions and Lifetime Savings Community (BASIC) Association (PLSA) • Canadian Business for Socia • Responsible Investment Responsibility (CBSR) Association Australasia (RIAA) • Council of Institutional Investors (CII) • Responsible Investment • Danish Social Investment Forum (DANSIF) Association Canada (RIA) • Forum pour l’investissement responsable • Spanish Social Investment (French Sustainable Investment Forum) Forum (SpainSIF) • UK Sustainable Investment and • Sustainability Network Canada Finance Association (UKSIF) • The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible • Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen Investment in the United States (USSIF) (German Sustainable Investment Forum) • Women in Super (WIS) • International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN) 29 Material Issues: How We Do Things Material Issues: How We Do Things How We Do Things Human Capital Professional Growth Opportunities Work-Life Integration Equity and Diversity Operations Energy Use and GHG Emissions Sustainable Procurement Human Capital Sustainalytics operates in a knowledge-based industry and our competitive advantage depends, to a large extent, on our employees’ ability to deliver quality products and services and to create state-of-the-art ESG solutions. To safeguard its innovative performance and expand the outreach of its products and services, the company relies on a comprehensive set of human capital policies. Sustainalytics encourages personal development and continuous learning, nurtures healthy work-life integration, and celebrates diversity. In our view, the best way to ensure the consistent application of these principles, is to build our own team of experts globally, as opposed to producing research through a network of partnerships or leveraging outsourcing firms. This approach guarantees that all our employees are hired and trained in accordance with our mission and our values. Approximately 79% of our annual cost base went towards personnel costs – a signal of our commitment to investing in our people as a crucial part of our long-term success. At year-end Sustainalytics employed 313 people, representing a 30% year-over-year increase. The clear majority of our staff were permanent, full-time employees, with 5% of employees on fixed-term contracts or part-time employment. The Sustainalytics team spanned eleven countries – the largest offices being Timişoara, Romania (38% of staff); Toronto, Canada (18%); and our headquarters in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (14%)14. 31 Figure 5: Sustainalytics’ Employee Growth Sustainalytics Employees 400 300 200 Employees 100 2013 2014 2015 2016 Professional Growth Opportunities Material Issue: Professional Growth Opportunities 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Training budget as a Maintain existing suite of Expand existing suite of percent of personnel professional development professional development costs programs programs by introducing Education credit specialized management Complete annual trainings usage performance and career Annual performance development reviews for at and career least 90% of eligible development reviews employees on time Maintain the current completion rate of annual performance and career development reviews Sustainalytics aims to support a working environment in which employees can develop the right skill sets and intellectual capital over time. This enables them to become thought leaders and support the company to meet the market’s requirements. We believe that continuous learning is crucial not only to maintain Sustainalytics’ competitive advantage, but also as a means to retain employees and keep them engaged. To that end, 750 annually and offers paid leave for coursework of up to 2 days per year. In 2016, employees (on average) used 71% of their education credit (2016 goal: 65%) for courses, workshops, conferences, and other educational events, directly related to their work. Employees were encouraged to use the funds in a self-directed manner, and spent (on average) 46 hours on professional development initiatives (2016 goal: 32 hours). Moreover, the company continued to finance employees’ CFA accreditation and other industry programs such as the Claritas Investment. Figure 6: Professional Development at Sustainalytics Number of Employees Taking: CFA 3 CFA 2 CFA 1 2 6 4 CFA Claritas PRI Academy 27 50 In 2016, Sustainalytics also offered specialized courses as a response to the business needs identified throughout the company. For example, we provided a “Coaching and Mentoring” training course to 19 new managers in the Romanian offices to develop skills in managing their teams members. Sustainalytics faced some challenges launching programs that were part of the company’s 2016 goals. For example, we did not manage to introduce a succession planning process or execute a training program for middle managers. Despite the postponement of these initiatives, Sustainalytics remains convinced of their value and we plan to continue working on their implementation over the next couple of years. Sustainalytics’ global appraisal framework is another tool that expands the professional growth opportunities in the company by clarifying performance expectations and establishing transparent criteria for advancement. The annual appraisal process was set up in 2010 with the aim to have a consistent and fair way to reward performance. In 2016, 88% of eligible employees received an end-of-year performance and career development review, compared to 94% in 2015. This falls just short of our goal of 90%. In 2017, Sustainalytics plans to overhaul the current appraisal framework to respond to the company’s growth. 33 Work-Life Integration Material Issue: Work-Life Integration 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Employee Turnover Achieve employee turnover Achieve employee of 10% or less turnover of 10% or less Deliver the company’s first Conduct second global global HR engagement HR engagement survey survey and improve upon previous results Analyze turnover data and deliver initiatives aimed at reduction within the scope of its influence Sustainalytics has continuously strived to introduce innovative ways for employees to integrate their professional and personal responsibilities. We believe that these efforts lead to more motivated, engaged and ultimately happier people who are willing to go the extra mile in pursuit of the company’s mission. Examples of some of the practices we employ, beyond the standard benefit suite offered by a company of our size, include: • Flexible return-to-work practices for employees returning from maternity and parental leaves; • Support for employee-initiated transfers to another global office for personal or professional growth opportunities; and • The opportunity for employees working abroad to spend two weeks per year working from their home country. Work-life integration also means tapping into employees’ motivations for working with a company like Sustainalytics, driven by a desire to have a positive impact through their work. An example of how we do this is our Global Volunteer Day, an annual event organized since 2013 that reinforces our values while building a strong global culture. Sustainalytics acknowledges that to create an industry-leading work environment that fosters work-life integration, we need to continuously seek feedback from employees, identify the issues most important to them and respond in an effective way. Accordingly, in 2016 we conducted the first Sustainalytics Connect Engagement Survey. Our objective was to gather critical information and insights about employees’ experiences about working at Sustainalytics. The overall Sustainalytics Engagement Index was very positive with a score of 79%. Employees told us that they feel proud to work for Sustainalytics and they identify with the company’s values. Furthermore, they trust and respect their line managers and understand how their work contributes to achieving their team’s business goals. There were also some areas for improvement. Staff expressed their desire for more communication with the Executive Team. The findings also highlighted that Sustainalytics needs to provide more information about product quality initiatives and greater support for career development. Based on this feedback, individual teams developed targeted action plans. Sustainalytics is committed to surveying employees biennially – the next survey is planned in 2018. Another key measure of Sustainalytics’ success is employee turnover, which was higher than we wished for the second consecutive year. This was driven primarily by mid-level employees, who cited a mismatch between the role and their skill set, lack of career progression and a desire to work in a different business area as some key reasons for leaving Sustainalytics. This level of turnover remains a concern, and as such, Sustainalytics continues to undertake a variety of initiatives (adjusting remuneration and benefits, for example) and implementing changes/improvements (more transparent performance management and promotions procedures) to try to address the challenges directly. 35 Equity and Diversity Material Issue: Equity and Diversity 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Employee Exchanges Maintain existing employee Maintain existing exchange program employee exchange Representation of program women at senior Introduce procedures for levels of the company analyzing salary increases Introduce procedures for and promotions by gender analyzing salary increases and promotions by Formally launch the gender women’s professional development program Launch a campaign that through our values Execute diversity training emphasizes the for the Human Resources importance of diverse team perspectives Sustainalytics values diversity and desires to create a work environment in which individuality and differences among people are celebrated. The company recognizes that a diverse workforce enhances its ability to provide high quality products and services. In 2016, we represented 39 nationalities and spoke 38 languages. At year-end, 60% of the employees were women, including 47% of senior management: Senior Manager/ Associate Director = 48%, Director = 53% and Executive Team = 25%. 39 Nationalities 38 Languages Figure 7: Percentage of Women in Different Positions 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% GOAL 20% 2016 10% 2015 0% NON-MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE (Entry Level, Mid-Level, (Senior Manager/ (Executive Vice President) Line Manager) Associate Director, Director, Executive Director) Another key measure of diversity and equity is pay ratio by gender. Accordingly, Sustainalytics analyzed the ratio of the salary of women to men for each employee category by significant locations of operation. Due to the limited sample size, we cannot report the results by employee category and location without compromising employee confidentiality, but in aggregate: • The ratio of basic salary of women to men at entry-through manager-level positions was 0.97:1 (1:1 in 2015) • The ratio of basic salary of women to men at senior management positions was 0.90:1 (0.84:1 in 2015) Consistent with our goals, in 2016 Sustainalytics implemented procedures for tracking gender in recruitment processes. Due to resource constraints, Sustainalytics’ professional development program for women had to be temporarily delayed. The intention remains, however, to implement this program (or something similar) in the next couple of years. Finally, one of the ways Sustainalytics is leveraging our global footprint is through the company’s exchange program. This program aims to strengthen our global culture and reward high performers. Since 2011, we have given a select group of employees the opportunity to work in one of our offices for a period of 3-6 months to build the capacity and strength of our global teams and accelerate professional development. In 2016, Sustainalytics selected 5 employees to participate in the program. Furthermore, Sustainalytics transferred 9 employees (5 permanent and 4 temporary, 6 women and 3 men) within the company to different countries in cases where business needs aligned with personal circumstances. 37 Operations Operations Mitigating the company’s environmental footprint through embedding sustainability considerations into our operations is both strategic and an integral part of who we are. Throughout 2016, Sustainalytics closely monitored the policies and programs introduced in 2015 to see where adjustments and improvements needed to be made. Energy Use and GHG Emissions Material Issue: Energy Use and GHG Emissions 2015 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals GHG emissions offset Improve Sustainalytics’ Improve Sustainalytics’ Sustainable Travel Policy Sustainable Travel Policy Create a system to measure Implement a travel energy consumption in a application, tracking pilot office and roll it out employee travels globally in 2017 Sustainalytics measured and offset Scope 3 GHG emissions related to business and commuter travel in 2016. Our GHG emissions in total amount to approximately 340 tons15 of CO2. Figure 8: GHG Emissions in 2016 (All Offset) Total: 340 tons of CO2 offset in 2016 254 46 40 tons of CO2 tons of CO2 tons of CO2 Flights, Trains, etc. Car Public Transport Business Travel Commuting 39 Managing our carbon footprint remains challenging for Sustainalytics, as we continue to expand globally and experience significant growth in our global client base. The company is trying to reduce our emissions by employing Skype for Business as our main communication tool, thus reducing meeting-related travel. Travel is only allowed when there is a valid business case, which is judged by the manager. Policies for specific routes (e.g. Amsterdam-Frankfurt) are in place to ensure employees travel by train rather than flying. Nevertheless, we will review the Sustainable Travel policy to improve communications and data collection as part of our effort to find creative solutions to minimize our collective impact. To help us calculate and offset emissions associated with business and commuter travel, Sustainalytics partners with the Dutch-based foundation Climate Neutral Group. Climate Neutral Group is the Benelux market leader in the field of emission reduction and carbon offsetting. In 2016, they worked alongside our internal carbon experts to determine where the company’s climate protection and carbon compensation investment will have the greatest impact. Sustainalytics chose to support Biogas Tanzania – a project that stimulates the transition from cooking over an open fire using charcoal and wood, to the use of biogas as a non-harmful alternative. One biogas installation saves an average of 8.5 tons of CO2 and 4,667 kg of wood per year, improves the living conditions on the farms and saves more than 1,500 hectares of forest16. Sustainalytics offices also have implemented initiatives that are helping us mitigate our environmental footprint more effectively: • The Toronto office uses only FSC-certified paper (Forest Stewardship Council, an organization that works to promote the practice of sustainable forestry worldwide), which is composed of virgin tree fibers and is as eco-friendly as recycled paper; • Amsterdam uses Biotop3 paper, which is produced totally chlorine free and bleached without any optical brightening agents; • All paper used in the Amsterdam, Paris, Frankfurt, London, Tokyo and Sydney offices is recycled through either building management services or in-house policies while New York and Boston recycle 78% of the paper they use • Toronto has a program for e-waste and printer cartridges disposal, as well as battery, pen and highlighters recycling; and • All offices have implemented recycling systems that collect and sort paper, glass and plastic. Despite our best efforts, Sustainalytics did not fully implement some of the initiatives planned in 2016. For example, we postponed the creation of a structured data collection system to measure energy consumption per office by 2018. Nevertheless, the company remains determined to improve our performance in terms of energy efficiency and GHG emissions. Sustainable Procurement Material Issue: Sustainable Procurement 20145 2016 2017 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Percentage of Introduce a process for Modify the accounting eligible purchases measuring the percentage system to track number made in accordance of purchases made in of purchases made from with policy accordance with the a sustainable supplier policy in a pilot office Revisit the list of Maintain policy as approved suppliers within implemented and expand the Operations team scope of policy in 2016 to cover 100% of c ompany purchases We don’t consider the environmental and social impact of Sustainalytics’ supply chain to be significant. Nevertheless, we seek to source responsibly. Our Sustainable Procurement policy applies to office supplies and services, and food and drink associated with staff functions. The company has implemented the policy at all our offices globally. In 2016, 74% of purchases were made using sustainable suppliers. Figure 9: Sustainalytics’ Supply Chain Personnel Non-Personnel Payroll administrators Real estate rented for offices Recruitment and professional Office maintenance, security development services and cleaning services Social securities and benefit providers Banking financial services Pension providers Marketing services Office furniture, food and supplies providers Insurance providers Research license providers Research partners IT services Travel service providers Legal services 41 What’s Next? What’s Next? In addition to measuring the key indicators highlighted in this report, Sustainalytics will continue to focus on embedding sustainability metrics more effectively into our strategic decision-making and management reporting systems. Sustainalytics will build on its commitment not only to measure and manage these issues, but also to report more effectively to our stakeholders. Material Issues 2017 Goals Metrics What We Do: Products 1. Product and Ensure that key business processes are in place to Revenues Service Quality handle product change and roll-out New Sales Improve quality monitoring and reporting Profitability Core Cash Creation 2. Client Satisfaction Prudently adjust the client retention target to 93.5% Client Retention Rate and Retention Continue to develop new products and services in line with new market needs, global trends and our mission Expand our leadership position as a provider of second party opinion for green bonds Ensure the smoothest possible transition of clients to new products and services 3. Product and Service Develop new multi-tenant analyst interface Product Innovation Innovation Prepare Global Access for launch of next generation ESG Rating Process Innovation Launch enhanced Climate Solution suite Digital Innovation Strengthen SDG related product offer Leverage digital innovation to improve process efficiency/ produce new data in three identified priority areas 4. Impact on Clients Enter new regions and increase new applications for ESG Impact framework Grow the user adoption and sophistication to use development ESG considerations in current markets Foster discussions on addressing systemic ESG risk Direct investors to positive impact solutions Support clients in developing positive impact frameworks 5. Conflicts of Interest Expand our outreach to ensure 100% of employees read Code of Conduct and sign upon hiring and annually thereafter implementation How We Do Things: Human Capital 6. Professional Growth Expand existing suite of professional development Training budget as a percent Opportunities rograms by introducing specialized management trainings of personnel costs Maintain the current completion rate of annual performance Education credit usage and career development reviews Annual performance and career development reviews 7. Work-Life Integration Achieve employee turnover of 10% or less Employee Turnover Conduct second global HR engagement survey and improve upon previous results 8. Equity and Diversity Maintain existing employee exchange program Employee Exchanges Introduce procedures for analyzing salary increases and Representation of women at promotions by gender senior levels of the company Launch a campaign that through our values emphasizes the importance of diverse perspectives How We Do Things: Operations 9. Energy Use and Review Sustainable Travel Policy to improve process GHG emissions offset GHG Emissions and guidelines Implement a travel application tracking employee travels 10. Sustainable Modify the accounting system to track number Percentage of eligible Procurement of purchases made from a sustainable supplier purchases made in Revisit the list of approved suppliers within the Operations team accordance with policy 43 Appendix Appendix The table below lists all of our material issues and the corresponding GRI material aspect. Each material aspect is relevant to all entities included in our consolidated financial statements. While defining the content for this report we did not recognize regional differences. Material Why Is It Material? Corresponding Corresponding Issue Boundary Issue Material GRI Material GRI Of Impact & Aspect Indicator Key Interested Stakeholders Product and Providing products that None identified G4-DMA EXTERNAL Service deliver informative ESG None identified Clients Quality insights, underpins our growth as a firm and Prospects ultimately allows us to realize our vision and mission. Client Our ability to retain None identified G4-DMA EXTERNAL Satisfaction clients is imperative for & INTERNAL None identified and Retention Sustainalytics to Employees continue to be a successful business, Shareholders serving the responsible Clients investment industry. Prospects Product and Sustainalytics’ None identified G4-DMA EXTERNAL Service long-term success None identified Clients Innovation depends, in part, on our ability to innovate Prospects and deliver more sophisticated products to our clients to meet their needs. Impact on Enhancing and gaining None identified G4-DMA EXTERNAL Clients a better understanding None identified Clients of our impact is a long-term objective. Prospects Financial services sector 45 Material Why Is It Material? Corresponding Corresponding Issue Boundary Issues Material GRI Material GRI Of Impact & Aspect Indicator Key Interested Stakeholders Conflicts of Sustainalytics has built Governance G4-DMA INTERNAL Interest strong relationships G4-56 Employees with our stakeholders by providing Senior outstanding products management and service, and doing Board business according to the highest ethical Shareholders standards, wherever we operate and whatever the situation. Our commitment to principles such as of fairness, honesty, independence, integrity, and transparency underpin our decisions and actions. Professional As a knowledge-based Training & G4-DMA INTERNAL Growth organization, nurturing Education G4-LA9 Employees Opportunities professional growth and keeping our Senior employees challenged management and motivated is paramount to our success as an organization. Work-Life Work-life integration Employment G4-DMA INTERNAL Integration means creating an G4-LA1 Employees environment where employees feel they Senior can perform management consistently at their best. This, together with nurturing professional growth, is key to recruiting and retaining top talent. Material Why Is It Material? Corresponding Corresponding Issue Boundary Issues Material GRI Material GRI Of Impact & Aspect Indicator Key Interested Stakeholders Equity and Diversity across a Equal G4-DMA INTERNAL Diversity workforce makes for a Remuneration for G4-LA13 Employees more successful and Men & Women sustainable company. Senior Accordingly, it is critical management that Sustainalytics has access to a large pool of high quality candidates so that it can attract and retain the best talent. Energy Use Our commitment to Emissions G4-DMA EXTERNAL and sustainable business & INTERNAL G4-EN15 GHG practices enables The environment Emissions us to manage our reputational risk, Employees it differentiates us Senior from some of our management competitors, it enhances our brand reputation globally across a range of stakeholder groups, as well as assisting in the recruitment and retention of talented staff. Sustainable Our commitment to Procurement G4-DMA EXTERNAL Procurement sustainable business Practices & INTERNAL None identified practices allows us to The environment manage our reputational risk, Employees it differentiates us Senior from some of our management competitors, it enhances our brand reputation globally across a range of stakeholder groups, and it assists in the recruitment and retention of talented staff. 47 GRI G4 Index for “In Accordance Core” GRI G4 Index for “In Accordance” Core General Standard Disclosures General Description Page Omissions Standard Number/Location Disclosures Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionPg. 8 maker of the organization Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Report Cover G4-4 Primary brands products and services sustainalytics.com/solutions G4-5 Location of company’s headquarters Pg. 4 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization Pg. 4 operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Pg. 4 G4-8 Markets served Pg. 4 G4-9 Scale of the organization Pg. 4 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment Pg. 31 & 37 type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Pg. 54 (Endnotes) collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Pg. 41 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Pg. 4 period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary Pg. 11 approach or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, Pg. 29 environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as Pg. 29 industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations Material Aspects & Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s Pg. 53 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents including indication which of these are not covered by the report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and Pg. 13 the Aspect Boundaries 49 General Description Page Omissions Standard Number/Location Disclosures Material Aspects & Boundaries G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for Pg. 16 defining report content G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization for Pg. 45 each material aspect G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization for Pg. 45 each material aspect G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information Pg. 54 (Endnotes) provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting No changes periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged Pg. 14 by the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Pg. 14 stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, Pg. 15 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Pg. 15 through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar Pg. 7 year) for information provided G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Pg. 7 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Pg. 7 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Pg. 54 (Endnotes) report or its contents G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option chosen for the report Pg. 7 G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice Pg. 7 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, Pg. 4 & 54 (Endnotes) including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Ethics & Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards Pg.4 & 29 and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Specific Standard Disclosures Material Issue GRI Material Aspect Performance Indicator Omissions Products Product and None identified Revenues Service Quality New Sales Profitability Core Cash Creation Pg. 21 Client Satisfaction None identified Client Retention Rate and Retention Pg. 23 Product and None identified Product Innovation Service Innovation Process Innovation Digital Innovation Pg. 24 Clients’ Impact None identified Impact framework Pg. 25 Conflicts of Interest Ethics & Integrity Code of Conduct implementation G4-56: Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Pg. 29 Human Capital Professional Training & Education Training budget as a percent of personnel costs Growth Education credit usage Opportunities Annual performance and career development reviews G4-LA9: Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Pg. 32 Work-Life Employment Employee Turnover Integration G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Pg. 34 Equity & Diversity Equal remuneration for Representation of women at senior levels of men & women the company Employee Exchanges G4-LA13: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation Pg. 36 Operations Energy Use and Emissions GHG emissions offset GHG Emissions G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Pg. 39 Sustainable None identified Percentage of eligible purchases made in Procurement accordance with policy Pg. 41 51 Endnotes Endnotes 1 All entities included in the consolidated financial statements are covered in this report. 2 During 2016 no shares were issued, but one transaction was realized between existing shareholders. 3 This number excludes three interns that Sustainalytics employed in 2016. 4 Includes recurring and one-off clients. 5 Sustainalytics’ last report was our 2015 Sustainability Report, published in Q4 2016 on 2015 performance data. 6 The G4 Guidelines have been superseded by the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards), which will be required of all reports or other materials published on, or after, July 1 2018. While this report adheres to the G4 Guidelines, our 2017 Sustainability Report will comply with the new standards. 7 A full materiality assessment was conducted in 2014. The findings of this assessment were re-validated for the purposes of this report. More information is found in the “Reporting Approach” section. 8 In 2014, Sustainalytics issued an internal Sustainability report based on our performance in 2013. This report was made available only to employees, board members and shareholders. The internal report was not prepared in accordance with GRI reporting guidelines. 9 For questions regarding this report or its content, please contact Vihra Toneva, vihra.toneva@sustainalytics.com 10 Glossary of material issues: Energy Use & GHG Emissions – Optimization of the energy consumption and measurement of Scope 2 emissions; reduction and offsetting of the Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions related to business and commuter travel. Sustainable Procurement – The process of purchasing goods and services without causing harm to, or exploiting, humans or the natural environment. Equity & Diversity – Creating an inclusive workforce, where people are valued for their diverse culture, knowledge, skills and abilities and are given equal opportunities for professional development. 53 Work-Life Integration – Creating an environment to assist employees in integrating different components of their life in a way that fits their needs and provides them control over managing the boundaries of work and personal life. Professional Growth Opportunities – Access to a wide variety of specialized programs intended to help employees improve their professional knowledge, competence, skill, and effectiveness. Conflicts of Interest – Situations in which the organization is involved in multiple interests, financial or otherwise, one of which could possibly corrupt the motivation or decision-making of the organization. Impact on Clients – The influence the organization’s products and services have on the way our clients decide to allocate their capital and whether that leads to a more just and sustainable global economy. Product & Service Innovation – The ability to innovate and deliver more sophisticated products to our clients to meet their ever-evolving needs. Client Satisfaction & Retention – The ability to deliver products or services that meet or surpass our clients’ expectations; the actions we take to reduce the number of customer defections. Product & Service Quality – An assessment of how well our products or services conform to the client’s expectations and whether the deliverables are completed on time and with excellence. 11 A description of Sustainalytics’ products and services is available at http://www.sustainalytics.com/solutions 12 Global Access is our online client platform. It provides users with a single interface to access our latest ESG research and ratings. Detailed description is available on our site at http://www.sustainalytics.com/global-access/ 13 All second opinions are available on our website at http://www.sustainalytics.com/green-social-bond-services/ 14 Employees in Romania (51.8%) are represented by collective bargaining agreements. 15 Due to a change of the external partner executing the calculations and the application of a different methodology, we cannot make a comparison between the results from 2015 and 2016. 16 More information about the project can be found at Climate Neutral site at http://climateneutralgroup.co.za/biogas-project-in-tanzania/ 55
