2016 Corporate Responsibility Report – An integral part of our business strategy Iulia-Georgiana Manole ISS Romania ISS AT A GLANCE OUR BUSINESS Our business model is based on creating value for our MODEL customers by allowing them to focus on their core business. We service and maintain their facilities, helping to create workplaces that are pleasant, safe and nurturing for their employees and visitors. Focusing on our selected customer segments, we offer a leading value proposition based on our philosocustomers want phy of self-delivery of our chosen services. Moreover, we are able to provide multiple services to customers TO FOCUS ON THEIR CORE BUSINESS through an Integrated Facility Services (IFS) solution. This allows us to drive convenience (one point of conTO Ensure compliance tact), productivity and cost efficiency. TO safeguard their business to maximise uptime of their facilities TO manage risk TO protect the value of their assets convenience and consistency sustainable/transparent cost savings ISS delivers via END-USER SATISFACTION @ @ @ customer segments DELIVERY TYPE 32% Business Services & IT 37% Integrated Facility 13% Industry & Services (IFS) Manufacturing 12% Public Administration 15% Multi-services 11% Healthcare 48% Single-services 8% Retail & Wholesale 8% Transportation & Infrastructure 16% Other Diversified customer portfolio Increasing IFS share (37%) OUR global presence We are a true global player with a leading market position. We leverage our global presence in order to meet the growing demand from multinational corporations for the delivery of Integrated Facility Services (IFS) across borders. Our IFS revenue share has grown significantly and our ability to deliver IFS is key to serving global customers and grasping new local market opportunities. We are well-positioned in emerging markets, where we generate 25% of Group revenue (2015: 25%). Following the changed organisational structure Americas in 2015, the regional management structure 10% 6% has been adjusted to include four regions; of Group organic revenue growth 1) Continental Europe, 2) Northern Europe, 3) Asia & Pacific and 4) Americas. northern europe 34% 3% of Group organic revenue growth continental europe 38% 3% of Group organic revenue growth Asia & pacific 18% 2% of Group organic revenue growth ISS AT A GLANCE Regional performance Continental Europe Revenue by country (DKK million) Switzerland 5,251 Czech Republic 384 France 4,731 Greece 323 Spain & Portugal 4,635 Poland 226 30.1 DKKbn Turkey 2,783 Slovakia 224 revenue Belgium & Luxembourg 2,615 Slovenia 177 38% Germany 2,474 Estonia 173 of Group Israel 1,824 Hungary 143 Austria 1,761 Russia 130 Netherlands 1,676 Romania 115 Italy 450 155,911 32% 3% Employees of Group employees Organic growth Revenue by country (DKK million) Northern Europe UK & Ireland 11,801 Denmark 3,500 Norway 3,901 Iceland 142 Finland 3,623 Greenland 28 26.5 DKKbn Sweden 3,520 revenue 34% of Group 79,401 16% 3% Employees of Group employees Organic growth Design: almaco Production and print: almaco Printed in February 2017. ISS AT A GLANCE Asia & Pacific Revenue by country (DKK million) Australia & New Zeland 3,896 Taiwan 375 Hong Kong 2,381 Philippines 310 Singapore 1,912 Malaysia 118 14.6 DKKbn Indonesia 1,733 Japan 109 revenue Thailand 1,345 Brunei 39 18% India 1,299 Other countries – Asia 16 of Group China 1,073 204,047 41% 2% Employees of Group employees Organic growth Revenue by country (DKK million) Americas USA & Canada 4,680 Argentina 365 Brazil 1,038 Uruguay 114 Chile 979 Other countries 7.9 DKKbn Mexico 649 – Latin America 60 revenue 1% of Group 54,667 11% 6% Employees of Group employees Organic growth Contents Letter to our stakeholders Profit – ensuring good business practices 34 2016 financial performance 34 Business ethical risks – zero tolerance Our Business Model 37 Overview of 2016 business integrity framework and activities 4 Risk related impacts 5 Opportunity related impacts Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report Our Approach 38 Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report 6 Knowing what is important to us and society 8 Stakeholder engagement 8 How we govern Corporate Responsibility Reporting Principles and Compliance 9 Internal controls 11 A responsible supply chain 40 External principles and guidelines 11 UK Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 40 Internal guidelines 40 Changes and future outlook Our Performance and Targets GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables 12 Our Performance and Targets 15 Performance against objectives and targets for 2016 42 GRI Disclosures 15 Objectives and targets for 2017 47 United Nations Global Compact People – our most valuable resource 16 Unleashing the Power of the Human Touch 16 ISS University 18 Engaged and inspired people 19 Health and safety 21 Human rights 26 Labour rights and employee relations 27 All discriminations claims investigated 29 Overview of 2016 people performance Planet – managing our impacts 30 Risk and due diligence 30 Reductions through Cleaning Excellence 31 Reducing the impact of our customers 31 Innovations with suppliers 31 Carbon Disclosure Project 32 Overview of 2016 planet performance Therese Jose Steffen Gboga – ISS Switzerland 2 letter to our stakeholders Letter to Our Stakeholders In 2016, the global macroeconomic environment remained challenging. However, ISS had a good year. We continued to deliver a resilient and steady performance. We saw organic revenue growth of 3.4%, we increased our operating margin to 5.8% and maintained a strong cash conversion of 98%. We grew net profit (adjusted) to DKK 2.87 billion and maintained our strong cash flow which allowed us to distribute an extraordinary dividend of DKK 4.00 per share to our shareholders in November 2016. This was in addition to the ordinary dividend of DKK 7.40 per share paid out in April 2016. We operate in a market where customers bolster our results in 2016. Our revenue demand that the costs associated with generated from IFS now represents 37% operating their facilities continually deof Group revenue. Global Corporate crease. At the same time, they expect Clients revenue increased 19% in 2016 us to improve the experience of their in local currencies and now accounts for employees, their customers and their 11% of Group revenue. users when using the facilities and its services. To address this market backdrop, Engaged colleagues driving we have a differentiated value proposicustomer satisfaction tion. Not simply delivering services but Our strategy, The ISS Way, is built on providing outcomes to customers that customer focus and the premise that meet their needs and focus on supportinvesting in the engagement and capaing their purpose, whether it is a hospibilities of our employees will drive a tal helping patients get well or a bank positive customer experience. focused on providing a pleasant and safe working environment while maintaining Our employees perform the services at compliance with regulatory obligations, customer sites, so the service quality and all in a cost effective manner. delivered, including the conduct and behaviour of every single employee, is To achieve this value proposition, we critical to how we support our custofocus on service performance through mers. We have 494,233 colleagues proclear, inspiring leadership of our own viding an outstanding experience to our engaged and capable employees. Our customers around the world and they are employees are supported by the right at the core of our success. Our strength training and tools that allow them to lies in the diversity that number embodies, provide a positive and efficient service and we will continue to celebrate that experience. We offer an integrated set in all the countries in which we operate. of services, which allows us to provide We are strong believers in The Power of an even more cost effective solution the Human Touch. delivered by one point of contact. The strength of this value proposition is eviTo support this strategy, we continued dent in the strong demand for Integrated sharpening our focus on talent in the Facility services (IFS), which continued to year. We introduced the ISS Leadership letter to our stakeholders 3 Competency Framework to guide all of ties where we operate, but also being a up’ website. The number of reports this our core people processes. We accelerated responsible and reliable partner to our year are on the same level as 2015. Going our leadership training and continued to customers. A safe working environment forward, we would like to see more roll out training programmes, including is also a key part of our value proposireports and we will continue our efforts Key Account Manager Certification tion to our people and our customers. to encourage our employees and stake(KAMC) with 565 certifications to date We are committed to ensuring that each holders to speak up. and Service with a Human Touch, which of our colleagues get home well to their is now live in 47 countries and implefamilies and friends after a safe working Continued commitment to mented on 512 key accounts. day at ISS. UN Global Compact We remain committed in our support of Our customer Net Promoter Score (cNPS) Unfortunately, we had six work related the United Nations (UN) Global Compact has increased to 43 from 37 in 2015 fatalities in 2016. This is both unacceptas we have been since 1999. We conti– the fourth consecutive year of improveable and regrettable. Each of the six nuously align our strategy and operations ment. This is testimony to the on-going fatalities had a profound impact on famiwith the ten principles of the UN framesuccess of our strategy implementation, lies, colleagues and friends and we extend work. During the last two years, we have not least customer segmentation, which thoughts and sympathy to each of them. specifically focused on strengthening our has better aligned our organisation with due diligence systems in order to implethe needs of our customers. It is also a Speak up ment the ‘Protect, respect and remedy’ consequence of our people and talent We are committed to conducting our framework in accordance with UN Guiding initiatives, which have improved our business in accordance with the law and Principles on Business and Human Rights. employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) high ethical standards. This commitment to 59 – the fourth consecutive year of to business integrity is non-negotiable. In New reporting guidelines improvement. We strongly believe in the 2016, we have re-launched our whistle This report reflects the new requirements benefits of being an attractive employer blower system under the name ‘Speak up’ of the Danish Financial Statements Act and we were recognised as best employers in order to increase awareness and ensure concerning Corporate Responsibility rein Switzerland and Austria. Our reputathat our employees feel encouraged porting. In ISS, we welcome the increased tion as a responsible employer is vital to to raise their concerns without fear of focus on transparency and the principle the long-term success of our company. retaliation. We also introduced a teleof ‘knowing and showing’ the full scope phone hotline in addition to the ‘Speak of our non-financial responsibilities. We signed multiple new contracts during the year. This included BombarYours faithfully dier and John Crane in North America, Royal Mail and Hitachi Rail in the UK, Heineken in the Netherlands and Northern Health in Australia. We also won contracts with Mitsui Fudosan Group in Taiwan, the Jakarta Airport in Indonesia and Rolls-Royce in Asia and America. Responsible corporate citizen We take great pride in being a socially responsible company. During 2016, ISS Israel was rated in the country’s top CSR community, ISS Indonesia won a Corporate Image Award and ISS Denmark won the 2016 CSR People Prize for social Lord Allen responsibility. These are excellent proof Jeff Gravenhorst of Kensington CBE points of not just our role in the socieGroup Chief Executive Officer Chairman 4 our business model OUR BUSINESS MODEL This chapter describes the employees and visitors, as well as for the the identification and assessment of risks ISS business model and how ISS employees who represent us there. In arising from activities and the implementhis way, we can support our customers tation of control measure to eliminate it impacts our employees in achieving their goals. or reduce these risks to an acceptable and customers as well as the The spirit of our approach is articulated level. Unfortunately, we have accidents environment and societies in in our mission statement: at our work places, even severe and fatal which we operate. Service performance facilitating our ones. We continue our rigorous efforts customers’ purpose through people to improve our safety performance and We operate in a market where customers empowerment to create a strong and vibrant safety demand that the costs associated with their culture. Effective risk management starts buildings and facilities continually decrease At its core, our mission statement tells a with a commitment to health and safety while the user experience increases. Our story of a differentiated value proposition. from our Executive Group Management. business model and strategy are designed Not simply delivering services but providing This visible commitment is demonstrated to deliver on our ultimate goal of shareoutcomes to customers and focusing on by their individual Personal Safety Action holder value creation on the basis of this how we support their purpose, whether Plans. Among other key performance market backdrop. it be a hospital helping patients get well indicators, we continuously track the freor a bank focused on providing a pleasant quency and severity of accidents and have and safe working environment while also embedded Lost Time Injury Frequency Our VISION maintaining compliance with regulatory as a part of the bonus scheme for the obligations. All in a cost effective manner. Executive Group Management. Read more ‘We are going to be And finally, a mission built on the about how we work to create a strong the world’s greatest empowerment of our nearly 500,000 safety culture on page 19. service organisation’ people globally giving them the flexibility to deliver an exceptional customer experiThe environment and climate ence through an approach rooted in our Cleaning services represent 50% of our Our ambition encompasses more than values and attitude and supported by commercial offerings. The water, energy just geographic regions or industries. robust processes and tools. and chemicals used to perform these We intend to be the leading service services constitute our main impact on the organisation overall, globally. Our values These factors form the foundation of environment and climate. An additional – honesty, responsibility, quality, entreour value proposition at the centre of impact comes from our own activities from preneurship – and leadership principles which is our self-delivery model. the use of cars and air transport as well are not remarkable in themselves, but as energy consumption in our offices. they are remarkable because of the extent Risk related impacts We manage our environmental impact to which we strive to honour them and Health and safety and greenhouse gas emissions through instil them in our people. Because our We are one of the largest private ema strategic focus on efficient operations business model is built on self-delivery, ployers in the world and our employees and energy reductions. Read more about the behaviour and attitudes of each of are our most valuable resource. The health how we manage our impacts on the cliour employees is central to what we and safety of our people is a top priority mate and the environment on page 30. offer our customers – service with a to us. While the hazards at a work place human touch. will exist, we work on eliminating or Customers and society reducing the risk to our employees to Through the services we provide, we To achieve our vision we must meet our an acceptable level. The hazards at our indirectly impact our customers and the customers’ needs by offering reliability, work places may include moving equipsocieties in which they operate. Thus, our responsiveness, convenience, and ment, chemicals, electricity, working at focus on risk related impacts is not only cost-effectiveness. In fact, we strive to heights, and confined spaces. The risk is limited to our own employees but also go beyond that by delivering outcomes the possibility that harm such as injury, include our customers and society in genethat meet their often unspoken needs, illness and fatality might occur when ral. As our services are increasingly becomhelping to create work places that are exposed to these types of hazards. Good ing an integral part of our customers’ pleasant, safe, and nurturing for their health and safety management requires value streams, there is a risk of causing a our business model 5 disruption of our customers’ operations diverse workforce stands out as an inspiof the ISS family as they move onto and/or brand damage, if operational ration and an example to business commuother functions. During their employprocedures or contract requirements are nities as well as government authorities and ment at ISS, our employees raise their not complied with. political legislators that diversity is a precompetencies and skills, enabling them requisite for financial growth and business to pursue a career within ISS – that is To minimise these risks and improve our resilience, and not a burden on society. always our hope – or to look for new value proposition, in 2016, we continued opportunities outside our organisation. to focus on our five strategic GREAT iniLabour and human rights Doing so, they leave with enhanced tiatives: (1) empowering people through Labour rights and work place standards qualifications and opportunities for raisleadership, (2) optimising our customer are part of the ISS Code of Conduct. ing their standard of living. This added base, (3) ensuring fit-for-purpose organiThrough training we aim to make sure value creation is not only for the benefit sational structures, (4) establishing broadour employees understand their rights, of their families but also for the developbased IFS readiness, and (5) striving for including the right to receive an adequate ment of the local community. excellence. GREAT enables these benefits wage and be paid overtime as well as onby ensuring that the above unit organitime payment. We also raise awareness Managing our risks and even turning some sation (from business unit to corporate around human rights as well as interof these into opportunities for ISS and the headquarters) acts as a highway for the national labour rights, including child societies in which we operate can only implementation of our strategy and is labour, freedom of association, discrimibe achieved through highly engaged and focused on supporting the delivery of our nation and harassment. motivated employees with the right trainvalue proposition on the customer site. ing and education. This is why we invest If we can embed an understanding of heavily in training programmes for all Corruption and bribery these international rights in every emlevel of our organisation. You can read Finally, corruption and bribery constitute ployee, it is our hope that they not only more about our efforts on page 16 in risks that impact societies in which we speak up if their rights for some reason this report. operate and also to ISS, our values and are not met within ISS but are also able brand. Given the diversity of people and to stand up for these rights when they cultures and the number of employees, move on to jobs and positions outside we are constantly aware of the risk of foul our organisation. This way we aspire to play. Corruption and bribery are illegal support and promote the International and against our core values (Honesty, Labour Organisation’s (ILO) conventions Entrepreneurship, Responsibility and as well as UN Guiding Principles on BusiQuality). Our business integrity is nonness and Human Rights for the benefit negotiable and has long been part of our of individuals as well as societies. Code of Conduct. In cases of non-compliance, all involved employees, regardGood business practices less of responsibilities and management As mentioned, bribery and anti-corruprank face disciplinary actions, including tion are at the top of our Code of Conduct discharge and legal proceedings. Read agenda. We train and require our emmore about our anti-corruption policy ployees to practice fair and transparent and practices on page 34. business conduct and to stand up to our values and principles when interacting Opportunity related impacts with customers, suppliers and authorities. As one of the world’s largest private emWhen we are able to demonstrate good ployers, we integrate so many different and fair business practices, we minimise cultures and nationalities as well as people company risks. Moreover, as we operate with mental and physical disabilities, in countries and cultures where unethical social challenges or little or no academic business conduct is widespread, we can schooling. We also employ a rising number serve as a positive example and contriof refugees to our work force in many bute to building a fairer and more transcountries around the world. parent local business community. The integration of this great diversity Education we know impacts individuals positively on We offer jobs to people with little or no a personal level because they otherwise academic skills. We employ them in our would have difficulties finding employcompany by offering the training needed ment. In addition, our multicultural and to fulfil their functions and become part 6 our approach Our Approach Corporate Responsibility is safety and environmental risks, manage and influence on our business gained vital to delivering on our labour law as well as local and internathrough ongoing engagement. We have tional regulations with reference to ILO identified our employees, customer and overall value proposition conventions and UN Guiding Principles investors as our main stakeholders. and vision. Learn more on Business and Human Rights. about how we define our As in previous years, we conducted a material issues and how we Furthermore, since the launch of the materiality assessment during 2016. govern our work on these. 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals Health and safety as well as good busiin September 2015, companies around ness practices remain our most material the world are increasingly looking at issues. We interviewed key internal stakeKnowing what is important how their business can help solve global holders represented by the following to us and society challenges. Thus we cannot fulfil our Group functions: Legal, People and CulOur value proposition obliges us to value proposition nor enable future ture, Risk management, Internal Audit, ensure our customers can concentrate growth without embracing the manageMarketing, Communications, Strategy, on pursuing their goals and objectives as ment principles of CR. Knowing our Health, Safety, Environment and Quality we perform non-core activities for their most material issues directs our CR (HSEQ) and Corporate Responsibility (CR). business, protect their brand, handle efforts and helps us focus our reporting The findings from the interviews were their risks and deliver facilities manageon what is most important to our busivalidated and confirmed through presenment services as an integrated part of ness and stakeholders. tations at internal leadership training. their operations. Corporate Responsibility See the materiality overview on this page. (CR) is increasingly important to our We assess the importance of different customers and thus they expect an issues to our business, our most imporDuring 2016, we have focused on followupright and consistent performance on tant stakeholders as well as society in ing through on the findings of our due these issues from their partners. They general. We base this assessment on diligence review carried out in 2015 in rely on us to effectively manage health, our understanding of their interest in relation to the UN Guiding Principles MATERIAL ISSUES • Health and Safety High • Management composition • Labour standards (child labour) • Risk management • Climate change • Working conditions • Civil & Political rights • Anti-corruption • Employment conditions • Fair competition • Income generation • Supply chain management • Economic and social rights • Discrimination Medium • Handling of incidents • Personal development • Prevention of pollution opportunities • Sustainable use of resources • Sustainable consumption • Local community Significance to ISS Stakeholders involvement • Education • Social dialogue • Respectable marketing Low Low Medium High Impact to ISS business our approach 7 Omar ceferino, carlos aznar and victor de los rios ISS Spain 8 our approach on Business and Human Rights (UNGP) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT framework. From this due diligence process, we found three main areas we needed to address: strengthening the Employees Employees are invited to share thoughts requirements for protecting mothers, and opinions through a global Employee ensuring the mechanism for employees Engagement survey. See page 18. to voice their concerns is known in our workforce, and the right to privacy. One Customers We carry out a Customer Experience survey of our main actions to address the first to gauge customer satisfaction. See “Monipoint was the development of the new toring customer satisfaction” on this page. ISS Global People Standards to provide a systematic and consistent approach Investors During 2016, we had a close dialogue with to managing our employees. These the market through, among others, comStandards, that replaced the Internapany announcements, press releases, road shows, investor conferences, conference calls, tional Human Resource Standards from website and other direct communication. 2011, were launched in July for countries to implement in their operations. As part of the process of ensuring that Unions We have constructive interactions with our employees across the world knew of works councils, unions and employee our mechanism to voice concerns, we representatives. See page 26. re-launched the ‘Whistle blower’ system as the ‘Speak Up’ system. Please read Suppliers We engage with suppliers both to manage more about this on page 34. Finally on risks in the ISS supply chain management the third point, we have during the and to develop partnership. See page 11. second half of 2016, updated our information security policy to increase the Media and NGOs We communicate with media and NGOs focus on protection of personal data. particularly in Denmark and most other This is further supported by our implecountries in Western Europe. In 2016, we received around 1,100 media requests at mentation of the data protection policy Group level, which was around the same securing a safe and transparent processhigh level as 2015 (when the company ing and transfer of personal data. relisted on the stock exchange). The interest goes for international and local Stakeholder engagement Danish media alike. We strive to act in line with our values: honesty, responsibility, quality and entrepreneurship whenever we engage with our stakeholders. We engage both at Group level and in close to 80% of Group revenue. We asked How we govern each of the countries where we operate. our customers to respond to 25 questions Corporate Responsibility An overview of our stakeholder engagecovering both functional and emotional ISS A/S is a limited liability company ment is shown in the adjacent table and aspects of the relationship. The customer operating under Danish law. Manageexamples of our engagement are availNet Promoter Score (cNPS), the consoliment powers are distributed between able throughout the report. dated indicator for customer experience, the Board of Directors and the Executive has improved for the fourth consecutive Group Management Board (the EGMB). Monitoring customer satisfaction year to 43.2, reflecting our continued The members of the EGMB are the Group We conducted our annual Customer efforts to drive customer focus, especially CEO and Group CFO and form the Experience surveys, as we have done within our key accounts. The performance management registered with the Danish every year since 2012. The findings of the was supported by our efforts to impleBusiness Authority. The Group has a wider survey guide us in our efforts to deliver ment account development plans and the Executive Group Management (the EGM) on our value proposition and fulfil our on-going roll-out of our training programwhich comprise nine Corporate Senior Offivision to be the greatest service organimes Key Account Manager Certification cers of the Group in addition to the EGMB. sation in the world. (KAMC) and Service with a Human Touch (SWAHT). In addition, our continuing Group Health, Safety, Environment and We invited 7,188 customers across 44 efforts under our strategy execution model, Quality (HSEQ) and CR has the responsicountries to participate, and received a GREAT, is to drive customer focus has bility for driving strategy, monitoring and response rate of 82%. Responses cover proven to support our cNPS growth. reporting on HSEQ and CR. The function our approach 9 works in close alignment with the EGM internal controls and implementing Furthermore, our responsible business and collaborates with counterparts in appropriate policies and standards. practices include: regions and the countries as well as with other corporate functions. Currently, the following policies and • Business ethics: Anti-corruption standards apply: policy and Speak up policy. A designated HSEQ manager in each country is responsible for implementing • Our Code of Conduct (CoC) which • Health, Safety,Environment and the Group strategy for HSEQ by integratestablishes the key principles that Quality (HSEQ) practices include our ing it into the country business strategy. apply to all operations and behaviour HSEQ policy and HSEQ Manual. Actions that are part of this strategy are of all employees. Among other things, followed up during the regional busithe CoC includes ‘Anti-corruption and • Labour and Human Rights ness review. bribery’ as well as work place standards practices include the ISS Global covering ILO Conventions. People Standards. Countries report on their performance to Group HSEQ and CR based on the HSEQ • The Corporate Responsibility Policy By the end of 2016, the inclusion of Lost and CR Reporting Manual. Group HSEQ covers our commitment to the United Time Injury Frequency into our manageand CR reviews the performance and Nations Global Compact, the United ment bonus programme had been in force works with countries in achieving the Nations Guiding Principles on Business for three years. The inclusion has strengthGroup goals. and Human Rights and in terms of ened safety awareness and engagement, climate change our commitment to not only on a management level but Policies, due diligences and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. throughout the organisation. management tools While the ISS Vision forms the basis for • The Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) Internal controls everything we do, we have developed states our commitment to the UN High business integrity and ethical a set of policies and standards to guide Human Rights Declaration and ILO standards are critical to the success of ISS the integration of CR into all aspects of Conventions as well as our key prinin achieving a position as a global leader the ISS. We seek to uphold due diligence ciples of social, environmental ethical in the field of facility services. An integral and stay vigilant by extensive training and business behaviour. All suppliers must part of the service we deliver centres internal communication, independent comply with the SCoC. around customer security and trust. We operate inside the walls of our customers and they depend on us to effectively GUIDANCE FRAMEWORK for corporate responsibility manage their risks in terms of health and safety and environment (HSE), Human Rights and Labour Rights. Also, CR related issues in general are becoming increasingly monitored by media, NGOs Local and states worldwide. business platform Group Internal Audit (GIA) carries out an elaborate set of assurance activities Group HSEQ to monitor our performance on business Management System, integrity and good business practices. ISS Safety Rules, ISS HSEQ and CR Reporting Manual, and Directly involving the countries, GIA in ISS HSEQ and CR Action Plan 2016 performed an internal controls ISS Corporate Responsibility Policy self-assessment which covered almost ISS Global People Standards and ISS the entire revenue of the company. The Code of Conduct self-assessment covers three main scope areas (see figure on page 10) comprising ISS Strategy: The ISS Way 20 key control categories, including governance, financial and operational ISS values: Honesty, Entrepreneurship, Responsibility controls and compliance with safety and Quality, and the ISS Leadership Principles rules and policies. ISS vision: To be the world’s greatest service organisation 10 our approach While the self-assessment is performed we exceeded our target of carrying pliance for individual risk areas or conby all country organisations, the smaller out audits with Corporate Responsitrol measures on country level. The countries respond to a scaled-down bility content of at least 20% of the scope of the programme covers payversion of the self-assessment. The selfcountries in which we operate. roll, HR and HSE including over-time, assessments are reported to Group Intertimely payments and child labour nal Audit who analyses and communi• A contract audit programme which as well as travel and entertainment cates the results to country, regional and assesses the internal controls and expenses, the catering business and Group Management and the Audit and contract compliance for key customer the accounting-to-reporting process. Risk Committee. contracts. This standardised programme includes both key controls In addition to the standardised programme, Furthermore, the key element in GIA’s from the baseline programme and internal audit controls are carried out on work is an internal audit framework detailed controls related to complicountry level as well. Local internal audit consisting of three elements: ance with contract terms and condifunctions have been established and tions. In terms of Corporate Respontrained in 20 of the largest countries to • A baseline audit programme that sibility, this audit programme includes ensure further assurance coverage within assesses the internal controls and coman assessment of the controls and the Group, using standardised programmes pliance across 70 key control activities, processes for e.g. employee screento ensure consistence in the work perwith a view to ensure a strong foundaing, training of new hires and performed. In 2016, all local internal audit tion for the internal control environforming of preventive maintenance functions have performed audits of ment across all key risk areas. This audit programmes for critical equipment. payroll as well as key account contracts. embeds Corporate Responsibility issues such as the Code of Conduct, anti• Risk-based standardised audit procorruption, health and safety, child grammes designed to perform detailed labour and working hours. In 2016, assessment of the controls and comSELF-ASSESSMENT CATEGORIES 20 categories for self-assessment New in-depth audit guidelines were implemented in 2013. These guidelines now structure the control self-assessments that all countries are required to complete annually. The assessments are based on a catalogue of 20 control categories split into three main areas: Governance and Compliance, Business Support and Contract Lifecycle. A. Governance and Compliance B. Business Support C. Contract Lifecycle Financial reporting C.01. Sales C.05. Operation A.01. Code of Conduct A.02. Leadership A.03. Corporate Governance A.04. Competition A.05. Anti-corruption B.05. Tax B.06. Treasury B.07. Procurement B.08. IT B.09. HSE and CR B.10. Risk management C.02. Solution C.03. Negotiation C.04. Transition B.01. Systems, interfaces and configuration B.02. Month-end procedures and accounting B.03. Payroll B.04. Invoicing and accounts receivables After assigning responsibility to relevant managers for each category, Group Internal Audit (GIA) sends an online survey to each manager. When answered, GIA collects and analyses the data and improvement possibilities. our approach 11 2016 performance How GIA works risk awareness and growing demand for GIA performed more than 83 assurance risk transfer from our customers. As a assignments during the year. With refeGroup Internal Audit is independent consequence, we strengthened and rence to the assurance activities described of the Executive Group Management structured our management of suppliers above, GIA carried out 27 baseline audits Board, and operates under a charter during 2016. This included the initial on country level and 24 contract audits. approved by the Board of Directors implementation of Achilles, a third party Furthermore, 32 risk-based focused audits and reports – in addition to the Group due diligence system, that will be able were performed covering key internal CFO – directly to the Audit and Risk to detect contractors with increased risk control areas related to the quality and Committee. The committee has six potential to us, our customers or society effectiveness of financial reporting and annual meetings. in general. We will partner with our related systems and processes. suppliers to roll out Achilles with a pilot Audit findings and follow-up on proin two countries during the latter half of The key findings from these audits were gress to resolve them is also provided 2017 and will vet our supplier base to that the overall quality of the internal to country and regional management, determine that our suppliers live up to control environment is satisfactory, but representatives of ISS’s executive our standards and values. that local compliance with global policies management and the independent can be improved through increased use Group auditor. of global standardised systems and processes. While progress has been made Understanding the key risks for delegation of authority as well as due outsourced to third parties diligence of sub-contractors and third A responsible supply chain is an increased market parties, these areas still need improvement. The main CR risks associated with our trend which we honour by supply chain are related to human rights The audits of payroll related controls (child labour, wages), labour practices securing that adequate risk found that working hours is still a chal(health and safety, work time/overtime, controls are in place when lenge in many emerging markets, where freedom of association) and environment our clients outsource to us. local expectations and industry practices (water, chemicals and waste). are not always aligned with the working hours regulations. These risks are mitigated by ensuring that all suppliers understand and sign UK Modern Slavery Act Due diligence of sub-contractors and third the ISS Supplier Code of Conduct and Transparency Statement party screening procedures are a vital part all suppliers complete a Self-Assessment Our policy is to ensure that slavery and of our overall risk management. These Questionnaire (SAQ). The SAQ is based human trafficking are not taking place audits strengthen our risk mitigation proon a range of issues including labour, in any part of our business and in any cesses related to service delivery to global human rights and environmental criteria part of our supply chain. This is consicorporate clients in locations with no that are then evaluated. stent with our Code of Conduct, Corpodirect ISS presence. They focus on subrate Responsibility Policy, our Supplier contractors’ service capabilities and The ISS Supplier Code of Conduct covers Code of Conduct and our Global People performance, legal compliance as well as the areas of work place standards, health Standards. Our Global People Standards compliance with ISS Anti-corruption Policy and safety, compensation and working cover, among other areas, Pre-employment and ISS Supplier Code of Conduct. In hours, freedom of association and collecchecks, forced and compulsory labour, addition, the audits assess risks associated tive bargaining, forced and compulsory and child labour. We conduct internal with third party contracts as well as due labour, child labour, non-discrimination audits to verify our Standards to manage diligence in relation to corruption and and harassment, and environment. these risks. We recognise that certain bribery and training in ISS and customer categories of our supply chain carry a HSE policies, standards and guidelines. In 2016, as part of our work wear project, higher risk of child or slave labour and three site audits were carried out at facwe therefore require self-assessments and Group HSEQ and CR also performs audits tories in Indonesia and India. The main carry out audits to verify labour standards against the ISS Global People Standards, findings related to fire safety, electricity and performance. the Group HSEQ Manual, the ISS Safety safety and quality and the suppliers in Rules and the ISS Code of Conduct. In question completed the corrective 2016, we carried out 24 audits. Main actions agreed. findings included inconsistencies in implementation of the Permit to work Driven by the growth in IFS revenue system, mandatory inspections, and site from Global Corporate Clients and key risk registers. accounts, we have experienced increased 12 our performance and targets Our Performance and Targets This section presents our PEOPLE key performance indicators and results against objec2016 2015 2014 tives and targets for 2016. Number of employees 494,233 504,816 510,968 Objectives and targets for – Full time % 74 74 73 2017 are also communi– Part time % 1) 26 26 27 cated here. Total workforce Front line 469,625 479,951 485,074 We report on our performance – % Front line 95 95 95 within three areas: – % Male 50 49 51 PEOPLE, PLANET, and PROFIT. – % Female 50 51 49 White collar 24,608 24,865 25,894 – % White collar 5 5 5 – % Male 53 55 57 – % Female 47 45 43 Turnover % All employees 43 43 44 % Front line 45 44 46 – Male 48 46 48 – Female 41 42 46 % White collar 20 20 21 – Male 20 20 21 – Female 20 20 21 Hours of training 2) 6,454,887 6,692,883 5,912,982 – Front line 6,128,555 6,349,210 5,584,132 – White collar 326,332 343,673 328,850 Absentee rate % 2.0 1.8 1.7 Incidents of discrimination 18 14 10 Fatalities 6 7 7 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 3) 4.7 5.4 5.8 Exposure hours (million hours) 4) 994.5 997.5 1,009.1 Number of vehicles 20,945 20,856 19,307 Number of vehicle accidents 3,445 3,563 3,797 Our performance and targets 13 PLANET Financial highlights in 2016 2016 2015 2014 revenue Million DKK Electricity consumption (MWh.) 5) 48,861 54,600 56,301 79,137 Electricity emissions (Scope 2) 13,848 18,626 19,887 organic growth 3.4% (tonnes CO2 eq.) Electricity costs (million DKK) 52.2 55.6 51.2 cash conversion 98% Fuel usage (million litres) 46.0 46.6 43.3 Vehicle emissions (Scope 1) 106,353 107,647 100,120 (tonnes CO2 eq.) operating margin Business Travel emissions (Scope 3) 17,556 14,287 15,691 5.8% (tonnes CO2 eq.) number of employees 494,233 Water consumption (m3) 6) 292,800 331,169 440,268 PROFIT 2016 2015 2014 Revenue (million DKK) 79,137 79,579 74,105 EBITA (million DKK) 4,566 4,533 4,150 Net Finance costs (million DKK) 486 709 1,296 Taxes paid (million DKK) 871 867 1,082 Staff costs (million DKK) 50,851 51,900 48,849 Income tax paid by employees 12,859 13,180 12,316 (million DKK) 7) 1) Defined as employees working an average of less than 30 hours per week for ISS. 2) Training hours corrected for 2015 from 6,639,891 to 6,692,883 due to incorrect data from a reporting country. 3) A LTI is defined as any work-related injury which prevents that person from doing any work after the incident i.e. any work related injury which results in a person being unfit for his/her work for at least one full working day or shift. The LTIF is based on 1 million exposure hours. This includes contractors under ISS operational control. 4) Exposure hours include contractors working under ISS operational control. 5) Please see explanation on page 32 for the decrease. 6) Please see explanation for decrease on page 32. 7) Income tax paid by employees comprises estimated employment taxes, social charges and contributions paid either by ISS or directly by employees. For additional information, please see Reporting Principles and Compliance on page 40. 14 Our performance and targets Melisa Acer ISS Turkey Our performance and targets 15 Performance against strategy and are related to health, safety ensure the organisation’s focus remains objectives and targets for 2016 and environment as well as monitoring on these subjects. Our most material issues are also the of labour conditions for our employees. ones most directly supporting our We set targets and carry out audits to SUBJECT TARGETS 2016 PERFORMANCE 2016 TREND Fatalities 0 We saw six fatalities. See page 19 L Lost Time Injury Frequency Reduce 60% compared to 2010 to below 5 LTIF decreased by 65% from the baseline value of 13, to 4.7 in 2016 J Lost Work Hours Reduce 55% compared to 2010 The number of Lost Work Hours per 1000 exposure hours reduced by 55% J CO2 emissions from electricity Seek to establish baseline Electricity decreased due to awareness and behaviour programmes and divestments J CO2 emissions from leased cars (g/km) Reduce by 15% within four year lease period starting in In 2016, we have reduced emissions from our leased cars (g/km) by 5% compared J 2014 to the baseline figure in 2014 Audits with CR content In at least 20% of countries where we operate The scope of internal audits in more than 30% of countries included the ISS Code of J Conduct, the ISS Safety Rules, child labour and working hours Employee engagement To conduct an annual engagement survey with a The survey covered 45 countries and was offered in 53 languages. Once again, the J response rate target of 75% response rate increased to arrive at of eligible employees 73.2%, up from 71.5% in 2015 Objectives and targets for 2017 3. Related to the LTIF are Lost Work 5. To carry out audits that include Corpo1. In accordance with the HSE Vision, Time (LWT) as a result of lost time rate Responsibility areas in at least our first priority is to prevent fatalities incidents. The Group target for 2017 20% of countries where we operate. at our work places. Our Group target is a reduction of 65% per 1,000 is 0. exposure hours relative to the base6. To conduct an annual employee line figure in 2014. engagement survey with a target 2. In terms of Lost Time Injury Frequency to offer at least 75% of eligible (LTIF), the Group target for 2017 is 4. Reduce the emissions from our employees the opportunity to to reduce LTIF by 70% relative to our leased cars (gm/km) from 2014 over respond to the questionnaire by baseline figure in 2010 to below 4. the leasing period of 4 years by 15%. the end of 2017. 16 PEOPLE People – OUR MOST valuable resource Great leadership can bring We have an inherent belief that great ISS receives two European out the true value embedded service moments can be architected Cleaning & Hygiene Awards through a consistent recipe of the right in our strategy. It is the root ingredients of the right people with a of our people’s engagement common purpose and the right attitude European Cleaning Journal recognises and the desired customer that are: ISS for its excellence in employee relaexperience, and what tions, training, diversity, and inclusion. differentiates us. • inspired and supported by the On 29 September, ISS won recognition right leadership; for its excellence in cleaning service at the inaugural European Cleaning & We seek to empower our employees • equipped with the right skills and Hygiene Awards. ISS Global was through leadership and training, and we tools to perform; and awarded the prize for Commitment work every day to manage health and to and Investment in Training for its safety, labour and human rights risks in • engaged and empowered to create Service with a Human Touch Programme. our operations. memorable service moments. Additionally, ISS Spain won the Workforce – Excellence in Employee RelationBeing one of the largest private employers The quality and consistency of our leaderships, Training, Diversity & Inclusion, in the world and directly impacting the ship is the biggest single driver of our Rewards Programmes for its “Una Sonlives of nearly 500,000 employees every ability to truly unleash the Power of the risa Más” (One Smile More) Foundaday come with great opportunities to Human Touch and why we continue to tion. The foundation supports projects inspire and empower each and every invest in the development of our leaders that create employment opportunities one to unleash their full potential and through our key Group wide programmes for people in developing countries. grow, on a professional as well as a per– all within the ISS University. sonal level. To ensure that ISS continuously has the At the same time, we must keep our right organisational competencies, in employees safe and protect their labour 2016 we also developed the ISS Leaderour leadership capability across three and human rights. Providing a strong ship Competency Framework. This Framecore dimensions: safety culture and an understanding of work provides an architecture to ensure basic rights, we provide the platform for alignment of the leadership competencies • Strategic leadership – building an people to learn and grow. required for success for our leaders. It intimate understanding of our strategy makes effective leadership in ISS more and our key performance drivers; Unleashing the Power of tangible, observable and measurable. the Human Touch Our new Leadership Competencies will • People leadership – building the selfOur people are our true source of compeguide the way we perform and develop awareness of our leaders and suptitive advantage, and the proof point of as leaders for successful execution of porting them in leading their people; our ability to deliver against our value proour strategy. The new competencies will position is every single interaction between be embedded in all our key people pro• Business leadership – equipping our one of our people and a customer. cesses, ensuring we recruit, assess and leaders with the business understanddevelop all leaders in ISS against coming and skills they need to effectively ISS comprises many different cultures mon standards and common behaviours. lead their specific part of the business, and nationalities as well as people with for example key account leaders, commental and physical disabilities, social ISS University mercial leaders, finance leaders etc. challenges or little academic schooling. The ISS University is the Group wide Also, we include a rising number of learning academy representing our leaderA critical building block of the ISS Univerrefugees to our work force around the ship development programmes which are sity is our Key Account Manager Certifiworld. To us, the right mind set and attidelivered both globally, regionally and cation Programme – a modular developtude of a potential employee is generally locally and always to consistent standards. ment programme shape as one standard more important than the academic papers. The ISS University is structured to enhance and focused on Account Leaders of our PEOPLE 17 THE ISS UNIVERSITY Leadership programmes Business programmes On-boarding Leadership Class room training received Mastery in 2016 pr og Leading The ISS Way ram me Front line employees Top Management Conference ISS 13 hours per employee Ma na ge Area Manager programme Key Account Manager me Certification nt White collar employees Tra First Line Manager programme ine 13 hours per employee e Leading Service with a Human Touch Service with a Human Touch ISS Advantage ISS Operating Policies & Systems & Health Strategy the ISS Way Guidelines Administration & Safety strategic priority Key Accounts across the world. Our Key Account Managers are key to successful execution of our strategy went live in Asia Pacific in May, and in Leadership Mastery and hold complex general management the Americas in September. At the end Programme – spotting roles; are profit accountable, customer of 2016, 565 certifications have been future leaders accountable and accountable for leading issued under the programme, touching In parallel to the significant focus on large and diverse teams often across on more than 500 of our largest key development of current leaders, we are multiple customer sites. accounts across the globe. The setup we also looking ahead, and building our currently have in place to roll out and pipeline of future leaders through our The programme was launched late 2013, support the implementation is expected International Management Trainee probut 2016 was the year in which it truly to ensure that more than 1,000 Key gramme. This programme is targeted at went global; it is well underway in Account Managers will be certified by university graduates and we select the Northern and Continental Europe, it the end of 2017. brightest and the best through a rigorous assessment process. ISS Australia launches custom-built app for employee engagement, leave, Our trainees go through an 18 months and roster management programme, including an international assignment, before taking up their first line appointment. The programme started Following a successful trial period, ISS Australia has launched a Facility Management in Europe in 2013, has gone from strength industry first, with the creation of a custom-built app, called MyISS, to give all field-based to strength, and we have had 95% retenemployees mobile access to their payroll, rosters, and annual leave data, as well as tion rate to date. company information. The benefits of the programme are twoISS has a large employee base, approximately 11,000 across Australia, and most of the fold; we are building our global employer employees are based on customer sites rather than in an office. This presents some unique brand in the external marketplace, whilst challenges for engaging with employees and managing paper-heavy workflows, such at the same building a sustainable talent as ensuring ISS has accurate, up-to-date information and making sure employees have pipeline for the future. access to the latest pay information and rosters. For example, a chef at a mine site, a cleaner at a hospital, or an Aviation Protection Officer at an airport do not use a computer as part of their daily role and so cannot easily be reached via e-mail or company intranet. 18 PEOPLE ISS research on employee engagement and customer experience awarded mented the Service with a Human Touch (SWAHT) programme, which has been running since 2013. In competition with other leading global companies, ISS won two first prizes at the European Workforce Analytics Awards. Together with external advisor proacteur, ISS This is a key strategic game changer received the prizes for a research paper documenting the positive link between driving a cultural change in ISS, commuemployee engagement and customer experience. The white paper demonstrates the nicating our mission and translating importance of having motivated employees, who understand how they can deliver customer value propositions into concrete on the value proposition originally promised and how they are part of bringing the service behaviours for thousands of sercustomers’ purpose to life. The ISS case was built on more than 500,000 employee vice professionals. data sheets combined with 20,000 customer questionnaires linked to approximately 2,500 actual contract specific data. This analysis documents the close link between SWAHT is now operational in 48 counhaving engaged employee, which in turn provides satisfied customers, which provides tries, with 600 accredited trainers, more for profitability and growth. It secured ISS the overall prize as well as the ‘people’s than 70,000 trained employees across choice’ award at the European Workforce Analytics Summit. 512 customer accounts. We will continue our work to improve engagement, which in turn increases the overall sense of purpose of our people in Engaged and inspired people 53 languages. Scope has been expanded the delivery of our services. Furthermore, Employee engagement is critical for our every year since its inception, and in 2016, we see a clear correlation between emability to service our customers – engaged 241,487 employees responded. Once ployee engagement scores and customer and motivated employees have a direct again, the response rate increased to satisfaction, making them key drivers of impact on the customer experience of arrive at 73.2%, up from 71.5% in 2015. financial and operational performance. our services. The survey revealed an overall employee engagement of 4.5 (2015: 4.4) out of a Employee retention For this purpose we survey our employees possible 5. As part of the survey we also The longer an employee stays with on how engaged and motivated they are measure our employees’ willingness to ISS, the more engaged he or she in working for ISS, and more importantly recommend ISS as an employer (eNPS). becomes. Furthermore, we have found what we can do better to drive engageFor the fourth consecutive year, the that retention is higher on contracts ment of our people. score improved from 56.4 in 2015 to within our integrated facilities services 59.2 in 2016. solutions. A greater sense of purpose In 2016, we carried out our fifth global and ability to develop and grow profesemployee engagement survey. The survey As a specific focus towards engaging sional and personal competencies makes covered 45 countries and was offered in our frontline employees, we have implefor stronger engagement, increased global employee engagement survey results Overall 53 engagement 4.5 (4.4) languages Capability 4.5 (4.4) 45 Motivation 4.4 (4.4) countries 241,487 respondents Pride 4.4 (4.3) Retention 4.4 (4.4) 73.2% Response 1 5 rate PEOPLE 19 Correlations driving good business Investing in leadership and training Engaged employees Sustainable and profitable business Engaged employees Customer satisfaction and loyalty Compliance with guidelines and policies motivation and, not least, better quality Fatalities linked to both operational and financial of service. Regrettably we had six work related fatagains. LWH decreased by 55% compared lities in 2016. We are deeply affected by to the 2010 baseline, well exceeding our In 2016, 74% of employees were emeach of these fatalities and we will not target of 45% reduction. ployed full time (30 hours or more per consider our efforts adequate until all week), the same as in 2015. Employees fatalities are eliminated. In 2015, seven The Total Reportable Cases Frequency employed for more than one year made fatalities occurred. (TRCF) arrived at 8, a decrease of 65% up 68% of the workforce, the same as in compared to the 2010 baseline value 2015. 30% of employees have been with Four of the six fatalities were vehicle of 23. us for more than five years. Employee related, one was security related and one turnover was 43%, the same as in 2015. was a working at height incident. Three Overall, we see a continuous improveOur absenteeism rate was 2.0%, up of the fatalities were employees, two ment on the personal health and safety from 1.8% in 2015. were members of the public and one of our employees since 2010. We contriwas a contractor. The fatalities occurred bute this result to our systematic approach Employee retention remains a challenge in Mexico, Sweden, Thailand, India, established through a long-term safety as jobs in our industry tend to be temIndonesia and Brazil. strategy, anchored in our global safety porary or used as supplementary income. organisation as well as in the manageTo retain our employees, we offer full Each fatality and serious injury is reported ment bonus programme. Additionally, time and day time work as well as jobs to our top management within 24 hours the global reporting system enables us with greater variation and professional of occurrence and local management to monitor and analyse how we are challenges. Furthermore, we continuouscarries out an investigation determining doing and instigate actions accordingly. ly improve career development opportuthe root cause of the incident and the nities and promote teamwork and corrective actions to be taken to prevent Risk and due diligence skills development. similar incidents in the future. As part of We perform services with different ensuring that a fatality is being given the personal health and safety risk profiles. Health and safety focus in terms of an investigation and For example, the job risk profile of our We are committed to ensuring that each senior management commitment in councleaning staff, in general, is low, while one of our people go home well to their try, new procedures concerning the inveemployees employed in technical serfamilies and friends after a safe working stigation will be implemented in 2017. vices operate under a slightly higher risk day at ISS. Safety has to become second profile. At the same time, we also manage nature to all of us. We have a responsiImproving the personal safety health and safety risks in relation to the bility for each and every one of our of our people industry in which we operate as some employees and we do our utmost to conThe Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) have a higher risk profile than others. tinuously improve our health and safety arrived at 4.7, compared to just over five For example, while an incident in an culture. Furthermore, our responsibilities in 2015. Thereby, we have reduced our office environment could potentially also include the health and safety of our LTIF by 65% since our 2010 baseline impact the personal safety of the office customers as we work side by side with of 13. staff, an incident in a nuclear power plant them on a daily basis. If we instigate a could, in a worst case scenario, potentially strong safety culture amongst ourselves, Lost Work Hours (LWH) is an important impact the lives of millions of people. this will also have a positive impact on indicator of the general health and wellour customers. being of our employees. It is also closely 20 PEOPLE christian klemming-schmidt ISS Denmark PEOPLE 21 This is why great service performed by ISS Netherlands joins partnership to strengthen the integration and engaged and inspired employees with employment of refugees the right training and skills is not only vital to the growth of our business and the satisfaction of our customers but also ISS Netherlands has partnered with the Refugee Talent Hub – a non-profit effort led by to the health and safety of the societies ISS customer Accenture along with other corporations, public agencies, and NGOs and environments in which we operate. – to support and accelerate the acceptance, integration, education and employment of refugees in the Netherlands. The first traineeships and full positions at ISS were Safety action plans launched on the Refugee Talent Hub’s digital platform at the end of November. and training We have an ongoing focus on addressing The Hub platform is based on an application where a smart algorithm matches refugees vehicle-related incidents which make up with employers, such as ISS, which provide professional opportunities, training, and a disproportionate share of fatal accidents support. Based on applicants’ professional profiles, the system identifies skills gaps and involving ISS staff. The HSE strategy has a provides refugees with access to training that will fill those gaps. The Hub also aims to stated vision ‘100’*. This requires action reduce the processing time of asylum requests and offers applicants support through from all parts of the ISS organisation and, mentorship and networking. each year, we build and distribute a Group HSEQ and CR Action Plan with actions for each country to implement. Additionally, a new e-learning module on Driver safety was rolled out during 2016 to reinforce potential high risk areas. The promotion Human rights the behaviours we would like to embed will continue in 2017. We aim to increase We believe that human rights constitute in our organisation. awareness of health and safety business the foundation of healthy, fair and truly practices not only within our own company sustainable economic as well as societal Furthermore, individual country managebut also contribute to increased awaregrowth; businesses prosper in societies ment each year develops a Personal Safety ness amongst our customers. where human rights are upheld. Action Plan (PSAP) with objectives and targets for each member of the country Training for a strong safety culture Our commitment to respect human rights management team. This encourages and We continued our quarterly ‘Me and You’ is part of the ISS Code of Conduct which allows for management to show their safety campaigns in all the countries in in turn is part of the terms of employment visible safety commitment and leadership 2016, focusing on Slips, trips and falls, for all employees. Training in human rights through actions. electrical safety, working at heights, and issues and related risks are also part of the driving safely. The campaign uses posters Advantage programme, which provides What we did in 2016 produced by Group HSEQ and CR that are training for top and middle management. See something, say something translated into more than 20 languages. We re-launched our whistle blower Risk and due diligence system under the name ‘Speak Up’. We performed bi-monthly safety inspecAccording to UN Guiding Principles on This channel is open to all stakeholders tions for all our large global key accounts Business and Human Rights (UNGP), – employees, customers, vendors etc. during 2016. The audits build accounthuman rights risks are defined as a corpoThus, Speak Up is an important tool in our ability and transparency as results are ration’s potential to adversely impact the efforts to promote both honesty, transreported directly into ISS’s global IT-based human rights of e.g. their employees, the parency and ethical business practice and HSE system. At the same time, the audits communities in which they operate and to improve our health and safety proceprovide documentation that we are living their supply chain. This risk approach dures. We depend on our employees to be up to the HSE requirements included supplements our corporate risk manageour eyes and ears and report systematic in contracts. ment where we assess legal, financial breaches of our policy and procedures, and operational risks in order to identify however insignificant they might seem. Furthermore, during 2016, we updated risks related to our value proposition and the HSEQ manual that forms the founfuture growth as well as to protect our As part of our promotion and implemendation of our HSEQ Management system reputation and brand. tation of ‘Speak Up’, we rolled out the in compliance with the new ISO 9001 and campaign ‘See something, say some14001 standards. The Manual will be rolled Human rights due diligence thing’ across the Group. The campaign out across the Group in 2017. As part of assessment encouraged employees to report on our global certification programme, our As a global corporation, we are well aware actual health, safety and security inciGlobal headquarters were audited by Det of the potential of adverse impact on dents as well as potential incidents as Norske Veritas GL to the new Manual and human rights. During 2015, we conducted these enable us to identify and address issued a certificate. a human rights due diligence self-assess‘ 1: We aim to be number 1 in our industry; 0: We operate with 0 fatalities at our work places; and 0: We incur 0 serious incidents and occupational injuries at our work places. 22 PEOPLE ment to better understand our potential While ISS in its service performance is actual cleaning itself. We train our people involvement as a result of our business generally not in a care or trust position in their ability to behave and perform the operations and value chain. The assessof primary caretakers such as doctors, service according to the situation and the ment also identified where we have the nurses and teachers, ISS recognises that people they interact with. greatest potential to cause, contribute or certain individuals or groups of individuals where we could be linked to severe human require increased awareness and attention Part of our implementation strategy of rights impacts. As a result, we identified to protect against potential abuse and that this policy includes an animated film to three main areas: child labour, forced appropriate measures shall be taken to communicate the content of the policy labour and right to privacy in terms of safeguard the needs of such individuals or and its implementation. The film is availpersonal information and privacy of groups. ISS considers “vulnerable adults” able in seven languages. Furthermore, we individuals. We addressed these areas to be persons of majority age who by have also included it as part of the training by strengthening the requirements in reason of mental or physical conditions, to top management, the Advantage prothe ISS Global People Standards for each age or illness are unable to take care gramme. In addition, new requirements of these three areas. In addition, these of themselves or to protect themselves of the policy are included in our Global requirements will also be part of the against significant harm or exploitation. People Standard. control self-assessment carried out by Group Internal Audit (please see page 9). Thus, we have adopted a policy on safeWhat we did in 2016 guarding children and vulnerable people Safeguarding children and Managing the risks facing in 2014. The policy emphasises that ISS vulnerable people vulnerable people staff and sub-contractors, who perform We continued the implementation of our We manage our risks according to the services in risk environments while children Safeguarding Children and Vulnerable risk profile of the industry as well as the or vulnerable adults are present, must People policy to ensure that all countries type of service we provide. Furthermore, adopt appropriate behaviours, follow adopt appropriate procedures and conwe have identified risk categories reflectdefined procedures and undergo required duct the necessary training. This includes ing the vulnerability of the people we interchecks to ensure that services are perrecruitment and vetting procedures for act with. ISS is a key contributor in providformed in a safe and non-threatening staff assigned to positions with exposure ing safe environments for ISS’ customers environment. At the end of the day, cleanto children or vulnerable adults as well as and their users. It is therefore important ing a hospital room with patients just out training and induction programmes ensurthat ISS performs its services in a way that of surgery is just as much about how the ing awareness of appropriate behaviour supports and promotes safe environments. cleaning is performed as it is about the and knowledge of policies and procedures. The policy also covers our sub-contractors as we expect them to adhere to approHSE Day conducted at customer sites in Singapore priate behaviour, procedures and training no less strict than our own staff. As part of its continuous effort to increase Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) awareReinforcing human rights ness amongst ISS staff and customers, ISS Singapore organised a HSE Day at a hospital During 2016, we continued to deploy our site in Singapore. The HSE Day was held on 29 September, and targeted all the ISS staff commitment to UN Guiding Principles working at Changi General Hospital (CGH) and St Andrew’s Community Hospital (SACH). on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). ISS has been serving CGH since April 2012 and SACH since March 2007. Services include Among others things, we amended the cleaning, technical services and landscaping. CGH is an award-winning hospital with CR policy to include our commitment to over 1000 beds caring for a community of 1.4 million people in eastern Singapore. the UNGP and reinforced the implemenIn April 2005, SACH moved to a purpose-built 11-storey, 200-bed hospital, in Simei, tation of the policy across the Group. and became the first community hospital to be located next to an acute-care general An overview of the updated UN Guiding hospital – CGH. Principles assessment is shown on pages 24 and 25. ISS put up game booths and activities related to the ISS Safety Rules, ‘Slips, trips and falls’, Infection control, Terminal cleaning, Hand hygiene, 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle), As mentioned, we identified issues which Health wellness and Facade cleaning (working at heights). hold the greatest potential to cause, contribute or be linked to severe human rights impacts based on the results of the selfassessment we conducted during 2015. We addressed these issues in our new Global People Standards that were launched for implementation in countries in July. PEOPLE 23 HSE Day ISS Singapore 24 PEOPLE Overview of the updated UN Guiding Principles assessment HUMAN RIGHT relevant included in to iss iss governance Right to Self-Determination (Indigenous Peoples Rights) Yes Code of Conduct, Global People Standards Right to Non-discrimination Yes Code of Conduct, Global People Standards Right to work Yes Global People Standards Right to equal pay for equal work Yes Global People Standards Right to a living wage (minimum wage) Yes Global People Standards Right to safe and healthy working conditions Yes HSEQ Management System, ISS Safety Rules Right to equal opportunity for everyone to be promoted Yes Global People Standards Right to rest, leisure and paid holidays Yes Global People Standards Right to form and join trade unions and the right to strike Yes Global People Standards Right to social security, including social insurance Yes Global People Standards Right to protection of mothers before and after childbirth Yes Global People Standards Right to children's young people's protection from Yes Global People Standards exploitation (no child labour) Right to adequate food and its fair distribution Yes Global People Standards Right to adequate clothing Yes Global People Standards Right to adequate housing No Right to water and sanitation Yes Global People Standards Right to health Yes HSEQ Management System, ISS Safety Rules Right to education Yes Global People Standards Right to take part in cultural life No Right to benefit from scientific progress No Right to material gains from inventions No Moral rights of authors (protection of copyrights) No Right to life Yes HSEQ Management System, ISS Safety Rules Right not to be subjected to torture, cruel, inhuman Yes Global People Standards and/or degrading treatment or punishment PEOPLE 25 HUMAN RIGHT relevant included in to iss iss governance Right to free, prior and informed consent to medical No or scientific experimentation Right not to be subjected to slavery, servitude Yes Global People Standards or forced labour Right to liberty and security of person Yes Global People Standards Rights of detained persons to humane treatment Yes Global People Standards Right not to be subjected to imprisonment for inability No to fulfil a contract Right to freedom of movement Yes Global People Standards Right of aliens to due process when facing expulsion No (seeking asylum) Right to a fair trial Yes Code of Conduct Right to be free from retroactive criminal law No Right to recognition as a person before the law No Right to privacy Yes Global People Standards Right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion Yes Global People Standards Right to freedom of opinion Yes Global People Standards Right to freedom of expression Yes Code of Conduct, Speak Up policy and system Right to freedom of information Yes Global People Standards Right to freedom from war propaganda No Right to freedom from incitement of racial, religious Yes Global People Standards or national hatred Right to freedom of peaceful assembly Yes Global People Standards Right to freedom of association Yes Global People Standards Right to protection of the family and the right to marry Yes Global People Standards Right to protection of the child and right to acquire Global People Standards, Policy on safeguarding Yes a nationality children and vulnerable adults Right to participate in public affairs Yes Global People Standards Right to equality before the law, equal protection of Yes Global People Standards the law, and rights of non-discrimination Rights of minorities Yes Global People Standards (Culture, religious practice and language) 26 PEOPLE Labour rights and employee Global Apple award relations We consider our employees to be our most valuable asset. As one of the world’s largest private employers and with operations in 48 countries, we are committed to fostering and cultivating a culture of diversity and inclusion as well as respecting and promoting labour rights as part of our human rights commitment. Risks and due diligence The management of employee conditions and supply chain risk are rising up the global business agenda as compliance with international standards grows in importance worldwide. As we operate a global company with nearly 500,000 employees and managing a vast number of sub-contractors and The Apple Award Programme is ISS’ reward and recognition initiative which has been suppliers every year we are well aware created to recognise our exceptional people who make a difference for our customers of our labour rights related risks. While and helps them facilitate their purpose. At the Top Management Conference (TMC) held we are directly responsible for the workat Orlando, USA, three Apple Award finalists were invited to participate at the TMC. ings conditions and labour rights of our The Apple Award Finalists are chosen based on the yearly Apple Award Winners from own employees we are also linked in some each country. At TMC, one of the finalists is awarded and celebrated as the Global way or another to these same rights when Apple Award winner. In 2016, Srikumar Madhaven from ISS India, Marcela Ramešová it comes to the employees of sub-contracfrom ISS Czech Republic and Roy Osarogiagbon from ISS United Kingdom & Ireland tors and suppliers. were the finalists and Roy Osarogiagbon was awarded as the Global Award winner. Roy is one of the Train Litter Pickers at Stratford tube station where his job, as part of a Each employee has a value of his or her team, is to clear all rubbish and newspapers from the trains when they turn around at own. This value is the foundation of our Stratford station (every two minutes in rush hour!). commitment to respect and promote labour rights. Furthermore, safe, fair and It is the way in which Roy engages with the commuters on the train which has earned good working conditions can also be him his recognition – not only in the eyes of the management teams in ISS but also by linked to lower employee turnover and the client and independently by members of the travelling public. Stories making it into better quality of service. the daily paper and on to Facebook and Twitter. He really brightens people’s days and lifts the experience and image of travel on the Underground – adding genuine value to Strengthening labour rights the client. Roy has found his Apple! through collaboration We seek to work with private sector partners as well as civil society and labour organisations to promote labour rights both globally and locally. Since 2003, ISS health and safety. The commitment include freedom of association and the has been part of an agreement with UNI stretches beyond our own company into effective recognition of the right to Global Union, an international network industries and the communities where collective bargaining, the elimination of of national labour organisations. The we operate. We are obligated to support forced or compulsory labour, the aboliagreement mutually commits both parties the UNI’s 12 fundamental principles based tion of child labour and the elimination to work in favour of human rights, and on the International Labour Organisaof discrimination in respect of employdecent working conditions including tion’s (ILO) conventions. The principles ment and occupation. PEOPLE 27 This is an important part of ISS’s commit• diversity (including age, gender, new WOMEN IN THE WORKFORCE ment to labour rights. As part of the agreetalent and international experience) ment, we manage labour rights on the as well as diversity of perspectives TOTAL IN ISS foundation of shared goals: • Fair competition and the highest possibrought to the Board or the EGM; and • personal characteristics matching ISS’s 49% ble standards in the service industry; values and leadership principles. for discussion at least once a year at the • Foundations for financial growth and In support of our commitment to EGM level. strengthening of the ISS service delivery; gender diversity, the Board adopted a target in 2014 of increasing the number Furthermore, we ensure strong repre• A balanced achievement of financial of women on our Board elected by the sentation of women in various ISS success on one hand, and secure and general meeting from one to at least two leadership development and graduate adequately paid jobs on the other. members not later than at the 2017 programmes across the Group and at annual general meeting. With the electhe global head office. The amount of The overriding purpose is to create a tion of two women to the Board in 2015, women at management level at the level playing field. It leads to an obligation the target was achieved, and the Board global head office increased slightly in on the part of UNI to disclose and work set a new target of reaching at least 40% 2016 compared to 2015 and gender against companies evading tax payments women on the Board by 2020. Currently, diversity remains a focus area in 2017. and social security contributions or in there are 33% women on the Board of other ways disregarding basic standards Directors. Aligned with the competency All discrimination claims in the service industry. and diversity policy for Board nominainvestigated tions, the Board proposed the election In line with the ISS Code of Conduct and Competitive advantage of Ben Stevens at the 2016 annual genethe Global People standards, ISS takes all through diversity ral meeting (replacing Jo Taylor), which claims of discrimination seriously. We embrace and encourage diversity in was supported by the shareholders. its broadest sense as we recognise that 18 incidents were filed, investigated and our diverse workforce gives us a key comIn terms of international experience, the followed up with legal authorities in the petitive advantage. Diversity makes ISS Board aims at all times to have sufficient countries in scope. Out of the 18 incidents, creative, productive and an attractive international experience at all managesix were deemed to be without legal merit place to work. ment levels taking into account the size and ten are still pending. and activities of ISS. The Board considers The Board and the EGM recognise the that it has diverse and broad internatioWhat we did in 2016 importance of promoting diversity at nal experience. The EGM is considered to Managing labour relations management levels and have implemenhave the necessary international experiIn line with our respect for human rights, ted policies regarding competencies and ence if half of its members have internawe believe in the right for our employees diversity in respect of Board and EGM tional experience from large internatioto organise and negotiate collectively. We nominations according to which we are nal companies. Presently, all members of collaborate with employee representacommitted to selecting the best candithe EGM have international experience. tives at many levels of our organisation, date while aspiring to have diversity in with structured and dedicated approaches gender as well as in broader terms such In order to promote, facilitate and increase for each. See figure on the next page. as international experience. the number of women in management level positions at ISS’s global head office, We manage our employee relations for Emphasis is placed on: we continue leveraging our Diversity Policy, our European operations through the which defines a number of initiatives. Our European Works Council. This consists • experience and expertise (such as initiatives include ensuring that female canof quarterly meetings between manageindustry, risk management, finance, didates are identified for vacant positions, ment and union representatives and an strategy, international business, developing succession plans aiming at annual meeting for all union members labour force management and HR, identifying female successors and tabling and a number of management repremanagement and leadership); the matter of women in leadership at ISS sentatives. The annual meeting with 28 PEOPLE participants from 20 countries, repreGlobal service industry associations honour ISS with social sent over 49% of our employees. responsibility award In 2016, the focus of the annual meeting was an update on GREAT, which is the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals and Information Services Group vehicle for bringing The ISS Way, our (ISG) honoured ISS as the winner of its fourth annual (IAOP) Global Outsourcing Social strategy, to life. Other subjects on the Responsibility Impact Award at an event in Lake Buena Vista, Florida, on 16 February. agenda of this two-day assembly were an update on the ISS work wear, Employee In addition to the award, ISG will make a cash donation of USD 5,000 in the name of Engagement, Health and Safety, People ISS to its chosen charity, Fedcap, and ISS will double this donation making Fedcap the & Culture and a session for questions to recipient of a total of USD 10,000. management represented by Regional CEO, Jacob Götzche. IAOP and ISG established the award in 2012 to recognise service provider excellence in Corporate Social Responsibility. The winner demonstrates exemplary leadership in, and Investing for results ongoing commitment to, activities that foster community involvement, fair operating 2016 was the final year of our UNI-collaand labour practices, respect for human rights, attention to environmental impacts, boration project ‘Clean up Cleaning’ in consumer issues, and good governance. Mexico City. The project has focused on 2 key areas: bringing transparency to the public procurement process in Mexico City: and educating workers in a “know your rights” campaign which would ensure at on workers’ conditions and benefits, was During 2017, a similar project in a differleast country minimums are being comrolled out. At this stage, the project has ent region of the world will be discussed plied with. ISS contributes with an annual trained approximately 2,600 janitors from and assessed with UNI. amount of 100,000 Euro. During 2016, the numerous cleaning companies in both the procurement policy, increasing emphasis private and public sector. ISS MANAGES TRADE UNIONS AND EMPLOYEE WORKS COUNCILS ON BEHALF OF THE CUSTOMER UNI Global Group Risk mitigation for our customers is a Union key part of our value proposition European Europe Region Having contacts on all levels enables us Works Council to efficiently communicate with the relevant stakeholders Local Union and Country Recognised by employee stakeholder Workers Council 1) European laws based on the European Union’s Acquired Rights Directive (ARD) proCollective Bargaining Agreements and Contracts tecting the rights of employees in a busiIndividual agreements ARD/TUPE 1) Legal Framework ness transfer situation, also known as TUPE. PEOPLE 29 Overview of 2016 people performance PEOPLE Action areaS tools APPLIED activities IN 2016 performance IN 2016 Health and safety • ISS Safety Rules • Personal safety action • Fatalities: 6 • Group HSEQ and CR plans for individual • Lost Time Injury Frequency: 4.7 Action Plan management members • Decrease in lost work hours com• The ISS Groups HSEQ • Campaigns pared to 2010 baseline: 65% Management Manual • The ISS Group HSEQ and CR Reporting Manual • HSE@ISS-IT system Employee • Engagement survey • Survey performed • 241,487 employees responded engagement • Survey available 53 languages • Four aggregate measures show continuous high performance with scores above four on a five point scale Leadership and • Training and develop• Service with a Human • 38,059 supervisors completed the training ment programmes Touch Service with a Human Touch pro• Key Account Manager gramme, 263 completed the KAMC Certification (KAMC) programme, 23 people graduated • Leadership training the Leadership Mastery programme programmes • Front line employees received 6,128,555 hours of class room training in 2016, compared to 6,349,210 hours in 2015. This is equal to over 13 hours per person in 2016. Subjects included health and safety, technical training, management, language training, leadership and supervisory, IT, security and fire prevention. White collar employees had 326,332 hours of training in 2016, compared to 343,673 hours in 2015 and equal to over 13 hours per employee Human rights and • ISS Global People • Human rights due • As a result of our due diligence resources Standards diligence assessment assessment, we made changes to • Diversity policy performed in accordance our CR policy, the ISS Global People • Formalised union with the United Nations’ Standards and works council’s Guiding Principles on • European Works Council conference co-operation Business and Human • Continued UNI Global Union Rights collaboration 30 PLANET Planet – managing our impacts The global environment and ISS Taiwan receives Environmental Protection award climate are changing radically. This affects our health, environment, economy and general well-being. In ISS, we manage our impacts on the climate and environment through the design of processes and equipment we use, and through the portfolio of services we offer to our customers. The main impacts on the environment and climate from our own activities come from the use of cars and air transport, energy consumption in buildings and the use of energy, water and chemicals in delivering our cleaning services, The Taipei City Environmental Protection Bureau has recognised ISS Taiwan for its efforts which constitute 50% of our commerin environmental responsibility. The award was first established this year, and ISS was cial offerings. We recognise that our one of the first companies to ever receive this environmental recognition. success and future growth require us to carry out our operations in an environISS Taiwan received the award due to its commitment and active engagement in recycling mentally and climate friendly way. This and waste management at the facilities they manage. ISS Taiwan effectively assisted is part of the ISS Way. residential facilities with monthly reporting of the amount of recycled material such as paper, plastics, and cardboard on the Environmental Protection Bureau’s website. Risk and due diligence Credible and effective management of environmental and climate-related risks is part of our Value Proposition to our customers. Therefore, we have adopted a environment and climate. You can learn terms of both the service delivery and systematic approach to achieve continuous more about how we seek to reduce the environmental impacts. We know from improvement in quality and performance. impact of our customers further down in experience that Cleaning Excellence conthe section. tracts can achieve reductions in the use ISS manages these matters as critical of detergents by 75%, water consumpbusiness activities, sets standards and We did not identify any significant nontion and disposal can be reduced by up targets for improvement, and measures, compliance with environmental laws and to 70%. appraises and reports on performance. regulations in 2016. We also continuously look for ways to By moving to sustainable solutions, we reduce the environmental impact of our Reductions through Cleaning can calculate the following based: operations and services. Excellence In ISS, we apply a documented process Water: 500,000 litres We manage two different risk categoand management approach called Cleanries: the impact of our own operations ing Excellence. and services and the impact of our Waste: 40,000 kg. customers. The latter is gradually proving It combines working methods and tools to be a new business opportunity as our with procurement processes and cost customers increasingly seek to improve optimisation, and obligates ISS staff GHG Emissions: their performance and impact on the to identify potential improvements in 85,000 kg CO2 eq. PLANET 31 These solutions: ISS Denmark wins 2016 CSR People Prize for social responsibility • reduce over-consumption by providing precise dosage; ISS is recognised for its innovative approach and longstanding commitment to advancing corporate social responsibility among companies. ISS Denmark has been awarded the • reduce waste packaging; CSR People Prize 2016 for actively using its size and position to raise awareness of corporate social engagement, according to the prize jury. The award was presented by • reduce water consumption by up HRH Prince Joachim of Denmark at a conference in Copenhagen. to 50%; According to the jury behind the CSR People Prize, ISS has distinguished itself through • allow machines to clean up to 50% its long-term efforts to include a variety of vulnerable groups in the labour market. ISS longer on one tank fill; also uses its size and market position to create new models, methods, and knowledge for how other companies can work with and extend their social responsibility. • eliminate time-consuming set-up and preparation; Among its many efforts, ISS works actively to help integrate refugees into the labour market as well as psychologically vulnerable young people who have difficulty getting • reduce transport and storage costs as started with an education. The unifying goal is to help large groups of people get a job the products are highly concentrated. or an education. ISS has also developed a business case demonstrating that there are clear financial benefits from fostering diversity among employees. Supplier assessment and vetting We require our suppliers and sub-suppliers to comply with the ISS Supplier Code of Conduct that states that compliance with all applicable environmental laws and reguing competences within technical and is a decrease in the number of singlelations must be assured. building services to help our customers use gloves needed. improve their environmental and climateIn 2016, we additionally initiated the related impacts. CO2-neutral global headquarters planning phase of our new supplier due Since 2013, ISS headquarters have particidiligence system, Achilles. The system Innovations with suppliers pated in a climate partnership programme will improve our ability to vet, manage We continuously work with suppliers to with the Danish energy supplier DONG and control our supplier base. Brand prodevelop and test new tools and processes Energy. The programme combines reductection and risk control are key value that will reduce the environmental impacts tion initiatives with investments in renewpropositions that we provide to our from our services. Since 2015, we have able energy sources. In 2016, ISS further customers. The proposed solution will enfocussed our efforts on innovation proreduced headquarter electricity consumpable us to achieve this objective by estajects with our suppliers. These projects tion through improvements and efficient blishing a global database of suppliers. continued during 2016. The highlights use of the ventilation system and contifor 2016 are: nued use of the surveillance system. We Reducing the impact of have reduced our consumption by over our customers • Diversey – Cleaning without chemicals 11% since we moved to our new headAs we operate the sites of our customers (Ionized water): Electrolyzed Water is quarters. The savings achieved from on a daily basis, we often come to know used for cleaning without chemicals. these were applied towards the purchase their sites better than they do. In recent Essentially, the electrolysis of water and of 582.9 MWh renewable energy certifiyears, we have increasingly used this knowsalt develop into acidic and alkaline cates (RECS). With these certificates we ledge to add a new value proposition to solutions. The product will neutralize have fully offset electricity consumption business: helping our customers manage when recombined in the drain and the from our headquarters’ building and we and reduce their impacts. We offer our product is non-toxic and eco-friendly. can report zero CO2 emissions from our customers extensive expertise and experifacility for the third consecutive year. ence, primary within critical environment, • The 3M Easy Trap system: Traps up infrastructure, and tech sectors. to 8 times more dirt, dust and sand Carbon Disclosure Project than both conventional flat fringed We reported again into the Carbon DiscloIn order to pursue this new business opporcotton dust mops; no need for water; sure Project. The assessment also looks at tunity, we have set out to improve our made of 60% recyclable material. actions in the reporting year that contriexpertise and profile further. As a result, bute to climate change mitigation, adapwe acquire new companies that enable us • Glovac – An eco-friendly glove system: tation and transparency. The performance to offer energy saving and other environThe system creates a vacuum that fits scores are expressed as bands (ranging mental services. During 2016, we took the gloves to the hands. By using the from A to E, where A is the highest). ISS over the former E.ON FM subsidiary Glovac gloves, fewer bacteria are transreceived a B where the CDP supply chain EVANTEC in Germany. The acquisition is ferred to employees’ hands. Furtheraverage was D. another important step in further expandmore, it is eco-friendly because there 32 PLANET What we did in 2016 ISS awarded bronze medal in Dow Jones Sustainability Index HSEQ Manual updated We introduced a Health, Safety, Environment and Quality Manual (HSEQ) in ISS has once again been included in Dow Jones’ Sustainability Index 2016, as one in only 2011 to ensure we measure, monitor four Danish companies that each year rank on DJSI based on their corporate sustainand continuously reduce our environability assessment. Dow Jones and their collaborative partner, RobecoSAM, develop mental impacts. During 2016, we upthe index based on the participating companies’ answers to 80-120 industry-specific dated our HSEQ Manual to reflect the questions that relate to environmental, economic, and social factors. All values in the new requirements of ISO 9001 and assessment scale range from zero to 100, with 100 representing the highest achievement. ISO 14001. The Manual will be rolled ISS successfully improved on its company sustainability score from last year. out across the Group during 2017. In the environmental dimension of the assessment, ISS scored the industry best of 82 Reducing the impact of our on operational eco-efficiency, the world average score for DJSI members was just 60 own offices in the same category. ISS scored consistently higher than the industry average on both Since 2014, participation in the ISS Green environmental and economic factors, which is an improvement from last year’s results. Offices Programme has been mandatory for our own offices. We continued to roll out the programme during 2016. The programme is designed to reduce the environmental impact of our own offices. As by the checklist. We work through certi54,600 MWh to 48,860 MWh. In with most of our training, we acknowfication on three levels, bronze, silver addition, we reduced our water conledge that results can only be achieved and gold. By the end of 2016, 189 certisumption from 331,169 m3 in 2015 to through our people and thus the Green fications have been issued to ISS offices 292,800 m3 in 2016. These reductions Office Programme focuses on behavioural (19 gold, 22 silver and 148 bronze) comwere a result of consolidating offices in change. The right training can instigate pared to 144 in 2015. We also offered countries, moving to new energy effinew behaviour and habits leading to the certification to client offices as a cient buildings and the impact of behamore efficient use of resources and waste value proposition. viour change amongst our employees disposal. To become certified, at least 80% through the ISS Green Offices Programme. of employees must attest their active partiIn 2016, we reduced our electricity cipation in reduction measures, required consumption at our own offices from Overview of 2016 planet performance INDICATOR IMPLEMENTATION 2016 activities 2016 PERFORMANCE CO2 emissions Reductions achieved through 1. Driver Safety e-learning Vehicle emissions decreased from from leased cars leasing more fuel efficient cars 2. Continued leasing of more 107,647 tonnes CO2 eq. in 2015 to and changes in driver behaviour fuel efficient vehicles 106,353 tonnes CO2 eq. in 2016 CO2 emissions We encourage more online 1. Use of webinars Emissions from business travel from business meetings to reduce air travel increased from 14,287 tonnes in travel in particular 2015 to 17,556 tonnes in 2016. We continue to encourage online meetings to limit travel Chemicals We collaborate with suppliers to Further integration of an IT tool Reduction of 40,000 kg. waste develop and test environmentally to propose environmentally Reduction of 500,000 litres water friendly products and materials friendly solutions consumed. that also offer reduced costs in Reduction of 85,000 kg. CO2 eq. use and increased productivity in GHG emissions Electricity (own) Mandatory certification Implementation of awareIn 2016, we consumed 48,860 according to the ISS Green ness and behaviour changing MWh of electricity compared Offices Programme measures 54,600 MWh in 2015 Water (own) Mandatory certification Implementation of awareIn 2016, we consumed 292,800 m3 according to the ISS Green ness and behaviour changing water, a decrease from 331,169 m3 Offices Programme measures in 2015 PLANET 33 Betty Keung ISS Hong Kong 34 PROFIT Profit – ensuring good business practices We strive to be the world’s and demand for risk transfer, operational managers through e-learning systems and greatest service organisarisk management and risk control comcourses about business integrity and compliance from our customers. At the same pliance in order to raise awareness and to tion. We are ambitious and time, the complexity of our service delivery enable them to spot wrong behaviour. competitive but we compete is increasing, as our services are increasingly We encourage matters to be reported. on fair terms and on the being integrated into our customers’ value Serious and sensitive concerns can be merits of our services. Our streams. This is for instance relevant for our reported through the ‘Speak Up’ system. business integrity is noncustomers in the banking or pharmaceutiA Business Integrity Committee, consistcal industry, as we often manage critical ing of our Group CFO, Group Chief negotiable. We aim to lead infrastructure such as data centres or People & Culture Officer, Group General our employees by living our production facilities. Counsel and our Head of Group Internal values and demonstrating Audit, reviews all material integrity issues the right behaviours. To support sound operational risk manageincluding those reported through the ment and contract compliance, we have Speak Up system. Read more about initiated the roll-out of a Contract Risk and ‘Speak Up’ further down in this section. In this section we describe how we Compliance tool for selected key accounts. perform and manage risks related to By the end of 2016, the tool had been We train our employees to comply with business performance and integrity, implemented for 120 accounts. The rollour values and Code of Conduct when including our management of and out will continue during 2017. interacting with customers and business approach to corruption and bribery. partners whether public or private. When Business ethical risks we are able to demonstrate good and 2016 financial performance – zero tolerance fair business practices we minimise comOur stategic initiatives have supported We are constantly alert to the risk of foul pliance risks. Moreover, when operating healthy organic growth and margin play given the number of employees and in countries and cultures where unethical improvements. This resulted in the countries we operate in. Corruption and business conduct is widespread we can highest profit level in ISS history. bribery is illegal and against our core serve as a positive example and contrivalues (Honesty, Entrepreneurship, Responbute to building a fairer and more transGroup revenue for 2016 was DKK 79.1 sibility and Quality), which are fundamenparent local business community. billion, a slight decrease compared to tal to how we operate our business. 2015. Organic growth was 3.4%, while ‘Speak Up’ system the impact from currency effects and Employing nearly 500,000 people worldOur Whistle blower system was re-launched acquisitions and divestments, net, reduced wide, we acknowledge however that we under the name ‘Speak Up’ during 2016. revenue by 3% and 1%, respectively. cannot always prevent non-compliant The system serves as a reporting channel behaviour. Thus, we monitor and ensure for raising serious and sensitive concerns, Organic growth was mainly driven by good that each case of non-compliance gets guaranteeing protection from reprisals performances in emerging markets as well escalated and treated seriously. We firmor retaliation for all persons who make as contract launches and strong demand ly believe in following up quickly on these complaints in good faith. The system is for IFS, projects and non-portfolio work matters in line with our values and zero open to all our employees and stakein the Continental Europe and Northern tolerance policy on unethical behaviour holders and available on our corporate Europe regions as well as in the USA. that defines our culture and what we and local websites of our country substand for. Performing services inside the sidiaries and for more than 90% of our Operating profit before other items facilities we need to earn the trust of employees reporting options are availamounted to DKK 4,566 million in our customers every day and therefore a able in their own language. All concerns 2016 for an operating margin of 5.8% firm stand on values and good behaviour raised are treated confidential and the (2015: 5.7%), the third consecutive is a must for our business and employees. person reporting may choose to be year of improvement in spite of the anonymous. In addition to reports in difficult market conditions in certain Training in ethical business conwriting a report can also be made on a European countries. duct – and setting a good example hotline as part of the Speak Up system. We manage the business integrity of ISS With the growth in IFS revenue from through clear policies and guidelines, Depending on the nature of the matter Global Corporate Clients and key accounts, standardised tools and training activities raised, the reports are either escalated for we experience growing risk awareness for all relevant employees. We train our discussion by the ISS Group’s Business PROFIT 35 Integrity Committee (BIC) or forwarded A Greek gift to the relevant local departments for further investigation and action. Of the reports in scope, 12 cases were escalated In recent years, several tax cases have emerged in our Greek business that date back to the BIC in 2016 for further discusmany years, and in many cases even from before ISS became owner of the businesses. sion and investigation. The BIC reviews The cases concern sponsorship contributions to certain sports clubs in Greece that have each case when it is received and decide been deducted in the annual tax returns and which subsequently have been disputed as on the appropriate action to be taken. non-tax deductible costs by the Greek tax authorities. During the dispute with the tax This will involve investigations by Group authorities it came out that the tax authorities via access to bank accounts of former Internal Audit and external consultants. employees were able to establish that a significant part of the money paid as a sponsorThe cases are not closed until they have ship contribution to a sports club was subsequently repaid to the private bank accounts been addressed or investigated to the of the former employees. None of the employees involved in these wrongful acts in satisfaction of the BIC, following which previous years are employed by ISS in Greece. Based on the information received via the this will be noted in the minutes of the tax audit ISS has commenced a lawsuit against the former owner and manager of one BIC meeting. of the business units where these practices occurred. Recruitment of right leadership is critical. Motivating, engaging and training employees to comply with our values and set a positive example for ethical behaand re-launch it under a new name as we Code of Conduct e-learning course viour amongst their ISS colleagues and depend on our employees to be our eyes ISS is committed to conducting its busiwithin their local community depend and ears and report systematic breached ness in accordance with the law, our on leadership from local, regional and of our policy and procedures, however values and the highest ethical standards. Group management levels. In ISS, we insignificant they might seem. Thus, Our Code of Conduct sets out our behasupport and promote leaders who can ‘Speak Up’ stems from our ambition to vioural standards for servicing our custodrive results but also enable and grow a increase awareness and encourage all our mers, interacting with business partners strong ethical culture and commitment. employees and stakeholders to raise their and stakeholders and working with our concerns without fear of retaliation. We colleagues. In 2016, we developed a This is why ISS places so much value also introduced a telephone hotline in Code of Conduct e-learning training and commits a substantial amount of addition to the Speak Up website. module with the following objectives: resources on the recruitment and vetting procedures of middle and top managers. Going forward, ‘Speak Up’ will be an • Support on-boarding of white collar During 2017 we will continue our efforts important tool in our efforts to promote employees in ISS and to ensure that in this area and will roll out an on-boarding both honesty, transparency and ethical we have a common and systematic e-learning module designed for all new business practice and we hope to see approach to Code of Conduct training; white collar employees. This module more reports coming in. represents the next step in our journey • Create awareness of our Core Values towards enabling good business practices. Addressing issues reported in and the Code of Conduct amongst ‘Speak Up’ our employees; Customer contract In 2016, we received 107 ‘Speak Up’ risk management reports through the system or through • Instil and reinforce our strong Customer contracts over a certain moneother communication channels of company culture; tary value are subject to approval by the which 12 cases were escalated to the Board of Directors transaction committee, ISS Group’s Business Integrity Commit• Fulfil compliance requirements of others by our executive group managetee (BIC) for further investigation. As in customers, authorities and stakement, some by regional managers. This is previous years, the majority of reports holders of ISS as part of our an important process to manage our risks concern local human resources issues, Value Proposition. – financial or reputational – and these which are outside the scope of the processes are enforced rigidly. We manage ‘Speak Up’ policy. The e-learning course covers Personal our customers’ contracts risks through the Conduct, Anti-Corruption & Bribery, risk assessment tool, CRAM and we conThese reports were forwarded to the Competition Law, ISS Global People tinuously adjust the scope of our processes relevant local departments for further Standards, Corporate Responsibility and to target key categories of contracts and investigation and action. Speak Up Policy. The course ends with a to understand our contract base. final quiz that course participants need The 12 cases that were escalated to the to pass with 80% correct answers in What we did in 2016 ISS Group’s Business Integrity Committee order to obtain a certificate. ‘Speak Up’ (BIC) for further investigation concerned Our Whistle blower system has been matters of conflict of interest, violations The e-learning module will be rolled running since 2013. During 2016, we of Group Accounting Policy, misapproout in a phased approach in 2017 to decided to improve and expand the system priation of funds and kick-backs. relevant employees. 36 PROFIT Raúl Pinto Chaparro ISS Chile PROFIT 37 Overview of 2016 business integrity framework and activities SUBJECT area POLICIES AND TOOLS IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES 2016 Behaviour Code of Conduct established in 2003 and Code of Conduct is Developed e-learning training by anyone revised in 2013. Areas covered: Personal referenced in all documodule that will be rolled out working for, Conduct of Employees; Anti-Corruption mentation of contractual in 2017 supplying and Bribery; Compliance with Competirelationships: suppliers, or representtion Laws; Business Partner Relations; customers and employees ing ISS Work place Standards; Corporate Responsibility Competition Competition Law policy adopted in 2014. Policy communicated In 2016, 430 people completed law Concerns risks such as: information sharand e-learning based e-learning based competition law ing with competitors; market behaviour training offered to training, from a targeted audience which might be perceived as price fixing; relevant staff of leadership, sales and procureguidelines for participation in industry ment that might have an impact in associations; how to handle inspections this area by authorities Anti-corruption Building on the ISS Code of Conduct, the E-learning training 2016 was a year where we repeated ISS Anti-Corruption policy was established programme available in training in anti-corruption according in 2010. It states: six languages. Training to our three-year cycle. Therefore, • ISS is against any form of corruption of relevant staff, both a total of 1,149 people completed and bribery and is committed to comas stand-alone requiretraining in anti-corruption in 2016 bat such practices; ments and as part of the including all top managers at ISS • ISS competes for business on fair terms training programme: (approximately 400 managers) and solely on the merits of its services; • ISS Advantage • Regardless of local practice, any (leadership). personal payments, kickbacks or bribes • Training repeated between ISS and customers, suppliers every three years or public servants are strictly prohibited; • It is unacceptable to receive gifts or other gratuities from business partners; – unless customary in the environment, of modest nominal value and serves a business purpose Contractual Established Negotiation and Contract Web-based tool to Revised our large customer contract risks Process Framework and contract risk assess contract risks. approval process and established assessment tool, CRAM Applied in the contract threshold for approval escalation approval process Access to Whistle blower system established in 2013. The system was We received 107 reports through remediation It is a reporting channel for raising serious re-launched in 2016 the ‘Speak Up’ system in 2016. and sensitive concerns guaranteeing all as the ‘Speak Up’ The vast majority were matters that persons making complaints in good faith system and is open to did not meet the eligibility criteria protection from reprisals or retaliation all our stakeholders and (serious and sensitive concern) to available on our corpobe processed under the Whistle rate website blower policy. The Business Integrity Committee investigated 12 matters in 2016 38 REVIEW STATEMENT Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report To Management and broader stakeholders obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engageof ISS A/S ment. Considering the risk of material error, we planned and We have reviewed the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report performed our work to obtain all information and explanations (‘the report’), which covers ISS’s global activities from 1 January necessary to support our conclusion. to 31 December 2016, to provide limited assurance that: We performed our on-site review at the ISS A/S Head Office in • all “People” data, “Planet” data, and “Income tax paid by Denmark in December 2016 and in February 2017. We have employees” on page 12 and 13 in the report, have been not performed site visits or interviewed external stakeholders. stated in accordance with the reporting criteria; We have not performed any assurance procedures on baseline data, economic or financial data, except for reported “Income • the report has been prepared in accordance with the requiretax by employees”. We have not performed assurance procements of sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial dures on forward-looking statements, such as targets and Statements Act (FSA) and the requirements of UN Global expectations, or on individual case stories disclosed in the report. Compact Policy on Communicating Progress principles; Consequently, we draw no conclusion on these statements. • the report has been prepared in accordance with the reportConsidering the risk of material error, we planned and performed ing criteria defined in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) our work so as to obtain all information and explanations necesSustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (GRI G4: In sary to support our conclusion. We used the ISS Group Health Accordance – Core level). Safety and Environment and Corporate Responsibility Data Reporting Manual and other internal reporting manuals together We express a conclusion providing limited assurance. with GRI reporting criteria as an appropriate basis for our engagement. Our procedures included the following: Management’s responsibility Management of ISS A/S is responsible for collecting, analysing, • Reviewing ISS’s processes for determining material issues to aggregating and presenting the information in the report enbe included in the report and challenging the material text suring that data are free from material misstatement, whether statements in the report; due to fraud or error. • Reviewing the processes, tools, systems and controls for Auditor’s responsibility gathering, consolidating and aggregating data at group level Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion and performing analytical review procedures and obtaining based on our engagement with Management and in accordadditional explanations of data performance from both ance with the agreed scope of work. We have conducted our group functions and from selected country sites; work in accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Informa• Interviewing management staff across various group function and additional requirements under Danish audit regulation tions, including internal audit and accounting; to obtain limited assurance about whether the selected CR data in the report are free from material misstatement. • Inspecting internal and external documentation (including policies, action plans, and media coverage) to verify the extent Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisions-partnerselskab is subject to to which they support the information included in the report; International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordingly, applies a comprehensive quality control system, including • Evaluating the overall presentation of the report, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with consistency of information; ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the inde• Reviewing the report for adherence to the requirements of pendence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act for Professional Accountants issued by FSR – Danish Auditors (FSA) and the requirements of UN Global Compact Policy on (Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants), which are based Communicating Progress; on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and profes• Reviewing the report for adherence to the GRI principles for sional behaviour. defining report content and ensuring report quality and the G4 disclosure requirements. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the Conclusion level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been causes us not to believe that: REVIEW STATEMENT 39 • all “People” data, “Planet” data, and “Income tax paid by Copenhagen, 21 February 2017 employees” on page 12 and 13 in the report, have been stated in accordance with the reporting criteria; Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab • the report has been prepared in accordance with the requireCentral Business Registration No. 33 96 35 56 ments of sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) and the requirements of UN Global Compact Policy on Communicating Progress; • the report has been prepared in accordance with the principles and reporting criteria defined in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 Kirsten Aaskov Mikkelsen Marie Voldby (GRI G4: In Accordance – Core level). State-Authorised Public Accountant Lead Reviewer Auditor’s Observations regarding the GRI Reporting Principles Materiality and sustainability context examples of how ISS has responded to their concerns. The company’s 2016 Global People Standards, leadership programmes, This report reflects ISS’s ongoing commitment to ensuring and re-launch of its whistle-blower system exemplify the commitresponsible business practices and to the steady expansion of ment to ensuring globally consistent standards and mechanisms corporate initiatives to uphold its governance and risk managefor engagement. ment approach. The topics presented align with Management’s understanding of ISS’s material Corporate Responsibility risks Accuracy and reliability and the global sustainability context in which ISS operates. ISS continues to look to international standards such as ISO 26000 ISS continues to strengthen its internal data collection and conand SA8000 for benchmarking its performance. trol procedures, e.g. through increased frequency of reporting environmental and safety data, which is resulting in improved data Comparability, completeness and timeliness quality. We continue to find Management to be highly committed to ongoing improvement of data accuracy and reliability. Quantitative information is presented such that stakeholders may analyse changes in performance over time against targets, Recommendations to Management and reporting principles drawn from the Group Health Safety and Environment and Corporate Responsibility Data Reporting We have submitted a number of observations and recommenManual are clearly explained. The boundary and publication dations to Management of ISS, which include: date of the report is the same as the annual report, providing timely disclosure to all stakeholders on ISS’s Corporate Respon• When transitioning to the new GRI Standards in 2017, sibility performance. Within the reporting boundary and scope consider validating an updated materiality assessment with defined by the report, we have not found any significant omisexternal stakeholders. sions of important information. • In next year’s report, consider showing more directly how Clarity and balance ISS’s operations contribute towards realising the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and how the company’s business The report provides a transparent and balanced presentation objectives tie into selected global goals. of the company’s 2016 Corporate Responsibility performance, highlighting challenges and dilemmas faced within its own • Consider making a number of governance documents operations and the broader facility services industry. available on the global company website to address the increased public interest from e.g. investors, analysts and Stakeholder inclusiveness observers in ISS’s Corporate Responsibility performance. The report presents a concise overview of stakeholder engagement activities undertaken globally and locally in 2016, especially with employees and customers, and provides relevant 40 PRINCIPLES AND COMPLIANCE Reporting Principles and Compliance This report, the sixth comprehensive is a tool for implementing international requirements of their work i.e. to meet Corporate Responsibility report prepared labour standards to protect employees. a particular business need, including by ISS, covers activities under our operapool vehicles. Personal company cars tional control in the calendar year 2016. This is the statutory report on corporate are excluded. The scope is all countries and assets that social responsibility cf.§99 a and §99 b are under ISS operational control and of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Number of vehicle accidents are any include all employees (ISS employees, “contact” made between a vehicle and temporary workers and contract personThe reporting furthermore serves to another vehicle, person or other object, nel). Our employee engagement survey fulfil our obligation to Communicate on regardless of whether there is property was offered to employees that have Progress (CoP) as required by the UNGC. damage or personal injury, but excluding: worked for at least three months and In addition, it fulfils the requirements of work at least 10 hours a week and were the UK Modern Slavery Act. • damage to vehicle while it is parked not on leave of absence. In 2016, we in a legitimate parking area; have not added new data parameters. Internal guidelines For divestments, data was included up As a basis for our reporting, ISS developed • environmental damage (e.g. hail to the time of the divestment taking a Group HSE and CR Reporting Manual in storms, damage from wind, etc.); effect and not thereafter. We have 2010 to provide reporting principles and focused on improving the quality of our rules to ensure a consistent basis for • vandalism, break-ins; or data. We have implemented a mandareporting. This Manual is reviewed and tory HSE@ISS-IT system for countries updated yearly. • stone chips. to report and investigate incidents in a systematic approach. To further ensure The Manual specifies the data that shall Electricity consumption was calculated improvements in the quality of data, be available for monitoring performance from utility invoices or meters. Fuel conwe have also held webinars with counand for reporting on corporate responsisumption was calculated using fuel purtries to explain the data parameters. bility issues at Group level. chases e.g. invoices from the supplier. However, we are on a journey of contiBusiness travel emissions were calculated nuous improvement in terms of quality Number of employees are the total numfrom data received from travel agencies of our data. ber of headcount full-time and part-time and where this was not possible, emisaveraged over the 12 month reporting sions were calculated on flight type External principles period. Full-time employees are defined (short haul, medium haul, long haul), and guidelines as employees who work a minimum passenger kilometres travelled and emisWe have designed our reporting to be of 30 hours a week for ISS. Number of sion factors from recognised bodies. in line with G4 Sustainability Reporting employees are specified into front-line Guidelines by the Global Reporting and white collar employees. The source for emission factors for Initiative (GRI), the world’s most widely electricity and fuel was the International used sustainability reporting framework. Hours of training are hours spent by Energy Agency’s CO2 emissions from fuel We have chosen to be in accordance internal and external trainers and hours combustion (2016 edition). with the ‘Core’ option. An overview of spent by participants while preparing the GRI standard disclosures included in and participating. This includes any Changes and future outlook this report can be found in the tables on training participation, paid or unpaid, As we have done in 2016, we will continue the following pages. as a result of employment within ISS. on improving the quality of our data in 2017. In 2016, we started calculating We have also used the ISO Standard ISO Incidents of discriminations are the environmental data four times a year, an 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility number of incidents of discrimination increase from two times a year. In 2017, and the Danish Standard DS 49001 on grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, we will increase the reporting of safety ‘Social responsibility management system political opinion, national extraction, or data from quarterly to monthly. – Requirements’ as a basis of our analysocial origin as defined by ILO. sis and reporting. Number of vehicles are all company In addition, we also work with the prinvehicles: a vehicle that is owned or ciples of SA8000 pertaining to labour leased by the company and provided to and human rights. The SA8000 Standard an employee in order to carry out the PRINCIPLES AND COMPLIANCE 41 Hatice Ciftci ISS Belgium 42 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables GRI Disclosures The following tables provides an overview of the GRI standard disclosures included in the report. The tables shows the indicator, the topic and the page (s) the topic is covered in the report. General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis Page G4-1 Letter to our Stakeholders 2 Organisational Profile G4-3 Organisation’s name Inside cover G4-4 Primary products and services Inside cover G4-5 Headquarter location Inside cover G4-6 Number of countries where ISS operates and countries Inside cover with significant operations G4-7 Ownership nature and legal form Annual Report G4-8 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors, types of Inside cover customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of organisation Inside cover G4-10 Employee numbers Inside cover G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 27 bargaining agreements G4-12 Supply chain description 11 G4-13 Significant changes in operations, capital structure or Annual Report suppliers during the reporting period G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle 30 G4-15 External commitments Annual Report G4-16 Memberships of associations Annual Report GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES 43 General Standard Disclosures Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Page G4-17 List of company entities and exclusions Annual Report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and implementation 6 G4-19 List of material aspects 6 G4-20 Report aspect boundary internally 6 G4-21 Report aspect boundary externally 6 G4-22 Effect of and reason for restatements 13 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting in terms of scope 40 and aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 8 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders engaged 6 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8 G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement and 6, 8 company response Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 40 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle 40 G4-31 Contact point Back cover G4-32 GRI reporting option, content index and external assurance reporting 40 G4-33 Assurance 38, 39 governance Page G4-34 Governance structure and responsibilities 8 ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as 9 codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-58 Reporting mechanisms 8, 9 44 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES Jonathan Hamilton ISS United Kingdom GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES 45 general Standard Disclosures aspects in G4 short description of Indicator G4 Page (see G4 documents for precise title) indicator Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed G4-EC1 13 Energy Energy consumption within organisation G4-EN3 13, 31 Reduction in energy requirements G4-EN7 13 Water Water withdrawal G4-EN8 13 Emissions Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) G4-EN15 13 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) G4-EN16 13 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) G4-EN17 13 Reductions of GHG emissions G4-EN19 13, 30, 31, 32 Mitigation of environmental impacts G4-EN27 32 Compliance Significant fines and sanctions G4-EN29 30 Supplier Environmental New suppliers screened G4-EN32 11 Assessment Negative impacts identified G4-EN33 11 Labour/Management Notice periods for operational changes G4-LA4 28 Relations Occupational Health Work-related injuries, fatalities, etc. G4-LA6 12, 15, 19 and Safety Risk of occupational diseases G4-LA7 21 Health & Safety in formal union agreements G4-LA8 26, 28 Training and Education Hours of training G4-LA9 13 Longterm skills management G4-LA10 19 Career development reviews G4-LA11 It is mandatory for all employees; however, we cannot report on all completed data as some are completed on hard copies and registered in files and we are still working on collecting the data. 46 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures aspects in G4 short description of Indicator G4 Page (see G4 documents for precise title) indicator Diversity Diversity of employees and governance bodies G4-LA12 27 Supplier New suppliers screened G4-LA14 9, 11 Assessment for Labour Practices Negative impacts identified G4-LA15 9, 11 Non-discrimination Incidents and corrective actions G4-HR3 27 Freedom of Violations of rights G4-HR4 24, 26, pages 37-39 Association & of the Group Annual Collective Bargaining Report 2016 Child Labour Risk and measures taken G4-HR5 9, 11 Forced Labour Risk and measures taken G4-HR6 9, 11 Assessment Operations assessed for human rights G4-HR9 21, 22, 29 Supplier Human Rights New suppliers screened G4-HR10 11 Assessment Negative impacts identified G4-HR11 11 Human Rights Grievance Register of grievances G4-HR12 37, 38 Mechanisms Anti-corruption Operations assessed for risks G4-SO3 34, pages 37-39 of the Group Annual Report 2016 Communication and training G4-SO4 34, 35, 37 Incidents and actions taken G4-SO5 34, 35 Product Responsibility Customer satisfaction G4-PR5 8 GRI AND UNGC COMPLIANCE TABLES 47 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) The following table provide an overview of the UNGC principles and the page (s) the principle is covered in the report. united nations global compact (UNGC) Human rights page Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the 3 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in 8, 21 human rights abuses. labour standards Read more on page Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 26 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 9, 11, 29 compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 9, 11, 29 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in 27 respect of employment and occupation. environment Read more on page Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 30 approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater 30 environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion 31 of environmentally-friendly technologies. anti-corruption Read more on page Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption 34, 35 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Solehun Hermanto ISS Indonesia Ifrah MUhamed ISS Denmark Share your opinion We welcome your feedback as it is an important part of our dialogue with our stakeholders. You are welcome to contact Joseph Nazareth, Head of Group HSEQ and CR at +45 3817 0000 or write to us at: Head of Group HSEQ and CR ISS A/S, Buddingevej 197 2860 Søborg, Denmark ISS A/S www.issworld.com
