Table of Contents primalgroup.com Table of Contents 1 WELCOME MESSAGE FROM ANTHONY J. ARCHER ................................................ ............ 2 OUR COMPANY .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ................................................................................. 3 THE NEEM TREE .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .................................................................... ............ 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGESS 2017 ............................................................................ 6 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL COMPACT ............................................................................................................ 6 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ........................................................................................................................... 7 LABOUR PRINCIPLES ..................................................................................................................................... 10 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES .......................................................................................................................... 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ................................................................................................................... 19 WHERE WE STAND TODAY .. .. .. .. .. .. ..................................................................... .......... 2 0 SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT PARTNERSHIP ................................................................................................ 21 THE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE INITIATIVE ............................................................................................. 22 THE ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT PLAN ........................................................................................... 25 THE CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP ................................................................ 26 A FINAL WORD .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .............................................................................. 2 9 CONTACT . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ............................................................................... 3 0 Welcome Message from Anthony J. Archer primalgroup.com Welcome Message from Anthony J. Archer 2 It is with determination and a great sense of purpose that I At a time when society is demanding stronger leadership and reaffirm Primal Group’s commitment to the Ten Principles social responsibility, the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda must be of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of seen as an opportunity, not just as a responsibility. We have Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption.This the knowledge, capacity and resources to transform our Communication on Progress Report accounts for Primal world in order to build a prosperous future for everyone on Group’s actions accomplished to ensure the highest level of the planet. We are committed to investing in solutions that adherence to these principles. improve the lives of billions. Since inception, we have committed to being an exemplary In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our organization specializing in impact investments projects. We actions to continually improve the integration of the UN work to identify, invest and develop sustainable solutions that Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, support exponential growth and development for the culture and daily operations.. growing global population. Sincerely, “Doing Good for the World, by Doing Good Business”, encompasses the three pillars of sustainability—People, Anthony J. Archer Planet, and Profit. With this triple bottom line, we consider Chairman & Chief Executive Officer human, economic, and environmental spheres across our Primal Group entire value-chain as we develop our projects and solutions, manage our operations and drive interactions with our investors, partners, and local communities. Our criteria for project selection incorporates social, environmental and economic factors at every level, ensuring that our projects have the ability to offer innovation and profound development at all levels for stakeholders. primalgroup.com Our Company 3 OUR Our COMPANY Company The Primal Group of Companies is dedicated to establishing itself as a lead organization, driving change to create a more tenable future for our planet by ensuring environmental protection, social responsibility and value-creation for generations to come. Our current project aims to build an entirely new agricultural system based on safe, innovative and regenerative best practices. By applying the most modern agro-ecological techniques on our plantations, ranging from precision technologies, natural alternatives for crop care, precise water management, and renewable power generation, our team ensures both the permanence of natural capital and globally competitive yields. OUR VISION OUR STRATEGY We are dedicated to establishing a remarkably different future; We are implementing an entirely new agricultural system that one that restores ecosystems and protects the environment has the capacity to feed the rising demands of our growing while bringing forth innovation, prosperity, employment and population, strengthening our environment and the essential security in developing regions of the world. life elements that support humans. Our current vision is to drive a new era of sustainability Our latest venture involves the development of sustainable in agriculture that will have far-reaching benefits for all. By neem tree agricultural projects in Ceará, Brazil.This incredible offering a viable alternative to the excessive overuse of resource offers natural and innovative solutions where we synthetic chemicals across conventional agriculture, we will need them the most – across agriculture, healthcare, and help shape a new, ecologically sustainable and viable food environmental protection. system. The Neem Tree primalgroup.com The Neem Tree 4 An evergreen tree and part of the same family as Mahogany, A NATURAL SOLUTION TO neem is indigenous to Southeast Asia. The Neem tree ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (Azadirachta Indica) is a fast-growing species, which grows over 2.6 feet (80cm) every year and can reach up to 100 feet Fast growing, with a large surface biomass and thick foliage, (30 meters) when fully grown. Due to its value in sustainable neem has an impressive ability to capture carbon in the agriculture, the neem tree was identified by the United atmosphere, with a sequestration capacity of 12.27 tons per Nations as the ‘Tree of the 21st Century’. The scientific tree per year. One of the most resilient, hard wearing and interest in the tree started in the 1950s, much of it centered durable timbers on the planet, neem is an obvious choice for on the oil from the fruit. The active ingredient of the oil is protecting and restoring the environment through long-term Azadirachtin, which possesses a complex chemical structure carbon entrapment. that provides much of neem’s multitude of applications across agriculture, healthcare and environmental protection. THE ORGANIC ALTERNATIVE IN CROP CARE A SAFEGUARD FOR GLOBAL HEALTH Conventional farming’s reliance on an unsustainable amount Over 150 compounds have been isolated from the neem of water, energy, and agrochemicals is inadequate in meeting tree to date and extensive research is currently underway the needs of an exponentially increasing global population. to fully understand the many applications and benefits to Solutions ranging from organic inputs and precision modern medicine and personal healthcare. While treatments technologies are driving innovation in this field. Natural for malaria, diabetes, and cancer are areas of interest, neem and effective, neem is an organic alternative for crop care has already proven itself as a powerful and effective allthat is effective against over 600 species of pests. Neem natural cosmetic. even nourishes the soil by improving water retention and increasing its nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium, calcium, and magnesium content. primalgroup.com The Life of Neem The Neem Tree 5 Named ‘Arista’ in Sanskrit meaning ‘perfect, complete and imperishable’ Flowers The flowers are Leaves the part of the tree Containing most with fewer uses, active ingredients however, given the found in the seeds flowers’ sweet, honeybut in a much lower like smell, the flowers are concentration, the leaves used in aromatherapy are considered the most for a calming and versatile part of the tree. Now used as a pesticide, fertilizer Twigs and animal feed, the leaves Whilst used were originally used as in commercial a medicinal tea in toothpastes and Indonesia mouthwashes, twigs have most widely been used as brushes for generations in Oil India Extracted from the kernels inside the seeds, Frui t where a single seed may contain up to 50% oil by weight, the oil is recognized and valued as a safe and Seed farming. The oil has also been widely Bark studied due to its medicinal Kernel Neem bark contains properties and is also used spermicidal properties in a variety of cosmetic and research is undergoing products such as to approve its potential creams, soaps and use as a sexual shampoos contraceptive for both women and men Cake After the seeds have been pressed for oil, the Roots resulting by-product is the neem cake. Neem cake is The roots of a neem used across the agriculture medicinal properties due pesticide, fertilizer and to being antiseptic, anti-bacterial, anti-fungal antibacterial, anti fungal organic alternative to and germicidal. They antibiotics in livestock are also used as a pesticide and to control fleas and ticks on pets Neem-based organic All parts of the neem tree can be used Containing a high level against 600 insect species. for the treatment of antioxidants, neem is As a fertilizer, neem also of inflammation, used in organic soaps, reduces soil alkalinity and infection, fever and shampoos and hydrating ensures optimum fertility skin diseases creams Pesticide Medicine Cosmetics Neem is used as an organic Neem improves the Derived from the and nutritional supplement nutritional value of the mahogany family, soil while protecting Neem is an extremely internal nematodes plant roots from pests durable wood ideal as a and diseases construction material Cattle feed Fertilizer Timber Communication on Progress 2017 primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 6 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL COMPACT Primal Group’s mission sprung from the recognition of Since adoption, the Ten Principles of the Global Compact challenges to improve our planet’s environment and global and SDG’s have been incorporated into our holistic business health. As a result, the concern for the sustainability across strategy. We are continually analyzing areas of opportunity has been at the core of our business strategy since inception. and improvement for an even more efficient pursuance of Advancements in communications and experience along these goals. with our adherence to the Global Compact initiative have undoubtedly improved our actions towards sustainability and In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our social responsibility. actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Compact and its principles. It is with determination As supporters of the UN Global Compact since 2015, and a great sense of purpose that Primal Group reaffirms Primal Group has sought to provide a universal and practical its commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations framework for all of its offices around the world.The aim has Global Compact regarding the areas of Human Rights, Labor, been to ensure that our business strategy was intrinsically Environment, and Anti-Corruption. aligned with socially responsible goals, creating business value not only for profit, but for people and the planet as a triple bottom line. Geographic Presence Neem Trees Planted Over 316,160 USA Brazil Mexico UK Nationalities Carbon Sequestration Capability O2 British Brazilian Mexican 3,879,283 American Spanish German CO 2 tons per year primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 7 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 1st Principle Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2nd Principle Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses We are firm believers in the profound opportunity corporate • Article 22 Everyone has the human right to social social responsibility has in creating value for all stakeholders. As security and to the realization of the economic, social and a company, fundamental human needs and rights are a critical cultural rights indispensable for dignity. part of our Primal philosophy that focuses on value creation, sustainability, and long-lasting success. We are committed to • Article 23 Everyone has the human right to work, to just protecting and assuring every human right as essential to all conditions of work, to protection against unemployment, members of the communities we engage. During the last to equal pay for equal work, to sufficient pay to ensure a year, Primal Group has maintained a commitment to the dignified existence for one’s self and one’s family, and the United Nations Global Compact Principles related to human human right to join a trade union. rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights via in-house management. Through our policies and practices, • Article 24 Everyone has the human right to rest and we are reinforcing the compliance and defense of every leisure. fundamental human right. Our in-situ work has improved the following primary human rights: • Article 25 Everyone has the human right to a standard of living adequate for health and well-being, including • Article 2 Everyone is entitled to the same human food, clothing, housing, medical care and necessary social rights without discrimination of any kind. services. • Article 18 Everyone has the human right to freedom • Article 29 Everyone has duties to the community. of thought, conscience, and religion. We are also in the process of implementing formalized due • Article 19 Everyone has the human right to freedom diligence processes that cover our corporate relationships of opinion and expression. and will help identify and prevent any possible human rights risks. We are confirming that our business processes, salaries, • Article 20 Everyone has the human right to peaceful conditions, and main functions protect and enhance the assembly and association. aforementioned rights. primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 8 Another important aspect of rural life in Brazil is nutrition. Working in Northeast Brazil means a hot and humid climate throughout the year, and we ensure our employees receive a nutritious meal every working day containing a selection of the five major food groups. This measure is only the first step to achieve food security through the promotion of sustainable agriculture. Our next phase is the implementation of a nutrition and healthcare program tailored to local needs in the communities we work in. Over the course of this year, we at Primal Group have maintained our commitment to Human Rights via the development of initiatives that have created the following policies: • Responsible and transparent activities across all levels of our business operations, demonstrating respect and support for all employees and business partners. • Regular monitoring and reporting on our progress in upholding Human Rights across all parts of the business. • Engagement with local communities involving outreach, educational programs and voluntary initiatives that support human rights. We have started to upgrade our facilities and infrastructure to ensure employees are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We have finished the construction of 5 new support sites across our plantations in Brazil. These facilities enable our agricultural employees to access support stations throughout our projects, with toilets, access to clean water and a space for refuge during breaks. To safeguard our workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats, we have implemented a complaint mechanism. Anonymous suggestion boxes obtain complaints, comments, and requests from our workers.This action allows Primal Group to offer a secure work environment, free from fears and with zero tolerance for abuse or discriminations. Every complaint is submitted to a process of review and verification by the General Manager to assure we are fulfilling our duty to eliminate discrimination, harassment, and victimization at our company. However, knowing prevention is as much part of the solution, we are using our monthly integration sessions for personal and social development alongside the promotion of all human rights. primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 9 Primal’s suggestion box is a complaint mechanism to safeguard our team from workplace harassment or discrimination. We have implemented measures to safeguard the health and wellWe continue to promote the power of inclusion and diversity. In being of our workers. As part of our leisure, we dedicate 20 minutes 2017, we have encouraged the women of our teams to pursue per day to recreational activities like yoga or stretching exercises. careers in agriculture, engineering and finance across our projects. Our plantation workers enjoy a positive work environment due to our principles of increasing motivation and a good relationship with all stakeholders. primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 10 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 3rd Principle Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4th Principle The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5th Principle The effective abolition of child labour Primal Group is committed to safeguarding, promoting, and a voluntary process through which employers and workers guaranteeing respect for workers’ rights across our locations discuss and negotiate their relations, in particular terms and around the world. This commitment has been reinforced conditions of work. For our business, these two principles are with the effective and efficient actions we have defended based on constructive negotiations and collective agreements and implemented since our inception. that guarantee benefits and good working conditions for our plantation workers. Our goal is to be regarded as a positive influence for the local economy and community.The efforts of our company on the One of the most important benefits we offer is the matter have ensured a regular supply of strong members of remuneration provided to our workers, which is above local staff as the growth of our agricultural projects to over 1,000 standards. The establishment of our employee’s salaries is hectares under management calls for an ever-growing head above minimum wage, with regular performance reviews count on the ground. and opportunities for advancement and career progression. These conditions are securing a continuous workforce for We uphold the freedom of association by promoting the the company and low turnover rates of staff show our dialogue with trade unions and other groups, to protect the success in creating a supportive working environment. occupational interests of our workers. At the same time, Primal Group recognizes the right to collective bargaining as primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 11 Mr. Magnum Pereira, agronomy expert, giving a talk about the reduce-reuse-recycle culture to our plantation workers during our monthly integration and training sessions. In accordance with our philosophy, we are driving change introductory document is handed to every employee and at all levels when talking about the creation of a more new member of the team as part of our internal training sustainable future. This effort starts with the staff we employ materials to develop knowledge and improve their skills and the education we provide them to understand the beyond their job. importance of our mission, and the difference it can make on the local community all the way to our global food supply. As a green and sustainable company, we have taken We are proud to offer additional benefits such as training, measures to eliminate synthetic ingredients or inputs educational events and monthly leisure sessions where we that could harm or threaten wildlife, natural resources or promote awareness and training for our employees on human life during usage or disposal. This practice includes environmental issues and social development. the mandatory policy of providing every plantation worker with full protective equipment and uniform to carry out their The company works to promote the elimination of forced activities minimizing injuries while fulfilling daily operations. labor, child labor and employment discrimination accordingly with the second principle of the International Labor And last but not least, we require our business partners and Organization (ILO) Declaration. As part of our Corporate suppliers to adhere to the Labor principles we defend in Leadership, key members of our team have attended several order to trigger a snowball effect in the local community workshops and ILO International Conventions during the to change the prevailing working culture through one last months to promote and accelerate the fulfillment of the that’s defined by international principles and ideologies and principles the convention works for across all of our projects. benefits both the company and the employees. As part of this venture, we have identified our existing gaps in relation to the Declaration and strengthened our commitment by developing our very own working policy. This written policy is known as the Fazenda Pack, which states employee’s rights, responsibilities and benefits. This primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 12 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 7th Principle Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8th Principle Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9th Principle Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Understanding the major principles for safe, effective and working in tune with the full spectrum of beneficial insects sustainable crop care is essential for creating an evolved and pollinators keep our need for agricultural inputs down agricultural system that focuses on productivity in the long to a minimum. Even when these are needed, we ensure all term. Our greatest challenge is to transform the archaic inputs are naturally derived and have no detrimental impact system of modern agriculture into one that guarantees on the environment. Moreover as a fast growing tree with the nutritional needs of all are met in a safe, healthy and a large surface biomass and thick foliage, neem has an sustainable way. In order to achieve this objective, we at impressive ability to capture carbon in the atmosphere with Primal continuously preserve and restore critical habitats, a sequestration capacity of 12.27 tons per tree per year. carefully manage our resource supply and naturally improve the condition of the environment in which we operate. To actively drive greater environmental responsibility, we Primal Group secures high yields, protects soil productivity have implemented unique sustainable strategies that improve and maintains environmental quality in the long term through our production processes and guarantee environmental expert understanding of sustainable agricultures. protection. These efforts are focused on plantation management techniques, renewable energy, waste, and water As business innovators aiming to revolutionize the way our management as well as wildlife restoration world produces food, we are proponents of replacing existing methods that focus on short-termism and yields at all costs. A healthy soil, ecosystem and a wealth of microorganisms primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 13 SUSTAINABLE PLANTATION TECHNIQUES A balanced ecosystem maintains equilibrium with what we the ground. This keeps the native plants alive and provides call pests and plagues. Proper nutrition absorption depends biomass to reintegrate into the soil, adding minerals and on a diversity of microorganisms, from almost every life nourishing the microorganisms beneath the surface. kingdom. With this embedded deep within our agronomic strategy, we implement a variety of sustainable practices. Precision crop care In order to reduce the use of pesticides and fertilizers, we Intercropping utilize precision agriculture to applying crop care. For fertilizer Monocultures are one of the most damaging practices in and nutrition needs, we examine the soil in several locations to conventional agriculture. The lack of any other vegetation truly understand our needs and create correction strategies. but the chosen crop creates an imbalance that deteriorates We use drone imagery to detect pest populations while the soil and promotes large-scale pest infestation. We are still in their early stages, as well as providing comprehensive currently implementing agroforestry and permaculture training to all the members of the team that supervise and practices at our plantations,. These include cover crops to care for our trees. All these strategies significantly reduce our reduce the water evaporation and soil erosion, as well as need to apply natural and organic solutions. However, when mixed forests to incorporate other types of trees and shrubs we do, most are applied using fertigation methods, allowing amongst our neem trees, thus attracting a diversity of wildlife us to measure and deliver the exact amount of product for and microorganisms. each of our trees. Low till land clearing To complement this practice, our agronomists are constantly Tilling promotes erosion and destroys root systems of native in touch with local and state universities, as well as renowned plants and shrubs. Instead, we only clear a circle around the research institutes like EMBRAPA to continually learn and trees to avoid competition and ensure proper nutrition. In improve our practices and achieve our joint goals. between the lines, we cut overgrown plants 3 cm above primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 14 WATER MANAGEMENT One of the most significant developments regarding Precision Irrigation System infrastructure this year was the strengthening of our on-site We have invested in an irrigation management system to water resources through the reinforcements of our ecotransport water to our crops efficiently and reduce waste. damn and the modernization of our irrigation system: With this system, we can improve the use of water by monitoring its application across our fields. This precision Eco-Dam water delivery system helps us conserve water and make Since the unprecedented three-year drought in Brazil, we sustainability a priority in our farming operations. The have increased the water-holding capacity of our eco-dam by adoption of this new technology allows us to save water nearly 30% to 1,000,000 m3. Our newly expanded reservoir for the dry season and reduce the environmental impacts of will now hold over 1 billion liters of water, complemented mismanaging this resource. with a dynamic bleeder that will enable us to change the water level depending on our needs and the time of year. This has been an essential resource for sustaining our crops throughout the year. primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 15 RENEWABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY The energy necessary for growing and harvesting crops we have created our own Zero Carbon Footprint Plan. is usually one of the most expensive and environmentally We intend to remove our reliance on the Brazilian National damaging factors of managing agricultural farmland. Rather Grid for our energy needs, offering a sustainable way to than relying on non-renewable fuels to meet our projects’ fulfill our energy requirements necessary for running largeenergy demands, we are developing the capacity to harness scale agricultural projects through renewable sources. We clean power across our projects wherever possible. have successfully implemented the first phase of this plan with our solar energy that has the potential to generate Our ultimate objective is to utilize 100% renewable energy up to 42.3-megawatt hours per year at full capacity, which on our agricultural projects while eliminating our demand currently represents 20% of our annual energy consumption. for fossil fuel energy generation. We are developing the With theses actions, we are supporting the trends towards capacity to harness the lasting and clean power of renewable renewable and sustainable energy sources. energy resources across our projects; to achieve this goal primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 16 WASTE MANAGEMENT As an alternative to the conventional disposal of waste, or ensure a safe final disposal. The employee responsible for we are implementing a new ‘reduce-reuse-recycle’ culture the biggest PET recollection is recognized and rewarded, then across our projects in Brazil to optimise waste recovery and encouraged to maintain and promote this practice. Besides encourage recycling practices This culture is being developed teaching the community about how reducing, reusing, and through two specific measures: recycling can benefit their community and the environment by saving money, energy, and natural resources, we are giving Waste Recycling these bottles a second use across our plantations through For the few months of 2017, we have been working with the following practices: ECO+, a local company specialized in collection and recycling of waste.This company has been working to collect, transport and recycle our disposals in a sustainable way. The Pest Control goal is not only to preserve the local environment, but to To naturally control our pests, we are designing traps with ensure that our waste does not become trash somewhere the plastic bottles we collect. This harmless technique allows else. Since the implementation of this new practice, we have us to control and reduce populations of insects across our collected over 20 m³ of recyclable waste, which are being plantations. processed to convert into new materials and objects. Recycled Bottle Greenhouse Plastic Challenge We are using these bottles in the structure of our greenhouse Plastic pollution is one of the greatest challenges facing our for the ceiling and the walls to raise the temperature, reduce current generation, so we actively decided to contribute costs and protect the smaller sized plants from strong winds. towards solutions to this growing problem. Firstly, we analyzed all the packaging of our inputs. From bags to To ensure we are at the highest level of expertise in these buckets, and bottles, each was discussed and where possible areas, we have sought local experts to guide us through laws, modified. Over 50% of our main agricultural inputs no longer customs and cultural nuances. Our consultant, SS Projetos, come in polluting packaging but in bulk. In case safety rules function as a guide to keep us innovating and integrating prevent bulk packaging options, plastics are consciously both in our projects and the communities we impact. We reused or disposed by dedicated companies that share our have started seeing the results of these efforts during last philosophies regarding waste management and recycling. month’s collection when our most committed member of the team gathered nearly 1,000 pet bottles. This initiative is Furthermore, given the enormity of the challenge we already permeating through our local community and set to decided to take this beyond our gates and into the homes expand in outreach over coming months. of our employees. PET DRIVE’s goal is to collect the biggest quantity of PET bottles, then reuse them across the plantation Mr. Changas and his family collected around 1,000 PET bottles as part of our new recycling initiative. Their outstanding performance made them winners of a food hamper. primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 17 WILDLIFE RESTORATION This project has the main goal to restore, conserve, manage Protected Areas. Protected areas are essential to the and enhance the local fauna of the region, to guarantee maintenance of local ecosystems. 20% of all our land has the harmony between our planted trees and the local been carefully selected to be left untouched and create the environment. The project is driven mainly through our Bee most efficient refuge for local flora and fauna. We have an the Cause initiative and the establishment of protected area totalling over 200 hectares that is preserved from our areas within our plantations. own activities as well as from local poaching. Hunting, fishing, and woodcutting are strictly forbidden in this area. Bee the Cause. Primal Group has implemented bee colonies on-site to study neem’s effect on bees and the honey Another impactful practice is to protect and, when necessary, produced by pollinating neem flowers. We have partnered regenerate areas along water bodies. Rivers, lakes, lagoons with the Federal University of Ceará, inviting students and and any other water mass within our lands have a 15-30 professionals onto our plantations to study the viability of meter buffer zone. These areas are left with closed native neem as a natural pesticide and fertilizer which functions in vegetation to provide safe access for birds and animals to harmony with beneficial pollinators such as bees. access water. The first stage of our long-term trial was to determine the We keep records of the bird, mammal and reptile species presence of azadirachtin in honey when neem products present in our farm. We have begun to keep track of are applied as pesticides or insecticides. The results were movement, seasonal changes, and new species. Our staff conclusive: The honey did not contain any residue of are being taught to mark and protect ground nests, while azadirachtin or any other neem oil compounds. This is great respecting all species that roam our ecosystems. From hawks news, not only for bees or other pollinators but also for all and owls to armadillos and iguanas, we motivate and bring the food chain and ecology they sustain. awareness to the importance of sharing our earth with other species. Our specialist beekeepers are responsible for taking care of the nearly 40 hives we now have implemented across the Our environmental protection policies are embedded plantation. These bee populations will increase pollination in into our philosophy and govern everything we do. We the field, strengthen the yield potential of our crops, help the are working to protect the natural environment at an all surrounding ecosystem remain diverse and sustainable, and levels through our partnerships with the community and restore wildlife through our plantations in Brazil. Our initial its authorities. These practices benefit the environment, the phase will produce 40 kg of honey and 1 kg of pollen per local population and our company while raising awareness swarm every single year at full maturity. and creating sustainable solutions to the environmental problems we face. Sustainability and regenerative practices are at the core of all our operations. primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 18 We are working with ECO+, a local company specialized in collection With our solar panels we are moving forward with our Zero Carbon and recycling of waste to preserve the local environment and avoid Footprint Plan, which will meet the energy demands of our on-site land degradation. Since the implementation of this new practice, we projects entirely through renewable means. have collected over 20 m³ of recyclable wastes per month. An overview shot of Fazenda Lagoa Grande, which shows the The bee colonies on-site are increasing pollination across our expansion of our agricultural and sustainable projects through the projects and showing how neem and bees can thrive together. Northeast of Brazil. primalgroup.com Communication on Progress 2017 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 10th Principle Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Primal Group is working for a more transparent global Contrary to popular belief, a company is not only liable for economy through the development of policies and programs its own operations. It may also be held liable for corruptive addressing all forms of corruption. We have been working behaviour on the part of its suppliers, distributors, and agents. to establish a transparency policy and practical framework That is the reason why Primal Group has established an antithat provides a code for ethical behaviour to all of our team corruption/ethics clause in every contract with our business members. partners to fight against corruption. We have developed a whistleblower channel for employees, Primal Group is working towards the creation and through a suggestion box that works as an ethics hotline implementation of a risk assessment tool to ensure that to report suspected violations or complaints, requests, and internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption from our workers. commitment to effectively manage risks. The priority for the company is to shield itself from external and internal We recognize that the risk of corruption exists in every risks to strategically manage the implementation of our own trade, business or transaction. From bribery to market corporate transparency policy. manipulation, corruption can affect every business and we are not exempt from it. As a multinational company, we In addition to our support towards the UN Global Compact’s assess the business bribery risks faced when conducting 10th principle, we are reinforcing our efforts in the area business in foreign countries and tailor compliance policies by supporting fundamental corporative Anti-Corruption to address those threats. We have a very strict policy against Principles: corruption and bribery to avoid these practices to hinder our business at a local, regional and global level. 1 Ensure best practice governance across company. 2 Operate to the highest standard of ethics and integrity. 3 Build an anti-corruption programme incorporating risk assessment. 4 Use communication and training to embed the anti-corruption programme in the company. 5 Monitor, assess and continuously improve implementation of the anti-corruption programme. Anti-Corruption 6 Manage relationships with third parties and stakeholders including anti-corruption Principles programme principles. 7 Ensure human resources policies and procedures support the anti-corruption programme. 8 Implement specific policies to counter corruption risk in core business operations. 9 Be accountable to stakeholders through transparency and public reporting. 10 Provide secure and accessible whistleblowing channels. Where we Stand Today primalgroup.com Where we Stand Today 20 The rapid depletion of natural resources, rising inequality and the threat of climate change are grand challenges for our planet. They not only compromise humankind’s future prosperity but also risk reversing human development. The United Nations Global Compact has gathered an international community of leaders from business, civil society, academia, and government to achieve sustainable development. Businesses, like ours have a profound role to play in the realization of a sustainable future. Aligning corporate strategies with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, we as corporate stakeholders are mobilizing capital to end poverty, eradicate hunger and protect the environment. Primal Group has been working for the socio-economic development of the local residents of the region of Trairí, where our plantations are established accordingly with the Global Goals of the United Nations. We aim to become a reference for the community when talking about supportive working conditions, sustainable practices and social development opportunities. Setting ambitious targets that achieve economic growth alongside sustainable development will ensure the discovery of breakthrough ideas, disrupt business-as-usual mentalities and unlock $12 trillion in new business opportunities. More than 13,000 organizations have joined the Global Compact under a shared objective. More sophisticated approaches to integrating sustainability into core business strategies are being developed around the world and these initiatives are being treated more strategically than ever before. We are fulfilling the objectives of the Leaders Summit by making global goals, local goals and establishing methodology for measuring progress. primalgroup.com Where we Stand Today 21 Founded in 2017, the Sustainable Environment Partnership THE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE is the joint initiative between Primal Group, Primordiales, INITIATIVE Unique Management, and ViTA to evolve a sustainable future through social responsibility and environmental protection. This partnership was developed as the flagship to all our efforts to implement the Sustainable Development Goals. Partnering with local schools during the first phase, our The mission of this partnership of empowering the local Sustainable Future Initiative will educate local schoolchildren community, environment and economy, soon evolved and and their families on the benefits of practicing sustainable today helps lead three specific strategies across our projects: agriculture. This educational program intends to share the latest innovations in sustainable agriculture and the significance of carefully nurturing the very ground we walk on to positively impact the local community. THE ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT THE CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY PLAN LEADERSHIP The first requirement of improving any aspect of performance We believe in sharing the responsibility and benefits of is analysis and accountability. The carbon footprint has been creating the new green revolution, one where all aspects of accepted across the world as the leading tool in calculating the people-planet-profit relationship are considered in order a company’s greenhouse gas emissions. With logistical to implement solutions to the world’s grandest challenges. and chain supply strategies, clean energy alternatives as The first stage was to promote and enable the participation well as creative offsetting tools, we have defined our goal of several members of senior staff in Global Compact events in becoming a Zero Carbon Footprint Company in the and webinars around the world. medium and long term. primalgroup.com Where we Stand Today 22 SUSTAINABLE FUTURE INITIATIVE After evaluating the socioeconomic situation in the local The project was designed to teach local students cultivation municipalities surrounding our projects in Northeast Brazil, practices that are safe, productive and applicable to all. Based we selected a local school in need of support. on the extensive benefits of sustainability in agriculture, the educational program was divided into several modules over The SFI combines traditional practices and empirical a four-month period. The topics included: agroecology, land knowledge with modern scientific techniques to teach a preparation, crop care, water management, nutrition and sustainable agricultural system through practical exercises. the dangers of conventional practices. After each module, The initiative has increased the awareness of sustainability students and teachers traveled to the Mandala Garden onand the drastic impact of traditional methodologies in site at Primal Group’s agricultural projects. Assisted by expert agriculture. The initiative has an educational program based agronomists, the students implemented the agricultural on permaculture as represented by mandala agriculture. exercise from start to finish. Covering all necessary Mandala agriculture was chosen because it is designed as a elements of sustainable crop care, these practical exercises sustenance-based farming technique, which relies on organic enabled the students to learn by example. Whether they inputs and practices that are both efficient and cost-effective. were preparing the soil, planting seeds or fertilizing crops, Its unique circular structure, alongside a rotational crop cycle students learned how to apply these agricultural practices ensures the land used retains its agricultural characteristics for future application. due to the sustainable practices adopted. primalgroup.com Where we Stand Today 23 All fruits and vegetables harvested over the next year will be intended to share the latest innovations in sustainable donated to local schools in the region, including Peixinhos, agriculture and the significance of carefully nurturing the and Mundaú, providing over 2,000 children with healthy, ground we walk on. With parents, teachers and local nutritional and pesticide-free produce for their school politicians all gathering to see the produce cultivated by lunches. Representatives from the Municipal Department of students on-site at Primal Group’s agricultural projects, the Education and the Mayor’s Office in Trairí have been actively positive impact that this initiative has had on the local following the project since inception. Impressed by its success, community and the environment is clear. they are now discussing the practicalities of implementing the Sustainable Future Initiative in additional schools across This has been an extremely exciting journey, one that will the region. no doubt strengthen knowledge of sustainable agriculture and environmental care in one of the world’s future The first class of local schoolchildren from the Ubiratan Diniz breadbaskets. By providing the resources necessary to learn Aguiar School graduated from Primal Group’s Sustainable about sustainability, Primal Group’s objective is to ensure Future Initiative earlier this year. The graduation marked that safe and innovative practices in the region will last for the successful implementation of an educational program generations. primalgroup.com Where we Stand Today 24 Over 50 students were part of the first class. They now understand the importance of protecting athe environment through organic and sustainable agriculture. Part of the team in Brazil celebrating the implementation of our The Mandala Garden is thriving due to the agro-ecological practices Initiative that teaches local students about sustainable agriculture it has been cultivated with. The produce is donated to the local and creates shared-value for the community. community and students when harvested. Our agronomists show the local children how to sustainably grow fruit and vegetables at our on-site Mandala Garden through the use of the very latest cultivation techniques. primalgroup.com Where we Stand Today 25 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT PLAN Through 2017 we analyzed our large-scale operations in discovered that adding two more strategically placed service order to determine the high carbon footprint areas and roads would reduce unnecessary fuel burn. As for our supply define strategies to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, chain, we pledge to reduce transport pollution and buy local both from within our company and from our supply chain. by sourcing over half of our agricultural inputs from suppliers Two high-risk areas were discovered and appropriate located in a 1,000 km radius by the end of 2018. responses were designed. Offsetting While we can’t completely avoid GHG emissions, we Clean and Renewable Energy can offset them. By utilizing available atmospheric CO2 The greatest concern for Green House Gasses (GHG) in photosynthesis, tree plantations provide a simple and emissions on our farm was electricity. Powering our projects effective natural ‘sink’ for manmade pollutant activities. Longand irrigation system requires over 20,000 kWh monthly. All term entrapment is key, and so is neem ́s longevity of up to available alternatives in local areas are sourced from fossil 200 years in ideal climatic conditions. fuels, which is why we set the objective of producing 100% of our electricity from renewable sources and remove our For those examining the benefits of neem plantations, the reliance on the Brazilian National Grid. Both environmentally tree ticks off many of the boxes for driving sustainability. It friendly and financially beneficial, this is a prime example of has a high rate of photosynthesis, liberates more oxygen than how the intersection of sustainability and business makes many other tree species, is able to ‘fix’ more than 14 μmol of commercial sense. CO2 m-1 sec-1, and provides a shield against other pollution components, particularly sulfur dioxide (SO2). On a dayTransportation to-day level, neem trees can tolerate high levels of carbon Transportation is also an important source of GHG emissions dioxide and sulfur dioxide, both emissions that are prevalent both within the farmland and in our purchase logistics. In a in cities with high levels of traffic. first step, in-house transportation kilometers were reduced. We analyzed the tractor routes with GPS technology and primalgroup.com Where we Stand Today 26 THE CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP This effort recognizes the need to include our employees If there is any subject they feel personally moved by, they into a global sustainable business culture, not only to may attend the event. The education is then shared within enhance the sense of adherence to the Global Compact the company to encourage greater accountability across all and the Sustainable Development Goals, but also to develop levels of the company. personal consciousness and awareness in all areas of the company. We encourage personnel in all areas of our This year, we were present at the following events: company to keep track of events and webinars carried out by the UN Global Compact and other relevant institutions. The UN Global Compact Leaders Anti-Corruption Workshop Summit Location: Fortaleza Brazil Location: New York, USA Attendees: Brazil Supervisor Attendees: CEO, CCO, VP, General Manager, and Financial Manager Mexican Global Compact Network Good Practices in Human Rights Annual Meeting Webinar Location: Mexico City, Mexico Carried out on May 30th, 2017 Attendees: General Manager and Assistant Speaker: General Manager UN Global Compact Leaders Summit primalgroup.com UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 27 UN GLOBAL COMPACT LEADERS SUMMIT Every year, the worldwide network of the Global Compact By driving a revolutionary transformation in agriculture brings together an international community of leaders through the development of regenerative systems in crop from business, civil society, academia and government to care, we help protect the environment and secure the accelerate local and global business action to achieve the UN global food supply. We also ensure the development of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through its annual our workforce and local communities in which we operate leaders’ summit. through our Sustainable Environment Partnership. Our agricultural projects naturally work towards the Sustainable This year the summit was hosted in New York City. Members Development Goal of eliminating hunger. of our management team attended the Summit as part of the community that actively works to meet the 17 Global By ensuring that sustainability is practiced across all elements Goals by the 2030 deadline. of our business, we have made significant accomplishments with a variety of goals. Our projects have strengthened Our engagement at this event reaffirmed our commitment natural resources, developed essential infrastructure, ensured to sustainable development to accelerate our positive environmental protection, offered valuable employment impact in the world. As active, participating and reporting and generated wealth. Continually driving innovation and members of the Global Compact, Primal Group engages monitoring the impact of responsible business activities, we in a variety of projects that foster a more inclusive and are committed to ensuring a more equitable and prosperous stable economy, environment and society. Our mission is future for ourselves and the rest of the world. to establish a remarkably different future; one that restores ecosystems and protects the environment, while bringing We are reinforcing our commitment to challenge the status forth innovation, prosperity and employment. quo and the business-as-usual mindset to deliver measurable impact on sustainable development. Lise Kingo, CEO & Executive Director of the United Nations Global Compact primalgroup.com UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 28 The Collective Action Workshop: “Challenges and Opportunities in Anti-Corruption” Brazil, June 2017 The Network of the Global Compact in Mexico celebrated its Annual The UN Global Compact Leaders Summit brought together an Meeting, where sustainability and environmental management were international community of leaders to accelerate business actions in the spotlight as the key principles to achieve for a true green and partnership to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. economy. Paloma Escandón, our General Manager (Brazil), in New York to focus on the challenges and opportunities to deliver measurable impacts for sustainable development. A Final Word primalgroup.com A Final Word 29 We are a socially responsible business focused accountability local communities we operate in. This guarantees the for our corporate activities. As specialists in impact fulfillment of our core mission based on the three pillars of investments and sustainable crop management, our team sustainability: People, Planet, and Profit. manages our sustainable agricultural projects to achieving the highest levels of productivity while ensuring protection Our corporate governance is a cornerstone of sustainability; fot the environment through our operations. we have established policies and management systems to support these efforts, which apply to all of our operations With environmental protection, ecological sustainability worldwide. The approach of Primal Group’s corporate and social responsibility at the core of our operations, we sustainability governance is to provoke, adapt and improve have improved local and national communities across the our planet by making commerce a force for good that will regions in which we operate. We are driven by the goal result in improved and more sustainable lives for future to positively impact the lives of over 1 billion humans generations. through the reinvention of agriculture through technological and regenerative innovation. This year we celebrated the implementation of our Zero Carbon Footprint Plan, which Utilizing a visionary and futuristic mindset, we are not in the near future will allow us to eliminate our dependency just ‘playing the game’; we are changing it. to the Brazilian energy grid and work at full capacity with renewable energy resourcesl Additionally, we are executing sustainable and social policies such as shrinking and eliminating the inequality gap for women in agriculture, while creating shared-value for the THE The EVOLUTION Evolution OF AGRICULTURE of Agriculture Ancient Agrochemicals Sustainable Oxen Pulled Plow Noria / Water Wheel Tractor Combine Harvester & Monocultures GMO Precision Agriculture Agriculture Digging Stick 4th 18th 19th 20th 9000 BC 3000 BC Century Century Century Century 2000 2010 Now Contact Us primalgroup.com Contact Us 30 For more information or feedback about the content of this document, you can contact: NAME: Paloma Escandón Matarazzo POSITION: General Manager Brazil EMAIL: pem@primordiales.com.mx NAME: Andrea Rodríguez Cobos POSITION: Social Responsibility Assistant Mexico EMAIL: arc@primordiales.com.mx info@primalgroup.com info@primordiales.com.mx
