Communication on progress Period 2016-2017 Statement of continued support by the Chief Operational Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Ecofleet reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. A major development in this last period, has been to integrate and consolidate our CSR related policies and procedures throughout our organisation by establishing a share point environment through which management and employees share knowledge and information about Ecofleet’s sustainability work. In the coming year, we continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations. Stig Lyngsie COO, Partner Ecofleet Danmark ApS ● Blokken 19 ● DK-3460 Birkerød Tlf.: +45 45 48 01 04 ● info@ecofleet.dk ● www.ecofleet.com Human Rights and Labour Policies and goals We are continuing to work actively with our policies and goals regarding human rights and labour issues. Our main goal encompasses the wellbeing of our employees and as such, we endeavour to create a stress free and comfortable working environment. Ecofleet recognises its responsibility to seek and protect human rights within our operations, throughout our value chain and in the communities where we operate. Ecofleet supports the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Global Compact and the fundamental principles that protect workers’ rights defined in ILOsInternational Labour Organisation core conventions. We expect that all our business partners work with human rights issues in a responsible manner, and we expect that all our business partners support the fundamental principles described in UDHR and ILOs core conventions as a minimum. In the coming year, Ecofleet will continue to work with human rights and labour issues internally, and will work towards ensuring that our suppliers are all aligned with the UNGC principles. Assessment Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occurs through: a) The compulsory annual work environment evaluation. This is a process which enables us to look at both the practical and psychological aspects associated to the working conditions within our daily operations b) An employee satisfaction survey that is directly linked to a KPI report sent to the board and is part of the management performance evaluation. c) A scoring system based on employee input. d) Human rights and labour issues are also an open discussion point at our monthly management Meetings. e) Two yearly meetings with an external CSR consultant where the consultant goes through and helps us with keeping focus on various CSR topics. We refer to key documents like the “United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”, and relevant conventions and standards of the ILO, as well as other international standards, national and international laws. Regarding due diligence of our supply value chain, we have formulated our responsible procurement guidelines and requirements to which they should demonstrate compliance. Implementation In order to reach our goals and compliance with our policies regarding human rights and labour, Ecofleet intensified its efforts and implemented a system to address human rights and labour issues by integrating various activities within the company’s operations. Ecofleet Danmark ApS ● Blokken 19 ● DK-3460 Birkerød Tlf.: +45 45 48 01 04 ● info@ecofleet.dk ● www.ecofleet.com These activities include the establishment of a share HR platform whereby all employees have access to information relating to company’s policies, strategies, values as well as practical information relating to all aspects of daily operations such as organisational charts, plans, relevant documents, available courses and communication possibilities across the company. Other activities aimed at improving the employees wellbeing include skills development through courses and team building events, appraisal and reward schemes, opportunity to participate in various evaluation schemes and a yearly bonus program where one of the parameters is employee satisfaction. We provide safe and healthy working conditions for our employees and ensure that human rights such as freedom of association, equal opportunity etc. are incorporated in daily practices. All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions of working at Ecofleet. The contracts are in line with the applicable local laws and legislations of the countries in which Ecofleet operates. We have a process in place based on corporate commitment, assessment/due-diligence, defining and implementing actions and measuring/communicating our results. Our assessment procedures above allow us to evaluate the employees wellbeing and if satisfaction is identified below 75% (Based on our scoring system), a specific procedure is then set in motion to correct the impact. The procedure involves the management, the Area/department managers and the employee. Together, a corrective action plan is prepare and implemented. The action plan takes into account the wellbeing, development and requests from the employee, as well as their adjustment to new strategies. A quarterly evaluation helps us to assess whether the action plan is on track and whether adjustments need to be made. The management together with the Area managers hold a yearly evaluation meeting with the employee and the results are presented to the board. The procedure diagrammatically Ecofleet Danmark ApS ● Blokken 19 ● DK-3460 Birkerød Tlf.: +45 45 48 01 04 ● info@ecofleet.dk ● www.ecofleet.com Ecofleet seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights impacts within our spheres of influence and activities in line with the company’s strategies and procedures. Measurement of outcomes Our employee satisfaction rate for 2016-2017 period is 29, measured on a scale of -100 to +100. This score shows very clear improvement compared to the previous 2014-2015 period. Over the last year, 5 employees undergone competence development, by participating in courses such as Project Management (PRINCE2) and SEO courses (Search Engine Optimization). The percentage of sick days continuous to be at a low 6% We have cooperated with our local municipality in offering jobs to disabled persons and have one such person working with us. We comply with all relevant rules and regulations in the countries we operate and we use the rules and regulations of the country where these are strongest. Ecofleet has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Easily accessible information for management regarding employees conditions and wellbeing. This information is used for evaluation and future planning purposes. Presently, Ecofleet is developing an IT system that will reduce the workload of the employees and we are investigating the possibility of standardizing employee contracts throughout the five different countries of operations. Ecofleet Danmark ApS ● Blokken 19 ● DK-3460 Birkerød Tlf.: +45 45 48 01 04 ● info@ecofleet.dk ● www.ecofleet.com Anti-Corruption Policies and goals Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited and it is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts unless they are approved by Ecofleet’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Facilitation payments are not allowed and It is not allowed to:  Select a business partner based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment.  Make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Ecofleet management and made in good faith. Business partners:  Must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Ecofleet’s anti-bribery policy requirements.  Must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. We will continue to work with anti-corruption issues in the next period through further communication to Ecofleet employees and business partners. Assessment All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded. These records are used to assess whether any violations have occurred. Third party accountants are also informed about our anti-corruption policy and are instructed to point out discrepancies in financial records. Implementation We have formulated a specific anti-corruption policy that is being communicated to all stakeholders. Training has been limited to management at this time. The CO is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or bribery issues. Ecofleet is in the process of implementing an ISO 27001 standard which specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining and continually improving an information security management system (ISMS) within the context of the organization. It also includes requirements for the assessment and treatment of information security risks tailored to the needs of the organization. Measurement of outcomes Ecofleet has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. External accountants used by Ecofleet have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery. Ecofleet Danmark ApS ● Blokken 19 ● DK-3460 Birkerød Tlf.: +45 45 48 01 04 ● info@ecofleet.dk ● www.ecofleet.com Environment Policies and goals Ecofleet is aware of the environmental impacts and at a minimum we comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Our policy is to reduce of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures. Our goal for the next period is to continue to reduce our CO2 foot print in the areas of energy use, waste management by using the principles of prevention, reduction reuse and recycling and reduce our customers CO2 footprint relating to their vehicle fleet. Assessment Ecofleet uses external consultants to assess our impacts and to suggest actions that could minimise our environmental impacts. Implementation Our internal work relating to environmental aspects refers to impacts concerning our offices, the products we use , transport and packaging. In our office environment, we keep track and reduce our impacts in energy use, waste and product use. Product use impacts are reduced using Eco labelled products, energy impacts through employee awareness and energy saving technologies, waste impacts by using digital means rather than solids for information, filing, food waste by differentiation of the lunch subscription etc. Transport or fleet management is what we specialise in so we optimise transport processes and reduce CO2 both internally and especially with our customer through our Green driving Module. Concerning the packaging and shipment of our products, we cooperate with our suppliers and carriers. Measurement of outcomes Use of Eco labelled paper and cleaning products remains at 100%. We have reduced both transport and packaging through our:  Prevention procedure where units are tested remotely minimising faulty products.  RMA (Return Merchandize Authorization). Defect units that need to be repaired are tested and in many cases repaired remotely by changing the firmware using GPRS. As part of our RMA, we have introduced a refurbishing process for older units that prolongs the end of life to more than 5 years. Another initiative we implemented this last year is the setting up of a AV meeting system that enables us to hold meetings with employees based in different countries using high resolution camera and widescreen monitors. This has resulted in reducing the number of trips for management by more than 50%. Ecofleet Danmark ApS ● Blokken 19 ● DK-3460 Birkerød Tlf.: +45 45 48 01 04 ● info@ecofleet.dk ● www.ecofleet.com One of our suppliers is now using recycle components in their packaging. Ecofleet has measurable results and holds records of CO2 reductions associated to our fleet management activities of all participating customers. Supply chain We seek to engage in open dialogue with stakeholders and contribute within the scope of our capabilities to promote the ten principles of Global Compact. We contact all our suppliers and send our responsible procurement guidelines document which includes requirements and guidelines about:  Responsible business behaviour and operating principles  Quality guidelines  Respectful treatment, use of company security forces, products liability, legal compliance We also ask our suppliers to read our Code of conduct and fill in the self-assessment questionnaire relating to human rights, labor, anti-corruption and environment. This procedure allows us to map and assess our suppliers so that our dialogue regarding improvement of environmental, social and quality impacts is more effective. Within the framework of our Values, we respect the cultures, customs and values of the people in communities where we operate and take into account their needs, concerns, and aspirations. Ecofleet Danmark ApS ● Blokken 19 ● DK-3460 Birkerød Tlf.: +45 45 48 01 04 ● info@ecofleet.dk ● www.ecofleet.com
