G R I S D É C O U PAG E ’s commitment to the Global Compact GRIS DÉCOUPAGE, founded in 1984 and based in Lesménils (department 54, France), specialises in the manufacture of mechanical components and flat or conical die-cut washers in medium or large runs. GRIS DÉCOUPAGE signed up to the Global Compact in 2006, thus demonstrating its commitment to the basic values of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. But well before then, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE had already espoused the ideals underlying the ten Global Compact principles. Participation in the Global Compact was a logical step in the continuous improvement process adopted by the company a number of years ago. Continuous improvement was implemented initially in the fields of industry, quality and management and led to the ISO 9001 and ISO TS 16949 certifications obtained in 1993. It was subsequently extended in the early 2000s to cover environmental and sustainable development issues, as confirmed by the awarding of ISO 14001 certification in June 2007. GRIS DÉCOUPAGE is renewing its commitment to the Global Compact for 2017. In so doing, we undertake to uphold the ten principles on a daily basis, to make sure they are shared by all employees and to bring them fully to the attention of our subcontractors and suppliers. Francis GRIS Président Progress update from Global Compact participant 1. OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2017 For 2017, GRIS DECOUPAGE chose to illustrate the following groups of principles: Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN IN 2017  Human rights / Working conditions In 2017, investments were made in the Grinding process in order to lighten the load carried by the employees. In order to improve both top-down and bottom-up communication in the different workshop areas, a visual management system (one of the aspects of LEAN Management) was deployed and has led to the creation of two types of meetings: the TOP5 and the TOP20. To deliver these TOP 5s , the Team Managers and Team Leaders participated in ‘people management’ training from January to June 2017. As regards Human Resources, in response to the Rebsamen Law, 3 major meetings with the employee representative bodies have been arranged for discussions around 3 subjects: strategy, economy and social. In terms of the communication plan, two new communication media were established in the first trimester of 2017. They are a new so-called ‘responsive’ website, responding to the changes in Internet usage, and a new motion graphic animation, featuring the character Super Rondelle, that represents GRIS GROUP in a playful manner. Two internal events equally marked the year. A ‘ Fruit Juice Bar ’ event was organised over the summer to counteract the warm temperatures and motivate the teams before the summer holidays. To reinforce team cohesion, staff at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE participated in an inter-company run alongside their colleagues from the German subsidiary GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK. Lastly, in direct connection with the Quality of Life at Work (known as ‘QVT’) and as part of the construction of the new offices, the Management wanted to include staff requests early on, through a work group called ‘ Think Tank ’ created in September 2017. This group helped to come up with a multitude of ideas and to try out some really productive creativity and brainstorming sessions.  Environment ISO 14001 certified since 2007, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE is committed to remaining permanently compliant with the various elements of the standards. This is achieved particularly through employee participation and raising awareness as soon as staff arrive and subsequently through environmental audits and regular reminders. GRIS DÉCOUPAGE is part of an environment, health and safety work group called ‘Commission HSE Val de Lorraine Entreprendre’.  Anti-corruption GRIS DÉCOUPAGE is not affected by this problem. However, our suppliers and subcontractors are aware of this issue. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Investments related to human rights and working conditions: Like every year, investments were made into safety and the improvement of working conditions. Thus, in 2017, the annual prevention programme entailed investments in the Grinding process. A bracket and two lift tables (one of which is a tilting lift table) have also been implemented in order to lighten the load. The workers were consulted before these changes were made, which allowed for their feedback to be implemented. Visual management: Since April, we have been rolling out visual management within the different areas of production and related services (maintenance, tool manufacturing). This consists of visually and concisely displaying information intended for our workshop staff on a notice board. This is one of the aspects of Lean Management that is part of the continuous improvement initiative. The visual management strategy is tangible in the implementation of the TOP 5. These are daily indicators discussed with the workers at the beginning of every shift for a period of 5 minutes, delivered by the Team Manager or the designated Team Leader. Over the course of this exchange, 4 wider themes, which vary among the departments, are discussed. The most notable among them are: Safety and minor medical attention, Quality, Overall Equipment Effectiveness, performance or service rates. Each theme is visually represented by one letter and 31 cases representing the days of the month. A red or green magnet is attached to indicate the results from the day before that are based on the objectives defined beforehand. The TOP 5 also allows anyone to report any problems that have arisen and to provide solutions for them. These are then recorded on the notice board. The problems that cannot be resolved are referred to the cross-functional departments. Over the course of these 5 minutes, information regarding the company as a whole can also be relayed (general information, Flash etc.). Lastly, the TOP 5 also allows objectives for the day to be established, for example, urgent matters which require attention, the reorganisation of the team in the event of the absence of one of the workers etc. This new method allows issues to be raised quickly, within each shift, through the use of indicators. Workers, team managers and team leaders can all suggest solutions as soon as possible, all as part of the continuous improvements in efficiency (one of the Lean principles). The TOP 5 has already been rolled out to the press and grinding departments. This method will be rolled out to the other departments in the upcoming months. Away from the TOP 5, the line managers (team managers, Maintenance and Quality managers) and the Production manager Alexandre MAUUARY have a daily 20 minute meeting. This is referred to as the TOP 20. Its purpose is the same as the TOP 5, but at a higher level. It consists of bringing up the problems from the day before, particularly those which were not resolved in the TOP 5 and that are escalated to the TOP 20. Over time, new ‘TOPs’ will be rolled out, including different staff members and other departments. “Nouvel’ R” Reorganisation of offices project: As part of the Lesménils site expansion project, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE's General Management have set up a focus group named Think Thank . The group consists of a member from each department. Its purpose is to work together to come up with a project for the setting-up of the future offices, named Nouvel’R, that will be decided by consensus, taking the needs of each party into account. The group will put this project forward to the Management. In order to successfully complete this project, two consultants, who have facilitated and monitored the progress of this focus group, have offered tools to help creativity. Alongside these meetings, each member has gathered the views and comments of their colleagues in their respective departments through occasional feedback sessions. Two new communication media for GRIS GROUP: GRIS GROUP has a new website which was launched in March 2017. More ergonomic and modern than its predecessor, this so-called 'responsive’ website will, from this point forward, be optimised for viewing on mobile devices (tablets, smartphones). Alongside the new website, a new character, Super Rondelle, was designed using motion graphic animation. This animation particularly brings a degree of dynamism to our communication media, presenting our Group (new staff, visitors...) in a playful and simplified manner, while also setting ourselves apart from a traditional video, in order to awaken the curiosity of the public. Team cohesion and motivation: Fruit juice bar event to motivate our teams On 20 July 2017, in order for staff to share a moment of friendly social interaction, Management brought back the fruit juice bar event, last held in 2015. An event organiser from JUJU’s Bar brought his mobile stand and set up on-site, making fresh fruit smoothies throughout the day. In total, six half-hour sessions were held, so that each member of staff could enjoy them. Inter-company run for team building For the third time, GRIS UMFORMTECHNIK, our German subsidiary, invited their French colleagues from GRIS DÉCOUPAGE to participate in the Lüdenscheid (North RhineWestphalia) inter-company run. It was an opportunity for staff from both countries to meet each other. In total, nearly 30 French and German GRIS GROUP staff put on their running shoes and got moving for this great cause. As a matter of fact, part of the proceeds from the event were donated to a local association aimed at helping people in need. Matters concerning Human Resources: The Rebsamen law has completely reshaped the company’s information and consultation processes, logically assembling for 3 major meetings a year. Thereby, our organisation responded to our delegation on the 3 following subjects:  The company's strategic direction on employment, skills, training guidelines and the use of subcontracting and temporary work.  The company's economic and financial condition, with the use of the tax credit for employment and competitiveness (CICE) and the research tax credit (CIR).  The company’s social policy , with a consultation that focuses on employment and qualification development, gender equality, working hours and the quality of working life. Staff training: The employee training policy has expanded to become more internationally-oriented and focussed on operational excellence. In 2017, 72 staff members underwent training. That constitutes 54.96% of the employees, an amount which represents 4.46% of our payroll. The training was undertaken in the following areas:  Management and communication  Change management  Leading Top 5s and visual management  IATF 16949: 2016 Edition  Team Leadership role  Safety training  Perfecting language skills to accompany international development. Specific training for line managers: Work on the support and structuring of line managers has been completed in order to introduce LEAN Management within our organisation in 2017/2018. LEAN Management is a management method aimed at improving company performance. It enables us to look for the ideal operating conditions, making our staff work together as a team, in order to add value with the least possible waste. LEAN Management is based on 4 fundamental principles:  Understand the customer’s requirements in order to specify the value of the product and eliminate the nil value assets,  Increase the level to just-in-time (reduce the time between the customer placing the order and the delivery of the product),  Stop and make every defect visible and resolve the problems rather than bypassing them,  Involve staff in the improvement and re-design of their work environments. 2. ENVIRONMENT Awareness and retention of awareness of the environment for personnel: In order to maintain our ISO 14001 certification, it is important that staff remain involved and well aware of the instructions they need to follow relating to the environment in their place of work. For this reason, all new employees receive safety and environmental awareness training from the HSE manager upon their arrival. A reminder of the issues that affect the environment will be completed within 3 years of hiring a new employee, at the latest. On the issue of recycling, a questionnaire is distributed to participants. Lastly, in addition to the planned ISO 14001 internal audits which take place in each department every year, reminders about the procedures which need to be followed in the event of an emergency are issued by the HSE manager on a monthly basis, at random. Participation in the HSE group ‘Commission HSE de Val de Lorraine Entreprendre’: In line with the business association Val de Lorraine Entreprendre and its Environment, Health and Safety Commission, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE uses an industrial territorial ecology approach in its businesses situated in the ‘Bassin de Pompey’ (the Pompey basin). This approach aims to create inter-company environmental synergies, focusing on identifying the needs and the resources of each company. 23 synergy actions in particular emerge: alternatives to purchasing or the reuse of palettes, sorted waste collection in small quantities, car-sharing and alternative transports, maintenance of green spaces, shared snow removal operations our group buying of primary energies, etc. An action plan has been drawn up and some work groups will put it into action in 2018. 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION Our adherence to the United Nations Global Compact was communicated to our subcontractors and suppliers. Thus, through the agreement that we send them each year, we ask that they respect the compact’s fundamental values in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We also ask them to ensure that no product sold is made by children or utilising undeclared work completed by foreign nationals that are illegally employed in France. Our subcontractors and suppliers are subject to a mid-year evaluation that is provided to them. If the grade received is not A, we require a plan of action from our Subcontractors and Suppliers.
