2016 Sustainability Report HESS VALUES Hess Values set the framework and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. ▶ I NTEGRITY: We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships. Integrity ▶P  EOPLE: We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the best people by investing in their professional People Performance development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth. ▶P  ERFORMANCE: We are committed to a culture of Value Social performance that demands and rewards outstanding results Creation Responsibility throughout our business. ▶V  ALUE CREATION: We are committed to creating Independent shareholder value based on sustained financial performance Spirit and long-term profitable growth. ▶S  OCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long-lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business. ▶ I NDEPENDENT SPIRIT: We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise. REPORT APPLICATION LEVELS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) IN ACCORDANCE OPTION UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Following a review by ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CVS), our external verifier, Hess is self-declaring this report in accordance This is our Communication on Progress in implementing with the Core option of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. ASSURANCE ERM CVS conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data and our internal data collection and aggregation system and conducted interviews to ensure the information presented is a reliable representation of our performance. An ERM CVS Assurance Statement has been included ON THE COVER at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the GRI “in Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico accordance” option. TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our CEO’s view on building a sustainable enterprise 4 ABOUT HESS Our company operations in brief 11 39 5 11 HOW WE OPERATE 39 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY APPROACH TO REPORTING A description of our materiality The values that define our expectations Balancing the world’s growing energy assessment, reporting framework for sustainable management and needs with cost-effective greenhouse and boundaries performance gas emissions reduction policy 6 19 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 ENVIRONMENT PROGRESS AND GOALS A snapshot of our progress and A review of social responsibility as Responsible management of our path forward a way of doing business environmental footprint 27 54 Performance Data 56 GRI Content Index 35 SAFETY AND HEALTH 59 Independent Assurance Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, Statement every day, home safe 60 Awards and Recognition Memberships and Associations 35 OUR PEOPLE Creating a company culture and high-quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our company has more than a decade of visible production growth with an expanding resource base, declining operating “We believe sustainable and development costs and strong leverage to oil prices, all business practices create of which positions us to deliver improving financial returns and significant value to our shareholders. We achieved strong value for our shareholders operational performance in 2016 even as we reduced activity and support our mission in the low oil price environment – driving operating efficiencies, reducing cash operating costs, advancing our offshore to be a trusted energy developments and achieving major success with our focused partner.” exploration program. Production growth, which is set to resume beginning in the second half of 2017, is underpinned by the Bakken, the North Malay Basin and Stampede developments, SAFETY and offshore Guyana, where we have participated in one of the We believe sustainable performance and operational excellence industry’s largest oil discoveries in the past 10 years. begin with our unwavering dedication to safety. Regarding personal safety, our employees and contractors share a goal of Our strategy is to maintain a portfolio that is balanced reaching zero safety incidents – what we describe as “everyone, between onshore and offshore, unconventional and everywhere, every day, home safe.” In 2016 we once again conventional, and U.S. and international, allocating capital worked to address incidents that have the potential for severe for the best long-term value and risk-adjusted returns. consequences, and we reduced our employee recordable Sustainability practices are a fundamental part of our incident rate by 58 percent compared with 2015. However, our business strategy and operations and align with Hess’ Values workforce total recordable incident rate rose compared with the of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, Social prior year due to an increased rate of contractor incidents. We Responsibility and Independent Spirit. Through our Code of are addressing this increase in part through implementation of a Business Conduct, we translate these Values into decisions new Contractor Management Standard that includes enhanced that guide the way we do business. measures for procurement prequalification, comprehensive We believe sustainable business practices create value for onboarding and ongoing monitoring of safety performance. our shareholders and opportunities to continuously improve Hess’ process safety programs aim to prevent unplanned or business performance. This belief supports our mission to be uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material that a trusted energy partner and our commitment to helping meet could result in an incident such as an injury, fire or environmental the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally release. Our efforts focus on understanding and identifying key responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. Sustainability points within process safety systems that could impact integrity issues are examined by our Board of Directors and taken into and the safe and proper operation of equipment. In 2016 we account in formulating our company strategy. achieved a four-year low in the number of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Our 2016 Sustainability Report shows how sustainable process safety events. Even with this performance improvement business practices are integrated into our short-term goals we remain vigilant in our focus on reducing these events. and long-term strategy. Hess’ environment, health, safety and We embarked on an external review of our process safety social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is focused on several management systems and also began a review of mechanical key areas for our operations including process safety, social integrity at our onshore and offshore locations in 2016, as part of responsibility and climate change, which are described below. our ongoing asset integrity management process. We expect to Detailed information on our programs and performance, complete both reviews in 2017. including progress in the implementation of our EHS & SR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY strategy, is provided in this report and on our company Social responsibility is one of our company values and website at hess.com. fundamental to the way we do business at Hess – because part 2 of being a trusted energy partner is making a positive impact help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, on the communities where we operate. We are guided by our international standards and voluntary commitments. commitments to international voluntary initiatives designed Hess was once again recognized in 2016 by several thirdto advance transparency, environmental protection, human party organizations as a leader in the oil and gas industry rights and good governance. Along with our other voluntary for the quality of our environmental, social and governance commitments, Hess continues to support the United Nations performance and disclosure. Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable business conduct across the PEOPLE private sector. Stakeholder engagement processes were further Our company’s special culture and strong performance are a integrated into our enterprise risk workshops, value assurance reflection of our people. Their talent and dedication are further reviews and asset business plans in 2016. enhanced by our application of Lean manufacturing principles or what we now call the Hess Way of Working, which fosters In 2016 our social investments totaled nearly $20 million, teamwork and continuous improvement to overcome with $16 million going toward education projects and the challenges, eliminate wasteful operational processes and balance directed toward economic development, health create value. and capacity building. As part of our Values, we are committed to fostering a workplace CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE ENVIRONMENT that values diversity and inclusion, learning and development, Climate change is a global challenge that requires engagement and innovation – with the recognition that our government, business leaders and civil society to work employees hold the key to our company’s continued success. together on cost-effective policy responses that recognize With this in mind, we regularly share business updates, reinforce the vital role that safe, affordable and reliable energy plays our strategy and direction and listen to the views of our in ensuring human welfare, economic growth and security. workforce through a robust program of employee engagement We understand oil and natural gas are essential to meet and communications. the world’s growing energy demand and are committed to developing energy resources in an environmentally In response to market conditions, we have reduced headcount responsible and sustainable manner. Climate change and as we scaled back operating activity. In addition, in the fourth environmental risks are considered by our Board of Directors quarter of 2016, we realigned our organization to better in the development of company strategies and policies. reflect our portfolio and long-term priorities. Throughout these changes, our employees have stayed true to our Values and In support of our 50 percent flaring intensity reduction target committed to our mission to be a trusted energy partner. and our 25 percent greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, we track and monitor air emissions at each of our assets and We are proud of the progress made in driving our company’s undertake a variety of emission reduction initiatives. Through growth in a challenging business environment, and excited to 2016, we have reduced flaring and greenhouse gas emissions continue building a sustainable enterprise that makes a positive intensities by 29 percent and 20 percent, respectively, against difference for our stakeholders and the world around us. our 2020 targets. We expect continued progress against these targets as a result of major stakeholder-approved initiatives and Thank you to our employees, communities, customers, business infrastructure investments particularly in Equatorial Guinea and partners and investors for their ongoing support and partnership. our Bakken asset in North Dakota. Safeguarding the environment through the responsible management of environmental impacts – including water use, air emissions, waste and spills – is an essential component of our drive for operational excellence and an important part of how we John B. Hess do business every day. We also dedicate significant resources to Chief Executive Officer 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 3 ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS HESS PORTFOLIO OF OPERATIONS ▶T  hrough Lean manufacturing techniques, our Bakken team reduced average drilling and completion costs to $4.8 million per operated well, compared with $5.8 million per well in 2015. ▶ I n offshore Guyana, the Liza oil discovery in the Stabroek Block – in Production which Hess has a 30 percent working Midstream interest – has been confirmed as one Developments Exploration of the largest in the world in the past 10 years. Sanction of the first phase of development of Liza is expected in Production: Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; the 2017, with first production by 2020. Utica in Ohio; Permian Basin in West Texas; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State ▶A  t the North Malay Basin project in and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; Okume and Ceiba in Equatorial the Gulf of Thailand, which is targeted Guinea; South Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. for completion in 2017, progress Nonoperated assets include the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development continued on full field development Area, Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico, Valhall in Norway and the with the drilling of 13 wells. Waha Concessions in Libya. ▶ I n the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Hess Midstream: Assets include a natural gas processing plant, rail-loading continued to advance the Stampede development project, with first oil on terminal and associated rail cars, crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, track for 2018. and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems in North Dakota; and a natural gas processing plant, crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, ▶W  e acquired a 33 percent nonoperated carbon dioxide assets, and pipelines in West Texas. participating interest in the Kosmos Energy-operated Block 42, offshore Developments: Activities include North Malay Basin in the Gulf of Suriname. Thailand and Stampede in the Gulf of Mexico. 2016 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Exploration: Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include $ Millions nonoperated interests in offshore Guyana, Suriname and Canada, and ●R  ecordable Supplier Spend $5,511 both operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico. (Exploration & Production) ● Income Tax Expense $2,222 Note: The groupings of assets above include Hess operated and nonoperated assets. ●C  apital and Exploration $2,154 Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report can be found in the Approach Expenditures to Reporting section. ●W  ages and Benefits (U.S.) $707 ●D  ividends $350 ● Interest Expense ●R  oyalties and Other Payments $338 $330 1,109 9.2 322,000 ●S  ocial Investments $20 Million Barrels of Oil Years Reserve Life Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day ●C  arbon and NOx Taxes $1 Equivalent Proved Reserves Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced A portion of capital and exploration expenditures may include payments to suppliers. 4 APPROACH TO REPORTING Within this report, we provide ▶T ransportation Impacts RESTATEMENTS descriptions of the company’s 2016 ▶E mergency Preparedness and We completed our transformation to an strategy and performance regarding Response exploration and production company material economic, environmental and ▶P rocess Safety and Spills in 2014 after exiting our downstream social issues. Our annual report, U.S. business, which included refining, retail, ▶C ommunity Engagement Securities and Exchange Commission energy marketing and energy trading. ▶C limate Change and Greenhouse Gas Form 10-K filing and proxy statement Historical safety and environmental data (GHG) Emissions detail our financial and governance from 2013 and prior were restated to information; these documents can be ▶S takeholder Engagement reflect the upstream (exploration and found on our website. ▶T ransparency in Business Conduct production) business only. However, A dditional sustainability and investor information ▶H uman Rights and Security individual divestitures that did not meet is available at hess.com/investors the materiality threshold for removal Overall, our material issues include REPORTING STANDARDS from our new 2014 GHG emissions environmental, social and governance This sustainability report was prepared baseline – as delineated in the Hess concerns reflecting diverse external in accordance with the Core option of GHG Protocol – are included in the stakeholder priorities and Hess’ the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) restated data. operational and regulatory risk focus. G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines See our expanded performance data at These issues have informed our hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ and associated Oil and Gas Sector key-sustainability-metrics environment, health, safety and social Supplement. The report is also based responsibility strategy and helped to ASSURANCE on the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance define the boundaries of this report. Our internal information systems on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting A table mapping our material issues to GRI document jointly developed by G4 reporting criteria and identifying the promote the centralized collection IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry reporting boundaries for each is available at of data from Hess-operated and hess.com/sustainability/approach-to-reporting/ organization for environmental and boundaries-for-material-issues joint venture assets around the social issues), the American Petroleum world. In order to evaluate accuracy BOUNDARY SETTING and reliability, we conduct quality Institute and the International Oil and Included within the scope of this report are assurance/quality control reviews and Gas Producers Association, as well as the principal facilities and assets operated validation of both aggregated and the 10 principles of the United Nations by Hess Corporation and our subsidiaries facility-level data. Individual numbers (UN) Global Compact. A GRI Content during calendar year 2016, unless in the charts, tables and text may not Index, cross-referenced with IPIECA otherwise indicated. Data presented are precisely sum to the total amounts indicators and the UN Global Compact gross figures from operated facilities, shown due to rounding. All currency principles, is provided on pages 56–58. unless specified otherwise. found in this report is in U.S. dollars. An expanded GRI Index is available at hess.com/gri-index We report some quantitative This sustainability report has been MATERIALITY environment, health and safety data assured by ERM Certification and Consistent with GRI G4 materiality on a normalized basis to facilitate Verification Services (ERM CVS), a guidance, we prioritized new and year-on-year comparisons. We report third party that annually reviews our emerging issues important to our GHG emissions on both an operated sustainability data and self-declared GRI stakeholders when developing the and equity share basis in accordance “in accordance” option. This external content for our sustainability report. with the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector review helps to ensure consistent and Through a survey of select industry Supplement and the IPIECA Petroleum objective data collection and reporting peers and a subset of priority external Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG of our sustainability performance. The stakeholder groups, we identified the 10 Emissions (2nd edition, May 2011). Independent Assurance Statement is most material issues for our company: provided on page 59 of the report. We also report our social investments for ▶R egulatory Assurance our operated assets, joint ventures and ▶W ater Management nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 5 PROGRESS AND GOALS This section offers a snapshot of our progress and path forward with respect to our most material sustainability programs and initiatives; as such, it provides an indication of our commitment to improve performance across a range of issues. Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Our strategic efforts planned for 2017 will build on our progress to date. Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the summary table that follows, along with our key accomplishments in 2016 and select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. Our progress and goals are categorized according to the six sections of the report in which they are discussed. HOW WE OPERATE Operating in a lower-for-longer oil price environment, strengthening our license to operate and enhancing our reputation through advocacy and transparency in reporting Discussion Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ (Page #) Expanded use of our compliance tracking tool at U.S. assets and enhanced the field Strengthen our regulatory assurance team that conducts our leak Continue to evaluate and enhance assurance process through detection and repair program; further our EHS management system in 53 integration into our business aligned central and asset-based regulatory 2017 and beyond operating rhythm* assurance efforts within our business Regulatory operating rhythm Assurance Refine and enhance the regulatory Ensure alignment of our regulatory advocacy process in 2017 to ensure Began this alignment process, including advocacy priorities with our that regulatory risks and potential regular engagement with domestic assets 16 enterprise risk management impacts are appropriately and with our enterprisewide EHS function process* characterized and considered in company decision making* Published our 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Continue to refine sustainability Refine reporting to meet G4 Core “in accordance” option, and disclosure to align with stakeholder 5, 40 stakeholder expectations disclosed new indicators such as those expectations in 2017 and beyond Transparency related to grievances, occupational health in Business and supply chain Conduct Enhance our Global Trade Further enhance our Anti-Bribery Developed supporting reporting systems Compliance Program and revise our and Anti-Corruption Policy and and continued rollout of online anti15 Code of Business Conduct and Procedure corruption compliance training Ethics in 2017 Developed standard templates for key common supply contracts; continued to Embed standard model contracts enhance our contractor selection, Supply Chain and continue training on and Begin implementation of our management and review process; and and Contractor implementation of standards, 16–17, 32 Contractor Management Standard strengthened our process for managing Management driving consistency and efficiency contractors through ongoing across all assets in 2017 implementation of our Contractor Management Standard Rolled out enterprisewide Lean metrics for tracking the training of embedded Lean leaders across both business functions and Further embed the Lean way of Deploy Lean metrics 11 individual skill levels, and for assessing the thinking into Hess’ culture in 2017 status of our progress in developing a distinctive Lean culture Management Continue to roll out and implement Systems Approved five new EHS global standards Continue to develop and implement 12, a complete set of enhanced EHS and completed gap assessments for these EHS global standards on a 27–29, global standards on a prioritized standards at selected assets prioritized basis through 2020 31–32 basis Measure effective implementation Began tracking individual initiatives through Continue to measure effective of the EHS & SR strategy through project-specific work plans as part of our implementation of the EHS & SR 6 established targets and metrics* business operating rhythm strategy through 2020* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 6 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Meeting our commitment to operate as a trusted energy partner Discussion Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ (Page #) Continue to integrate stakeholder Integrate SR and Human Rights engagement, social risk and impact Continued to integrate SR considerations Guidelines into enterprise business 19, 23 management and social investment into our enterprise business processes processes to support policies and into enterprise business processes standards in 2017 Community Expand implementation of and Stakeholder Implemented the processes at two new Continue to advance progress in stakeholder engagement and 20–21 Engagement assets 2017* grievance mechanism processes* Continue to progress Progressed this effort in 2016, including Approve and continue implementation of our SR Global development of guidelines to support the implementation of the SR Standard 19 Standard* associated policy and standard in 2017* Continue to progress Progressed this effort in 2016, including Approve and continue implementation of our Human development of guidelines to support the implementation of the Human 19 Rights Global Standard* associated policy and standard Rights Standard in 2017* Commence risk-based rollout of Review enterprisewide social, Conducted risk-based human rights training human rights training module at reputational and human rights risks 23 at selected assets selected assets* to update risk identification in 2017* Refresh and conduct human rights Human Rights Develop human rights content for Incorporated human rights training into training as needed based on 23 and Security contractor onboarding* contractor onboarding identified risks in 2017* Track the implementation of new standards through the number of employees and contractors Began tracking progress with these Continue tracking progress through completing human rights training at 7 initiatives 2020* high-risk assets, as well as the percentage of new contracts with human rights clauses* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. Guyana Planning Room, Houston, Texas 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 7 PROGRESS AND GOALS SAFETY AND HEALTH Focusing on continuous improvement in process safety management systems, integrity and barrier management, assurance and competency, as we aspire toward zero incidents Discussion Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ (Page #) Continue to progress our efforts in Continue to promote performance integrity management to include Continued enterprisewide efforts to standards for ICE and complete prioritized asset integrity generate performance standards for ICE and asset integrity assessments for all 30 assessments and implementation of launched an enterprisewide assessment of Hess-operated production locations performance standards for integrity the mechanical integrity of our equipment in 2017* critical equipment (ICE)* Continue to progress our efforts in Implement our enhanced barrier Implemented our enhanced barrier integrity management, including management approach in South management approach at our Baldpate, offshore implementation of our Arne in 2017, and at Stampede and 30 Tubular Bells and Equatorial Guinea assets enhanced barrier management North Malay Basin as those assets by the first quarter of 2017 approach* come online* Process Safety Launched enterprisewide assessments of and Spills Continue to make improvements in Continue to make improvements in our process safety management systems our process safety management our process safety management and issued 26 additional engineering 29–30 system and process safety system and process safety standards and specifications to further standards* standards in 2017 and beyond* improve process safety and operations Further enhance the enterprisewide competency strategy, with a focus on Build upon our Gulf of Mexico integrating and enhancing existing Advanced the competency assurance effort competency assurance program global systems to achieve a shared in 2016 and developed a tiered EHS 8 and enhance our enterprisewide competency system in 2018 and assurance program for the enterprise EHS assurance program* beyond; begin the implementation of an enterprisewide tiered EHS assurance program in 2017 and beyond* While we did not achieve the 0.31 target rate, we improved our employee total recordable incident rate by 58 percent and Meet a workforce total recordable Meet a workforce total recordable strengthened our process for managing incident rate target of 0.34 or 28 incident rate target of 0.31 or below contractors through ongoing below in 2017 Occupational implementation of our Contractor Health and Management Standard Safety Meet a severe safety incident rate While we did not achieve the 0.15 target (previously called high potential rate, we achieved a four-year low in the Meet a severe safety incident rate 28–29, incident or “HiPo” safety rate) number of Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety target of 0.15 or below in 2017 31 target of 0.15 or below events OUR PEOPLE Preserving management and technical capabilities to respond effectively when the price of oil recovers Discussion Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ (Page #) Promote a culture of engagement and continuous learning; embed the Held 37 Leadership Dialogue sessions and Hess Way of Working into more of Continue focus on employee created a new early-career development our people processes (e.g., 37 engagement program for drilling and completions performance management form engineers and leadership development programs) in 2017 Advance initiatives and process Evaluated opportunities for continuous Continue to simplify and streamline Employment efficiency in the annual improvement in our talent management talent management processes to Practices compensation process, performance 36 practices and conducted focused training deliver targeted development and management, talent management for first-time leaders succession plans in 2017 and learning and development Continue to align our structure and Refine usage of Career Manager, Added succession-planning functionality strategy to provide appropriate our integrated human resources to CareerManager, giving us the ability promotion and development system, through continuous to analyze critical information about our 36 opportunities and more fully improvement in data integrity, organizational capabilities and bench leverage each person’s capability reporting and use of analytics strength in 2017 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 8 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Implementing tactical strategic actions to reduce our carbon footprint Discussion Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ (Page #) Begin to assess our value assurance Create a working team with senior process to identify opportunities to leader representation to review Created a working team to review climate fully integrate EHS deliverables that 39 strategic actions with regard to change-related strategic actions include climate change-related climate change* actions (e.g., assessment protocols) in 2017* Continue to expand North Dakota Operate the Hawkeye Compressor Achieved startup of the Hawkeye midstream gas gathering Station in 2017 and beyond to help 9 Compressor Station (January 2017) infrastructure* reduce gas flaring* Continue to progress a project in Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas that had traditionally been flared in our Complete the capital phase of the Progressed planning for this capital project 43 Okume operation to the Ceiba Field project in 2017* to use as fuel gas to help power our operation* Climate Change and Greenhouse Make progress toward our 2020 Gas (GHG) goal to achieve a 25 percent Emissions reduction in GHG emissions intensity Reduced GHG emissions intensity by Continue to make progress against (tonnes per thousand barrels of oil 41–42 20 percent, compared to our 2014 baseline our 2020 target* equivalent (BOE)) based on our current portfolio of operated assets, versus our 2014 baseline* Continue to improve performance Maintained methane emissions below the Continue to make progress against related to reducing methane overall 2025 ONE Future target of less than ONE Future sector-based 2025 45 emissions, through ONE Future 1 percent of gross methane production targets* sector-based targets* across the value chain Make progress toward our 2020 goal to reduce flaring intensity (standard cubic feet per BOE) by Reduced flaring intensity by 29 percent, Continue to make progress against 42–43 50 percent based on our current compared to our 2014 baseline our 2020 target* portfolio of operated assets, versus our 2014 baseline* ENVIRONMENT Safeguarding the environment and responsibly managing our environmental footprint Discussion Category 2016 Goals Progress in 2016 Goals for 2017+ (Page #) Enhanced our water data collection Improve water data collection Continue to improve water data methodology and increased the frequency 47–48 methodology* quality in 2017* of internal data collection requests Water Management Evaluated options for the integration of Incorporate water management in water management into risk assessments Continue to advance this effort in 47–48 the risk assessment process* and other elements of our business 2017 and beyond* operating rhythm Achieve a severe environmental incident rate target of 0.027 (i.e., Maintain focus on reducing liquid Process Safety Observed a five-year low in losses of a 10 percent reduction compared to spills and gas releases from our 47, 52 and Spills primary containment 2016) in 2017; continue to evaluate operations and enhance our pipeline integrity management program Continued our involvement with the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) Continue initiatives to reduce the program and the Energy and Environmental Continue involvement with the EFD Hydraulic environmental impacts of shale Research Center (EERC), and replaced and EERC and continue to evaluate 47 Fracturing energy development trucks with piping for freshwater transport water reduction strategies in 2017 in North Dakota for 100 percent of well completions *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 9 Production Operations, North Dakota HOW WE OPERATE Our management systems and corporate develops recommendations for the and implement key enterprise initiatives culture are designed to help us meet the Audit Committee and the full Board by fostering collaboration across highest standards of corporate citizenship. on policies, programs and practices Hess’ global resources and creating We are committed to protecting the health to address such issues and risks. standardized methodologies supported and safety of our people, safeguarding Subcommittee members have extensive by tools and processes. the environment, and contributing to the oil and gas industry experience, Connecting process owners and sustainability of the communities where including operations, research and business leaders across the company we operate, while delivering long-term development, and financial expertise. helps us to ensure that projects are value to our shareholders. In addition, Subcommittee members, planned and implemented holistically together with our executive leadership, The six core Hess Values support our – for example, by evaluating how a have actively engaged in field visits to aim to be the most trusted energy new or changed process will impact better understand our management partner. Our Code of Business Conduct other processes throughout Hess. We systems and key EHS risks. In 2016 and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social also establish metrics to monitor the Subcommittee members visited our Responsibility Policy, Human Rights effectiveness of our processes and verify Gulf of Mexico production and drilling Policy, and Environment, Health and we are sustaining improvements. operations and focused on our integrity Safety (EHS) Policy build on our management processes. Our Vice Values to define internal expectations President of EHS meets regularly with for sustainable management and the Subcommittee and the Chair of performance at Hess. We apply these 2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS the Subcommittee to prioritize any principles to key company processes and ▶ A pproved five new environment, health actions needed. initiatives, as described in this section. and safety (EHS) global standards and Our company is governed by the completed gap assessments for these GOVERNANCE AND KEY standards at selected assets Hess Executive Committee, which INITIATIVES ▶D  eployed enterprisewide Lean metrics is composed of Hess’ most senior The highest level of oversight at Hess ▶ Further enhanced our Anti-Bribery and executives and chaired by our Chief rests with the Board of Directors, Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedure Executive Officer. The Executive through development of supporting while direct responsibility lies with the Committee focuses on operational, reporting systems and continued rollout of company’s executive leadership. The strategic, financial, EHS and social online anti-corruption compliance training EHS Subcommittee of the Board’s Audit ▶ S trengthened our use of regulatory issues, and is the highest approval Committee provides guidance to the assurance tools body before the Board. While the Board on EHS-related considerations. ▶ Developed standard templates for key Executive Committee meets face to face Each member of the Subcommittee common supply contracts and continued to at least every other month, our Chief is independent and qualified under enhance our contractor selection, Operating Officer chairs an operational management and review process standards established by applicable law, subcommittee of the Executive stock exchange listing standards and 2017 GOALS Committee that meets regularly to Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. ▶ C ontinue to develop and implement EHS discuss these same matters. The Subcommittee met four times in 2016. global standards on a prioritized basis See Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines at In 2016 Hess formed the Operational ▶ Further embed the Lean way of thinking hess.com/hessgovernanceguidelines into Hess’ culture in each business function Excellence (OE) Network, an expanded ▶ Enhance our Global Trade Compliance The EHS Subcommittee is tasked version of the former OE Council, with Program and revise our Code of Business with assisting the Board in identifying, broader functional and operational Conduct and Ethics evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and membership and a mandate to oversee ▶ C ontinue to evaluate and enhance our EHS strategies with the potential to affect the high-impact, enterprise-level initiatives. management system people, environment or communities Like the council, the OE Network aims to ▶ Embed standard model contracts and align and integrate these efforts to create continue training and implementation of where we operate or our company’s value for the company. The network standards, driving consistency and business activities, performance and efficiency across all assets reputation. The Subcommittee also enables us to more effectively design 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 11 HOW WE OPERATE This report describes several key phases, as shown in the graphic below. documents and made them easily initiatives sponsored by the OE In 2016 we developed and approved the accessible through our company Network in 2016. Examples include Phase II standards through cross-asset intranet. To bring accountability, we development of the Incident Reporting and cross-functional teams and began established metrics and charts to track and Investigation and Contractor implementing these standards across the completion of gap assessments and Management Standards (see Safety and our operations. discussed progress as part of our routine Health, pages 29 and 32, respectively), our operating rhythm. See page 15 for further The first part of implementation regulatory and process safety efforts (see discussion of Lean. requires our assets to complete pages 29–30), and development of a tiered desktop gap assessments to compare Operations of the Future EHS assurance program (see page 27). their current documented practices We are in the process of implementing EHS Global Standards with the expectations of the enhanced a significant operational reorganization At Hess, management systems provide standards and identify actions to close and improvement plan. This effort – an important framework for continuous any gaps identified. In 2016 all assets called Operations of the Future, or improvement in enhancing operational included within the scope completed OOTF – focuses on better aligning excellence, tracking key performance gap assessments on the Phase II job duties to business processes to metrics, managing risk and maintaining standards and created implementation maximize efficiency, reliability, integrity regulatory compliance. In 2016 we plans to align with the below timeline. and surveillance; optimize production continued to develop and implement an and costs; and drive continuous enhanced set of EHS standards across We plan to fully implement Phase I improvement, including improvements the company. The goals of this project, standards by the end of 2017, Phase II to EHS performance. The change which has been guided by our OE standards by the end of 2018 and Phase was driven in part by the increasing Network, are to formalize enterprisewide III standards by the end of 2020. complexity of our technical and expectations and accountabilities An important aspect of the standards operational processes. and support a globally consistent development process has been the Through OOTF we are generating crossapproach to operational excellence. By incorporation of Lean principles. For functional, asset-based teams with a documenting our expectations in the example, we developed a standardized geographic focus. We view OOTF as a form of standards, we aim to strengthen work process to gain efficiency, cultural shift – another step in engaging assurance across the enterprise. incorporate lessons learned and track our all of our people to deliver as “One Following a risk-based approach and our progress from the start of development Team, One Goal.” The new approach Documents Standard, we prioritized the through the implementation of each helps to break down silos and focuses order of development and implementation standard. To add clarity for all those the entire organization on working in for enterprisewide standards into three involved and to mitigate inefficiencies, service of our colleagues in the field. we created support tools and guidance EHS GLOBAL STANDARDS PROJECT PLAN 2015–2017 2016–2018 2017–2020 1 2 3 Phase I Standards Phase II Standards Phase III Standards ▶ Energy Isolation ▶ Confined Space Entry ▶ Behavior-Based Safety ▶ Land Transportation ▶ Contractor Management ▶ Excavation and Trenching ▶ Lifting and Hoisting ▶ Dropped Objects ▶ Permit-to-Work ▶ Process Safety Information ▶ Emergency Preparedness and Response ▶ Medical Assessment ▶ Vehicle Entry ▶ Incident Reporting and Investigation ▶ Safety Systems Bypass ▶ Waste Management ▶ Working at Heights Note: Additional standards published outside the scope of this project include the Management of Change Standard (2015), the Hess Marine Standard (2016) and the Risk Management Standard (2017). 12 Hess is also redefining roles and Operational Readiness Assessments are Mexico and North Malay Basin Full Field responsibilities to provide more aligned with the 14 elements of our EHS Development in the Gulf of Thailand. clarity for individual job functions management system: KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES and teams. OOTF aims to drive key ▶O  rganization and Leadership We apply a number of key processes operational information, decision ▶M  anagement of Change in our company that help to identify making and accountability downward ▶H  azard and Risk Management and mitigate risks in potential, new and within operational teams and to build existing operations; achieve operational leadership capabilities into the front ▶E  mergency Preparedness excellence; and evaluate investment line through training and coaching. The and Response opportunities. new team structure is supported by ▶C  ompliance standardized processes and proactive Enterprise Risk Management management. We are focusing in ▶ I ncident Reporting and Investigation Hess applies a comprehensive, particular on key drivers of efficiency ▶ I mprovement standardized approach to identifying and performance, including reducing ▶D  ocuments and Data Control and managing risks of all types unplanned work and deferrals, creating across our operations. Our enterprise ▶T  raining, Awareness and Competency resource capacity and maximizing risk management (ERM) process is production. To support these operational ▶P  erformance Measurement used to develop a holistic risk profile improvements, we are also better and Communication for each asset and major project, integrating contractors in day-to-day ▶C  ontractor Management drawing input from subject matter operations so they are equipped to be experts, performance data, incident ▶A  udit true partners with Hess. investigations, lessons learned and ▶D  esign, Operations and Maintenance recent internal audits. In these risk We initially developed and implemented ▶M  anagement Review assessments, we identify each risk OOTF in our onshore assets, launching and assess its likelihood and potential at our Bakken asset in late 2015 and As part of each assessment, Hess impact to people, the environment, our continuing with our Permian asset in subject matter experts and contractors, reputation and our business, as well as early 2016. Our offshore operations will as applicable, engage in a collaborative other risks as appropriate. begin implementation in 2017. workshop, contributing cross-functional insights and sharing best practices and Our Risk Management Standard – Operational Readiness lessons learned from other regions. finalized in early 2017 – will further Significant operational and EHS risks The project team and senior executives improve the alignment and integration can occur during commissioning and regularly review the risks identified of risk management across our startup. During these early phases, through these workshops. operations and functional areas. The we make preparations to help ensure risk management requirements in that both the physical equipment and In 2016 we developed an operational this standard apply to all assets and the people running the equipment can readiness dashboard that collects major capital projects and prospects operate to Hess’ safety, environmental, information on key operational throughout their respective lifecycles production and economic performance readiness factors, identifies risks from (i.e., acquisition, exploration, appraisal, standards. each assessment and provides an development, production and overview of project milestones. The For several years we have been abandonment). The Risk Management dashboard, which is regularly reported improving and formalizing our approach Standard establishes a risk framework, to senior executives during strategic to operational readiness. Project teams accountabilities and expectations across review meetings, has been helping undergo three Operational Readiness the organization – including individual us track operational readiness for our Assessments during the development of functions such as ERM and EHS – to three key developments: the Hawkeye major projects to help identify risks and provide a consistent and integrated risk Compressor Station in North Dakota, opportunities and prepare for external, management process. Key elements of the Stampede Project in the Gulf of pre-operational regulatory reviews. The the standard include the following: 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 13 HOW WE OPERATE ▶M  inimum risk management rhythm. Risk assessments are also We review our assets and major capital expectations for each asset and completed prior to each value assurance projects as part of the business planning major capital project (risk plan, stage gate deliverable (described below) cycle to verify that they add value to our ERM assessment, functional for all projects, rig commitments and company and that the relevant technical risk assessment(s), stakeholder new opportunities that go through the expertise has been incorporated. The engagement plan, integrated risk value assurance process. reviews focus on economics, subsurface register and risk monitoring) to help and facility design, environmental We also require that functional-level risk ensure consistent adoption and and socioeconomic considerations, assessments be included in the asset or alignment in risk tools regulatory requirements and other project risk plan, as determined by each  hierarchy of risk assessments, ▶A nontechnical risks. We apply a carbon function. Examples include identifying integrated across technical and price of $40 per tonne to the greenhouse and validating concept selection or functional areas, that outlines the level gas emissions generated by significant confirming the technical basis of design of management review applied to new projects to evaluate the potential for a facility. different tiers of risk impact of carbon cost on project In 2016 we began a detailed review economics and to compare alternative  formalized process for aligning ▶A of integrity risk at our producing project configurations. risk assessment with stakeholder assets, as part of our ongoing asset engagement, including the facilitation The value assurance process is closely integrity management process. This of stakeholder mapping at ERM aligned with our ERM process so that we comprehensive effort, which is focused workshops can apply consistent methodologies and on identifying and mitigating process  risk monitoring process with ▶A criteria to risks across our company. safety and loss of containment risks, accountabilities and an operating is described further in the Safety and New Country Entry rhythm to help ensure appropriate Health section. Our new country entry process helps monitoring, alignment and escalation us assess nontechnical, aboveground of risk from the asset, project Value Assurance risks when evaluating opportunities in or function to and from senior Value assurance is a review process a new country of operation. Through management Hess uses to characterize and assess this process, subject matter experts our major investment opportunities. It from various functions across Hess As part of our ERM process, we conduct utilizes internal reviews by those who are evaluate our future operations in a risk assessments for all assets and major not directly involved with the asset or particular country through a detailed risk projects annually. Risk registers and project to provide additional objectivity. questionnaire that accounts for social, reports that are generated through these Following this process helps us ensure environmental, legal, external affairs, processes are reviewed and updated that our capital allocation and portfolio compliance, commercial and supply throughout the year as part of each management decisions are based on chain risks. The purpose of the review, asset’s and major project’s operating independently reviewed, high-quality input. VALUE ASSURANCE PROCESS Handover to Operations Team FRAME SCREEN REFINE IMPLEMENT OPERATE Gate review and decision Gate review and decision Gate review and decision ▶ Outline objectives ▶ D  evelop objectives and ▶ O  ptimize preferred ▶ D  eliver the refined ▶ O  perate in line with requirements option option budget and plan ▶ D  etermine technical and commercial ▶ E valuate and rank ▶ Define plan for delivery ▶ M  eet/exceed sanction viability options metrics ▶ Secure funding ▶ Identify alternatives ▶ R educe risks and ▶ M  eet Production uncertainties Excellence expectations ▶ Select preferred option ▶ Post-project review 14 which draws on available information and completions contractors and using investigated all issues and allegations from governmental sources such as the Lean thinking to improve performance. referred to the team in 2016. Global U.S. State Department as well as leading This multi-company approach is unique Compliance continued to partner with nongovernmental organizations such within our industry and has contributed other key functions such as Legal, EHS, as the World Resources Institute, is to to the successful delivery of some of Human Resources and Corporate Audit categorize each risk as high, medium or the most complex deepwater wells in to review potential issues and put in low based on severity and whether the the Gulf of Mexico. place appropriate remediation steps. risk can be easily mitigated. S ee additional examples on the new Lean section of our website at hess.com/lean-advantage Providing employees with effective Through the new country entry process, training on the Hess Values is a key BUSINESS CONDUCT we endeavor to enhance the quality and element of strengthening our culture and In the Hess Code of Conduct, we breadth of information available to Hess helping ensure employees understand describe the business conduct and leadership for the evaluation of new and embody the Values in their daily work. behaviors we expect of our employees, opportunities. The process also helps the Our Global Compliance team has officers, directors and contractors. Any project team mitigate identified risks once developed in-depth training on our Code individual or company working for Hess a commitment is made to enter a new of Conduct that includes examples of how or our subsidiaries is expected to follow country. Ultimately, we are able to support employees can translate the Hess Values similar principles. To promote the Hess our ERM and value assurance workflows, into on-the-job actions. All employees Values across our global operations, the utilizing the necessary information at key joining Hess take this training as part of Code of Conduct has been translated decision points in our investment and their new hire process. In 2016 we into the local language of each of our project planning processes. implemented an annual Code of Conduct countries of operation. Hess takes certification that is required for all current Lean disciplinary actions for violations of the employees. The Global Compliance team Over the past seven years, Hess has Code of Conduct and related policies. conducts audits and ongoing monitoring implemented Lean principles across our Our compliance policies and procedures to help ensure that all employees operations to eliminate waste, create all stem from our Code of Conduct. Our complete these trainings. At year-end value and drive reliability and continuous Global Compliance team establishes, 2016, 96 percent of employees had improvement for our communities, maintains and enforces policies, completed the onboarding training and employees, business partners, procedures, processes and initiatives 93 percent of employees had completed shareholders and other stakeholders. to prevent and detect compliance the Code of Conduct certification. We view Lean not as a short-term violations. Its aim is to promote an We also require new and current program for achieving cost savings, but organizational culture that is committed employees to take in-depth anti-corruption as a holistic cultural shift, changing the to ethical conduct and compliance with training based on Hess’ ABAC Policy way we think and act. Central to this the law. The Chief Compliance Officer and Procedure. Since inception of the shift has been moving our leaders from informs the Board of Director’s Audit enhanced ABAC program in 2015, directing solutions toward coaching and Committee on a regular basis. 96 percent of employees have developing employees and contractors Hess utilizes an automated approval completed ABAC training. To further to generate solutions themselves. The system to review and approve higher-risk support Hess’ ABAC program, in 2016 result is a distinctive Lean culture in transactions. To continuously improve we improved the process for disclosure, which continuous improvement comes compliance controls and embrace review and approval or mitigation of from the entire workforce – our “army best practices, our Global Compliance potential conflicts of interest. of problem solvers.” team focuses on internal investigations, One recent example of Lean in action POLITICAL SPENDING anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC) HessPAC is from our Stampede Project in programs as well as other enterprise In the U.S., federal election law permits the Gulf of Mexico. We have been programs. Our Global Compliance team, corporations to establish political collaborating with our six lead drilling through its dedicated investigation arm, action committees (PACs), which may 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 15 HOW WE OPERATE make political contributions. HessPAC, $1.11 million. This included expenses for association committees that advocate the political action committee of internal employees, external consultants for policy changes. The policy also Hess’ U.S. employees, entered its and trade association dues used for helps to ensure that Hess continues to first full cycle of operation in 2016 lobbying purposes, as required by the operate at the highest level of integrity and generated $158,978 in member Lobbying Disclosure Act. and transparency and remains compliant contributions. HessPAC made with all reporting requirements. Hess belongs to a number of $112,000 in political contributions in associations, primarily to give the As part of the regulatory assurance a bipartisan manner to candidates at company access to the associations’ element of our environment, health, both the state and federal levels. expertise in business, technical safety and social responsibility strategy, All federal contributions from HessPAC and industry best practices – an we aim to align our advocacy priorities are publically disclosed and accessible approach that is consistent with our with our established processes related to through the U.S. Federal Election industry peers. Hess requires all trade ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). associations to report all expenses assessments of our global advocacy State contributions from HessPAC are related to lobbying activities as outlined priorities to drive improvements to our publicly available on each Secretary of by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our process for tracking and informing our State’s website. As legally permitted, Hess trade associations’ lobbying activities advocacy efforts. corporate funds were used to provide accounted for 23 percent of our total SUPPLY CHAIN administrative support for HessPAC. lobbying spend in 2016. Our business partners, suppliers and Advocacy In 2016, none of Hess’ membership contractors are critical to Hess’ overall As Hess is a trusted voice on energy fees or dues were used by any of success and our ability to maximize the policy, there is great value in our our associations for direct political efficiency of operations while minimizing engagement with stakeholders regarding advocacy. Furthermore, no payments operational risks. We work collaboratively legislation and regulations that may made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) with our supply chain to improve impact our company, both domestically organizations were used for express performance and create shared value. and internationally. Hess actively political advocacy. A list of memberships engages in discussions with elected We jointly review processes, procedures and associations that received more and appointed government officials in and data with our suppliers to help than $50,000 from Hess in 2016 can be order to better understand legislative drive the right actions and foster found on page 60. and regulatory requirements and continuous improvement. For example, ultimately help mitigate potential risks to We recognize that our positions do not we are working with our suppliers to the company’s license to operate. The always align with all formal positions implement Lean principles across our company’s principles and values dictate of the associations, organizations and assets. Through Lean, we are finding that all of our political engagements are collaborative working groups in which new ways to integrate our efforts to done in accordance with all applicable we participate. Our funding should not create win-win solutions that have laws and regulations and that no direct be considered a direct endorsement of sustainable benefits. At our onshore political contributions are made by Hess the entire range of activities undertaken assets, Hess has worked with suppliers employees using corporate funds. by these associations, organizations or to develop standardized approaches to collaborative working groups. various categories of maintenance jobs, Hess fully complies with all lobbying including standardized work instructions reporting requirements outlined in the Hess has a strict internal policy that and material requirements. This Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and prohibits our employees from engaging standardization and repeatability helps all substantial amendments made to with elected officials or regulators improve work efficiency and quality. the law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest as an official representative of the Leadership and Open Government company without the approval of the In 2016 we purchased more than Act of 2007. In 2016 the company’s Vice President of Government and $5.5 billion of goods and services from lobbying expenses totaled approximately External Affairs. Our policy extends to more than 5,000 suppliers, whose Hess employees who serve on trade manhours comprised over 70 percent of 16 our total workforce hours. Engagements environmental management systems human rights (see pages 19 and 23). with our suppliers are conducted so as and measurement, and emergency Standard contract clauses include to comply with applicable local laws preparedness and response. As one part requirements with respect to ethical and requirements, and practices may of the EHS review, we use recognized business practices, human rights, social differ from those described below in industry prequalification systems for responsibility, business integrity, search certain instances. our areas of operation in the U.S. and and seizure, quality and EHS. Europe. Outside of these areas, we See more on Hess’ expectations and requirements Management Approach for suppliers at hess.com/sustainability/ use a standardized process with a how-we-operate We manage our key suppliers with questionnaire based on our 14 EHS a cross-functional team that works management system elements. Absent LOCAL CONTENT collaboratively to reach mutually agreedcertain limited exceptions, suppliers Internationally we often prioritize local upon targets for safety, quality, delivery that do not meet our requirements must suppliers when performing under and cost. Team members – representing develop an improvement plan before production-sharing contracts or other critical organizational functions such they can contract with Hess. Further agreements with host countries. These as operations, engineering and finance detail on our EHS-related qualifications agreements vary, but may include use of – work together to create efficiencies review during procurement can be found an approved supplier list, requirements while also building long-term, strategic in the Safety and Health section. for government approval of suppliers relationships with key suppliers. or threshold specifications for local The companies that supply Hess with companies or workers. Hess follows a standardized approach to goods and services must comply with evaluate and measure the performance applicable laws and regulations in In Malaysia, for example, we use an of key potential and current suppliers on areas such as EHS, drug and alcohol approved vendor list that includes the basis of total value, including safety, use, conflicts of interest and antiMalaysian-owned companies, and we quality, delivery and cost. We employ a corruption laws, and must maintain any also commit to holding our suppliers systematic prequalification and selection licensing or permitting requirements accountable to hiring local staff. In process to help ensure we are working with respect to their activities. Suppliers Equatorial Guinea, Hess works with the with qualified and safe suppliers. Where are also required to abide by our government to identify qualified local appropriate, potential suppliers – as Code of Conduct and Hess’ Voluntary suppliers and include them in tenders determined by a risk-based decision Commitments regarding labor and as applicable. matrix – undergo a risk review, an ABAC and legal compliance review and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable standards arise, the relevant department within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation plans as needed. Contracts that involve higher risk, due to either the number of manhours the supplier will work for Hess or the scope of that work, automatically trigger an EHS review in the procurement process that covers training qualifications, Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand safety programs and performance, 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 17 Energy Efficiency Program, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Hess, we are committed to being a ▶U  niversal Declaration of Human Rights trusted energy partner and community ▶ I nternational Labour Organization’s member in all of our areas of operation. Declaration on Fundamental Principles Hess Values One way we do this is by integrating Hess Values and Rights at Work and Code of Conduct social responsibility (SR) into the way and Code ▶U of Conduct  nited Nations Global Compact (Hess we do business. Our approach to serves on the Board of the UNGC’s SR is centered on three focus areas:Voluntary Commitments SR, Security and Human Rights, U.S. Network) and Voluntary Principles and Human Rights Policies stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic ▶V  oluntary Principles on Security and SR, Security and Human Rights, social investments that facilitate Human and Human Rights Policies Rights SR and Human Rights Global Standards direct and indirect local benefits. ▶E  xtractive Industries Transparency SR and Human Rights Global Standards Proactively engaging with communities Initiative (EITI) Toolkits, Training and Local Procedures/Plans and stakeholders where we operate Toolkits, Training and Local Procedures/Plans maximizes our business value, helps us These initiatives, which we collectively manage social risks and impacts and call our “Voluntary Commitments,” inform GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK creates opportunities for stakeholders. our SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. We continued GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK development of our SR and Human Hess’ SR governance framework sets Rights Standards in 2016 as part of our 2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS out our commitments to our employees environment, health, safety and social ▶ C ontinued to integrate social responsibility and the communities where we operate responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. The (SR) considerations into our enterprise through every phase of our business standards cascade from our policies and business processes activity. Our commitment to ethical comprise the next level of our governance ▶ E xpanded implementation of stakeholder and responsible business practices framework. To support our SR and engagement and grievance mechanism begins with the Hess Values and processes into two new assets Human Rights Policies and Standards, Code of Conduct. The Hess Value of ▶C  onducted risk-based human rights we also developed guidelines for each of training at selected assets and Social Responsibility establishes our these documents in 2016. The guidelines incorporated human rights training into our commitment to meeting the highest will be an important element of contractor onboarding process standards of corporate citizenship embedding social risk management and ▶ Invested nearly $20 million in social by protecting the health and safety stakeholder engagement into our value programs across the globe of our employees, safeguarding the assurance and enterprise risk processes. 2017 GOALS environment and creating a long-lasting The final level of our governance ▶ Integrate SR and Human Rights Guidelines positive impact on the communities framework is made up of training, toolkits into enterprise business processes to where we do business. Our Code and local procedures. support policies and standards of Conduct describes the business ▶ C ontinue to expand implementation of Organizational Structure conduct and behaviors that we expect stakeholder engagement and grievance Hess deploys SR resources across the mechanism processes of our employees, officers, directors and organization. To do this effectively, we ▶R  eview enterprisewide social, reputational contractors, including our expectations have a core SR team combined with and human rights risks to update risk regarding human rights. local resources who are embedded with identification We have endorsed or formally joined a our assets and project teams. ▶ Refresh and conduct human rights training as needed based on identified risks number of voluntary initiatives designed The role of the core team is to develop to protect the environment, promote governance, advise executives, manage human rights and encourage financial companywide social performance, transparency: provide technical and functional support 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 19 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY to the assets and project teams, and through the decommissioning of an by meaningful engagement, as well as provide assurance across these efforts. asset. We understand that our success the business value that engagement is in part tied to our ability to mitigate brings when it is integrated as a part of The asset and project resources report into the potential risks associated with project risk management. Consistent the business line management structure our activities, which could impact with our continuous improvement and are responsible for developing and stakeholder relationships and public methodology, we follow the “Plan, executing assetor project-specific SR perception. We aim to create value Do, Check, Adjust” cycle to direct our plans. SR activities are integrated and through mutually beneficial opportunities stakeholder management efforts. As the aligned between the core team at our with our stakeholders, which include expectations, priorities and concerns operational headquarters in Houston and communities, employees, contractors, of our stakeholders evolve, we adjust global locations. suppliers, customers, industry members, our approach to align with their needs STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT governments and investors. and our business activities. Building Our industry can face challenges in on our earlier efforts, in 2016 we Stakeholder Engagement Process the pursuit of sustainable oil and gas continued to enhance our stakeholder Proactive, two-way and ongoing exploration and production, including engagement process and associated stakeholder engagement helps to establish certain social considerations. Effectively tools by integrating stakeholder issues a mutual understanding of expectations engaging with stakeholders in our and engagement into our enterprise risk between Hess and those who live and host communities facilitates our ability workshops, value assurance reviews and work in our areas of operation. to responsibly access the resources asset business plans. we require as an international energy Our stakeholder engagement process As part of implementing our EHS & SR company – from the earliest phases focuses on the proactive relationshipstrategy, we began working with each of our new country entry process and trust-building opportunities created of our assets to develop individualized plans for engaging with their priority stakeholders. Our Bakken, Gulf of STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS Mexico, Permian, Denmark and Ghana assets have developed engagement CTIVES, RISK plans, and their implementation is OBJE S& TIFY IM ongoing. Other Hess assets are in EN PA ID CT 1. S various stages of developing their Long-Term & Short-Term Business Risks Impacts/ Issues engagement plans. Objectives Grievance Mechanisms We believe that developing strong Understand: STAKEHOLDERS and transparent relationships with NALYZE & MAP Track Engagements & Stakes, Needs and Grievance Resolution Timing Interrelationships communities and addressing potential 4. MONITOR 2. A One-Off or Cross-Asset issues early – before they may grow into Report Regularly more severe or widespread problems – Map to Grids: Rate Influence & Interest helps to avoid incidents. Define: Rate Strength of Share Lessons • Desired Outcome Relationship Formal grievance mechanisms provide Learned • Relationship Owner • Engagement and/or Response stakeholders with a means for sharing • Indicators and Metrics feedback with companies on their Implement Engagement Plan operational impacts, while also helping Grievance companies respond to and act on that Management feedback through an established process. 3. D T EF INE & IM PLE M E N Through the use of our grievance 20 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Promoting Energy Efficiency in Malaysia North Dakota Safety Council Training Hess Malaysia recently began an engagement with the Energy Efficiency In September 2016 Hess cosponsored – together with the North Dakota Program (EEP), a joint industry–government effort to raise awareness Safety Council – a series of workshops designed to prepare local first among secondary school students on the efficient use of energy resources responders to safely respond to oil and gas emergencies. The North Dakota (in particular natural gas). Emergency Medical Services Association (NDEMSA) provided free workshops, which were in part built on best practices from safety training In November 2016 a geologist and an engineer from Hess’ North Malay Basin courses in our other areas of operation, at a conference in Bismarck for law asset visited two schools and shared their experiences working in the oil and enforcement, firefighters and emergency medical personal. Topics for the gas industry. The sessions also included science demonstrations and sessions included incident command for oil and gas emergencies, drilling presentations on energy resources and the electricity supply system in Malaysia. rig safety, response protocols for workplace violence and active shooter The EEP has engaged more than 3,000 secondary school students in five situations, landing zone safety and communications, responding to pipeline Malaysian states since its inception in 2014. The effort is jointly organized emergencies and more. by Petrosains (a science museum sponsored by Malaysia’s national energy We also worked with the North Dakota Safety Council to sponsor a day of company PETRONAS) and the Malaysian Gas Association and supported by sessions at NDEMSA’s 2016 Southwest Region Emergency Medical Malaysia’s Energy Commission and Ministry of Education. Services Conference. The sessions covered topics similar to those at the Bismarck conference, with the same objective of preparing attendees to safely respond to oil and gas emergencies. The audience for these sessions included companies, communities and emergency personnel. mechanisms, we aim to strengthen as appropriate, we are able to escalate contact us if they perceive a problem. our relationships with communities management of the grievance upward in For example, Hess representatives and respond more effectively to their the company as necessary to help resolve presented our process at meetings of concerns. Hess has a formal grievance the issue. The response team strives to the McKenzie County Commission and mechanism in place at our Bakken asset complete their investigation within 14 the Northwest Landowners Association. in North Dakota, and in 2016 we began days of the original report. We maintain As we continue to work toward implementation of mechanisms at our an internal database – the stakeholder integration of formal grievance Permian asset in West Texas and South management system (SMS) – to track mechanisms at additional assets, we are Arne asset in Denmark. all grievances from start to completion. relying on our existing manual tracking (The SMS also supports our stakeholder At our Bakken asset, where the process process at those assets to resolve issues engagement process, described on was launched in early 2015 and is thus in a timely manner. the previous page.) As a final step the most mature, the mechanism outlines before closing a case, we contact the In 2016 we received a total of 150 a process for reporting, investigating and stakeholder to confirm they feel the issue grievances, including feedback related resolving issues and concerns raised by has been adequately addressed. Trending to roads, dust, maintenance, land people who claim they are impacted by data on grievances are reported upward reclamation, weeds and EHS concerns. Hess operations. When we are alerted to the Bakken Leadership Team as part of to a potential issue, our response team our weekly operating rhythm. draws employees from various disciplines within Hess such as EHS, drilling, Also in North Dakota, we have completions, operations, maintenance reached out to community members to and civil construction in order to reach a share information about the grievance resolution. By engaging each discipline mechanism and explain how to 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for external stakeholders – from local landowners and governments to benefiting our host communities while improving our business and community service agencies and indigenous groups. A few recent strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below. EXTERNAL CATEGORY RECENT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER GROUPS Held annual meetings with Bakken landowners to review completed Residents, landowners, work plans, address concerns and discuss upcoming activities. Land Users/Landowners commercial land interests, Continued our efforts to leverage the Hess Community Connection to farmers, ranchers resolve issues and maintain dialogue with these stakeholders. Mineral rights owners, water Resources Users/Rights Increased efficiency with Bakken mineral rights owner transfers and rights owners and users, Holders developed a direct deposit process for international owners. hunters/fishers/gatherers Hosted senior members of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Energy and Commerce Committee at Hess’ operational headquarters in Houston, to educate them on Hess’ policy priorities, economic impacts Local, regional and national and role as a leading independent oil and gas company. Engaged authorities, national militaries, directly with U.S. Congressional and Administration officials – including Governments international governing individuals from the House and Senate, the Environmental Protection authorities Agency and the Departments of State, Interior and Energy – to educate them on energy-related issues. Also, a Hess representative serves on the North Dakota Oil and Gas Research Council, a public–private partnership. Worked with suppliers to learn and apply Lean principles for mutually Investment partners, vendors beneficial enhancements to projects. A Hess representative served on Direct Economic Interests and suppliers, contractors, a panel at a teacher education seminar in North Dakota to discuss unions, shareholders workforce needs. Participated in the Shale Advisory Committee of the Ohio Oil and Gas Chambers of commerce, Energy Education Program. A Hess representative served on the industry organizations, local executive committee of IPIECA. Leaders of Hess’ EHS and SR functions External Business Interests businesses, sustainability actively participated in IPIECA working groups and stakeholder initiatives engagement activities focused on topics such as social responsibility, water, climate change and sustainability reporting. Participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the EITI and the UNGC, to Nongovernmental advance responsible business practices globally. With the North organizations, religious groups, Special Interest Groups Dakota Petroleum Council, participated in a trash cleanup day called cause-oriented nonprofits, “Pick Up the Patch.” Donated more than 8,500 pounds of leftover community groups prepared food in 2016 from our Houston operational headquarters to Second Servings Food Rescue. Continued a safety education program near our Permian operations to make students and their families aware of certain safety considerations Local police/fire/emergency near oil and gas sites. Donated $200,000 worth of equipment to medical services, health care Community Services Bismarck State College’s National Energy Center of Excellence. services, education, human Worked with industry peers and a government agency in Malaysia to service agencies educate fishermen about the potential safety implications of activities conducted near offshore oil and gas platforms. Formally recognized groups, Continued engagement with local fishing villages in Ghana, through tribal coalitions, government Indigenous Groups their Paramount Chiefs and community members, including providing supporting agencies, updates on Hess business activities. indigenous advocacy groups 22 SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT operate present an opportunity to make Commitments, including the Voluntary MANAGEMENT positive and lasting contributions in Principles. Through that internal Whether entering a new country, the areas of governance, transparency, site, Hess employees can link to the commissioning a new development or respect for rule of law, and social and Voluntary Principles website and key expanding an existing facility, we engage economic development. components of the Hess security and with stakeholders to proactively identify, human rights governance framework. We have worked to align our business mitigate and manage aboveground risks This internal SharePoint site will be practices with our SR, Human Rights, that can impact our activities or the updated with additional reference and Security and Human Rights Policies. communities where we operate. As part materials, presentations, internal Human rights issues are analyzed at of our strategic planning process for these examples of security and human rights all phases of our business activities, activities, we examine the social, political best practices, and the Hess Security beginning with new country entry. and reputational environment to identify and Human Rights Toolkit. nontechnical risks and mitigation activities. We continue to utilize the asset-level In Malaysia in 2016 we conducted human rights-related risks identified We address human rights considerations training on human rights and the through a third-party review conducted throughout the process, including during Voluntary Principles for a number of in 2015. This global assessment due diligence and social risk mitigation our employees, including our country included security-related risk and has and management. We also have a manager, and contractors. The training, provided us with the insight needed to Security and Human Rights Toolkit that which was similar to previous security regularly review and update Hess’ global we utilize locally for training security and human rights-related courses human rights risk profile. Through this personnel on human rights issues. carried out in Equatorial Guinea, review, we continue to gain an external included an introduction to our Security Risk mitigation measures are driven perspective of our potential impacts on and Human Rights Toolkit. by our value assurance process and human rights. conducted on an as-needed basis. As COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND Hess is committed to educating a result of the social baseline study CAPACITY BUILDING our personnel on the importance we conducted for our Gulf of Mexico To maintain our reputation as a of respecting human rights as well assets in 2015, we implemented several responsible corporate citizen, Hess seeks as raising internal awareness of the social investment activities in 2016 that to create mutually beneficial relationships Voluntary Principles on Security and aimed to support biodiversity, wetlands with our host communities. We design Human Rights (Voluntary Principles). preservation and regional infrastructure. our programs to create shared value Over the years, we have invited external Among these were a tree-planting event in local communities and help create a experts to provide human rights training at Nicholls State University in April 2016 favorable environment for our operations. to our employees around the globe. and funding for a highway improvement At the local level, our assets create, We also utilize an online human rights project – both in Louisiana. maintain and implement strategic social training module for employees that investment programs tailored to each Human Rights explains the concept of human rights operation and community. At Hess, we understand that although and why they are important for Hess, it is the duty of governments to protect reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers We evaluate our programs to confirm human rights, companies like ours must guidance on integrating respect for a balance of strategic investment and build trusted partnerships and treat human rights into employees’ daily work support of local organizations, which all citizens with dignity and respect and provides directions on how to report helps us evolve along with the changing wherever we operate. Our strategy is to suspected human rights violations. development needs of the communities prevent human rights-related incidents where we operate. Hess focuses on We developed an internal SharePoint by engaging with stakeholders to established partnerships with key site focused on Hess SR policies and proactively address potential issues. organizations, projects best aligned with initiatives that covers Hess’ Voluntary The complex environments in which we business and social risks and projects 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Social Investment Spend by Country identify opportunities in our supply professional development program ($ Thousands) chain to provide lasting economic (ProFADS) that will certify up to 1,500 benefit through local job creation. preschool and primary school teachers Our programs generally fall into two over the next two years (approximately 58% categories: corporate-led, multiyear and 33 percent of uncredentialed teachers 2% multimillion-dollar flagship programs in the country) 38% and asset-based projects with moderate ▶R einforced teaching strategies that funding levels. incorporate active learning for more In 2016 our social investments totaled than 6,000 primaryand preschoolnearly $20 million, with $16.2 million level teachers; distributed student ● U.S. $11,532 ● Equatorial Guinea $7,629 going toward education projects. learning guides for grades 4–6 to all ● Ghana $399 ● All Others* $278 Another $3.6 million was earmarked primary schools and teacher guides *Includes Australia, Denmark, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Malaysia for economic development, health and to preschool teachers, benefiting and Norway. capacity building. approximately 147,000 students ▶F urther defined the intervention Flagship Investments in Education needed at the junior secondary level 2016 Social Investment Spend Hess continues to show progress with by Type of Investment to strengthen school management and ($ Thousands) our two flagship social investment improve the quality of teaching and 1% programs focused on developing 1% 1% learning, which will involve training 1% 0% 0% secondary education systems and more than 750 school directors and capacity: PRODEGE II and Succeed master teachers in instructional 2020. 15% leadership and active learning PRODEGE II strategies in 2017 Our Program for Educational 82% Succeed 2020 Development of Equatorial Guinea, or We initiated the Succeed 2020 program PRODEGE II, is a partnership with the in 2012 with a $25 million grant to Equatorial Guinean government that the state of North Dakota. The fiveaims to strengthen preschool, primary ■ Education $16,211 year program aims to improve the ■ Community $2,930 and junior secondary education in ■ In-Kind $249 transition from secondary school to ■ Environment $142 that country. The five-year, $50 million Civic and Employee $128 higher education and the workplace ■ program, which began in 2014, has ■ Disaster Relief $106 by supporting college and career ■ Health $59 achieved significant results to date, ■ Art and Culture $13 counseling for students, professional including the following: Note: These charts include all social investments in 2016, including those development for teachers, and associated with joint venture operations. ▶ I ncreased the capacity and improved tutoring and online learning. Succeed the work of teachers, school directors 2020 is run by FHI 360, a nonprofit and inspectors at the preschool, human development organization, identified from social assessments. We primary and junior secondary levels and implemented through the state’s integrate this strategy into our business, ▶O  rganized all schools, inspectors and Regional Education Associations (REAs). enhancing investment visibility and teachers into official district zones leveraging volunteer opportunities for During the 2015–16 school year, across the country and established our employees. approximately 2,100 teachers, 400 peer-learning networks, called administrators and 175 school counselors Our social investment programs “teacher circles,” to strengthen participated in Succeed 2020 activities, contribute to education improvement teaching practices including professional development in and work skill development, which ▶W  orked closely with the Ministry of teaching, college planning and career are fundamental to sustainable Education to define and launch a new exploration. Most REAs shifted their economic growth. We also seek to 24 professional development activities in Texas. Hess is evaluating additional has scientific, educational and away from “one and done” events to education-related social investment microenterprise aspects, since 2012. In more intensive, longer-term efforts. In options, including elements of the LEAP 2016 we donated $130,000 toward this addition, nearly 5,000 students received program, for future consideration. important endeavor. direct services through career fairs, job Farmer Cooperatives Scientists involved in the Bioko program shadowing and hands-on activities in in Equatorial Guinea are collecting data on the population science, technology, engineering and Since 2013 Hess has been assisting two dynamics of four sea turtle species math. As a testament to the impact of this small farmer cooperatives in Equatorial nesting on Equatorial Guinea’s Bioko program, 87 percent of teachers surveyed Guinea to become fully operational and Island. The data are published in said they changed their classroom sustainable. Our efforts have focused international journals, presented at practices after participating in Succeed on providing basic equipment, financial scientific symposia and shared with 2020 activities. support (both funding and financial national park administrators to help In 2017, the last year of the program, advice), guidance and training tools, and ensure effective management and participants will be preparing for the technical support. In 2016, the second protection of the turtles. Representatives transition to post-Succeed 2020 year of production, the two cooperatives from the program work with teachers to operations. Succeed 2020 has established produced eight different food crops, educate primary-level students about the a policy subcommittee to help identify totaling over 8,350 kilograms of food turtles and the Bioko program, in part strategies for sustaining work launched and sales of approximately $9,000. through distribution of a children’s book. through the program. REAs will plan to We support this project in partnership Additional educational materials have complete their final school-year projects with the Equatorial Guinean Ministry of been developed for university students. and begin to implement plans for Agriculture, the Professional School of Agriculture, and the Spanish agrarian The program also teaches local women sustaining key activities. company Dalmau. how to make and market jewelry from Local Program Highlights paper beads. This effort provides a Hess’ global assets and Houston Protecting Marine Turtles in source of income for local households, Equatorial Guinea operational headquarters engaged as an alternative to harvesting adult Hess has been a sponsor of the in a variety of local social investment turtles and their eggs from the beaches Bioko Marine Turtle Program, which opportunities in 2016 focused on for commercial use. education and community development. LEAP In 2016 Hess was honored at the second annual Citizen Schools Texas Luncheon for our grant to establish LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) – a threeyear, $4.3 million pilot program that sought to prevent at-risk middle school students in Houston from dropping out. Hess has been one of five program partners working collaboratively to provide support to students who are English language learners and over age for their grade level. Our support for the pilot – which came to a close in 2016 – focused on two middle schools in the Houston Independent School District, which is one of largest school districts Hess-Sponsored School, Equatorial Guinea 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 25 Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico SAFETY AND HEALTH Safety is central to Hess’ culture, Employee and Contractor Workforce Safety Performance* and our commitment to personal and Safety Performance Cases per 200,000 Hours Cases per 200,000 Hours process safety begins at the top of our 0.40 0.40 organization and is reinforced at every 0.36 0.52 level. We include key safety metrics in 0.45 our annual incentive plan formula for 0.39 executives and employees. We also reinforce the importance of workforce 0.12 0.13 0.08 safety practices through annual Chief 0.24 Executive Officer’s and President’s 0.20 Awards for Safety Excellence, which 2014 2015 2016 0.10 recognize Hess teams and individuals ■ Workforce TRIR that exemplify outstanding and ■ Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) sustainable safety performance. 2014 2015 2016 *H ess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the Our safety programs and practices ■ Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current ■ Contractor TRIR employees are included in our companywide safety totals. are designed to deliver continuous improvement, with the goal of having everyone across our operations return on safe work practices. Our assets in home safe every day. Each individual North Dakota, Ohio and Texas have employee and contractor is personally been implementing BSOP since 2011 2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS ▶ L aunched enterprisewide assessments of responsible for supporting our ultimate with positive results. In 2016 we trained both our process safety management goal of zero incidents. 160 new observers to look for safe and systems and the mechanical integrity of at-risk behaviors at our North Dakota our equipment PERSONAL SAFETY facilities. Best practices identified ▶ Improved our employee total recordable Hess’ safety standards and procedures through the onshore program were incident rate by 58 percent follow our 14-element Environment, ▶ A chieved a four-year low in the number of codified into an enterprisewide standard, Health and Safety (EHS) Management Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events which we have begun implementing in System Manual and guide our workforce ▶ S trengthened our process for managing our offshore organization in 2017. on safe practices related to key areas contractors through ongoing of safety risk such as energy isolation, Throughout Hess, individuals at each implementation of our Contractor Management Standard dropped objects and confined space asset are tasked with identifying and entry, among many others. Our mitigating the safety issues most 2017 GOALS personal safety programs focus on relevant to their operations. For example, ▶ C ontinue to make improvements in our leadership, awareness, consistency and members of our workover rig team in process safety management system and accountability across all levels of the North Dakota began a monthly safety process safety standards, and complete organization. asset integrity assessments for all focus in 2016 to highlight areas where Hess-operated production locations attention is needed, based on safety Our Behavioral Safety Observation ▶ Meet a workforce total recordable incident data from prior months. Supervisors rate target of 0.34 or below Program (BSOP), for example, has share safety presentations with their ▶ Meet a severe safety incident rate target of helped us to advance our global safety crews on each issue. Similarly, our Land 0.15 or below performance and continually drive down Transportation group publishes weekly ▶ Begin the implementation of an personal safety risk and exposure by enterprisewide tiered environment, health safety bulletins on key topics, such as standardizing the observation programs and safety assurance program how to handle rapidly changing weather our assets had in place previously. BSOP conditions during the harsh North is a peer-to-peer observation program Dakota winters. through which trained employees and contractors observe workers’ behaviors A focus on road safety is critical to and provide constructive feedback creating a safe work environment for our 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 27 SAFETY AND HEALTH APPLYING BEST PRACTICES TO DRIVE PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT For the past several years we have placed a special emphasis on An example of one of the approaches taken was at our Bakken asset. The addressing incidents identified as drivers for our overall safety Bakken hand injury prevention initiative was led by two committees – one performance, beginning with dropped object incidents. Starting in 2014 representing drilling and workover operations and one representing we engaged our workforce in a comprehensive education program and completions and construction. The initiative included leadership standardized the requirements for addressing observed dropped object engagement and significant workforce participation and training, as well as hazards. Since the program’s inception in 2014, the rate of dropped job safety analyses, job task hazard hunts and monthly communication of object incidents that were classified as severe safety incidents has program metrics. In June we held a safety stand down to generate decreased by 29 percent, and our severe safety incident rate has discussion about how hand injuries affect Hess operations and individual decreased by 39 percent. workers and to find preventative solutions to common risk situations. We capitalized on best practices from the dropped objects campaign by Hess’ workforce in North Dakota engaged in these efforts and worked applying the same approach to hand injuries. Hand injuries accounted for diligently to seek new ways to prevent hand injuries. Some contractors, for about half of personal injuries at Hess’ onshore assets in 2015. In 2016 we example, purchased or even invented new tools to keep hands safe on the launched a hand injury prevention campaign across the company, allowing job. Since undertaking this initiative, hand injuries in the Bakken decreased each asset to tailor improvement actions to their individual needs. by 29 percent, exceeding the Bakken team’s goal of 25 percent. people and for the communities where At the same time, the TRIR for our and enhancing the prequalification we operate. Our Land Transportation workforce – which includes employees process for procurement, the Standard outlines the three pillars of and contractors together – reached onboarding process and ongoing land transportation safety at Hess, which 0.40, an 11 percent increase from 2015. monitoring of safety performance. are driver training and competency, the This increase can be attributed to our Although lagging indicators are use of in-vehicle monitoring systems contractor-only TRIR, which increased important, we believe that tracking for company vehicles, and journey from 0.39 in 2015 to 0.52 in 2016. leading safety indicators – such as management planning. Hess employees In addition, our workforce lost time near-miss incidents – is an equally are required to take proactive driver incident rate (LTIR) was 0.13, increasing important way to improve safety training before operating a motor vehicle from 0.08 in 2015. We are working performance. We require that information on company business. Contractors diligently in all regions where Hess concerning near-miss incidents be are encouraged to comply with Land operates to bring these rates back in reported companywide into our incident Transportation Safety Recommended line with our safety goals for 2017. management system. By tracking and Practice, Report No. 365, published by With contractors making up more reporting near misses we are able to the International Association of Oil and than 70 percent of our total workforce communicate lessons learned and take Gas Producers (IOGP). hours, we recognize the importance of actions to address at-risk behaviors After seeing strong improvement in our working with companies that align with and observed workplace hazards. Near safety rates in 2015, our enterprisewide our safety goals. In fact, despite our misses are also an important indicator of performance was mixed in 2016. On contractors’ performance in 2016, our potential process safety events (PSEs), the positive side, our total recordable contractor-only TRIR has been steadily which are discussed in the Process incident rate (TRIR) for employees improving over time, with an overall Safety section. decreased year-over-year from 0.24 to reduction of 27 percent since 2012. As We have continued to enhance our 0.10, a 58 percent improvement, and discussed later in this section, we are process for tracking, reporting and we experienced no workforce fatalities promoting Hess’ strong safety culture investigating incidents, including near among either employees or contractors. with our contractors by implementing misses and PSEs, allowing for improved our Contractor Management Standard 28 consistency in how these events are ▶O perational integrity – working within exemplified through several new and classified and providing us with a higheroperational design parameters ongoing initiatives in 2016. quality dataset. Hess’ revised EHS Our design integrity processes, which For example, we launched an Incident Reporting and Investigation involve detailed risk analyses, are enterprisewide assessment of Standard was finalized in 2016 and took a key aspect of our major ongoing our process safety systems. This effect at the beginning of 2017. This development projects, including assessment, which is being conducted standard provides tools and procedures the Stampede Project in the Gulf of by an independent third-party for classifying incidents and near misses; Mexico, North Malay Basin Full Field organization, involves reviewing and standardizes notification requirements Development in the Gulf of Thailand benchmarking Hess’ process safety and action timelines for incidents and and the Hawkeye Compressor Station organization, leadership, commitment near misses; and ensures that an in North Dakota. These projects apply and culture; process safety management appropriate investigation is conducted multiple risk assessment and mitigation system documentation; and process based on the severity of each incident. studies and tools – such as hazard and safety performance and metrics. The Also as part of the new standard, we operability studies; layers-of-protection assessment commenced in 2016 with have revised our classification system for analyses; bow tie analyses; and failure a review of our enterprise systems and severe incidents as well as our historical modes, effects and criticality analyses – documentation and interviews with safety dataset. The reclassification of throughout the development process. leadership and relevant subject matter historical safety data allows for applesexperts. We expect to complete the to-apples comparisons and trending We seek to enhance process safety assessment in late 2017 following a of our performance. Our severe safety leadership and increase awareness series of field audits at designated incident rate (previously called our of process safety with key personnel Hess locations. high potential incident or “HiPo” rate) across the enterprise. Our goal is to incorporates incidents that have both minimize the likelihood of process Also in 2016 we began a review of actual high/severe consequences (i.e., safety events through the effective mechanical integrity at our assets as part “severe incidents”) and potential high/ management of process safety risks by of our ongoing integrity management severe consequences (i.e., “HiPos”). our workforce. Hess’ commitment to program. This process has involved continuous improvement in this area was a detailed review of the mechanical PROCESS SAFETY Hess’ process safety programs aim to prevent unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material, including materials that are nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, compressed air), that could result in an incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, toxic release or environmental impact. Our efforts focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems that could impact integrity and the safe and proper operation of equipment, as follows: ▶D esign integrity – reducing risks in the design and construction of facilities ▶T echnical integrity – inspecting, testing and maintaining hardware and software barriers Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 29 SAFETY AND HEALTH integrity of wells, pressure equipment, continued to enhance our program in challenges related to the containment piping, flow lines, injection lines, tanks, 2016 by systematically implementing of accidental discharges. Our Gulf of vessels and other equipment that is performance standards for individual Mexico deepwater assets are subject intended to avoid or mitigate a loss of pieces of equipment. The standards set to the U.S. federal government’s Safety primary containment. All Hess-operated specific expectations and criteria for and Environmental Management System production locations will complete these inspections and maintenance that help regulations, which provide a systematic reviews in 2017. Already, results from to ensure each barrier is effective and approach for identifying, managing and these assessments have been used will operate as intended. mitigating hazards. to augment our existing integrity risk At the end of 2015, a survey of existing We also continue to enhance our management processes. Hess engineering standards and approach to barrier management as These new initiatives are building on specifications identified 52 additional part of our continuous effort to improve Hess’ ongoing improvement efforts, standards that could be issued to process safety risk management. After including actions first identified in 2013 further improve process safety and a successful pilot at the Baldpate during a series of process safety health operations by establishing consistent platform in the Gulf of Mexico in checks. The health checks provided a technical requirements across the 2016, we have expanded our “barrier high-level, global assessment of process enterprise. Utilizing a Lean project plan thinking” approach to our other offshore safety in our production and drilling we completed 26 of these standards in assets. Barrier thinking involves operations. We completed 93 percent of 2016, with the remaining 26 scheduled understanding the role of barriers in the identified actions by the end of 2016 for completion in 2017. relation to hazards, threats, events and and are on target to close the remaining consequences. Our approach uses Process safety continues to be a focus items on schedule by the end of 2017. simple “bow tie” diagrams (see below) at our deepwater assets. Hess currently to help employees and contractors Another focus for 2016 has been operates two production facilities in visualize threats, barriers and the continued implementation of the Gulf of Mexico in the Baldpate and consequences. In March 2016 senior performance standards for integrity Tubular Bells Fields and has ongoing Hess leaders worked with “bow tie critical equipment (ICE), which acts development activities in the Stampede champions” – individuals implementing as a barrier for the occurrence of Field. Risks related to deepwater assets, the program at our offshore assets – to incidents through isolation, containment, which include wells at a depth of more map our path forward. In June our bow prevention, detection, control, mitigation than 1,000 feet underwater, may, under tie guidance document was finalized. or emergency preparedness and certain circumstances, be greater than By first quarter 2017, barrier thinking response. Although we were already those of land-based wells. Offshore wells was in operation at our Baldpate, conducting regular maintenance of tend to operate much deeper and under Tubular Bells and Equatorial Guinea ICE for our production operations, we greater pressure and also present unique offshore assets, with implementation SAMPLE BOW TIE DIAGRAM HAZARD THREAT BARRIER BARRIER BARRIER BARRIER CONSEQUENCE EVENT THREAT BARRIER BARRIER BARRIER BARRIER CONSEQUENCE HAZARD 30 LOCAL EFFORTS Onsite Root Cause Analysis A Simple Safety Solution In late 2016 a 5-pound rod transfer line dropped 85 feet to the floor of a Traditionally, crews installing oil-well pumping units have conducted some workover rig in the Bakken. No one was injured, but the potential severity aspects of the installation while working beneath a suspended, of the event prompted Hess and the contractor to investigate it thoroughly 7,000-pound steel “walking beam.” Though Hess has not experienced a to determine the root cause or causes of the problem. A key element of the recordable injury related to this process, the situation was identified last investigation was when the team went to the rig site and spent four hours year as having significant potential risks. In response the Hess Completions reenacting the events that led up to the incident. As a result, the team developed a low-cost, low-tech solution – resting the walking beam investigation team determined that the standard work instruction (SWI) did on a pair of sturdy stands, like giant sawhorses, while the installation tasks not contain several key safety steps. The SWI was subsequently updated are completed. This significant safety improvement is now being used at – with the assistance of the crew involved in the initial near-miss event – our Bakken asset and will be employed when needed at our Permian asset, and rolled out to all 17 workover rigs in the fleet. While the onsite in addition to being shared with other companies in our industry. reenactment required the rig to be temporarily shut down and production to be impacted, it was critical to identifying and developing action plans to mitigate the cause of the near miss. planned for our Denmark asset later in indicators primarily designed to monitor The Hess Emergency Preparedness and 2017 and at Stampede and North Malay risk control systems and process safety Response Standard, which every Hess Basin as those assets come online. barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise asset is working to fully implement by level. We use these KPIs to support 2018, establishes a framework through Hess collects information on process continuous improvement at particular which we can further improve the safety key performance indicators facilities or within company systems. effective management of emergency (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP's Process For instance, our global drilling and preparedness and response across Safety – Recommended Practice on completions function tracks Tier 3 KPIs our assets and defines company Key Performance Indicators, Report specific to their operations, such as expectations for preparedness, No. 456, November 2011. Categorized blowout preventer performance and training, exercises and continuous as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are loss of power events. An example of improvement. Preparedness focuses reported at an enterprisewide level in a Tier 4 KPI is the implementation of on our tiered response organization both internal and external reports. performance standard tests for ICE, (illustrated below), engagement with which was an indicator included in officials and communities, emergency PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS the 2016 annual incentive plan bonus facilities and response plans. The 2014 2015 2016 calculation for employees. Tier 1 20 21 11 PSE Count HESS EMERGENCY RESPONSE HESS EMERGENCY EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS Tier 2 RESPONSE ORGANIZATION 49 43 30 PSE Count AND RESPONSE TIER 3 Although Hess makes a significant effort We observed a positive trend in our TIER 3 to prevent Incident Support Team process safety performance in 2016, ISTincidents, we also diligently IST prepare to respond effectively to any HOUSTON which aligns with our goal to continually Incident Support Team emergency that may occur. In the reduce our number of PSEs. We HOUSTON event of an incident, Hess’ emergency experienced 11 Tier 1 events in 2016, TIER 2 preparedness and response program Incident Management Team compared to 21 in 2015. Likewise, we TIER 2 IMT ASSET is designed to respond to injuries had 30 Tier 2 events in 2016, compared IMTspills and releases to the to people, to 43 in 2015. environment, damage to our assets and Incident Management Team TIER 1 impacts to the company’s reputation – in Emergency Response Team Hess also tracks Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, ASSETS ERT FACILITY which are leading process safety that order of priority. TIER 1 ERT 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 31 Emergency Response Team SAFETY AND HEALTH training and exercise component long been a fundamental element of insurance requirements. Contractors defines roles, responsibilities and our EHS management system. We use must earn a satisfactory grade. If a resources. Continuous improvement is a recognized industry safety database contractor receives an unsatisfactory an essential element of the standard by management system to standardize grade, the asset director or a more which we incorporate lessons learned our prequalification processes and senior Hess employee must endorse a from incidents and exercises into our contractor data management across safety improvement action plan before preparedness, training and exercises. multiple sites for most major areas of that contractor may be approved for our operations. This enables us to more procurement. If an operational situation Our three-tiered emergency response clearly communicate requirements and (such as an emergency) requires the use organization is positioned at the asset, expectations to our contractors and of a contractor that has not completed regional and global levels. In August 2016 share information more efficiently across the prequalification process or that has we activated all three tiers for our assets Hess operations. received an unsatisfactory grade, the in the Gulf of Mexico in preparation for asset vice president or director must a tropical weather event that ultimately In 2016 we finalized and approved our approve the use of the contractor, became Hurricane Hermine. At the Contractor Management Standard, and asset management must provide Tier 1 level the Emergency Response which strengthened requirements for increased oversight. Team made preparations to provide for both current and potential new U.S. the safety of Hess’ offshore platforms, contractors to whom the standard In 2017 we will begin implementation of rigs and support vessels. Due to the applies. Among other changes, we now the Contractor Management Standard proximity of the storm to our Tubular Bells specifically require compliance with a and our strengthened management asset, we made the decision to shut in set of seven basic global requirements process across our international assets. production and evacuated personnel for safe work practices that we call the For the evaluation of marine contractors from the platform. Hess Rules, and we require contractors and vessels, we use our enterprisewide to submit manhour and safety incident At the Tier 2 level our Incident marine assurance framework as well data on an asset – as opposed to Management Team (IMT) set the as the Offshore Vessel Management companywide – basis. response objectives, which included and Self-Assessment program, a providing for the safety of response For potential contractors subject to tool developed by the Oil Companies personnel, mitigating risk, assuming the the Contractor Management Standard, International Marine Forum. The worst-case forecast path and utilizing we continue to conduct reviews of program helps ensure a clearer and the checklist in the Hurricane Response those who are considered higher risk, more consistent communication of Plan. The IMT also tracked weather either due to the number of exposure our needs and expectations to our updates, provided situation status hours for the job or the nature of the marine contractors and enables us reports and monitored logistical support work they will perform, such as drilling to review the qualifications of marine to meet the objectives. When the Tier 3 and completions or offshore work. contractors from around the world level was engaged, the Incident Support The prequalification process may also using an internationally accepted, Team at Hess’ operational headquarters include an on-location audit. In addition, standardized approach to assessing in Houston kept the Hess Executive new contractors working on Hessconformance with safety and quality Committee informed of the situation controlled worksites must take part in an standards. Starting in the Fall of and stood ready to support the IMT enhanced onboarding process. 2016 we enhanced this program to as necessary. include a questionnaire for rating our Our contractor management process marine contractors’ performance. The CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT gives contractors a letter grade based on resulting scores will determine whether Because contractors comprise nearly factors such as past EHS performance a performance improvement plan is 70 percent of our total workforce and existing safety management needed for any marine contractor, hours, contractor management has systems as well as fulfillment of 32 which in turn will help us to drive Hess continually seeks new ways to number of practices that can decrease continuous improvement. address any potential health risks that exposure during this process. Also, we may arise for our workforce. In 2016 we are investing in truck-mounted Lease HEALTH AND WELLNESS made progress in addressing potential Automatic Custody Transfer Units, Hess’ health and wellness strategy risks associated with manual tank which should greatly reduce the need for includes several elements: gauging, or the process of opening manual tank gauging. ▶H  ealth risk assessment and planning hatches in crude oil production tanks to At our Houston operational headquarters ▶ I ndustrial hygiene and control of measure water and oil levels and density. in 2016 we provided first aid, workplace exposures Due to the generally high vapor pressure cardiopulmonary resuscitation and of Bakken crude oil, the process of ▶M  edical emergency management automated external defibrillator training for taking these measurements could – if ▶M  anagement of health in the employees. This training utilized the online not done appropriately depending on the workplace, fitness for task assessment Heartsaver training module provided by conditions – expose workers to vapors and health surveillance the American Heart Association (AHA), that are harmful to breathe. Through our followed by hands-on testing with our ▶H  ealth impact assessment partnership with the National Institute occupational health professionals, who ▶H  ealth reporting and record for Occupational Safety and Health, are certified AHA instructors. we have identified and implemented a management ▶P  ublic health interface and promotion of good health Our employee programs include free preventive medical services, international travel vaccinations and flu shots for employees and family members. We also operate a mobile medical surveillance program for employees at our Bakken and Permian assets. Through this initiative, annual medical exams covering employee fitness for duty and exposure programs (e.g., noise, respiratory) are centrally coordinated and tracked. Centralization helps us meet the requirements of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and increases efficiency across our assets. We maintain a random drug and alcohol surveillance program for employees and contractors at our U.S. operations. This effort includes the management of drug testing programs to meet U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Production Operations, North Dakota Coast Guard requirements. 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 33 Offshore Operations, North Sea OUR PEOPLE At Hess, we value our employees and values, which include treating people 2016 Turnover and New Hires Number of Employees know they are critical to our success. We with fairness, honesty 500 and respect. 475 are committed to maintaining a company 450 450 421 DIVERSITY AND 425 INCLUSION culture that emphasizes leadership, 400 400 Hess is committed 375 to diversity and continuous learning, employee 350 350 equal employment 325 opportunities for engagement and diversity and inclusion. 300 300 all employees and 275 job candidates Throughout 2016, in response to the regardless of race, 250 color, gender, 250 225 continued low price of oil and related age, sexual orientation, 200 gender 200 175 budget pressures, we further scaled identity, creed, national 150 origin, genetic 150 125 109 back activities and reduced headcount information, disability, 100 veteran status 100 80 75 60 accordingly. In the fourth quarter of or any other protected 50 status in 50 32 25 15 3 2016, we realigned the organization to recruitment, hiring,0 compensation, 0 0 Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Europe better reflect our portfolio and long-term promotion, training, assignment of work, priorities, leveraging human resources performance evaluation and all other ■ Female Turnover ■ Female New Hires ■ Male Turnover ■ Male New Hires programs to help ensure the retention aspects of employment. of individuals with key competencies. We do not tolerate any form of Our decisions were grounded in the workplace harassment, including Hess Values, with a focus on longsexual harassment. We reinforce term sustainability and growth, without these expectations through our Code 2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS compromising our focus on safety. of Conduct, our Equal Employment ▶ C ontinued to foster employee engagement EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS Opportunity and Harassment-Free ▶ Advanced initiatives and process efficiency in the areas of annual compensation, We began last year with 2,770 Workplace Policies and training (for performance management, talent employees and as of December 31, U.S.-based managers), other human management and learning and development 2016, had 2,304 employees. At year’s resources policies and our Human ▶R  efined usage of CareerManager, our end, approximately 83 percent of Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. integrated human resources system, employees were located in the U.S., through continuous improvement in data In 2016 we continued our diversity integrity, reporting and use of analytics including 59 percent in Texas, and outreach efforts with organizations ▶C  reated a new early-career development approximately 17 percent were in that advocate for minorities, women, program for drilling and completions international locations. veterans and the disabled, including the engineers 2016 EMPLOYEES BY REGION National Business & Disability Council 2017 GOALS Americas 1,909 83% at the Viscardi Center, the National ▶ Promote a culture of engagement and Asia-Pacific 183 8% Diversity Council, the U.S. Business continuous learning; embed the Hess Way Europe 128 5% Leadership Network, the National Action of Working into more of our people Africa 84 4% Council for Minorities in Engineering, the processes (e.g., performance management Women’s Energy Network, the Society form and leadership development EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION programs) of Women Engineers and the Veteran ▶ C ontinue to simplify and streamline talent Employees who were not retained Jobs Mission. We also continue to management processes to deliver targeted through our organizational realignment support additional membership-based development and succession plans were offered severance packages organizations that promote a diversity of ▶ C ontinue to align our structure and strategy to help ease their transitions. The expression and thought. to provide appropriate promotion and company also provided outplacement development opportunities and leverage Our proportion of women and U.S. each person’s capability services to support them with resume minority employees, as defined by the preparation, interview skills and job U.S. Department of Labor, remained search strategies as they launched flat in 2016 compared to 2015. We their search for new employment. This are committed to fostering women’s approach is consistent with Hess’ 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 35 OUR PEOPLE Development Plans (IDPs), objective NATIONAL EMPLOYEES setting and performance evaluations. Country Category* 2014 2015 2016 We leverage the system to encourage every employee to prepare an IDP as National Employees 87% 85% 96% a roadmap for setting and achieving Denmark National Managers/ career goals, developing capabilities 78% 77% 93% Professionals and maximizing career opportunities. In National Employees 74% 75% 85% 2016 we began implementing additional Malaysia National Managers/ succession-planning functionality to 72% 73% 83% Professionals the system to further enhance the availability of talent data, assessments * The percent of national employees is equal to the number of national employees in that country divided by the total number of employees in that country. The percent of national managers/professionals is equal to the number of national managers/professionals in that country divided by the total number of and career-planning tools. This gives us managers/professionals in that country. the ability to analyze critical information 2016 WOMEN AND MINORITY* REPRESENTATION about our organizational capabilities and bench strength. Women Minorities (U.S. and International) (U.S.Based Employees) We regularly seek out opportunities Total Total Number for continuous improvement in our Job Employees Number Percent Employees Percent Category in Job of Women in Job of Category Women Category Minorities Minorities talent management practices. In Executives 2016, for example, a small group of and Senior 41 5 12% 37 4 11% key senior leaders identified options Officers and offered recommendations for First and Mid561 116 21% 457 92 20% Level Managers increased effectiveness and efficiency. The group’s recommendations have Professionals 1,203 371 31% 982 269 27% been accepted, and we expect Other 499 134 27% 429 111 26% to see positive impacts from their Total 2,304 626 27% 1,905 476 25% implementation over the long term. *As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor Learning and Development CareerManager Learning, our new professional growth in all areas of local nationals, as well as the proportion enterprisewide learning management the company. Hess’ Women Inspiring of nationals holding managerial or system, houses a variety of computerSuccess and Excellence (WISE) – an professional positions, increased based training modules and supporting internal networking group formed in between 2014 and 2016. materials for instructor-led courses. It also 2015 at our operational headquarters in TALENT MANAGEMENT tracks and records employee training and Houston – has a vision “to help promote Hess’ comprehensive talent measures training effectiveness through and cultivate leadership skills, business management process helps us to surveys and evaluations. practices, career opportunities and understand and assess our leadership In 2016 we continued our practice of personal contacts for women.” The and technical capabilities, which in developing employees who are new group grew to over 200 members in turn aids in developing succession and to supervisory management through 2016 and held monthly lunch meetings hiring plans. Identifying employees with focused training for first-time leaders. and other events throughout the year. leadership potential early in their careers Employees who participated in our In keeping with our aim to foster enables us to develop talent in support training program built skills that they diversity and cultivate leadership, we of Hess’ strategic goals. can leverage to execute day-to-day employ a high number of local nationals CareerManager, our integrated responsibilities and enhance the in our international operations and report human resources system, provides performance of their team members. publicly where the number of employees a common platform for Individual Program topic areas included setting is 100 or more. Overall the percentage of 36 performance expectations, motivating Hess remains committed to our locations and feedback surveys to share team members, providing effective Foundation Program, which prepares information and connect with employees feedback, coaching for success and early-career engineers, geoscientists in a timely and meaningful manner. improvement, accomplishing work and supply chain professionals for As an example, our Chief Executive efficiently through team members and challenging assignments through Officer and Chief Operating Officer managing change. focused training, mentoring and on-thecontinue to host small-group sessions, job assignments. The program maintains Throughout the year, internal operating called Leadership Dialogues, to discuss relationships with key universities that functions such as Exploration, enterprise opportunities and challenges align with our values, standards and Developments, and Drilling and to achieving our strategic vision. In business operations. Completions, as well as support 2016 Hess convened 37 Leadership functions such as Human Resources, EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Dialogue sessions, reaching more than Environment, Health and Safety, Our employee engagement activities 1,200 employees, which represents a Information Technology and Legal, in 2016 focused on business strategy, 71 percent increase from 2015. Themes encouraged knowledge-sharing performance and culture. In 2015, we from these sessions were presented to through “lunch and learns” and other conducted a mid-decade review of our the Executive Committee and turned informal gatherings. Employees were progress toward achieving our longinto actions. also active in a variety of professional term strategic vision and adjusted the We also held four global town hall development opportunities, including roadmap accordingly. As a follow-up to meetings, which were webcast to all engagement with trade associations, this review, in 2016 we advanced our company locations, and multiple local attendance at conferences and goal of establishing a distinctive Lean workforce gatherings to communicate enrollment in external courses. culture across the company through a business updates, reinforce strategy number of initiatives. For example, we New Hires and and values and answer questions. Early-Career Programs began training 78 employees to teach Each meeting was followed by a Employees new to Hess benefit Lean and apply those concepts and pulse survey to solicit feedback on from our onboarding and orientation tools to specific improvement projects key company issues and measure the program, Passport to Hess. This yearin their work areas, with their training meeting’s effectiveness. long program is designed to facilitate a to be completed later in 2017. We also smooth assimilation into the company assigned our most experienced Lean Our employees continue to participate through close interaction between practitioners to facilitate a number of in activities at various locations that supervisors and new employees. Through high-value enterprise projects, and demonstrate the Hess Value of Social the Leadership Engagement Series, have integrated Lean into the behavioral Responsibility. The data we gathered new employees are invited to quarterly model we will use to assess annual for 2016 show that our employees meetings led by senior vice presidents performance for every employee volunteered nearly 4,000 hours during to discuss business unit and functional beginning in 2017. Hess will continue to the year. Among their volunteer efforts in strategies and objectives. We also utilize build on these efforts as part of a multi2016, employees donated toys for foster an onboarding portal that enables new year change management plan. children, sent care packages to members hires to learn about their work location of the U.S. military and participated in Hess regularly shares information with prior to their first day on the job. the MS 150 bicycle ride for multiple and solicits feedback from employees sclerosis. In addition to volunteering In 2016 we created a new early-career about our business performance their time, Hess employees also raised development program for engineers in and processes. We use a range of funds for nonprofit organizations and our Drilling and Completions function. engagement tools, including one-onmade in-kind donations in areas such as The program, which launched in early one and small-group discussions, focus education, health and social services. 2017, is designed to help new engineers groups and global town hall meetings and develop the skills and proficiencies they webcasts. We also utilize the company need to succeed in their jobs. intranet, digital signage at our major 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 37 Drilling Operations, North Dakota CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Climate change is a global challenge actions we can undertake to control related to climate change and energy, that requires government, business and reduce our carbon footprint. We and we will continue to communicate leaders and civil society to work together have established targets to reduce our performance on these issues in on cost-effective policy responses that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions our annual sustainability report and the recognize the vital role safe, affordable intensity by 25 percent and flaring sustainability section of our company and reliable energy plays in ensuring intensity by 50 percent, for the current website (hess.com/sustainability). Our CDP human welfare, economic growth and portfolio of assets we operate, by 2020 Climate Change responses, which are security. Our clean water and sanitation; (versus a 2014 emissions baseline). available on our website, contain more food production and storage; lighting, Sustainability risks, including climate detailed information on the company’s heating and cooling; transportation and change, are examined by our Board climate change-related risks and defense systems depend predominantly of Directors and taken into account in opportunities. on abundant, affordable and secure formulating our company strategy. Hess is an active member of IPIECA on supplies of oil and natural gas. Oil and Hess will continue to take cost-effective, sustainable development issues such natural gas also serve as feedstock for appropriate steps to monitor, measure as climate change, biodiversity impacts thousands of products on which modern and reduce emissions through the and access to energy – issues that are society relies – products such as medical following actions: too complex for individual companies devices, pharmaceuticals, clothing and ▶S etting targets to reduce the carbon to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its building materials – and provide jobs and revenues critical to supporting intensity of our operations economies around the world. ▶A ccounting for the cost of carbon in all significant new investments 2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS At Hess, we understand that oil and ▶ Created a working team with senior leader natural gas are essential to meet the ▶A pplying innovation and efficiency representation to review strategic actions world’s growing energy demand, to reduce energy use, waste and with regard to climate change and we are committed to developing emissions across our operations ▶ Progressed planning for a capital project in Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas that had these resources in an environmentally We also engage with key stakeholders – traditionally been flared in our Okume responsible and sustainable manner. including government agencies, private operation to the Ceiba Field to help power Our environment, health, safety and that operation landowners and communities – on social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy ▶ T hrough 2016, reduced flaring and a number of issues, including those addresses climate change and the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensities by 29 percent and 20 percent, respectively, GLOBAL ENERGY OUTLOOK against our 2020 targets ▶ Reduced equity GHG emissions by more than 6 million tonnes between 2008 and 2016 According to the 2016 World Energy Outlook New Policy Scenario developed by the International Energy Agency (IEA), worldwide energy use will grow by approximately 30 percent between 2014 2017 GOALS and 2040. Through this scenario, which incorporates all announced GHG emission and energy policy ▶ Begin to assess our value assurance commitments, including the Paris climate agreement pledges signed by 194 countries, the IEA sees process for new projects to identify a solid place for oil and natural gas in the world energy supply for many years to come. Furthermore, opportunities to fully integrate energy demand for oil and natural gas is projected by the IEA to grow 27 percent between 2014 and environment, health and safety deliverables 2040, with these resources collectively accounting for 50 percent of the energy mix – down from 52 that include climate-related actions percent today. In the IEA’s alternative 450 Scenario, which is consistent with a 50 percent chance of ▶ C omplete the capital phase of the project in limiting the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million, Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas from our energy demand will increase by 9 percent by 2040, with oil and natural gas accounting for Okume operation to the Ceiba Field approximately 45 percent of the energy mix. The IEA has stated that the challenges of achieving the ▶ C ontinue to make progress against our 450 Scenario “are immense, requiring a major reallocation of energy-sector investment capital.” 2020 reduction targets for flaring and GHG Even in the 450 Scenario, the IEA finds “no reason to assume widespread stranding of upstream oil emissions intensities assets,” stressing that “the decline in oil production from currently producing fields far exceeds the ▶ C ontinue to improve performance related to decline in the demand” for oil. The concept of stranded assets is discussed further in the Carbon reducing methane emissions, through ONE Asset Risk Report on the following page. Future sector-based targets 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 39 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY CARBON ASSET RISK REPORT Our stakeholders have expressed an interest in understanding the potential A select group of stakeholders and investors has raised concerns that impact that future climate change regulation may have on Hess’ market energy companies may be overvalued in a future carbon-constrained world valuation. Through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process we have because these companies may not be able to produce a portion of their developed risk profiles for each of our assets to identify key risks – including reserves and, hence, these reserves will be “stranded.” As discussed in the carbon – and estimate the likelihood and potential impact that these risks Global Energy Outlook section on the previous page, the IEA has stated that could have on our business. We compile all risks we identify as critical on an even in their 450 Scenario (2 degree case), failing to invest in upstream integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each assets through 2040 could lead to major supply problems because the risk. All new significant projects are rigorously screened to verify they meet decline in oil production from currently producing fields far exceeds the or exceed established threshold return-on-investment criteria to balance risk decline in demand for oil. In addition, according to IHS Energy’s September and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy. 2014 report Deflating the Carbon Bubble, the intrinsic value of an oil and gas company is based primarily on its proved reserves, 90 percent of which In addition, we actively evaluate viability for significant projects based on are expected to be monetized during the next 10 to 15 years. Based on the potential future carbon constraints. In 2016 we updated the theoretical IHS study and the IEA positions cited on the previous page, Hess believes carbon price we use in economic evaluations for significant new projects to there is a high likelihood our reserves will be monetized and that markets $40 per tonne of carbon dioxide – equivalent to the current estimate by the are currently valuing our carbon assets rationally. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) of the social cost of carbon. Factoring carbon dioxide prices into our valuation process enables F or more information on how we are assessing carbon asset risk, see hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-energy us to evaluate project viability based on differing ranges of potential future carbon constraints. 2016 Hess Proved Reserves by Region* 2016 Hess Proved Reserves by 1,109 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent Resource Type* 14% 48% 23% 52% 34% 12% 17% ■ Conventional (Including Acid Gas) ■ Unconventional ■ Deepwater *D eepwater is a conventional resource but it is shown separately here to *H ess' proved reserves consist of 74 percent liquids (i.e., light and medium crude oils, condensate and natural provide more clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves gas liquids) and 26 percent natural gas. found below 1,000 feet of water depth. members by engaging with stakeholders Hess has consistently been recognized disclosure. In 2016 we were recognized and governments on climate changeas a leader in the oil and gas industry on the prestigious CDP Global Climate related issues and helping to develop for our disclosure and transparency List as a leader in addressing climate and provide credible future energy relating to sustainability, and we remain change-related risks and opportunities. solutions. They enable this collaborative committed to our goal of top-quartile Hess earned leadership status, the work by promoting an understanding performance in this regard. In addition highest category, and was among the of the key role the oil and gas industry to preparing this sustainability report in top-ranking energy producers on the should play in terms of innovation, accordance with the Global Reporting list. Also, for the seventh consecutive global reach, knowledge and technical Initiative’s G4 Core reporting level, we year we were included in the Dow Jones expertise to help develop and provide participate in a number of voluntary Sustainability Index North America, feasible future energy solutions. initiatives related to climate change which highlights public companies 40 with outstanding performance across We also report indirect emissions 2016 Operated Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas economic, environmental and social associated with purchased electricity Emissions by Source Thousand Tonnes CO2e factors, including those related to (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) climate change. emissions. 5% S ee our CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange Operated Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) GREENHOUSE GAS As we continue to expand our business, 43% 52% PERFORMANCE we aim to operate more efficiently by We report GHG emissions from our oil reducing GHG emissions per unit of and gas assets on an operated and production. Our EHS & SR strategy equity basis. Our emissions estimates outlines a target to reduce GHG ■ Flaring 2,120 include carbon dioxide, methane and emissions intensity by 25 percent, for the ■ Fuel Combustion 1,759 nitrous oxide – reported in units of current portfolio of assets we operate, by ■ Other 194 carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). In 2020 versus a 2014 emissions baseline. 2014 Hess began using global warming Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions potentials based on the values in the In 2016, of the estimated 4.6 million (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Fourth Assessment Report: Climate tonnes of gross GHG emissions from 6 Change 2007 (AR-4), prepared by the our 50 operated oil and gas assets, 6 5.4 5.6 50 GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE) Intergovernmental 5 Panel on Climate 4.1 million 45 tonnes were Scope 1 5 45 4.6 40 40 Change, to estimate CO2e totals. GHG emissions, primarily from flaring and 43 35 35 Million Tonnes CO2e 4 data from 2013 and prior have not been fuel combustion, and approximately 0.5 4 36 35 30 30 restated, because 3 the impact on historical million 25 tonnes were Scope 2 emissions, 3 31 25 values was not material (about 1 percent). from20purchased electricity. Process 20 2 2 operations 15 (primarily fuel combustion) 15 Approximately195 percent of Hess’ direct and 10flaring accounted for 43 percent 1 10 (Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are 5 percent of our Scope 1 GHG and 52 5 0 0 from stationary combustion 2014 2015sources 2016 emissions, respectively. 0 2014 2015 2016 2020 0 such as flaring, heaters, turbines ■ Scope 1 Emissions and engines. The factors used to In 2016 our absolute GHG emissions ■ Scope 2 Emissions ■ GHG Intensity and 2020 Target estimate emissions for these sources decreased by 1.0 million tonnes enterprisewide are those prescribed compared to 2015, due primarily to by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Mandatory reduced flaring in North Dakota related 2016 Operated Greenhouse Gas to gas capture enabled by infrastructure Emissions by Country Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart Thousand Tonnes CO2e C). The remaining 5 percent of our enhancements and reduced production in operated GHG emissions are from a that region due to weak oil prices, as well variety of noncombustion and fugitive as reduced flaring in Equatorial Guinea emission sources such as storage related to a decline in production. 67% tanks, compressor seals, pneumatic Our GHG emissions intensity (i.e., tonnes pumps and valves. For such sources at of emissions per thousand barrels of 24% onshore facilities, we use the emission oil equivalent (BOE)) decreased by 5% factors prescribed by the U.S. EPA in 20 percent in 2016 versus our 2014 4% its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 baseline. This cumulative improvement CFR Part 98, Subpart W). Hess uses brings us close to achieving our ■ U.S. 3,060 other appropriate regulatory or industry25 percent emissions intensity reduction ■ Equatorial Guinea 1,081 ■ Malaysia 248 specific factors to estimate fugitive target for 2020. It is worth noting that ■ Denmark 206 emissions for those facilities. weak oil market conditions in 2016 tempered oil demand, which resulted in 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 41 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions lower-than-anticipated production and Guidance for Corporate Value Chain by Country associated GHG emissions. Accounting methodology. Million Tonnes CO2e 12 10.8 Equity Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) The Petroleum Industry Guidance is 10 Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG based on the World Resources Institute’s emissions from our operated and and the World Business Council for nonoperated oil and gas assets based Sustainable Development’s GHG Protocol 8 on our equity interest. Between 2008 Scope 3 standard, which includes 6.6 6.0 and 2016, we reduced our absolute 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions. 6 5.5 equity GHG emissions by more than an Historically, only three of the Scope 3 4.2 estimated 6 million tonnes, achieving a emissions categories – Purchased Goods 4 GHG emissions intensity of 35 tonnes and Services (emissions generated from per thousand BOE, primarily through refined petroleum products sold), Use 2 a combination of improving operating of Products (emissions generated from practices, selling assets and shutting our natural gas sales) and Processing 0 down refinery operations. The use of of Sold Products (emissions generated 2008 2013 2014 2015 2016 innovative technology is also helping from energy used to refine petroleum ■ U.K. ■ Gabon ■ Indonesia ■ Norway ■ Ghana ■ Thailand to minimize our carbon footprint. Our products) – were material to Hess. With ■ Denmark ■ Libya ■ Malaysia ■ Algeria ■ Azerbaijan ■ U.S. nonoperated Valhall facility in Norway, our transformation to an exploration and ■ Equatorial ■ Russia ■ U.S. Virgin Guinea Islands which employs hydroelectric power from production company, the Purchased shore to power all process equipment Goods and Services category is no other than emergency backup systems, longer applicable. 2016 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS averaged a GHG emissions intensity of MILLION TONNES CO2e 2 tonnes per thousand BOE in 2016. The table at left details our Scope 3 Use of Sold Products 9.1 emissions. In 2016 we sold 458 million Our major source of emissions from standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) Processing of Sold Products 3.5 nonoperated oil and gas assets in of natural gas which, when burned by 2016 was the Malaysia/Thailand Joint customers, accounted for an estimated Total 12.6 Development Area. Our equity emissions 9.1 million tonnes of GHG emissions. from this asset were approximately We sold 201 thousand barrels per Hess Flaring Rates 1.2 million tonnes. Major sources of day (MBPD) of crude oil, which, when emissions from operated assets in 2016 processed by refiners, accounted for 100 99 99 300 included those from our Equatorial another 3.5 million tonnes of GHG Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE) 287 250 Guinea and North Dakota assets and emissions, for an estimated total of 12.6 80 74 the Seminole and Tioga gas processing million tonnes of Scope 3 emissions. Flaring (MMSCFD) 228 200 60 203 plants, which together accounted for an 150 estimated 2.4 million tonnes of equity Although not material, we also track 40 145 100 emissions. All of our other operated and report emissions associated with 20 and nonoperated assets made up employee business travel. Combined 50 the balance of equity emissions at an emissions from employee business 0 2020 0 2014 2015 2016 2020 estimated 0.6 million tonnes. travel via commercial air carrier and rail in 2016 were about 5,000 tonnes of ■ North Dakota Scope 3 Emissions CO2e, down 47 percent from last year ■ Equatorial Guinea ■ Other Scope 3 GHG emissions are those due to management efforts to reduce ■ Flaring Intensity and 2020 Target generated from corporate value chain employee travel. As an element of our activities that are not accounted for and EHS & SR strategy, we have purchased reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon credits annually since 2010 to emissions. To assess our Scope 3 offset at least 100 percent of business emissions, we use the Petroleum Industry travel emissions. In 2016 we purchased 42 10,000 tonnes of carbon credits from In North Dakota, we have invested nearly diesel in high-horsepower engines for The Climate Trust, for the retirement of $2.2 billion in midstream infrastructure drilling and well completion operations offsets related to wastewater treatment between 2012 and 2016 to capture and in the Tioga area and to fuel Hess’ fleet facilities in Texas. This contribution monetize natural gas from our wells of 25 CNG/gasoline, bi-fuel light-duty more than offset the GHG emissions we and minimize flaring. As part of this trucks. This use of CNG is helping us estimate were generated from employee investment, we expanded the Tioga Gas meet our GHG goals by reducing flaring business travel. Plant to increase processing capacity and providing a lower-emission fuel and thereby reduce the need for flaring. for our vehicles and operations. It also EMISSION REDUCTION We more than doubled the plant’s reduces costs by displacing the need INITIATIVES capacity from 100 to 250 MMSCFD for more expensive diesel or gasoline In support of our GHG emission and and increased the liquids processing fuel. Since April 2016, our use of CNG flaring intensity reduction targets, we capacity almost tenfold, from 260,000 to from this fueling station has reduced track and monitor air emissions at each 2.5 million gallons per day. CO2e emissions by approximately 1,800 of our assets and undertake a variety tonnes and eliminated the use of nearly of emission reduction initiatives. Our We anticipate that expansion of the 630,000 gallons of diesel and gasoline. efforts focus on our largest emitting midstream gas gathering infrastructure, We expect our 2017 GHG emission facilities and on opportunities that are including additional gas compression reductions from this facility to be even technically and economically feasible facilities and natural gas liquids and gas more significant. and where we are able to achieve gathering lines, will continue into 2017. stakeholder approval. In 2016 reduced These midstream infrastructure projects Also in North Dakota, we use flexible hose oil and natural gas production related will leave Hess well positioned to to transport fresh water directly from the to weaker-than-anticipated energy significantly reduce flaring over the next water source to our wells, instead of using demand, as well as the continued several years. trucks. Over the past three years, we have low price of oil, reduced the pool of steadily increased the percentage of water Transportation emission reduction opportunities. we supply to our fracturing operations by In 2016 we opened a compressed hose rather than by truck, which reduces Flaring natural gas (CNG) fuel facility near noise, GHG emissions and the potential In 2016 flaring from Hess-operated assets the Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota. for accidents associated with truck traffic. – which totaled 74 MMSCFD – was down The facility, which includes one CNG In 2016, 100 percent of the water used 25 percent compared to 2015. On an compressor, four light-duty filling for hydraulic fracturing in North Dakota intensity basis, we have made substantial stations and two heavy-duty filling (approximately 5.2 million barrels) progress toward our 50 percent reduction stations, is currently using captured was transported using flexible hoses, target by reducing our cumulative flaring gas that had been previously flared. eliminating 50,400 truck deliveries intensity by 29 percent through 2016, This captured gas is partially displacing compared to 2014. We expect to continue to make progress as a result of major stakeholder-approved initiatives in Equatorial Guinea and our Bakken asset in North Dakota. At our Equatorial Guinea asset, we will spend more than $30 million on a project to pipe gas that is being flared at our Okume operation to the nearby Ceiba Field so that it can be used instead as fuel gas to run our operations. This project is a win-win, as it is expected to substantially reduce both flaring and the Compressed Natural Gas Facility, North Dakota costs associated with fuel purchases. 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 43 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Energy Use and 2 million miles driven, and cutting ENERGY USE Thousand Gigajoules 4,300 tonnes of transportation-related Reducing our energy use has the dual GHG emissions. As an additional benefit, benefit of lowering costs and GHG 40,000 38,246 in winter months we use line heaters emissions, and it is a central focus 36,148 34,426 35,000 along with the hoses to deliver 75 of both our EHS & SR strategy and 30,000 degree Fahrenheit water into insulated our Lean approach to managing the 25,000 tanks, eliminating the need to heat business. We generate and purchase 20,000 water on location. energy primarily for power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2016 energy 15,000 Natural Gas Capture consumption from Hess-operated assets 10,000 In North Dakota, based on technology was approximately 38 million gigajoules 5,000 developed through our partnership (GJ), 6 percent higher than in 2015. 0 with GTUIT – a designer, manufacturer 2014 2015 2016 Seventy-eight percent of Hess’ energy and operator of well site natural gas use was directly generated from our ■ Direct capture and natural gas liquid (NGL) ■ Indirect operations, primarily at the Seminole extraction equipment – we have adopted and Tioga gas processing plants and at an innovative new approach to recover our production facilities in North Dakota, high-BTU (British thermal unit) gas 2016 Energy Use by Country Denmark and Equatorial Guinea. The Thousand Gigajoules from locations that were producing remaining 22 percent was indirect energy NGLs and flaring. The new equipment (energy used by utilities to provide 7% successfully addresses some of the net purchased electricity) purchased 7% technical challenges associated with for the West Texas and North Dakota 11% capturing this gas – the units are production operations and the Seminole modular and mobile, they can operate and Tioga gas processing plants. reliably unmanned and they can adapt to 75% the ever-changing flow conditions of the In 2016 our U.S. operations accounted well and the changing chemistry of the for all of our purchased electricity – associated gas. approximately 896,000 megawatt hours, or a 4 percent reduction from last year. ■ U.S. 28,552 In 2015 we installed 15 of these mobile ■ Equatorial Guinea 4,273 Based on U.S. electricity generation ■ Denmark 2,875 units with a capacity of 10 MMSCFD. We ■ Malaysia 2,546 profiles, we estimate that approximately operated all 15 units until October 2016, 15 percent of this electricity was when we dropped down to 14 units generated from renewable sources, with a total capacity of 9.5 MMSCFD. 2016 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source primarily wind power. We also support Thousand Gigajoules Throughout 2016, we captured an renewable energy through the purchase estimated 7.9 million gallons of NGLs, of renewable energy certificates (RECs) 10% avoiding more than 510 MMSCF of gas equivalent to at least 10 percent of the flaring, reducing GHG emissions by an net electricity used in our operations. In estimated 49,000 tonnes and saving 2016 we purchased 100,000 Green-e about 15,700 tonnes of volatile organic Energy certified RECs for wind power, compounds (VOCs) from entering the equivalent to 100,000 megawatt hours atmosphere. This project provides dual or about 11 percent of the electricity 90% economic and environmental benefits by purchased for our operated exploration converting gas into marketable products and production assets. In total, including as well as reducing the amount of gas ■ Natural Gas 27,070 the RECs, approximately 26 percent ■ Diesel 2,903 flared and the associated air emissions. See additional examples of emission reduction of our indirect energy use came from initiatives at hess.com/sustainability/climaterenewable sources. change-energy 44 MANAGING METHANE EMISSIONS The advancement in shale energy technology in recent years has resulted marginal abatement cost (MAC) of various methane emission abatement in an increased supply of abundant, low-cost natural gas. The cleantechnologies and work practices for the natural gas industry. The MAC burning characteristics of natural gas can play a critical role in the analysis – based on up-to-date assumptions regarding emission rates and transition toward a low-carbon economy. Although natural gas burns equipment costs in all industry segments except distribution – identified cleaner than other fuels, there is considerable debate about fugitive reductions totaling 88.3 billion cubic feet (BCF) of methane per year at a total methane leakage along the natural gas value chain, which may have the annualized cost of $296 million or $3.35 per million cubic foot (MCF). An potential to reduce its climate benefits. additional 8.9 BCF in reductions were identified separately for the distribution segment, and 12.3 BCF in reductions were projected for the application of Stakeholder interest in this issue has continued in recent years, and in reduced-emission completions for hydraulically fractured gas wells. 2016 the U.S. EPA and the Bureau of Land Management drafted several regulations aimed at controlling fugitive methane and VOC emissions. In addition to the ONE Future sectoral targets, we are committed to Industry maintains that these regulations are largely unnecessary, as continuing to improve our performance. Our principle focus in 2016 was methane emissions have decreased at a time of growth in natural gas implementation of an extensive leak detection and repair (LDAR) program production and because it is in the industry’s best interest to monetize gas across all of our production facilities (existing and new) in North Dakota. to generate additional revenue. This supplements our ongoing LDAR programs at the gas plants in Texas and North Dakota and our production operations in Ohio. Further detail on One element of our EHS & SR strategy has been to pursue voluntary our LDAR program is provided in the Environment section. reductions in methane emissions. As a result, Hess became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, a group of companies from across the From its inception, ONE Future has worked with the U.S. EPA to help ensure natural gas industry focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that any methane reduction achieved through its performance-based that yield continuous improvement in the management of methane approach is recognized and accounted for in the agency’s Natural Gas Star emissions associated with the production, processing, transportation and Methane Challenge Program. In October 2016 both parties reached distribution of natural gas. ONE Future offers a performance-based, flexible agreement on the ONE Future Emissions Intensity Commitment Option approach to managing methane emissions that is expected to yield under the Methane Challenge Program. This allowed companies interested significant reductions in such emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower in joining the Methane Challenge Program to have the opportunity to methane emissions to less than 1 percent of gross methane production choose from two options to reduce methane emissions: the Best across the value chain by 2025. Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a Management Practice Commitment or the ONE Future Commitment, which leak/loss rate of 1 percent or less across the natural gas value chain gives credit for performance-based, voluntary reduction efforts. Hess has provides immediate GHG reduction benefits. chosen a commitment through ONE Future and has not joined the Methane Challenge Program, as further discussed in the Environment section. To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established methane emission rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value chain: production Methane Emission Rate (ONE Future Protocol)* (0.36 percent), processing (0.11 percent), transmission and storage (0.30 percent) and distribution (0.220.6percent), which cumulatively total to 0.6 0.56 the 1 percent target. Hess has activities in two sectors, production and processing. In 2016, our methane emissions 0.5 rate for production was 0.5 0.06 percent, and our emissions rate from processing was 0.19 percent, 0.44 an increase of 0.08 percent from the0.4previous year. However, our combined Methane Emissions Rate (%) 0.4 0.36 methane emissions rate from the production and processing sectors was 0.09 percent, which is well below the ONE Future combined target of 0.30 0.3 0.3 0.47 percent for those two sectors. In 2016 the U.S. EPA required reporting 0.26 0.22 of some new fugitive methane emission sources previously not reported, 0.2 0.2 0.19 0.19 which were associated with the natural gas gathering and processing sector. The U.S. EPA also prescribed the emission factors for these 0.11 sources. The inclusion of these fugitive 0.1 emissions resulted in an increase in 0.1 0.06 our reported methane emissions as well as our methane emission rate. Hess will work with ONE Future to understand 0.0 the changes in U.S. EPA 0 Production Processing Transmission Distribution reporting methodology and potential impacts to the sectoral targets. and Storage ■ Natural Gas Value Chain 2012 In 2016 ONE Future also commissioned research and analysis to assist ■ Hess 2016 members in developing customized abatement strategies to fit their ■ ONE Future 2025 Target emissions profiles. Most notably, ONE Future contracted ICF, a global *T he methane emissions rate represents the ratio of methane emitted (in tonnes) to methane produced or processed (in tonnes) from U.S.operated assets. consulting and technology services firm, to conduct an analysis of the 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 45 Drilling Operations, Gulf of Mexico ENVIRONMENT Safeguarding the environment is a 2016 Freshwater Use by Freshwater Use Facility/Business Function Million Cubic Meters key aspect of the Hess Value of Thousand Cubic Meters Social Responsibility. Responsible 12 2% management of environmental impacts – 10.3 10 including water use, air emissions, waste 4% 8.9 7% and spills – is an essential component of 8 7.6 11% our drive for operational excellence and 6 an important part of how we do business every day. We also dedicate significant 4 76% staff and resources to help ensure 2 compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and 0 2014 2015 2016 voluntary commitments. ■ Seminole Gas Plant 5,703 ■ North Dakota Drilling and Completions 838 ■ Ohio Drilling and Completions 551 ■ Groundwater Hess has been a sponsor and active ■ Tioga Gas Plant 304 ■ Municipal Water ■ All Other Operations 175 ■ Surface Water participant in the Bakken Production Optimization Program (BPOP) – a research program led by the Energy and development. We continually evaluate fracturing. We know water is also an Environmental Research Center and initiatives proposed by EFD to determine important resource for the communities funded by the North Dakota Industrial their relevance and importance to Hess. and ecosystems in which we operate. Commission – since 2015. BPOP aims Although we did not engage in any In some areas, our water use may be to improve Bakken system oil recovery specific EFD projects last year, we will restricted by local limitations on water and reduce the environmental footprint continue to sponsor the program in 2017 supply and disposal. of Bakken oil and gas operations. In and will monitor proposed initiatives on the first years of the program, Hess has an ongoing basis. supported research on issues such as 2016 KEY DEVELOPMENTS To track our environmental performance TENORM (technologically enhanced ▶ C ontinued initiatives to reduce the and drive improvement over time, we naturally occurring radioactive material) environmental impacts of shale energy use key performance metrics – including development disposal, flaring reduction and spills several factored into our annual incentive ▶ Enhanced our water data collection remediation. Moving forward, BPOP plan – at the asset and enterprise level. methodology research activities are focused on ▶ Observed a five-year low in losses of Through these efforts, we continuously decreasing the environmental impacts primary containment strive to reduce the amount of water of wellsite operations and reducing the ▶ E xpanded use of our regulatory compliance and energy we use, limit our emissions demand for infrastructure construction tracking tool to air and prevent spills and other and maintenance, all while increasing well unplanned releases. 2017 GOALS productivity and the economic output of ▶ C ontinue to improve water data quality North Dakota’s oil and gas resources. WATER MANAGEMENT through enhancements in the data Water management is one of our collection process We also voluntarily sponsor and material issues and a key element of our ▶ C ontinue to advance efforts to incorporate participate in the Environmentally water management in the risk assessment environment, health, safety and social Friendly Drilling (EFD) program, process responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. Water a partnership among oil and gas ▶ E valuate water reduction strategies is a critical resource for our onshore companies, academia and environmental ▶ A chieve a severe environmental incident exploration and production operations, organizations coordinated by the rate target of 0.027 (i.e., a 10 percent where it is used primarily for cooling reduction compared to 2016) Houston Advanced Research Center. purposes in both our upstream and The program aims to develop sciencemidstream operations, as well as drilling based solutions to environmental and completions, including hydraulic issues associated with oil and gas 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 47 ENVIRONMENT For example, water reuse continues to be a focus for Hess at the Seminole Gas Plant, and we are researching options for reusing produced water to supplement or replace the water used from the aquifer. In 2016 we reused more than 1 million cubic meters of fresh water at the plant, representing 19 percent of the plant’s total usage for the year. The facility recirculates water in its cooling towers between three to five cycles, and to prevent the buildup of solids in the circulating water, a portion is removed as “blowdown.” This blowdown water was reused in our Permian production operations to maintain reservoir pressure. Drilling and completion activities in North Dakota and Ohio comprise our secondlargest water use. Most of this water is Production Operations, North Dakota used for hydraulic fracturing. We use small quantities of brackish groundwater We understand public concern about cooling, remained our largest single for reservoir management purposes in our industry’s use of water, and we are freshwater user in 2016, accounting North Dakota. committed, throughout our operations, for 76 percent of our companywide We also reduced water use at the Tioga to evaluating and reducing our water freshwater usage. The plant sources its Gas Plant in 2016 by implementing footprint. We are developing a risk-based, water from a network of Hess-owned a new chemical treatment process, lifecycle approach to managing water, and operated groundwater wells that improved water usage analyses, and from sourcing through disposal. We are withdraw from the Ogallala Aquifer. improved water monitoring and chemical also working to improve our water data Although the primary driver for water injection systems in the boilers, cooling collection process, water risk assessment demand in the region is agricultural towers and other equipment. Due in part and risk-based evaluation of assetactivities (Hess’ withdrawals from the to these efforts, we reduced water use level water management opportunities. aquifer represent only 0.1 percent of by approximately 18,000 cubic meters, Additional examples of our approach estimated annual water demand), the or by 5 percent compared to 2015. The to reducing our water footprint are baseline water stress in the region is new systems are also helping us to discussed in the Environment section categorized as “high risk.” Recognizing reduce wastewater, chemical usage and of our website (hess.com/sustainability/ the need to address water stress in potential equipment corrosion. environment). this region, we conducted a multiHess participates in two industry forums Our total freshwater use for exploration year hydrogeological study to assess focused on water management, both to and production decreased by the capacity of the Ogallala Aquifer advance our own performance and to approximately 16 percent from 2015 to as well as long-term water availability contribute to industrywide knowledge2016, primarily due to reduced drilling and yield. After concluding the study sharing and progress. First, we are active and completions activity in North Dakota. in 2016, we are in the process of participants in the IPIECA Water Working evaluating the results and options for The Seminole Gas Plant in West Texas, Group, which aims to help companies reducing our water use. which uses water primarily for process improve their water use performance 48 SHALE ENERGY Advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing have resulted in a zone, thereby creating a physical barrier between the materials in the well rapid increase in shale oil and gas development in the U.S. – although activity and the strata containing the groundwater being protected. has slowed in the past two years due to low commodity prices. Hess has ▶ Inside the surface casing, another casing is installed and cemented in place, made significant investments in these unconventional oil and gas plays – first and an acoustic cement bond log is employed to confirm that the cement in the Bakken Formation in North Dakota, one of the premier U.S. tight oil barrier meets regulatory requirements. plays, and more recently in the Utica Formation in Ohio, an emerging shale gas play. Oil and gas from these plays constitute about 45 percent of Hess’ ▶ The well completion is performed through a final casing (Ohio) or liner (North total operated production. Dakota) placed inside the production or intermediate casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” is then run and connected to the We recognize that some groups have voiced concerns about the potential top of the liner. This provides an additional physical barrier to isolate fluids effects of shale energy operations on the environment, public health and safety. within the well. The practices we use are well established and, in most cases, have been ▶ To prevent potential fracture stimulation interference – that is, stimulating employed in conventional oil and gas development for many years. one well and having it result in hydraulic communication in nearby wells – We aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal impact and, as existing offset oil and gas wells are shut-in during fracturing activity, and the discussed in the Social Responsibility section, we aim to identify and address wellhead systems in nearby wells are tested prior to being shut-in or stakeholder concerns to improve our performance and enhance our license to additional equipment is installed on wellheads that can safely operate within operate. All assets undergo several stages of detailed, activity-based risk proper distances. assessments during the appraisal, capture, development and production ▶ During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in place to operate surface and phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments allow us to identify mitigation downhole equipment within their design ratings. measures we can pursue to help us protect the environment, the communities in which we operate and the safety of our workforce. Our enterprise risk Induced seismicity from hydraulic fracturing or underground injection wells has management process, discussed in the How We Operate section, includes not been a focus of potential concern for our operations in North Dakota. In identification and ranking of environmental considerations and other aspects Ohio, regulators have implemented measures through the permitting process to of our operated activities as well as technical review and value assurance address seismicity concerns in the state. Hess follows a monitoring activities. We also perform numerous EHS audits on an annual basis. methodology and an operational control process when performing hydraulic fracturing in areas of known faults or areas where previous seismic activity Well Integrity greater than 2.0 magnitude has occurred. Whether for conventional or unconventional resources production, a key An expanded discussion of our shale oil and gas operations – including protection to protecting groundwater is well integrity – that is, working to ensure of water quality, water use, hydraulic fracturing fluid composition, air emissions, physical barriers between the wellbore and the surrounding rock and land use, transportation and crude-by-rail – can be found on our website. underground aquifers. S ee Hess’ Expanded Shale Energy section at hess.com/sustainability/environment While hydraulic fracturing processes occur several thousand feet below the Earth’s surface, wellbores pass through groundwater bearing zones at shallower depths. Before designing or constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent of any underground fresh water so that the well can be drilled and completed in a way that protects groundwater resources and conforms to regulatory requirements and internal Hess standards. Certain U.S. state agencies require operators to design casing and cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water from the contents of the wellbore. We submit this information in applications for well construction permits, which must be reviewed and approved by regulators. Well designs can vary from asset to asset due to differences in the formation, the management Intermediate Conductor of drilling risks and technology applications. Casing Casing To help ensure well integrity, our drilling process for new shale wells is to line Cement Freshwater wellbores with multiple layers of steel pipe encased in cement to depths well Aquifer below the deepest freshwater zones. Specifically: Surface Frac String ▶ A surface casing is installed from the surface to below the lowest known Casing freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval to isolate the freshwater Bakken example. Drawing is not to scale. 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 49 ENVIRONMENT and reduce their water footprint by West Texas. Hess has participated in a information and improved data from providing sound analysis, assessment joint government and industry rangewide ongoing third-party studies, and we tools, good practices, credible data conservation program to protect this update our species list accordingly. sources and appropriate indicators. We species and its habitat since 2014. We also identify IUCN-protected are also members of the Energy Water As part of our goal to mature biodiversity areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our Initiative, a collaborative effort among management at Hess’ global assets, operations. In 2016 there were two such 18 oil and natural gas companies to we have been developing threatened areas, both in North Dakota (Lostwood study, describe and improve lifecycle and endangered species field guides for Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt water use and management in upstream personnel to use during field activities. National Park). unconventional oil and natural gas We completed guides for our Bakken exploration and production. We regularly work with our industry asset in 2015 and our Permian asset in peers on biodiversity-related issues. BIODIVERSITY 2016, with guides for additional assets For example, we are an active member We recognize the potential impacts planned over the next few years. of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem oil and gas development can have on We monitor the addition of new species Services Working Group of IPIECA. habitats and biodiversity. We consider the to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s We also participate in the Endangered protection of biodiversity in our decision national endangered and threatened Species Working Group of the American making and management from the earliest species lists. In addition, we are Petroleum Institute (API) to discuss oil stages of exploration and development identifying locations where we may and gas development with the goal of through production and closure at every need to conduct new biological risk proactively balancing development with Hess location around the globe. assessments and develop mitigation environmental decision making that aims We conduct formal environmental and plans as a result of these listings. Already, to minimize biodiversity harm. social impact assessments (ESIAs) we have adjusted drilling site locations We also participate in the Cross Sector on major capital projects as part of to accommodate habitat features and Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of site evaluation, selection and risk priorities for certain species. IPIECA, the International Council on assessment. These ESIAs include IUCN RED LIST SPECIES Mining and Metals and the Equator biodiversity baseline studies as well as Principles Association. This initiative screenings of identified species using Category Number of Species brings the mining, oil and gas and the International Union for Conservation Critically Endangered 17 financial sectors together to develop and of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other share good practices for safeguarding threatened, endangered and protected Endangered 53 biodiversity and ecosystems. species lists. We use the results of Vulnerable 225 ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, WASTE Near Threatened 252 where appropriate. Even where the We generate a variety of waste streams, conditions or circumstances do not including waste specific to drilling and Hess utilizes third-party software call for a full ESIA, we still routinely production activities. For each Hess programs, such as the Integrated conduct biodiversity risk screenings asset, we manage waste through specific Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify and impact assessments and undertake waste management plans designed to protected areas and key biodiversity appropriate mitigation activities. In comply with all applicable regulatory areas as well as specific species listings. addition, we conduct assessments when and Hess requirements for that location, We maintain a list of IUCN Red List the classification of species and habitats and to protect human health and the species with habitats that overlap with changes in areas where we operate. environment. These plans align with the our operations (see table above, which provides a snapshot of relevant species Hess Waste Management Standard, In 2016 Hess conducted an updated at the time of publication of this report). which was implemented in 2015 as field survey and habitat analysis of the The IUCN updates the Red List species part of our global standards project. In Lesser Prairie-Chicken, whose potential classifications regularly based on new addition, the plans require application range overlaps with our Permian asset in 50 of our waste minimization principles DISCHARGES FROM Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea of “Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, OFFSHORE FACILITIES 100 100 Recover, Treat and Dispose” – with Discharges from our offshore facilities 140 Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) 87 90 90 disposal being the least preferred option. Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) 81 include drilling mud, drill cuttings and 120 80 80 70 produced water. These waste streams are 100 In 2016 we generated approximately 70 70 either reinjected 60 for disposal or reservoir 60 93,400 tonnes of solid waste, more than 80 management, 50 discharged directly to 50 99 percent of which was classified as 60 the ocean or40transported to shore for 40 nonhazardous according to applicable treatment and 30 disposal or recycling. 30 40 regulations. Our overall waste disposal 20 20 14 15 18 numbers were significantly lower in 2016 In 2016 our offshore 10 facilities discharged 10 20 than in 2015 due to large site cleanup a total of 3,404 0 tonnes of nonaqueous 0 0 2014 2015 2016 activities undertaken in 2015, which drilling mud and cuttings, which included caused a one-time increase in waste 311 tonnes of nonaqueous base fluid. ● Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) for that year, as well as decreased field ● Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) activity in 2016. Offshore produced water discharges totaled an estimated 6.4 million cubic We also disposed of approximately Hydrocarbon Spills meters in 2016. Produced water 43,300 tonnes of drill cuttings from discharges 200 had an average oil content 200 6000 6,000 our North Dakota and Ohio assets at of 18 parts 180 per million volume (PPMV), 5,130 180 licensed disposal 5000 sites in 2016. These totaling16087 tonnes of oil discharged. 5,000 160 Volume of Spills (Barrels) drill cuttings, as well as the discharges 4000 This data reflects an increase in average 140 4,000 140 116 Number of Spills from our offshore facilities (discussed 120 oil content and total oil discharged, 120 3000 100 3,000 86 100 in the next section), are not included compared to 2015. 80 66 80 in our overall 2000waste totals per IPIECA 60 2,000 60 1,448 reporting guidance. SPILL PREVENTION 40 984 40 1000 Hess maintains 20 spill preparedness 1,000 20 In North Dakota, 0 naturally occurring and response 0 plans and conducts 0 0 radioactive materials, or NORM, can be emergency response exercises at 2014 2015 2016 naturally dissolved out of subsurface each of our assets. To support a swift ■ Volume of Spills formations into produced water and can and effective response for any loss of ● Number of Spills then build up in production equipment primary containment (LOPC) incident, and piping during drilling and production. we maintain strong relationships with Nonhydrocarbon Spills NORM that are concentrated in this mutual aid and emergency response way are referred to as technologically organizations at the local, regional and 25000 200 25,000 200 enhanced, or TENORM. In 2016 Hess global levels. 180 Hess’ international oil 180 was able to avoid 20000 disposing of 221 spill response 160 needs are supported by 20,000 20,131 160 Volume of Spills (Barrels) tonnes of nonhazardous piping waste in our partnership with Oil Spill Response 140 127 140 Number of Spills North Dakota by decontaminating the 15000 Limited (OSRL), an international, 120 15,000 103 120 100 100 piping (i.e., removing the TENORM) and industry-funded cooperative that 10000 80 10,000 80 recycling it instead. We disposed of the responds to oil spills globally. Our 61 60 60 TENORM scale removed 5000 from the pipes 40 needs are supported by domestic 5,000 40 2,813 2,667 in approved and audited waste facilities. Marine Spill 20 Response Corporation, 20 Even with the necessary 0 disposal of the Clean Gulf 0 Associates, Sakakawea Area 0 0 2014 2015 2016 scale material, we were able to reduce Spill Response Mutual Aid, Tri-State Bird the volume of landfilled waste by a factor Rescue and Research, Control Risks and ■ Volume of Spills ● Number of Spills of approximately 40. International SOS. Hess representatives 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 51 ENVIRONMENT serve on the Board of Directors of the In 2016 the number and volume of both inspection and surveillance programs, OSRL and on the Executive Committee hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon spills upgraded external corrosion protection of Clean Gulf Associates, a not-for-profit significantly decreased compared to and use of corrosion inhibitors, and oil spill cooperative that supports the 2015, returning Hess to the trend of yearreplaced or redesigned pipes. We have Gulf of Mexico. over-year reductions that we observed also expanded spill-related worksite between 2012 and 2014. The decrease controls, such as fluid transfer checklists, Our international subsea preparedness in 2016 can be attributed in part to a and spill prevention training. In North and response capabilities are supported reduction in activity during the year. Dakota, we helped to form a new local by the Subsea Well Intervention Service We realize that in order to maintain this chapter of the National Association of and Wild Well Control. In the Gulf of positive trend, Hess will have to remain Corrosion Engineers to advance pipeline Mexico, we are members of the Marine diligent in our spill prevention efforts as integrity, safety training and information Well Containment Company. These activity ramps up again in 2017. sharing among pipeline and oil and organizations provide well capping, gas companies operating in the region. containment and dispersant capabilities Even with the substantial decline in The process safety assessments and as well as equipment and personnel spills last year, we experienced some asset integrity assessments we have mutual aid. notable LOPC events. In all cases, we been pursuing (see the Safety and implemented site incident control and We are also active members of the Health section) should also help to drive spill containment coordination efforts Oil Spill Response Joint Industry improved LOPC performance. immediately upon detection, and we Project organized by IPIECA and the experienced no injuries. We experienced AIR EMISSIONS International Association of Oil and two mechanical integrity-related The normal operation of fuel combustion Gas Producers. Hess participates in LOPC events that can be attributed to and processing equipment as well several of the API’s preparedness and corrosion issues in North Dakota. as flaring activities results in air response efforts, including the Oil One involved a spill of approximately emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX), Spill Emergency Preparedness and 770 barrels of produced water and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic Response Subcommittee, the Pandemic the other resulted in the release of compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emission Planning Working Group and the Oil-Rail approximately 250 barrels of emulsion sources, including those related to Emergency Response Joint Working fluid. In both events, the spills were product loading and storage, also can Group. We also contribute to the IPIECA contained on site, and the fluid and contribute to VOC emissions. In 2016 Oil Spill Working Group in support of our affected soil were collected and removed our normalized emissions of VOCs international businesses. for disposal. Also in North Dakota a spill continued to follow a downward trend, We track LOPC events through our of approximately 200 barrels of oil and while normalized emissions of NOX and incident reporting system regardless 225 barrels of produced water occurred SO2 increased compared to 2015. of size and material and report spills due to equipment failure. Approximately The upward trend in NOX and SO2 following industry and applicable 40 barrels of the oil and water mixture emissions intensity is attributable in regulatory guidance. By proactively migrated offsite but was contained part to an increase in drilling activity tracking all LOPC events, we are better before reaching surface water systems. – and the associated increase in the able to analyze root causes, including Spilled fluid and impacted soils were use of diesel-powered equipment – at those events that may be low in impact removed for remediation. Hess assets in the Gulf of Mexico and but relatively higher in frequency. We We have been working to implement a the North Malay Basin. This change also use leading and lagging indicators range of programs to continue our focus in drilling activity level, as well as the to monitor LOPC performance, including on spill prevention. To address spills need to run some equipment regardless tying LOPC performance to our cash that result from corrosion and integrity of production levels, paired with a bonus plan again in 2016. issues, we have recently enhanced our decrease in production at those assets, 52 contributed to the increase in NOX and entered into a Consent Decree with the Air Emissions SO2 emissions intensity. Other factors North Dakota Department of Health 100 100 that contributed to the SO2 emissions resolving alleged noncompliance with 90.3 83.1 Emissions (Tonnes per Million BOE) increase were operational upset state air pollution laws and provisions 77.2 80 80 events at the Seminole Gas Plant and of the federal Clean Air Act. Pursuant to 72.8 71.1 production challenges at our Tubular 60 the Consent Decree, we are required to 60 65.2 Bells Field, both of which resulted in implement corrective actions, including additional flaring activity. 40 implementation of an LDAR program 40 28.6 23.6 at our existing upstream oil and natural We have an ongoing reliability program 20 20 13.7 gas production facilities in North in place for the Seminole Gas Plant, 0 Dakota. Given this Consent Decree, through which we continually seek 2014 2015 2016 0 2014 2015 2016 we did not consider it appropriate to to enhance facility operations to ■ SO2 Intensity commit to the LDAR program under the ■ NOX Intensity minimize emission events. We are also Methane Challenge Program. ■ VOC Intensity enhancing the maintenance program at the Seminole Gas Plant and planning Strengthening our regulatory assurance upgrades to plant systems and program is one of the six components our Ohio production facilities, we equipment in 2017 to reduce the plant’s of our EHS & SR strategy. Internal conduct quarterly, semiannual or emissions and improve its performance assurance also helps us to ensure annual inspections using optical gas going forward. the effectiveness of our management imaging. Per the regulations of the Ohio systems. As part of our long-term Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), REGULATORY COMPLIANCE we are able to move to semiannual or compliance strategy, our regulatory AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS annual inspections after a period of team continued to expand the use of In 2016 we paid $24,430 in environmental demonstrating de minimis leak rates for a compliance tracking tool at our U.S. fines and penalties. The majority permitted equipment. assets in 2016. ($14,430) of this expenditure was We also enhanced our LDAR field Optical gas imaging is performed by related to waste management in our assurance team, in part to fulfill the our field assurance personnel in the discontinued operations (i.e., our previous additional monitoring required through regulatory group who are certified in the marketing and refining businesses). The the Consent Decree mentioned above. use of infrared thermal cameras and other remaining $10,000 included two fines Compliance assurance activities that monitoring techniques (such as U.S. EPA for administrative issues with drilling will be implemented through our field Method 21) to detect fugitive emissions. operations in North Dakota. assurance team include monthly These measures, together with the steps As mentioned in the Climate Change we are taking to reduce flaring in North audible, visual and olfactory inspections and Energy section, in 2015 and Dakota, will help to further reduce our and semiannual optical gas imaging through 2016 we had initiated fugitive methane emissions. on equipment that has the potential implementation of a leak detection and to emit fugitive emissions. Overall, our In addition, we are working through repair (LDAR) program across all of our LDAR program comprises: monthly the API to implement its Recommended Bakken production facilities as a way audible, visual and olfactory inspection Practice 1173 related to pipeline of achieving voluntary reductions as of equipment with the potential safety management systems. As part part of our ONE Future commitment. to leak (North Dakota production of our commitment to this initiative, The intent was to also report reductions operations), as well as quarterly (North we are evaluating and enhancing our achieved through this program under Dakota and Texas gas plants) and management system and integrity the Methane Challenge Program. semiannual (North Dakota production management programs pertaining However, Hess, as well as a number operations) optical gas imaging. At to pipelines. of other Bakken operators, recently 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 53 PERFORMANCE DATA Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 4,762 6,636 10,737 11,905 12,245 Net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million (6,132) (3,056) 2,317 5,052 2,025 Total assets $ Million 28,621 34,157 38,372 42,482 43,187 Total debt $ Million 6,806 6,592 5,952 5,765 8,076 Stockholders’ equity $ Million 15,591 20,401 22,320 24,784 21,203 Debt to capitalization ratio % 30.4 24.4 21.2 19.0 27.7 EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION Total net hydrocarbons produced Thousand BOEPD 322 375 329 336 406 Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,109 1,086 1,431 1,437 1,553 Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), % 74 76 78 77 75 condensate & natural gas liquids) Gas % 26 24 22 23 25 Reserve life Years 9 8 12 12 10 Replaced production % 119 NM 158 118 141 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 2,154 4,338 5,606 6,209 8,152 Income tax expense $ Million 2,222 (1,299) 744 565 1,529 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 330 457 707 807 920 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 350 287 303 235 171 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 707 791 1,040 1,037 1,045 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 338 341 323 406 419 Operating costs $/BOE 16 15 17 17 15 Supplier spend* (approximate) $ Billion 6 7 8 8 8 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Total social investment $ Million 20 22 42 37 40 Education % 82 83 80 52 47 Health % <1 1 1 2 4 Disaster relief % 1 <1 2 3 13 Community contributions (not in-kind) % 15 14 13 25 22 In-kind % 1 <1 4 12 9 Civic and employee % 1 0 <1 0 0 Arts and culture % <1 1 <1 6 5 Environment % 1 <1 <1 <1 <1 OUR PEOPLE Number of permanent employees # 2,304 2,770 3,039 12,128 13,277 U.S. employees % 83 79 78 91 90 International employees % 17 21 22 9 10 Part-time employees % 0 0 1 27 23 Full-time employees % 100 100 99 73 77 Employee turnover – voluntary ¤ % 6 5 9 13 10 Employee layoffs ¤ % 20 9 20 15 3 Female employees (U.S. and international) % 27 27 28 43 40 Minority employees (U.S.) % 25 24 24 39 38 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 2 3 1 4 6 SAFETY PERFORMANCE Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0 0 1 Hours worked – workforce Million hours 21.7 28.6 37.8 47.1 45.3 Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.10 0.24 0.20 0.20 0.14 Contractor total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.52 0.39 0.45 0.60 0.71 Workforce total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.40 0.36 0.40 0.52 0.60 Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.06 0.03 0.00 0.05 0.05 Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.15 0.10 0.14 0.16 0.20 Workforce lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.13 0.08 0.12 0.14 0.17 Employee occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.00 0.09 0.00 0.02 0.05 Contractor occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.14 0.25 0.24 0.13 0.25 Workforce occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.10 0.21 0.20 0.11 0.21 Products with Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Approach to Reporting for details. NM: Not meaningful. * Supplier spend for 2013 through 2016 is for exploration and production only. ¤ Reflects data for exploration and production only. 54 Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 26,991 36,121 35,987 29,356 26,386 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO2e 4.1 5.1 4.8 4.4 5.0 Carbon dioxide Million tonnes CO2e 3.7 4.7 4.4 4.2 4.7 Methane Thousand tonnes CO2e 296.9 403.7 403.1 166.5 207.4 Nitrous oxide Thousand tonnes CO2e 2.3 2.7 28.4 31.1 24.5 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring/venting % 52 63 61 54 49 Fuel combustion % 43 33 35 41 46 Other % 5 4 3 5 5 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes CO2e 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.8 Carbon dioxide Million tonnes CO2e 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.8 Methane Thousand tonnes CO2e 0.2 0.2 0.3 nil 0.2 Nitrous oxide Thousand tonnes CO2e 2.4 2.4 2.7 3.1 7.8 Equity GHG emissions (includes HOVENSA) Million tonnes CO2e 4.2 5.5 6.0 6.6 8.0 Scope 3 emissions – use of sold products Million tonnes CO2e 9.1 9.7 11.5 13.9 22.1 ENERGY USE Production energy intensity ◊ Gigajoules/BOE 0.29 0.23 0.23 0.25 0.24 Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 29,973 27,506 25,829 26,421 28,074 Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 8,273 8,642 8,597 7,429 6,913 Net purchased electricity by primary energy source** Thousand MWh 896 936 865 688 663 Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) Thousand MWh 100 135 125 140 140 FRESHWATER USE Groundwater Million cubic meters 5.7 6.0 6.2 6.3 6.5 Municipal water Million cubic meters 0.6 1.2 1.9 3.8 2.0 Surface water Million cubic meters 1.2 1.7 2.2 0.5 0.1 Reused/recycled (estimated) % 14.5 12.0 9.0 8.0 11.0 SOLID WASTE Nonhazardous Thousand tonnes 92.5 252.5 118.8 144.2 52.8 Hazardous Thousand tonnes 0.9 0.4 1.1 3.6 3.9 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 0 0 0 22 10 LIQUID WASTE† Nonhazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 73.05 7,275.07 5,295.63 2.22 39.62 Hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 10.52 18.44 0.50 0.00 0.00 SPILLS Hydrocarbon spills – number # 66 86 116 110 118 Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 984 5,130 1,448 1,090 1,018 Nonhydrocarbon spills – number # 61 127 103 99 120 Nonhydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 2,667 20,131 2,813 2,786 3,250 AIR EMISSIONS (EXCLUDES GHGS) ◊ Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 3,804 3,727 2,016 2,888 3,168 SO2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 28.6 23.6 13.7 21.7 21.8 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tonnes 10,261 11,515 9,595 10,270 10,600 NOx intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 77.2 72.8 65.2 77.2 72.9 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 9,441 13,133 13,288 12,279 12,175 VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 71.1 83.1 90.3 92.3 83.7 EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION DISCHARGES Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 87 81 70 136 119 Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 18 15 14 10 9 Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 6.4 6.5 6.0 16.7 16.5 OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 6 5 7 2 8 ISO 14001-certified operations # 1 1 2 2 3 Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 24 25 84 509 105 Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 10 13 12 16 19 Environmental reserve $ Million 80 80 80 65 55 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Approach to Reporting for details. ◊ The annual gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) for 2016 was 131,827,232 BOE. ** Third–party power generation. † Historical waste data have been restated to separately report solid and liquid waste where possible. Liquid waste totals include wastewater treatment. Liquid waste totals for 2014–2016 include deep well disposal. Deep well disposal (2012–2013) is included in the landfill category and cannot be separated out. 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 55 GRI CONTENT INDEX This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 indicators, with cross reference to the 10 Principles in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and IPIECA sector-specific guidelines. The index includes all indicators required for a G4 Core report, as well as a number of additional indicators for which we are able to provide adequate information to fulfill the disclosure. Detailed information on GRI indicators related to Board-level governance (G4-34–G4-55) and defined benefit plan obligations (G4-EC3) can be found at hess.com/investors and in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) forms 10-K and DEF 14A. An expanded GRI Content Index is available at hess.com/gri-index. GRI G4 Indicator GRI G4 OGSS Indicator ● Reported Omitted GRI UNGC IPIECA GRI Indicator General Description Page(s) Status Principle(s) Indicator(s) STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization 2–3 ● G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities (a) 2–3, 6–9 ● ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3–G4-9 Organizational profile (a, c) 4, 61 ● Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, G4-10–G4-11 35–36, 54 ● 3, 10 and by contract type, gender and region (c) G4-12 Organization's supply chain (d) 16–17 ● G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period (a, d) OCI ● G4-14 The precautionary approach (c) OCI ● G4-15 Externally subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives (c) 19 ● G4-16 Memberships in associations (c) 51–52, 60 ● IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Operational structure of the organization (a) 4, 5 ● Determination of report content, explanation of restatements and significant G4-18–G4-23 5 ● changes (d) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24–G4-27 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns (c, d) 5, 20–22 ● REPORT PROFILE G4-28–G4-30 Reporting period and frequency (c) 5 ● G4-31 Contact point for questions 61 ● Inside front G4-32 Indication of in accordance option, GRI content index (c) ● cover, 56–58 G4-33 External assurance 9, 59 ● GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization (a, b, c) 11 ● G4-35–G4-53 Information on the highest governance body (a, b, c) 11 ● ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Internal values, code of conduct and principles (b, c) 15, 23 ● 10 Mechanisms for seeking advice or reporting concerns related to ethics and G4-57–G4-58 OCI ● 10 integrity (b, c) ECONOMIC EC DMA Management approach to economic performance and market presence (a, b) 2–4, 11–17 ● G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (a, b, c) 4, 54 ● SE4, SE13 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate G4-EC2 9, 39–40 ● change (c, d) G4-EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (a, b, c) OCI ● 7 G4-EC5 Comparison of standard entry-level wage with local minimum wage (c) OCI ● SE15 G4-EC6 Local hiring at significant locations of operation (c) 36 ● 6 SE6 EC DMA Management approach to indirect economic impacts 23–25, 54 ● 6 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 23–25, 54 ● SE4 EC DMA Management approach to procurement practices (d) 16–17 ● G4-EC9 Local supplier practices and spend at significant locations of operation (c) 17 ● SE5, SE7 EC DMA Management approach to oil and gas reserves (d) 40 ● OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production (a, d) 4, 40, 54 ● OGSS: GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K OCI: Hess Online GRI Content Index b – See also hess.com/investors NM: Not Material c – See also Hess Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) d – See also expanded content at hess.com/sustainability 56 GRI UNGC IPIECA GRI Indicator General Description Page(s) Status Principle(s) Indicator(s) ENVIRONMENT EN DMA, Materials used, including management approach (c) OCI ● 7, 8 E10 G4-EN1–G4-EN2 EN DMA Management approach to energy consumption (c) 44 ● G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization (c, d) 44, 55 ● E2 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 42, 55 ● 7 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 44, 55 ● 8 E2 Energy efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, G4-EN7, including amount invested in renewable energy and total amount generated OCI ● 8, 9 E3 OG2–OG3 by source (c) EN DMA, Water use, recycling and reuse, and significantly affected water sources (c) 47–48, 55 ● 8 E6 G4-EN8–G4-EN10 EN DMA, G4-EN11–G4-EN14, Biodiversity, including management approach 50 ● 8 E5 OG4 EN DMA Management approach to air emissions (c, d) 39–45, 52–53 ● 8 G4-EN15–G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions by weight, greenhouse gas emissions intensity (c) 41–42, 45, 55 ● 8 E1 G4-EN19 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (c, d) 9, 39–45 ● 8 E1 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight (c) OCI NM 8, 9 E8 G4-EN21 NOX, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight (c) 53, 55 ● 8 E8 EN DMA, Effluents, spills and waste – including Basel Convention Annex waste G4-EN22–G4-EN25, 50–52, 55 ● 8 E7, E9, E10 management summary (c) OG5 G4-EN26 Biodiversity value of receiving water bodies for water discharges and runoff 50 ● 8 E5, E7 OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon (c) 42–43, 55 ● E4 OG7 Amount of drilling waste and strategies for treatment and disposal (c) 51 ● E10 EN DMA Management approach to environmental impacts of products and services 39–40, 42–45 ● G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 39–53 ● HS4 G4-EN28 Products sold and packaging reclaimed (c) OCI ● 8, 9 OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels (c) OCI NM 8 EN DMA, Environmental compliance, including management approach and instances of 53 ● G4-EN29 noncompliance (c) EN DMA, Environmental impacts of transportation, including management approach (d) 42–43 ● 8 E1, E9 G4-EN30 EN DMA, Environmental expenditures and investments, including management OCI ● 8 G4-EN31 approach (c) EN DMA, Environmental assessment of suppliers, including management approach (c, d) 16–17 ● 8, 9 G4-EN32–G4-EN33 EN DMA, Environmental grievance mechanisms, including management approach and 20–21 ● G4-EN34 number of environmental grievances (c) LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK LA DMA Management approach to employment (c) 35–37 ● G4-LA1 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 35, 54 ● SE15 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees by major operations (c) OCI ● 6 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender (c) OCI NM LA DMA Management approach to labor/management relations 35–37 ● 6 G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes (c) OCI ● SE16 LA DMA Management approach to occupational health and safety 27–33 ● 3 G4-LA5 Total workforce represented in formal joint health and safety committees (c) OCI ● HS1 G4-LA6 Injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities (c) 27–28, 54 ● HS3 G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of disease related to their occupation (c) OCI ● HS2 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions (c) OCI NM HS1, SE16 LA DMA, 6–8, 15, 19, 23, Training and education, including management approach (c) ● SE17 G4-LA9 33, 35–37 Lifelong learning, managing career endings, performance and career G4-LA10–G4-LA11 35–37 ● 6 SE17 development reviews (c) OGSS: GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K OCI: Hess Online GRI Content Index b – See also hess.com/investors NM: Not Material c – See also Hess Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) d – See also expanded content at hess.com/sustainability 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 57 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI UNGC IPIECA GRI Indicator General Description Page(s) Status Principle(s) Indicator(s) LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK (Continued) LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to diversity and equal opportunity 35–36 ● 6 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity G4-LA12 36 ● SE15 indicators (c) LA DMA Management approach to equality of remuneration by gender (c) OCI ● 6 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category (c) OCI SE15 LA DMA, Assessment of supplier labor practices, including management approach (c, d) 16–17 ● 6 G4-LA14–G4-LA15 LA DMA, Labor practice grievance mechanisms, including management approach and 20–21 ● SE18 G4-LA16 number of grievances (c) HUMAN RIGHTS HR DMA, Human rights and significant investment agreements, including management 17, 23 ● SE8 G4-HR1 approach (c, d) G4-HR2 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights (c) 15 ● SE8 HR DMA, Management approach to nondiscrimination, incidents of discrimination and 35–36 ● 1, 2 SE8, SE18 G4-HR3 corrective actions taken (c) HR DMA, Freedom of association and collective bargaining, child labor and forced or OCI ● 3, 5, 6 SE8, SE9 G4-HR4–G4-HR6 compulsory labor, including management approach (c) HR DMA, Management approach to security practices, including training of security 23 ● 6 SE10 G4-HR7 personnel (d) HR DMA, Management approach to indigenous rights – including engagement 20–22 ● 1 SE2, SE10 G4-HR8, OG9 strategies, and violations involving rights of indigenous people (c) HR DMA, Human rights assessments, including management approach (c) 7, 23 ● SE8 G4-HR9 HR DMA, Supplier human rights assessments, including management approach (c, d) 7, 23 ● 1, 2 SE9 G4-HR10–G4-HR11 HR DMA, Human rights grievance mechanisms, including management approach and 20–21 ● 2 SE9, SE18 G4-HR12 number of grievances (c) SOCIETY SO DMA, Management approach to local communities, including description of 19–25 ● 1 SE1 G4-SO1–G4-SO2 operations with programs and actual or potential negative impacts OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples (c) OCI ● 1 SE1, SE3 OG11 Sites that have been or are in the process of being decommissioned (c) OCI ● E11 OG12 Extent and impact of involuntary resettlement (c) OCI ● SE3 OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 31 ● HS5 SO DMA, Management approach to anti-corruption, including business units analyzed 15 ● 10 SE11, SE12 G4-SO3–G4-SO4 and employee training (c) G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (c) OCI ● 10 SE11 SO DMA, Management approach to public policy, including political contributions (c) 15–16 ● 10 SE13, SE14 G4-SO6 Anti-competitive behavior and legal compliance, including number of SO DMA, legal actions and number and monetary value of any instances of OCI ● 10 G4-SO7–G4-SO8 noncompliance (c) Assessment of suppliers for impacts on society, including management SO DMA 16–17 SE12 approach (d) Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply G4-SO10 OCI ● SE12 chain and actions taken (c) SO DMA, Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society, including management 20–21 ● G4-SO11 approach and number of grievances (c) PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA PR Management approach to product responsibility (c) OCI ● G4-PR1–G4-PR9, Note: These indicators are largely immaterial to Hess' current portfolio of OCI ● HS4 OG14 operations. See the Hess Online GRI Content Index for more information (c). OGSS: GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K OCI: Hess Online GRI Content Index b – See also hess.com/investors NM: Not Material c – See also Hess Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) d – See also expanded content at hess.com/sustainability 58 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on the 2016 Sustainability Report (the Report). ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY Scope:   Whether the Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. Reporting Criteria: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ‘Core option’ (including the Oil and Gas Sector Supplement); and The IPIECA – Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 3rd Edition, 2015. Assurance Standard: ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Assurance Level: Limited assurance. Respective Responsibilities:  ▶H  ess is responsible for preparing the Report and for its correct presentation in reporting to third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. ▶ E RM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgment. OUR CONCLUSIONS Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the following conclusions are not correct: ▶T  he Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. ▶T  he Report meets the GRI G4 Guidelines ‘in accordance’ Core option. ▶T  he Report meets the common reporting elements of the IPIECA reporting guidance. OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: ▶A  review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period. ▶ I nterviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and management systems. ▶ I nterviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information. ▶V  isits to Hess-operated production sites in Denmark and Texas, USA, to verify the source data and review sustainability management implementation at the site level. ▶A  n analytical review of the year-end data submitted by all sites included in the consolidated 2016 group data. ▶A  visit to Hess’ head office in Houston, Texas to review the data from all operations, the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process. ▶R  eviewing selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements. ▶R  eviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings. THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. OUR OBSERVATIONS We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report including our observations. ERM Certification and Verification Services, London www.ermcvs.com Email: post@ermcvs.com Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Head of Corporate Assurance 26 June 2017 ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy related services to Hess in any respect. 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 59 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION SUSTAINABILITY WORKFORCE ▶C  DP leadership status for eighth consecutive year ▶E qual Opportunity Magazine’s Top 50 Employers  ow Jones Sustainability Index North America for seventh ▶D ▶W orkforce Diversity Magazine’s Top 50 Employers consecutive year ▶H ispanic Network Magazine’s Best of the Best Employers  orporate Responsibility Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate ▶C ▶B lack EOE Journal’s Best of the Best Employers Citizens for ninth consecutive year ▶R igzone’s Global Top 30 Ideal Employers – #1 oil and gas company for third consecutive year ▶G aines County Ag and Oil Day Awards, Permian Basin  ewsweek Green Rankings for sixth consecutive year ▶N – Oilman of the Year  TOXX Global ESG Leaders Index for fourth consecutive year ▶S – Production Person of the Year  SCI ESG Indexes for fifth consecutive year ▶M – Support Person of the Year – MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes – Retiree of the Year – MSCI Global SRI Indexes – MSCI KLD 400 Social Index  ECP Giving in Numbers, Top 25 percent for Total Giving ▶C  he Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Award for Excellence in ▶T Corporate Social Responsibility  asdaq and Everfi STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering ▶N and Math) Education Leadership Award MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS ▶A  merican Petroleum Institute ▶ I ndependent Petroleum Association of America  enter for Offshore Safety ▶C ▶ I nternational Association of Oil and Gas Producers  enter for Strategic and International Studies ▶C ▶ I PIECA  ouncil on Foreign Relations ▶C ▶N  ational Petroleum Council  xtractive Industries Transparency Initiative ▶E ▶U  .S. Chamber of Commerce 60 REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com. We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact: Vice President, Environment, Health and Safety Hess Corporation 1501 McKinney Street Houston, TX 77010 You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, expectations and other forward-looking statements, including information about sustainability goals and targets and planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs and initiatives. These statements reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given that the development or continuation of any policy, program or initiative expressed in any forward-looking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO The savings below are achieved when Savings from the use of emission-free, 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest PCW recycled fiber is used in place of wind-generated electricity: Stewardship Council™ (FSC ) Chain of ® virgin fiber: 4,655 pounds of GHG emissions Custody, printed the Hess Sustainability 64 trees preserved for the future not generated Report with the use of renewable wind 5 pounds of water pollutants not Displaces this amount of hydrocarbons: power resulting in nearly zero carbon created emissions. This report was printed on 2.32 barrels of natural oil unused FSC®-certified Mohawk Options paper, 30,010 gallons of water saved a process-chlorine-free 100 percent In other words, your savings from the 2,009 pounds of solid waste not post-consumer waste (PCW) paper use of wind-generated electricity are created manufactured entirely with 100 percent equivalent to: 5,333 pounds of net greenhouse certified wind energy and containing 100 2,385 miles not driven gases (GHGs) prevented percent post-consumer recycled fiber. 26 trees planted Design: incdesign.com 29 million British thermal units of energy not consumed LEARN MORE AT WWW.HESS.COM/SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SAFETY AND HEALTH OUR PEOPLE A review of social responsibility as a Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, Creating a company culture and way of doing business every day, home safe high-quality workforce that innovates, www.hess.com/sustainability/ www.hess.com/sustainability/safety-health leads and learns communities-social-performance www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess ENVIRONMENT CLIMATE CHANGE Responsible management of our GRI CONTENT INDEX AND ENERGY environmental footprint Performance against GRI G4 Balancing the world’s growing energy www.hess.com/sustainability/environment indicators needs with cost-effective greenhouse www.hess.com/sustainability/ gas emissions reduction policy sustainability-reports/GRI-Index www.hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-energy www.hess.com 2016 Sustainability Report
