UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights, and work against corruption NKT Holding A/S, Company Reg. No. 62 72 52 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 5,409 3,212 NKT at a glance 207 Nilfisk NKT Photonics Cables Group * Last twelve months (endJune 2015) CONTENTS BUSINESSES NO. OF EMPLOYEES NKT Group Photonics Group NKT Holding NKT at a glance 2 237 17 Letter from the CEO 3 Cable solutions NKT Group review 4 Business units NKT Cables 5 Hightech products based 3,006 Photonics Group 17 on optical fibers NKT Cables Framework 2,769 Reporting principles 27 SUSTAINABLE INTERNATIONAL MEGATRENDS PRESENCE supporting business strategies Urbanisation NKT Holding Sustainable energy 9 Photonics Group NKT Cables supply production sites Lorem ipsum Healthcare demand Due to the intended split of NKT Holding, FINANCIALS Nilfisk is issuing an independent CSR report available at www.nilfisk.com NKT Cables Photonics Group Amounts in DKK m 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue 1,004 * Last twelve months 1,212 (1 July 2014 43.1 30 June 2015) 40.6 NKT is signatory to the UN Global Compact and Operational EBITDA 72.2 77.0 6.3 3.7 this report provides Communication on Progress (COP) for the period 1 July 2016 to 31 December 2016. The business unit NKT Cables has also been autonomous signatories to the UN Global Compact since 2011. Visit www.nkt.dk to learn more about NKT 2 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S Letter from the Group Executive Director NKT is undergoing a major transformation with the aim of creating a more focused company able to play a leading role in the market for tomorrow’s sustainable energy systems. On the journey ahead our commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact will remain a key pillar. Since adopting this mechanism in 2009, the ten principles have provided a stable framework for the evolution of our business ethics and sustainable business activities. There is a natural link between our responsibility approach and our core business areas, which are all based on offering improved solutions to such key development issues for society as sustainable energy supply, better healthcare and increasing urbanisation. Much of our CSR activities takes place at business unit level, but the overriding framework based on the policies in our Business Code of Conduct is developed centrally and adjusted to the needs of our individual business units. One of our major achievements of 2016 has been to fundamentally rework our ethics policy to establish a solid foundation for the different businesses. We see this as a natural part of our business heritage as well as a key prerequisite for creating and preserving long-term value for employees, customers, investors and other stakeholders. In 2016, we registered progress within a range of areas which we address as part of our CSR focus. We intend to continue this drive as an important element in our business strategy. We will do our part to spread these practices to our business partners to advance the competitiveness of the entire value chain and make sure that we jointly become the preferred choice to meet the challenges of tomorrow. Michael Hedegaard Lyng, Group Executive Director, NKT Holding NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 3 NKT Group review This report comprises the annual description of NKT’s progress in the Diversity sphere of corporate social responsibility. It constitutes the company’s NKT is firmly committed to equality of treatment for all Communication on Progress under the UN Global Compact as well employees regardless of gender, age or nationality. As part of as the statutory report arising from Article 99a (CSR) and Article 99b this commitment the constitution of and developments in (Diversity) of the Danish Financial Statements Act. the workforce are continuously monitored. Particularly where gender is concerned the industry has a track record of low female The NKT Group has established policies and rules which guide representation at the highest levels. The company has put into the activities of both the holding company and the business units place mechanisms to ensure that, whenever possible, more equal in pursuit of their respective ambitions and for purposes of legal gender representation is promoted without compromising on compliance. This first section outlines activities at Group level, while basic qualifications in terms of professional skills and personal the activities of the business units are described under the separate competencies. One of the actions taken during 2016 was to sections covering NKT Cables and NKT Photonics later in the report. educate via the Code of Conduct training the organization of the proper behavior to comply with these principles. Compliance framework A key initiative in 2016 was the strengthening of the NKT Group’s At Board level a target of 17% has been set for the proportion of overall compliance framework through the launch of a new the under-represented gender among AGM-elected members. Business Code of Conduct based on and replacing the former This target was achieved for 2016. business ethics policy. The Code describes the fundamental principles and rules governing how we conduct our business and how we conduct ourselves in relation to our vendors, business partners and the general public. The Code was communicated as part of an intensive information campaign that included CSR governance e-training, videos and brochures. In the NKT Group, the overall responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) lies with the Board of Directors, As one of the pillars of the enforcement system for proper business while the targets are set by the individual businesses. To conduct a whistleblower system has previously been established. ensure commitment, all targets must be as specific as In 2016 this system was extended to also include external possible and concrete actions to achieve them must be stakeholders. During 2016 no reports were filed which necessitated clearly defined. significant modifications to existing business procedures. Diversity in senior management 2016 Senior Man. Age profile Gender No. of nationalities Total <40 40-54 >54 Women Men (The predominant nationality in %) NKT Board of Directors* 6 0 2 4 1 5 2 (Danish 83%) NKT Management** 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 (Danish 100%) NKT Cables 42 7 34 1 3 39 8 (German 38%) Nilfisk 45 8 33 4 3 42 20 (Danish 49%) Photonics Group 10 1 7 2 1 9 3 (Danish 60%) Total 58 8 43 7 5 53 8 (Danish 41%) * Elected at the Annual General Meeting ** Also part of NKT Cables Management 4 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S NKT Cables “NKT Cables is a natural part of tomorrow’s sustainable power supply” Letter from the CEO In an increasingly globalised and interconnected world, much depends on electrical power. In 2016 we celebrated the 125th anniversary of the NKT brand and our enduring passion for developing state-ofthe-art power cable solutions. This heritage with all that it embraces in terms of experience, knowhow and innovation constitutes a solid foundation on which to strengthen our position as a natural part of tomorrow’s sustainable power supply. Our commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact is our basis for expanding the reach and awareness of corporate social responsibility throughout our company and among external stakeholders. We therefore also ask our major suppliers to adopt the UN Global Compact and we are happy to report a high and growing adherence. Similarly, several customers are asking for UN Global Compact compliance as a prerequisite for participating in tenders, e.g. in the offshore wind industry. In NKT Cables we aim at excellence in everything we do, as outlined in our EXCELLENCE 2020 business strategy. We are committed to demonstrating responsible and ethical behaviour with high focus on safety. As an active corporate citizen we embrace a principled approach to the way we conduct business around the world. In 2016 we updated our ethical guidelines to create a Business Code of Conduct to make sure that we are aligned with applicable requirements. Also in 2016, we continued to see progress in most of the defined focus areas for improving our sustainability footprint. Our continued participation in the UN Global Compact strengthens and energises our commitment to working ethically and responsibly while maintaining our business pledge of bringing power to life. Michael Hedegaard Lyng President and CEO, NKT Cables 6 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S 2016 KEY FIGURES COUNTRIES REPRESENTED IN EMPLOYEES REVENUE, EUR 16 2,769 1,004m NKT CABLES BUSINESS MODEL NKT Cables designs, manufactures and markets power cables for Our mission is by driving excellence to become the best power low-, mediumand high-voltage solutions. The company is the cable company by 2020 in the eyes of our customers and people. largest power cable manufacturer in Northern Europe and in the We aim to be the preferred choice of our customers and to top three across Europe. Founded in Denmark in 1891, NKT Cables create an excellent workplace where the best people build their is today a strong market presence with a state-of-the art highcareers and work with highly skilled colleagues. This ambition is voltage manufacturing facility in Cologne, Germany and a number supported by our values focused on safety, commitment, ability to of plants in other European countries. Altogether, the company is change and determination. represented in 16 countries and employs 2,769 people. In 2016, total revenue was EUR 1,0bn. NKT Cables has strong market positions across the portfolio High-voltage High-voltage Building wire, low/ Railway Accessories onshore offshore medium voltage Global leader in Global niche player High-quality supplier Acknowledge Leading player in catenary market with high-quality with uniqe products premium player the Nordics, strong with highly products and production in offshore wind position in Central innovative products capabilities market Europe NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 7 Compliance A global mindset based on sound values is key to our continued success. We are committed to responsible and ethical behaviour and have set up the appropriate systems to foster this in the way we conduct business around the world. In an increasingly complex regulatory environment, ensuring compliance is a fundamental challenge, and in 2016 we updated our compliance approach. The ambition is to identify and abide by applicable laws, regulations and international standards, meet stakeholder expectations and develop a strong compliance mindset throughout the organisation. BUSINESS CODE OF CONDUCT In 2016, as a key part of our compliance approach, a Business Code of Conduct was developed and implemented. This mechanism describes the fundamental principles and rules governing the way in which all employees should act, both within the company and in relation to our vendors, business partners and the general public. The principles set out in the Business Code of Conduct are designed to guide us, help us make the right decisions in internal and business-related actions, and protect us while we are at work. The Business Code of Conduct is about • Embodying the essence of how we do business • Adhering to our values and principles and striving to do the right things/making the right decisions • Providing a sense of direction and guidance • Setting standards of behaviour and never doing anything that could be misinterpreted • Considering how we do things, and how we can do them even better • Protecting our people, business and reputation The Business Code of Conduct focuses on the entire value chain how we conduct business in all parts of our organisation and includes policies within areas such as business integrity, anti-corruption, environment, energy & climate, fair competition, human & labour rights, information security, product compliance & quality, compliance handling and report misconduct. During 2016 an extensive communication and implementation package was developed and rolled out to the employees. The CEO explained in a video presentation the importance of correct business conduct and described what the Code means to the individual enterprise. Employees have confirmed their understanding of the Code and training was provided in the form of an e-Learning course culminating in a test. 8 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S CSR focus areas To ensure top-level commitment and local anchoring, the ANTI-CORRUPTION managements of all NKT Cables’ entities are obliged to sign a personal Statement of Representation based on the principles of the UN Global Compact. These individual statements are As a company, we are committed to refrain from and to consolidated and signed by the CEO of NKT Cables. oppose all forms of bribery and corruption. No employees may directly or indirectly offer, give or take money or anything Our policies, actions, goals and plans, reflecting relevant risks else of value in connection with business dealings in order to and mitigation thereof, are presented in the sections below obtain an improper advantage. for: the following topics: This is also stated in our anti-corruption policy which was been • Environment, energy & climate updated and implemented company-wide in 2016 through • Anti-corruption training and awareness activities. In line with our updated • Human & labour rights compliance approach our goals, actions and future plans have been reviewed and revised. The main risks in the NKT Cables business models are evaluated to be in the sales organization but the vast majority of our operations are in countries which are not part of the high-risk regions from a corruption point-of-view. Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Update anti-corruption policy and ensure implementation An updated anti-corruption policy covering relevant employees has been established as part of our new Business Code of Conduct. An extensive company-wide implementation programme has been conducted and employees have been trained in our overall anti-corruption approach Future plans, goals and actions Targets 2017 and beyond Develop and implement an extended anti-corruption All employees who are exposed to corruption risks to be further programme targeting high-risk business areas/employees trained and equipped to handle risk situations Minimise the risk of direct or indirect participation in Review and update our third-party compliance processes in corruption relation to anti-corruption NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 9 ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY & CLIMATE CO2 emission in 2016 Scope 3 other indirect Scope 1 direct emission from NKT Cables is committed to working for a sound environment, emission (transportation combustion of fossil fuels including energy and climate, through sustainable business of finished goods, business flights) 13% 14% practices. We will strive to reduce the consumption of resources and limit the emission of pollutants from our business activities. . To secure compliance and optimisation in line with our environmental policy all our production facilities operate to an ISO14001-certified environmental management system. In 74% Scope 2indirect addition, five locations have a certified energy management emission from electricity consumotion and direct system based on ISO 50001. Further development of the energy heating management system is planned for the years ahead. Improving our environmental impact NKT Cables makes a positive contribution to modern power investments and initiatives have had a good effect, especially in infrastructure, thereby enabling the shift towards a cleaner and ou plant in Falun, Sweden, but also the sites in Central Europe has more sustainable energy mix. This is a significant environmental seen a good trend. benefit. As with any industrial company, however, there are also negative environmental impacts associated with production and Copper is a natural but scarce resource, essential for today’s cable these must be continuously reduced. Identification of principal production. At NKT Cables the use of copper is optimised mainly material effects is carried out according to ISO 14001. through continuous improvement of production processes based on lean manufacturing principles. These initiatives have delivered NKT Cables strives to reduce CO2 emissions as a part of its significant improvements leading to a material utilisation factor of environmental policy. CO2 emission is a principal environmental 96.8% in 2016, outperforming the defined goal by 1%-points. Scope 3 impact area and primarily derives from electricity consumption Scope 2 in the production process and from the combustion of fuel for In 2017, focus will continue on further improvements in principal transport and heating. In 2016, reduced emissions were recorded environmental impact areas, namely CO2 emissions,Scope water1 primarily due to lower levels of factory activity consumption and material efficiency. Furthermore, to intensify our efforts to initiate and execute environmental efficiency projects Water consumption is another focal environmental factor. we will establish an Environmental Council consisting of key Water consumption in 2016 amounted to 93,722m3, a reduction people from the company. of 15% compared to the year before. The primary source of water consumption is the cooling system circuits. A number of 10 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Reduce natural gas consumption by 260 MWh (-1%) compared Total natural gas consumption increased by 7%, mainly as a result with 2015. of adverse winter weather. Reduce power consumption by 500 MWh (-0.4%) compared Total power consumption decreased by 0.5% mainly as a result of with 2015. local saving initiatives and lower production levels. Material utilisation reached 96.8%, an improvement of 1%-points. Increase material utilisation by 0.2%-points annually. Important drivers for this was the introduction of LEAN manufacturing techniques as well as waste reduction efforts. Future plans, goals and actions Targets 2017 Improve total energy efficiency in kWh/tonne by 2% compared 597kWh/tonne to 2016. Reduce water consumption by 2% compared to 2016. 91,847 m3 Increase material utilisation by 0.2%-points annually. 97% Establish an Environmental Council to accelerate efficiency efforts. Operational before 31 December THE NKT CABLES RECYCLING CENTER The NKT Cables recycling center in Stenlille, Denmark is unique Tonnes Tonnes in our industry. The facility each year processes tonnes of cables recycled recycled scrap emanating from our own factories as well as from our copper aluminium customers. Amounts have increased steadily over the years, reflecting society’s increased focus on re-use of scarce resources. 562,8 392,7 STENLILLE AT GLANCE Amounts in tonnes 2016 Total weight of processed cables 1615,2 Total weight of processed cables (from external 91,9 customers) Recycled copper 562,8 Recycled aluminium 392,7 Recycled PEX 187,0 Recycled PVC 84,3 Recycled Halogen-free-flame retardants 45,1 NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 11 HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS strengthen its leadership culture, with more focus on feedback and dialogue in daily management. A dedicated programme will A safe and healthy working environment is a top priority in our be launched in 2017. The next survey is scheduled for mid-2017. company. We respect the integrity of all employees and always strive to treat one another with respect and decency. We respect Reporting according to the UK Modern Slavery act data privacy regulations and ensure that employees receive As stated in our human & labour rights policy it is clear that we do adequate job training. not accept any form of forced labour, including bonded labour, indentured labour, slave labour, or human trafficking. Also we To live up to our policy, appropriate systems and structures have condone the hiring of child labour. been set up with improvement goals and actions in key areas as outlined below. In the NKT cables business model, one of the key Employees are committed to continuously identifying and mitigating risks to manage relates to our ambition of a high safety level. potential violations even though that due to the countries in which we mainly operate and the nature of our production the risk of Safety first forced labour and child labour is not considered material. One of our core values is ‘safety first’. We want our employees and contractors to return home safely. Around this principle we Business partners are expected to comply with the principles set continuously build robust management processes, combined out in our Business Code of Conduct and we conduct relevant with the introduction of uniform, high safety standards. In 2016, a due diligences processes in merger and acquisition processes. new programme, ‘HSE Regulatory Compliance’ was implemented. In 2016, we furthermore extended our whistleblower system to 84% 93% incorporate external stakeholders to increase the efforts to detect Just as important as the formal rules and standards is the any breach of proper business behaviour. nurturing of a safety culture characterised by high risk awareness and constant search for hazard elimination. A special programme Diversity has been set up for identification and elimination of hazards, NKT Cables is committed through its policies to promoting resulting in the removal of 9,649 unsafe situations and behaviours diversity, and firmly believes that an impartial approach in over a three-year period. Together with comprehensive efforts terms of age, gender, nationality and culture provides the best from management, this has improved workplace conditions and possibilities for developing competencies and talents in the the safety culture significantly company. In a traditionally male-dominated industry, the main area for improvement is to achieve a more balanced gender We have registered substantial progress in reducing work composition at all organisational levels. A key action in 2016 was accidents over recent years, but we plan to go even further with to communicate these principles clearly to the organization as view to becoming the best in our industry. Over a three-year part of our code of Conduct training. period, the number of accidents has declined 28%, including a decrease of 17% in 2016. Gender composition Furthermore, to optimise our HSE efforts the relevant organisation has been redesigned and the new setup is expected to be finalised 93% 89% 84% in 2017. The goal is for each site to have at least one specialist fully dedicated to the supervision and improvement of HSE processes. Engaged and committed people The performance of our employees is vital for our success 16% 11% 7% and is intimately linked to job satisfaction. As part of our EXCELLENCE 2020 strategy, a significant increase in job satisfaction All Department Executive managers management was therefore defined as a key target and an ambitious goal Female Male of reaching a trust index of more than 80% (above industry standards) was set. The last survey, conducted in 2016, showed an improvement from 38% in 2015 to 46% in the year under review. Our top management level consists of a total of 42 persons NKT Cables is currently focusing on development initiatives to comprising 8 nationalities. The age distribution is fairly even but the majority are within the 40-55 age group. 12 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S Gender composition Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Reduce the number of unsafe situations and behaviours by more than 2907 2,499 Improve frequency of Lost Time Accidents to < 5.8 accidents per million working hours 5.8 Reduce number of Lost Time Accidents to < 25 29 Reduce number of Accidents without work absence to <80 75 Annual increase in employee trust index towards > 80% by 2020 +8%-points Future plans, goals and actions Target 2017 + Reduce the number of unsafe situations and behaviours > 2,300 Reduce the Lost Time Accidents Rate by 30% compared with 2016 0,77* Reduce the Lost Time Accidents Severity rate by 9% compared with 2016 29 Annual improvement in employee trust index to > 80% by 2020 > 46% *corresponding to 4.3 accidents per million working hours NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 13 VENDORS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS WHISTLEBLOWER HOTLINE NKT Cables expects its major vendors and business partners In 2016 we expanded our whistleblower system to enable acting on behalf of or in co-operation with the company to unethical behavior also to be reported by external stakeholders. comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact. We also made our whistleblower hotline policy a part of the Business Code of Conduct, which among other initiatives, has The company regularly tracks the development in supplier been implemented via an eLearning course and awareness adherence and have seen an increase in acceptance of the UN campaigns supporting the opportunity out speak out.. Global Compact, to 90%. We will continue to work for further improvement through continuous dialogue with vendors and business partners. Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Increase number of suppliers (with procurement value > EUR 50,000) adopting the UN Global 90% Compact principles to more than 90% Future plans, goals and actions Target 2017+ Increase number of suppliers (with procurement value > EUR 50,000) adopting the UN Global 95% Compact principles. 14 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S NKT Photonics “We focus on our primary strength as an innovative, quality supplier within our core businesses” Letter from the CEO Products and solutions from NKT Photonics are integrated in a wide range of solutions including applications for better and more efficient use of energy resources such as oil and gas, new and improved equipment for early detection of diseases, and systems that deliver improved human safety and protect high-value assets. We operate in global businesses characterised by increasing focus on sustainability. The entire supply chain, from the suppliers of our product materials and components to the end-users of our customers’ solutions, is geared to delivering environment-friendlier products and to ensuring that these products are manufactured safely and responsibly. Our products are marketed and sold with a reputation for high quality and they rely upon significant investment and R&D. It is therefore crucially important for our company that the players in our industry compete on fair terms, and we will tolerate no form of bribery or other acts contributing to unfair competition. It is vital to our business that we can attract highly committed, top-qualified people and provide them with incentive to do their best. We therefore strive to offer a good, stimulating and challenging work environment with ongoing dialogue on both joband non job-related development, goals and performance. We believe that our strong focus on sustainability and our adherence to the principles of the UN Global Compact will support our business opportunities and at the same time contribute to improved living conditions for future generations. Basil Garabet President and CEO, NKT Photonics 16 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S 2016 KEY FIGURES COUNTRIES REPRESENTED IN EMPLOYEES REVENUE, EUR 6 237 43.2 BUSINESS MODEL NKT Photonics is a leading supplier of fiber lasers, photonic crystal worldwide sales and service operations the company employed fibers and distributed temperature systems (DTS). The market some 237 people at end-2016. consists of a broad spectrum of industries, including life sciences and energy. The company presides over a strong patent portfolio Our business model is based on developing and marketing and a high ratio of highly skilled specialists driving technology technology-intensive products in the photonics industry, thereby development and deployment in our field. enabling our customers to improve their offering and gain advantages in terms of energy efficiency, safety or operating costs. NKT Photonics is headquartered in Denmark and has additional We go to market directly as well as through partnerships with manufacturing sites in Germany and the UK. Including our OEM customers. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 17 Compliance We consider a global mindset to be the key to our success. BUSINESS CODE OF CONDUCT Responsible and ethical conduct is at the heart of all our actions, and as an active corporate citizen we embrace a value-based In 2016, in line with our updated Compliance Landscape, a approach to the way we do business around the world. Business Code of Conduct was developed and implemented. This medium describes the fundamental principles and rules Compliance is about behaviour governing the way in which all employees should act both within Developing and fostering relationships with stakeholders is the company and externally in relation to vendors, business integral to our business philosophy, and we intend to continue in partners and the general public. this direction by following the required compliance regulations. We are also experiencing increasing demands from stakeholders The principles set out in the Business Code of Conduct are who wish to ensure that we conduct our business ethically and designed to guide us, help us make the right decisions in internal responsibly. and business-related actions, and protect us while we are at work. Compliance Landscape The Business Code of Conduct is about In 2016, we approved an updated Compliance Landscape • Embodying the essence of how we do business covering the period 2016-2020. The purpose of this mechanism • Adhering to our values and principles and striving to do the is to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations, right things/making the right decisions international standards and stakeholder expectations. • Providing a sense of direction and guidance • Setting standards of behaviour and never doing anything The fundamental baseline is build on a Business Code of that could be misinterpreted Conduct applicable to all employees. Other specific compliance • Considering how we do things, and how we can do them programmes have been identified and will be developed and even better implemented in NKT Photonics in the years ahead. • Protecting our people, business and reputation Our vision is to establish a strong compliance mindset throughout The Business Code of Conduct focuses on the entire value chain the company by ensuring that all employees are properly trained. how we conduct business in all parts of our organisation and includes policies within areas such as business integrity, anticorruption, environment, energy & climate, fair competition, human & labour rights, information security, product compliance & quality, compliance handling and how to report misconduct. A narrow due diligence and risk assessment process has been conducted to ensure that the content and scope of the Business Code of Conduct Code are correct and relevant for our company. Training and awareness During the year an extensive communication and implementation package was developed and rolled out to the company’s employees. The CEO explained in a video presentation the importance of correct business conduct and described what the Business Code of Conduct means to NKT Photonics. Various awareness campaigns were held, and the Code was signed by the employees to indicate that it had been read and understood. Employee training was provided in the form of an e-Learning course culminating in a test. 18 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S CSR focus areas To ensure top-level commitment and local anchoring, the ANTI-CORRUPTION managements of all NKT Photonics’ entities are obliged to sign a personal Statement of Representation based on the principles Participating in corruption and bribery is contrary to our business of the UN Global Compact. These individual statements are values, and as a company we refrain from such activities. consolidated and signed by the CEO of NKT Photonics. No employees may directly or indirectly offer, give or accept Our policies, actions, goals and plans are presented in the sections money or anything else of value in connection with business below for the following topics: dealings in order to obtain an improper advantage. • Environment, energy & climate • Anti-corruption and bribery This is clearly stated in our anti-corruption policy which was • Human & labour rights implemented by company-wide awareness campaigns and training initiatives in 2016. Goals and actions 2016 Outcome Update anti-corruption policy and ensure implementation. An updated anti-corruption policy covering all employees has been established as part of our new Business Code of Conduct. An extensive company-wide implementation programme has been conducted and employees have been trained in our overall anti-corruption approach. Future Plans, goals and actions Targets 2017 and beyond Develop and implement an extended anti-corruption All employees exposed to corruption risks to be further trained programme targeting high-risk business areas/employees. and equipped to handle risk situations Minimise the risk of direct or indirect participation in corruption. Review and update our third-party compliance processes in relation to anti-corruption. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 19 ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY & CLIMATE We do not: • Tolerate discrimination or harassment based on race, As stated in our Environment, Energy & Climate Policy we colour, gender, language, religion, ethnicity, political or are committed to working for a sound environment through other opinions, caste, national or social origin, possessions, sustainable business practices and we will strive to reduce the birthplace, union affiliation, sexual orientation, health, age, consumption of resources. The policy has been implemented disability or other factors company-wide through awareness campaigns and training. • Accept any form of forced labour, including bonded, indentured and slave labour, or human trafficking Our product manufacture is associated with a modest • Condone the hiring of child labour. Persons aged between environmental footprint and use of relatively small amounts of raw 15 and 18 are allowed to work if permitted by local laws and materials. Almost all our products incorporate and use electrical if compulsory schooling has been completed. Young persons components and are manufactured in compliance with the must not undertake dangerous work that may jeopardise directive restricting the use of hazardous substances in electronic their physical or mental health, nor may they work at night. and electrical equipment (RoHS directive) and similar regulations. They must also be given the right training and instruction to perform the relevant job Our operations have very limited impact on the environment • Tolerate any other form of harassment. We must protect compared with conventional industry. Furthermore, our total energy workers from any acts of physical, verbal, sexual or consumption is determined more by our current product mix e.g. psychological harassment, abuse or threats in the workplace the ratio of high-power lasers to lower-power lasers than by the • Oppose the rights of employees to form, join or not join a energy-saving initiatives which we introduce. It is therefore difficult labour union or other organisation of their choice to establish relevant KPIs for meaningful and consistent, long-term measurement. Accordingly, no such KPIs have been introduced. In 2016 our policy on human & labour rights was fully implemented company-wide. HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Reporting according to the UK Modern Slavery act We greatly value all our employees and consider them key to our As stated in our Human & Labour Rights Policy it is clear that we success. do not accept any form of forced labour, including bonded labour, indentured labour, slave labour, or human trafficking. Also we A healthy, safe and secure working environment is fundamental to condone the hiring of child labour. our continuous growth. We therefore recognise that health, safety and security are an intrinsic part of everyday work routines. Employees are committed to continuously identifying and mitigating potential violations even though that due to the NKT Photonics perceives diversity in the workplace as a key asset. countries in which we mainly operate and the nature of our Among other things, we are firmly committed to providing equal production the risk of forced labour and child labour is not opportunity to all our employees. considered material. 20 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S Business partners are expected to comply with the principles set In 2016, we furthermore extended our whistleblower system to out in our Business Code of Conduct and we conduct relevant incorporate external stakeholders to increase the efforts to detect due diligences processes in merger and acquisition processes. any breach of proper business behaviour. Goals & and actions 2016 Outcome Zero accidents causing absences from work. One such incidental registered in period an employee stumbled on the stairs and, spraining an ankle. Zero eye injuries caused by work with high-intensity lights Zero eye injuries were detected. recorded to be detected at two-yearly eye tests. Global employee survey to be conducted annually. Global The 2016 survey has been deferred to 2017 to include the 2016 employee survey to be conducted every year annually. acquisition of Fianium and ensure immediate and thorough follow-up on any findings. Future plans, goals and actions Targets 2017+ Further improve employee safety Zero accidents Maintain high level of safety regarding eye accidents Zero eye injuries caused by work with high-intensity light to be detected at two-yearly eye tests Conduct employee survey including employees from newly Global employee survey to be conducted annually. acquired businesses Diversity reporting Gender composition We encourage diversity in our organisation and believe it enriches our corporate culture as well as our long-term competitiveness. However, we also have a strict policy of recruiting and promoting employees based solely on their capabilities and performance Female 18% and disregarding other factors. Our industry especially in R&D departments typically has a relatively high over-representation of males. Male 82% NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 21 VENDORS & BUSINESS PARTNERS WHISTLEBLOWER HOTLINE Our vendor and business partner landscape has changed In 2016 we expanded our whistleblower system to enable considerably from previously due to acquisitions and divestments, instances of unethical behavior also to be reported by external specifically the sale of Vytran in the US in 2015 and the acquisition of stakeholders. Our whistleblower hotline policy has also been Fianium in the UK in 2016. Progress on our procurement KPI and our made a part of our Business Code of Conduct. The Code of plan to inspect suppliers have therefore been disrupted somewhat, Conduct has been implemented by means of awareness cf. the accompanying table of goals and actions for 2016. campaigns and an e-Learning course. No reports were filed during the period that necessitated material adjustments in business procedures. Goals & actions 2016 Outcome 80% of our procurement (above EUR 50,000 in value) to Procurement was slightly below target at 76% due to disruption be supplied by partners who have adopted the UN Global by divestments and acquisitions during the year. Achievement Compact principles. of goal deferred to 2017. Develop plan to monitor by means of inspections the extent Deferred to 2017 as the intention is now also to include of supplier compliance. suppliers to Fianium. Formalised and documented risk assessment of business areas There is an annual formalised and documented risk and regions in which we are active, plus active follow-up on management process that includes the risk of violation of our employees, agents and distributors in high-risk areas. anti-corruption policy in high-risk areas. In addition, follow-up has been performed on employees, agents and distributors. All employees have undergone a documented training programme ending in an exam. Future Plans, goals and actions Targets 2017 and beyond Ensure that main vendors and business partners firmly and Develop plan to monitor by inspections the extent of explicitly commit to the principles set out in our Business Code of Conduct supplier compliance. Increase supplier commitment to UN Global compact principles 80% of our procurement (above EUR 50,000 in value) is to be supplied by partners who have adopted the UN Global Compact principles. 22 CSR Report 2016 NKT Holding A/S Reporting principles NKT deploys three key elements for monitoring progress on The reporting period for the CSR report has been aligned with the corporate social responsibility: Group’s financial reporting and now follows the calendar year. 1. Relevant Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been developed based on our policies, and corresponding data are Due to the intended split of NKT Holding, Nilfisk is issuing their collected. These data cover where applicable parameters own CSR report. Figures from Nilfisk have only been included in such as corruption, occupational injuries, CO2 emissions, the Diversity table on page 4. material utilisation, irregularities such as environmental spills and fines, and diversity development in senior management. Data integrity The business units are responsible for data collection and KPI While the majority of data are estimated to be sound, CO2 quality. emissions data for transport of goods is still subject to some 2. An annual Statement of Representation on Corporate Social uncertainty. Responsibility, signed by local managers in the business unit, certifying that they are familiar with and actively work to Calculation of our CO2 emissions from electricity and heat for 2016 advance the principles of the UN Global Compact. was based on the latest conversion factors from the International 3. A whistleblower system, maintained by an external Energy Agency’s report ”CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, provider, which allows all NKT employees as well as external 2016 edition”. These indicators reflect differences in the structure stakeholders to raise concerns about seemingly inappropriate of energy production in individual countries in which we operate. conduct, events or circumstances. Facility exists for reporting Emissions from mobile sources are based on data from the World in a number of languages. Resources Institute ”GHG Protocol for Mobile Combustion”. Reporting methodology Auditing The reporting parameters used in 2016 are largely unchanged The present report was not audited by an independent auditor. from previous reports. Identification and evaluation of environmental impacts have been based on relevant requirements such as ISO 14001. Statement of Representation NKT BOARD OF DIRECTORS NKT wishes to ensure that CSR is an integral element in the daily activities of all business units and entities. Each year, all entity managers (around 100) draft and sign a Statement of Representation detailing progress with compliance on all UN NKT GROUP EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Global Compact principles. Each Statement of Representation is submitted to the CEO of the CEO BUSINESS UNIT relevant business unit who signs a Statement of Representation on behalf of the unit as a whole. Ultimately, NKT’s Group Executive Director signs a Statement of Representation for the entire Group and the Board of Directors is informed of the ENTITY MANAGER conclusions. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2016 23 NKT Holding A/S Vibeholms Allé 25 DK-2605 Brøndby Tel. +45 4348 2000 nkt.holding@nkt.dk Photos: Carsten Andersen and courtesy of NKT subsidiaries. Copyright: NKT, February 2017
