ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 About This Report This Report includes data on the operational, economic, environmental and social performance of Eldorado Gold Corporation’s (“Eldorado” or “the Company”) three producing mines: Kişladağ, Efemçukuru and Stratoni. While we discuss construction and development projects in relevant sections of this Report, our performance data is focused on our producing assets. Data represents the full 2016 calendar year, and all costs are reported in US dollars unless otherwise noted. This Report has been prepared in accordance with the “Core” Performance information and data related to Eldorado’s previously Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) fourth-generation (G4) Sustainability owned Chinese operations have been excluded from this Report, Reporting Guidelines (www.globalreporting.org). Although we do unless otherwise noted. Where information has been included, data not externally verify the Sustainability Report, the content has been reflects 2016 performance up to the assets’ final date of sale. (1) prepared and reviewed internally. Where applicable, restatements of prior-year data has been highlighted throughout the Report. Restatements occur as a result of updated or more accurate data becoming available after the release of our previous Year in Review Report on April 21, 2016. TABLE OF CONTENTS OTHER IN-COUNTRY SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Eldorado Gold Our Greek subsidiary, Hellas Gold S.A., publishes an annual Eldorado Gold at a Glance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report (2) that is Where We Operate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 aligned with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Our Track Record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Our Turkish subsidiary, Tüprag Metal Madencilik Sanayive Year in Review Ticaret A.S., publishes a biannual magazine called Altin 2016 Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Sayfa (Golden Page). While not a sustainability report, Letter from Our President & CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 or aligned with sustainability reporting standards, the Our Performance and Targets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 magazine includes articles, case studies and news Our Business relevant to our Turkish mines’ social and environmental Creating Value Throughout the Mining Life Cycle . . . . . . . . . . . 15 performance during the period. Our Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Our Operations Our Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 We welcome feedback from all stakeholders regarding our Operating Mines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 sustainability reporting. Please direct comments or requests Construction Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 for further information to: Development Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Exploration Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 sustainability@eldoradogold.com Our Approach to Responsible Mining Guiding Principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 UN Sustainable Development Goals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Corporate Governance and Transparency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Material Topics Materiality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Our Economic and Operational Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 Keeping Our People Safe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Minimizing Our Environmental Footprint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 Strengthening Our Community Relations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Running Responsible Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Mineral Reserves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 Mineral Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71 GRI G4 “Core” Content Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 (1) September 6, 2016: Jinfeng mine is sold to China National Gold Cautionary Note about Forward-Looking Statements Group Corporation. November 22, 2016: White Mountain mine, and Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 Tanjianshan mine and Eastern Dragon Development project are sold to Yintai Resources Co. Ltd. Corporate Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 Glossary of Acronyms, Symbols and Abbreviations . . . . . . . 82 (2) www.hellas-gold.com/koinwnia/etairiki-eythini-2015/ ELDORADO GOLD Eldorado Gold at a Glance Eldorado Gold is one of Canada’s leading mid-tier gold mining companies, with shares trading on the Toronto (TSX: ELD) and New York (NYSE: EGO) stock exchanges. YEAR IN REVIEW Eldorado produced approximately 486,000 ounces of gold in KEY FACTS & FIGURES 2016 and had proven and probable gold reserves of approximately 19 million ounces at year end. Eldorado’s operations are global and the Company has assets in Turkey, Greece, Romania, Serbia and Brazil. Eldorado’s activities 4,871 OUR BUSINESS involve all facets of mining, including exploration, development, employees and contractors world-wide production and reclamation. Headquartered in Vancouver, the Company employs approximately 4,800 people world-wide. Eldorado operates as a decentralized 5 countries of operation business, with the majority of employees and management being nationals of the countries where operations and offices are located. Eldorado’s success is based on a low-cost strategy, a highly skilled and 3 operating mines OUR OPERATIONS dedicated workforce, safe and responsible operations, and long-term (Kişladağ, Efemçukuru and Stratoni) partnerships with the communities where we operate. Eldorado has a market capitalization of approximately $2.5 billion (1) and revenues of approximately $650 million per year. 2 construction projects (Olympias and Skouries) For more information on Eldorado Gold, our entities and our financial performance, please see our 2016 Annual Information Form on our website: www.eldoradogold.com/investors/financial3 development projects OUR APPROACH information/filings. (Tocantinzinho, Certej and Perama Hill) 486,025 oz of gold produced in 2016 19 Moz of gold reserves at year end MATERIAL TOPICS 24 years of global experience building and operating mines Hosting a mine tour at Kişladağ, Turkey. (1) As at December 30, 2016. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 1 Where We Operate Eldorado’s activities span eastern Europe, Turkey and Brazil. We focus on under-explored, highly prospective areas that offer the potential for long-term growth and access to high-quality assets. TURKEY RUSSIA Black Sea N GREECE EFEMÇUKURU MINE KIŞLADAĞ MINE ● Commodities: Gold ● Commodities: Gold ISTANBUL ● 2016 Production: ● 2016 Production: 211,161 oz Au 98,364 oz Au ANKARA Aegean Sea ● Ownership: 100% ● Ownership: 100% TURKEY IZMIR Kişladağ ● 2P Reserves: 5.27 Moz Au ● 2P Reserves: 931 Koz Au Efemçukuru Country Office: Ankara IRAQ SYRIA Mediterranean Sea GREECE BULGARIA MACEDONIA N Perama Hill ALEXANDROUPOLIS STRATONI MINE SKOURIES ALBANIA THESSALONIKI CONSTRUCTION PROJECT Stratoni Skouries ● Commodities: Olympias Silver, Lead, Zinc ● Commodities: Gold, Copper GREECE ● 2016 Production: ● Ownership: 95% TURKEY 48,394 tonnes of ● 2P Reserves: 3.79 Moz Au, Aegean Sea concentrate produced 776 Kt Cu ATHENS ● Ownership: 95% ● 2P Reserves: 960 Koz Ag, 11 Kt Pb, 17 Kt Zn OLYMPIAS PERAMA HILL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT PROJECT ● Commodities: ● Commodities: Gold, Silver Gold, Silver, Lead, Zinc ● Ownership: 100% ● Ownership: 95% ● 2P Reserves: 975 Koz Au, ● 2P Reserves: 4.07 Moz Au, 1.15 Moz Ag 66.3 Moz Ag, 693 Kt Pb, ● Currently on care 921 Kt Zn and maintenance Country Office: Athens 2 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW ROMANIA N UKRAINE HUNGARY MOLDOVA CERTEJ PROJECT ● Commodities: Gold, Silver OUR BUSINESS ● Ownership: 81% ● 2P Reserves: 2.4 Moz Au, ROMANIA Certej 15.56 Moz Ag TIMISOARA Country Office: Deva BUCHAREST SERBIA Black Sea BULGARIA OUR OPERATIONS BRAZIL COLUMBIA N OUR APPROACH Vila Nova TOCANTINZINHO PROJECT VILA NOVA MINE ● Commodities: Gold, Silver ● Commodities: Iron ore Tocantinzinho ● Ownership: 100% ● Ownership: 100% BRAZIL ● 2P Reserves: 1.82 Moz Au ● Currently on care PERU and maintenance Country Office: Belo Horizonte BOLIVIA BRASILIA Atlantic Ocean MATERIAL TOPICS PARAGUAY Pacific Ocean ARGENTINA URUGUAY 2P reserves as at December 31, 2016. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 3 Our Track Record Since the Company was founded in 1992, Eldorado has maintained its focus on building a sustainable, high-quality business in the mining sector. Notable milestones and highlights across the Company’s 24-year history are outlined below. 1992 1996 2001 • Eldorado Corporation Ltd • Acquired Gencor properties including • Kişladağ Mine Foundation is founded with a focus on 100% interest in both the Sao Bento gold mine established to support developing low-cost mines in Brazil and Efemçukuru gold project in Turkey community-related projects in Mexico • Eldorado Corporation Ltd becomes Eldorado • Early-stage exploration Gold Corporation identifies Efemçukuru’s 2002 • Eldorado Gold Corporation merges with HRC mineral potential Development Corporation to further increase • Potable water distribution • Acquired 70% interest in its exploration portfolio system developed for local La Colorada gold project villages near Kişladağ • Commericial production begins at La Trinidad in Mexico mine in Mexico • Eldorado lists on the TSX • Early-stage exploration identifies a gold 2004 anomaly at Kişladağ • Construction begins at Kişladağ 1998 • Mining ceases at La Trinidad; reclamation activity begins 2000 • Reclamation of La Trinidad complete 1994 • Sale of La Colorada and • Commercial production exit from Mexico begins at La Colorada mine in Mexico • Acquired remaining 30% interest in 1999 La Colorada mine to hold • Announced initial resource of 2 million 100% ownership ounces of gold at Kişladağ; Kişladağ becomes the largest known gold discovery in Turkey • Reduced cash operating costs at Sao 2003 1993 Bento by almost 50% since acquisition • Environmental Education • Acquired 51% interest in Center developed at La Trinidad gold project Sao Bento to showcase in Mexico 1997 diverse flora and fauna found in the area; • Acquired remaining 49% 76% of the mine footprint interest in La Trinidad mine is undisturbed forest to hold 100% ownership • Exploration drilling begins at Kişladağ 4 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD 2005 2014 • Entry into China through acquisition of Afcan • Acquired Glory Resources Mining Corporation (85% interest in the (100% interest in the Sapes project) partially constructed Tanjianshan project) • Acquired 84% interest in Vila Nova project YEAR IN REVIEW 2008 • Construction begins at Efemçukuru • Kişladağ throughput expanded from initial 2016 5 Mtpa to 10 Mtpa • Exit from China via asset sales • Acquired Frontier Pacific Mining Corporation (100% interest in the Perama Hill project) • Earned an interest in the Tocantinzinho gold project from Brazauro Resources Corporation OUR BUSINESS • Sale of Sao Bento mine to Anglogold Ashanti for $70 million 2010 • Began dividend payments • Commercial production begins at Vila Nova iron ore mine • Acquired remaining interest OUR OPERATIONS in the Tocantinzinho project to hold 100% ownership OUR APPROACH 2012 • Acquired European Goldfields Ltd (95% interest in Skouries, Olympias and Stratoni in Greece and 80.5% interest in Certej in Romania) 2009 • Acquired Sino Gold (82% interest in Jinfeng mine, 95% interest in White Mountain mine MATERIAL TOPICS and Eastern Dragon project) • Increased 2P gold reserves by 2017 95% to 15.1 million ounces • Commercial production at • Eldorado lists on the NYSE Olympias expected in H2 • Retirement of Paul Wright, 2007 President & CEO, after more than 20 years with Eldorado; • Commercial production George Burns assumes role of begins at Tanjianshan President & CEO on April 27 at the Company’s AGM 2006 • Commercial production begins at Kişladağ • Completed construction and commissioning at Tanjianshan; Eldorado 2011 becomes the first North American gold producer to construct and operate a gold • Commercial production mine in China begins at Efemçukuru • Kişladağ throughput is expanded from 10 Mtpa to 12.5 Mtpa ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 5 Year in Review Over the past 24 years, Eldorado Gold has built more than just mines. Our focus on building value for all those invested in us and our commitment to operating to the highest health, safety and environmental standards continues to drive our performance each year. Kişladağ open pit at dusk. 6 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD 2016 Highlights $842/oz $779/oz sold $900/oz $779/oz sold sold $842/oz sold sold $900/oz sold YEAR IN REVIEW 2014 2014 2015 2016 2015 2016 486,025 OZ OF GOLD PRODUCED YEAR-END PROVEN AND PROBABLE GOLD RESERVES OF Gold production was lower in 19.26 Moz 2016 compared to 2015 due OUR BUSINESS to the sale of our Chinese assets Proven and probable gold reserves 723,532 789,224 oz 789,224 oz 486,025 oz 486,025 oz oz 19.26 Moz 24.9 19.26 Moz 25.9 Moz 25.9 Moz were 22.6% lower in 2016 than in oz and slower than expected leach 723,532 Moz 24.9 Moz rates at Kişladağ. 2015, primarily due to the sale of the Chinese assets and a reduction 2014 2014 2015 2016 2015 2016 in reserve ounces at Kişladağ. 2014 2014 2015 2016 2015 2016 OUR OPERATIONS $900/oz ALL-IN ~$650 MILLION IN REVENUE SUSTAINING COST (AISC) Revenue was down 25% $779/oz sold $842/oz sold $900/oz sold Eldorado’s AISC rose by in 2016, mainly due to 7% year over year due to lower the sale of our Chinese $1.07 B $863.3 M $650.2 M ounce production against which operating assets. to attribute the fixed costs. 2014 2015 2016 OUR APPROACH 2014 2015 2016 0.93 LOST-TIME INJURY $1.1 BILLION OF LIQUIDITY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) At the end of 2016, we had Eldorado achieved a 10% annual $888.5 million in cash, cash reduction in Company-wide LTIFR. 789,224 24.9 Moz 19.26 Moz 0.93 LTIFR $876.3 oz 486,025 $1.1 B oz $650.2 M 723,532 $667.6oz equivalents and term deposits, This is the fifth year that Eldorado MATERIAL TOPICS M M 25.9 Moz 1.38 LTIFR 1.04 LTIFR and $250 million in undrawn has achieved an annual reduction lines of credit. in its LTIFR. 2014 2015 2016 15 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 7 Letter from Our President & CEO SUCCESSFULLY DELIVERING ON OUR COMMITMENTS SOLID FINANCIAL POSITION 2016 was a transitional year for Eldorado. We set out with specific targets Volatility remains in the gold price and we continue to believe that and goals – and we delivered. Including the discontinued operations, maintaining the financial flexibility to sustain and grow our business Eldorado finished the year with production of over 486,000 ounces of forms the basis of our capital spending decisions. We ended the year with gold, at industry-leading cash costs of approximately $579 per ounce. approximately $880 million in cash, cash equivalents and term deposits, Our cornerstone mines in Turkey again met internal targets and progress and $250 million in undrawn lines of credit. In response to our current gold continued at our Skouries and Olympias projects in Greece after a brief price outlook of $1,150 per ounce for 2017 and the capital requirements at suspension early in the year. We continued to advance our development our priority development projects in Greece, we revised our operating plan projects in Romania and Brazil. Our exploration team demonstrated success at Kişladağ in order to reduce sustaining capital requirements over the next in their early stage projects to further their goal of complementing our five years, while increasing free cash flow from the operation in the near internal growth pipeline. Our team successfully completed the sales of our and medium term. Chinese assets, a process that had been underway since late 2014. We remain prudent and disciplined in allocating our funds for growth. The Company’s commitment to remaining financially prudent has not wavered. We finished the year with over $1 billion in total liquidity and we A COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS have a project pipeline that will continue to grow the Company for many Like other mining companies, Eldorado operates in a complex and rapidly years to come. changing business environment. In addition to our commitment to the sustainability of our operations, we also recognize our responsibility to GROWING A REAL BUSINESS the communities and environments in which we operate. We finished Fundamental to Eldorado’s growth plan is finding and developing 2016 with no material environmental incidents and advanced one of the high-quality and long-lived assets to sustain our production base, largest environmental clean-up projects in Europe: the rehabilitation of the while delivering real and long-term value to our stakeholders. Olympias tailings area in Greece. Our in-country teams continue to work with the local communities to develop and implement long-term strategies Our two cornerstone mines, Kişladağ and Efemçukuru, have consistently to create value for our stakeholders. delivered year after year, on production and costs, and both assets have significant years of production still ahead of them. While the headline Our operational health and safety policies seek to eliminate any injury to risk in Turkey increased throughout 2016, we continue to operate in this our workforce. We audit compliance with these policies, both on a regular pragmatic country as we have since the late 1990s and we have had no basis and in the event of any accident or injury. We have seen a continued recent interruptions to our organization or operations. We continue to reduction in the frequency of lost-time injuries across our sites, but must explore and assess opportunities to extend our business interests in Turkey. only be satisfied when injuries are totally eliminated. The fatality at Stratoni early in 2016 was of great sadness and concern to the Company and While we have faced political challenges over the last few years in Greece, reinforces our resolve with respect to health and safety. we believe we are now in an improved position to further the constructive working relationship with the government in order to continue on time and on budget with Olympias Phase II, slated for commercial production mid-2017, and start-up at Skouries in 2019. Both Skouries and Olympias have mine lives in excess of 25 years, which will result in growth and development for the local and national economies, in addition to expected annual gold production of over 235,000 ounces and significant silver and base metal production once the mines are in full production. 8 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Paul Wright “The Company’s growth over the last two decades has President & CEO provided us with the opportunity to re-invest in our business to secure the future, discover new deposits, complete accretive acquisitions and expand our land positions. We will continue re-investing in growth YEAR IN REVIEW to create long-term stakeholder value.” We are working collaboratively with industry and peers to improve our OUTLOOK sustainability performance. We actively participate in several industry The Company’s growth over the last two decades has provided us OUR BUSINESS associations, such as the Mining Association of Canada, and apply worldwith the opportunity to re-invest in our business to secure the future, class standards including the International Cyanide Management Code, discover new deposits, complete accretive acquisitions and expand our the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard and other leading land positions. We will continue re-investing in growth to create longframeworks. In 2016, we became a signatory to the United Nations term stakeholder value. We are committed to managing Eldorado as Global Compact and we actively support its Ten Principles based on a responsible business with a value-based growth objective. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our record of past success has provided us with a solid foundation to Looking forward, we must continue to look for safer and more continue to create long-term value for our stakeholders for many years sustainable ways to operate. Our goals for 2017 include eliminating to come. It is this unrelenting focus that differentiates us in the industry. OUR OPERATIONS fatalities, achieving no reportable environmental incidents, improving the transparency of our payments made to governments and aligning In closing, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders, our practices to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. employees and Board for their support over the past 20 years. FUTURE LEADERSHIP After almost 20 years with Eldorado, I will retire as President & CEO at our Yours sincerely, Annual Shareholder Meeting on April 27, 2017. George Burns, a wellrespected and highly experienced industry veteran, will become Eldorado’s OUR APPROACH new President & CEO on that date. I remain a director nominee and, if elected, will assume the position of Vice Chairman of the Board. We also continued to strengthen the expertise of our Board of Directors by welcoming Dr. George Albino as a director in October, and look forward to his valuable contributions to the Board. Mr. Ross Cory is not Paul Wright standing for re-election and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank President & CEO him for his many years of service and dedication to the Company. MATERIAL TOPICS ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 9 Our Performance and Targets Eldorado sets annual goals to drive performance towards meeting the Company’s strategic, operational and sustainability objectives. The following highlights our progress against these goals in 2016 and sets out our goals for 2017. We will continue to review our targets moving forward with a strategic focus on advancing our long-term business performance. 2016 Performance ECONOMIC AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Achieved ✓ Partially achieved ♦ Not achieved ✗ Goal Why it is important Outcome Explanation Produce Gold ounces produced is a key indicator ✗ Gold production: 486,025 oz 565,000–630,000 of operational performance. Due to the sale of Eldorado’s Chinese assets, including three ounces of gold producing gold mines, the 2016 annual production target was not achieved. Deliver cash Cash operating costs reflect the direct cost ✓ Cash operating costs: $579 per ounce operating costs of of mining an ounce of gold and are an Average cash operating costs of $579 per ounce for 2016, $585–$620 per ounce indicator of operational efficiency. beating Eldorado’s target range. Maintain gold Gold reserves can provide an indication ✓ Gold reserves: 19.3 Moz reserves between of mine size and asset quality. Eldorado’s With 19.3 Moz of gold reserves, and gold production 20 and 25 times the mineral reserve and resource base supports in 2016 of 486,025 oz, Eldorado’s gold reserves were production rate our growth pipeline. maintained at over 39 times our production rate. Maintain a debt-toIndicates the proportion of our total ✓ Debt-to-capital ratio: 14.2% capital ratio of less capital that is debt. The higher the debtWith debt of $591.6 million versus total capital of than 30% to-capital ratio, the riskier the Company’s $4.2 billion, Eldorado maintained a debt-to-capital ratio financial health. of 14.2% as at December 31, 2016. 2016 Gold Production (1) 2016 Gold Reserves 13% 36% 9% 32% 486,025 oz 19 Moz 64% ■ Turkey ■ Turkey ■ Greece ■ Greece ■ China 46% ■ Brazil 1% ■ Romania (1) Numbers do not add up to 100% due to rounding. 10 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD HEALTH AND SAFETY Goal Why it is important Outcome Explanation Zero fatalities The health and safety of our workforce ✗ Fatalities: 1 is our highest priority and we strive In February 2016, we were sad to report the fatality of one YEAR IN REVIEW for a workplace free of hazards, risks of our underground team members at our Stratoni mine and accidents. in Greece. Achieve a minimum Provides a measure of our health and safety ♦ Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 10% year over year performance. The TRIFR and LTIFR show how Increased TRIFR to 5.47 from 4.86 improvement in the many events happened over a given period. Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Reportable Injury Reduced LTIFR to 0.93 from 1.04 Frequency Rate While we were pleased to achieve a 10% reduction OUR BUSINESS of lost-time injuries, we unfortunately saw a 12% increase in the Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate in 2016. Implement a Provides operations with a common ♦ Corporate safety directive Corporate Safety approach to achieving Eldorado’s vision of Introduced to sites Directive across all creating and sustaining an injury-free and In 2016 we finalized Eldorado’s Global Health & Safety regions healthy environment for our employees Directive and are now in the process of implementing and contractors. the Directive with safety teams. OUR OPERATIONS Improve performance The Mining Association of Canada’s ♦ TSM Safety and Health Protocol scores at sites against (MAC) Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) Improved site adherence at some sites MAC’s Safety and Safety and Health Protocol provides Activities in 2016 to improve site scores included: Health Protocol guidelines for robust safety and health management systems to establish • The roll-out of Eldorado’s updated Health and safe and healthy workplaces and drive Safety Policy performance improvement. External reviews of site Health and Safety OUR APPROACH • Management Systems • Providing fatality prevention, supervisor safety leadership and ground-control awareness training at our sites in Greece Conduct review for The Voluntary Principles on Security and ✓ Voluntary Principles alignment with the Human Rights (Voluntary Principles) are Completed gap assessment MATERIAL TOPICS Voluntary Principles; designed specifically for extractive sector We completed a preliminary review of the Voluntary implement plans to companies as a guide to maintaining the Principles and have identified a number of gaps to close any gaps safety and security of their operations within be addressed in 2017. Immediate priorities include an operating framework that encourages implementing a Global Grievance Mechanism, human respect for human rights. rights training, defined roles and accountabilities for private and public security, and training for security personnel in accordance with the Voluntary Principles. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 11 ENVIRONMENT Achieved ✓ Partially achieved ♦ Not achieved ✗ Goal Why it is important Outcome Explanation Have no reportable The number of fines and penalties Eldorado ✗ Fines and penalties: 1 environmental receives is an indication of our mines’ One fine in 2016. Our Kışladağ mine was issued a $10,000 incidents success and adherence to all legal permitting fine by the local Environmental Directorate due to washing and licensing requirements. activities at the secondary and tertiary crusher base area. Impacts were minimal but as a corrective action, the washing activity was stopped and drainage channels were covered. Continue ICMC Eldorado’s compliance to the International ✓ ICMC compliance at current Cyanide Management Code (ICMC) reflects Maintained compliance operating sites and our commitment to manage cyanide in a In May 2016, the Kışladağ gold mine successfully completed design new projects safe and responsible manner. re-certification under the ICMC. All new projects are being to standards designed to meet or exceed the ICMC standard. Increase availability Increasing the ways our stakeholders can ✓ Environmental data and transparency of monitor and measure mine performance is Increased availability and transparency environmental data an essential step towards building trust and Eldorado increased disclosures within the Carbon collected at sites mutual respect. Disclosure Project’s annual climate change and water reports. In Greece, we also developed a publicly available environmental monitoring program to 320 different data points at our Halkidiki assets. GOVERNANCE Goal Why it is important Outcome Explanation Review plans Reflects our commitment to creating a ♦ Employee Diversity Policy for an Employee workplace that is fair and inclusive, and Reviewed plans for an Employee Diversity Policy Diversity Policy better reflects the diversity of our employees, Eldorado plans to publish an Employee Diversity Policy in stakeholders and local communities. 2017 following review and approval by Company leadership and the Board of Directors. Become a signatory The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) ✓ UNGC to the UNGC encourages signatories to align strategies Became a signatory and operations with universal principles on In July 2016, Eldorado joined the UNGC. This Report human rights, labour, environment and antirepresents our first Communication on Progress of actions corruption, and take actions that advance to advance the UNGC’s principles and goals. societal goals. Develop reporting The Extractive Sector Transparency ✓ ESTMA systems compliant Measures Act (ESTMA) was passed in Developed compliant reporting systems with the ESTMA Canada on June 1, 2015 and requires In 2016, Eldorado’s Finance team made system and process guidelines businesses involved in the extractive changes needed to begin reporting payment disclosures in sector to file and publish reports that accordance with ESTMA. The 2016 financial year represents enhance the transparency of payments the first reporting period for which Eldorado is required to host governments. to disclose payments in accordance with ESTMA. Initial reporting under the act is due by May 31, 2017. 12 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD COMMUNITY Goal Why it is important Outcome Explanation Implement Grievance mechanisms serve as a key tool ♦ Formal site grievance mechanism formal grievance for developing feedback loops and providing Began implementation YEAR IN REVIEW mechanisms at sites a formal basis on which to be heard, for In 2016, Eldorado finalized a formal Company-wide that do not already people close to or affected by our mining grievance mechanism, comprising a global directive and have one activities. It helps Eldorado manage implementation guide for sites. Each of our sites and risks and foster a positive relationship projects are in the process of implementing the guidelines. with stakeholders. OUR BUSINESS 2017 Goals Area 2017 Goal Economic/ • Produce between 365,000 and 400,000 ounces of gold Operations • Deliver cash operating costs between $485–$535 per ounce OUR OPERATIONS • Maintain gold reserves between 20 and 25 times the production rate • Maintain a debt-to-capital ratio of less than 30% Health and safety • Zero fatalities • Achieve a minimum 10% year over year improvement in the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate • Achieve a minimum 5% year over year improvement in the Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate Environment • Have no reportable environmental incidents OUR APPROACH • Maintain adherence to the ICMC at all sites that use cyanide and design projects to ICMC standards upon start-up • Establish energy and greenhouse gas emission targets at operating sites Governance • Publish Eldorado’s first public report in accordance with the ESTMA by May 31, 2017 • Establish and implement a Global Security Directive, outlining the minimum expectations for security risk assessments, control measures and incident response in line with the Voluntary Principles MATERIAL TOPICS • Introduce human rights training for all employees and contractors who work at our sites • Conduct training for all armed security personnel in accordance with the Voluntary Principles Community • Complete implementation of Eldorado’s formal grievance mechanism at our operating mines and development projects, and publicly report on the number and type of grievances raised in 2017 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 13 Our Business We find, mine and produce gold and byproduct metals. At each stage of the mining process, we aim to create value for all of our stakeholders while operating responsibly. For Eldorado, this means finding and developing worldclass assets, growing our asset base, delivering cost savings, responsibly managing our impacts and building opportunities for those in our local communities. Olympias underground, Greece. 14 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Creating Value Throughout the Mining Life Cycle Below we describe each stage of the mining life cycle, the roles of our dedicated teams and the average timeframe for each phase. YEAR IN REVIEW ELDORADO’S CORE BUSINESS 1. INPUTS 2. EXPLORATION 3. EVALUATION 4. CONSTRUCTION 5. MINING AND 6. OUTPUTS 7. RECLAMATION AND PROCESSING AND CLOSURE Resources Turkey Skouries Gold OUR BUSINESS ● ● ● DEVELOPMENT and ● Greece ● Olympias ● Kişladağ ● Silver Vila Nova (1) Relationships ● Romania ● Certej ● Efemçukuru ● Lead ● Brazil ● Tocantinzinho ● Stratoni ● Zinc ● Serbia ● Perama Hill (1) 3–5 years 5+ years 3–5 years 20+ years 2–5 years OUR OPERATIONS Inputs Resources and relationships are critical inputs to the mining life cycle. Various teams manage these inputs, including: Operations, Exploration, Corporate Development, Administration & Legal, Human Resources, Engineering, Investor Relations and Finance. Effectively managing our resources and relationships can lower operating costs, reduce site disruptions, secure mine licences and permits, and accelerate Company growth and expansion. RESOURCES RELATIONSHIPS OUR APPROACH ● Employees ● Labour ● Local communities ● Contractors ● Unions ● Investors ● Capital ● Suppliers ● Industry associations ● Land ● Government ● Competitors ● Services and suppliers ● Public authorities ● Religious associations ● Plant and equipment ● Energy ● Water Exploration MATERIAL TOPICS Eldorado’s Exploration and Corporate companies to benefit from their local knowledge and 3–5 YEARS Development teams actively look for new potential experience. If results indicate a possible mineralized assets within our focus jurisdictions and in new deposit, we drill exploration holes to determine regions. They assess earlyand advanced-stage whether economically viable concentrations of metals exploration projects and conduct near-mine and may exist. Advanced-stage exploration projects will grassroots exploration programs with the primary goal include detailed drilling programs designed to define of adding value through discovery in order to increase resources and reserves, providing the basis for the our resources and reserves. evaluation and development stage. During exploration we initiate engagement with local communities to During grassroots exploration, our Exploration teams identify social and environmental concerns, and we visit prospective areas to conduct geological surveys consider these as part of the mine development plans. and sampling programs, often partnering with other (1) Perama Hill and Vila Nova are currently on care and maintenance. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 15 Evaluation and During the development stage, our Engineering, We also build upon our initial environmental baseline 5+ YEARS Technical Services and Metallurgy teams conduct studies and conduct extensive environmental testing Development feasibility studies to determine: to establish baseline data for air, water, soil and biodiversity. This information becomes part of the ● The optimal mining methods and mineral Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) that must be recovery processes for each project completed and approved by the relevant authorities ● The required infrastructure before a mine can be developed. Sustainability ● The best placement and design of facilities, criteria are built into the EIA, and through the based on thorough impact and mitigation environmental permitting process we engage and assessments consult with local communities, businesses and ● The required mine monitoring, closure and government to obtain input. This research and reclamation plans dialogue helps Eldorado develop innovative solutions for social and environmental challenges faced by our These studies give us a picture of the capital costs projects, including dust and air emissions, water and required for development and the longer-term energy use, noise and waste. economics of the project. We are then able to decide if a capital investment makes economic sense, in Infrastructure development initiatives – such as order to make a construction decision. improving roads, building sewage systems and drilling water wells – may also commence, according to project and local community needs. Construction Once the project EIA and other relevant permits are procurement everywhere we operate, and our aim 3–5 YEARS approved by relevant government authorities, and we is to hire locally as well as to train all employees and have received a positive decision to proceed from our contractors in the industry’s leading environmental, Board of Directors, our Capital Projects team can health and safety practices, procedures and controls. begin construction. Explicit requirements described in the EIA guide our activities and help us manage any Based on dialogue with local communities and social and environmental risks. businesses, we identify gaps in skills and capacity, provide on-the-job training and, where needed, This construction phase requires the greatest input support local technical schools and universities to of capital and resources over a project’s life cycle, enhance their mining-specific and trades programs and during this phase, we add significant value so that local residents and students can increase their to local economies through local job growth and prospects of employment with us. procurement. Eldorado is focused on local hiring and Mining and During production, our Operations team and site We add value during the production phase 20+ YEARS personnel are responsible for mining, extracting through a commitment to local employment Processing and processing ore from the mines. Any leftover and procurement, operational excellence, materials generated by our mining activities, which local investment and community engagement. typically include topsoil, waste rock and tailings, New equipment and technologies, continuous are either placed on site in engineered facilities for improvement projects, low accident rates, storage and treatment, or reused elsewhere on-site a commitment to environmental stewardship, as part of construction activities, rehabilitation or and effective controls and procedures all as underground backfill. Rigorous environmental combine to deliver productivity benefits. monitoring – to test air, water and soil quality, and Frequent consultation with local communities noise, blast vibration and dust levels – ensures we are and businesses helps us identify where we in compliance with environmental regulations and can create new opportunities for sustainable our operating licences and permits. economic development. 16 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 Outputs ELDORADO GOLD Our outputs are the products we produce, namely, More details on our products can be found gold, silver, lead and zinc. Our in-country Marketing on page 18. teams are responsible for finding downstream refineries and establishing long-term working relationships and purchase agreements. These YEAR IN REVIEW agreements outline the terms and conditions of payment for our products, and specify parameters and penalties for the quantity, quality and chemical composition of our doré and concentrate. Reclamation OUR BUSINESS Restoring the land so it is compatible with the Sometimes it is necessary to place a mine site 2–5 YEARS + ONGOING MANAGEMENT surrounding landscape is our responsibility and under care and maintenance, such as at our and Closure a priority for our communities. How we conduct Vila Nova mine. This means we temporarily close our rehabilitation in one jurisdiction impacts the mining operation so that we may recommence our welcome in another. Therefore, prior to and operations at a later date. This may occur when throughout a mine’s operation, our Operations economic conditions or resource prices make the OUR OPERATIONS teams develop and continuously enhance plans mine uneconomical to operate. Environmental for the mine’s future closure in order to: risks such as mine tailings and hazardous materials storage continue to be managed, while idle plant ● Protect public health and safety and machinery are maintained. All safety and ● Eliminate the potential for environmental conditions continue to apply during environmental damage care and maintenance. ● Return the land to its original condition or an acceptable and productive alternative Once a mine site is permanently closed, we conduct ● Provide for long-term social and further environmental monitoring and reclamation OUR APPROACH economic benefits activities, as required in our EIA and mine licences, so that the environment can successfully transition Whenever possible, remediation and reclamation to a productive ecosystem. begin during the mine’s operation. When areas are no longer needed for mining, they are reclaimed All of Eldorado’s mine closure plans address: in parallel with other work being carried out elsewhere. Topsoil removed from mining and ● Decommissioning: dismantling project construction areas is stored for later use in all infrastructure such as facilities and buildings reclamation activities. We also investigate different ● Reclamation: re-vegetating disturbed areas MATERIAL TOPICS plants, shrubs and tree species suitable for local ● Ongoing monitoring: long-term monitoring propagation in studies in on-site greenhouses. of environmental parameters ● Closure costs: regularly reviewing and updating closure plan costs and making financial provisions ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 17 Our Products Eldorado is committed to responsibly producing gold and other metals that offer a wide range of uses. Our operating cash flows are primarily from the sale of unrefined gold bullion bars (or doré) and gold, silver, lead and zinc concentrates. (1) Jewelry accounted for 47% of world gold demand in 9% World Gold Demand (2) Au 2016. Various technologies (electronics, industrial uses and dentistry) used 8%, investments (bars, coins, ETFs and similar ■ Jewelry ■ Technology 36% 47% products) accounted for 36%, and central bank and other ■ Investment institutions accounted for 9%. It can be readily sold on numerous ■C  entral bank markets world-wide, although benchmark prices are generally net purchases 8% based on London Bullion Market Association quotations. World Silver Demand (3) Silver has a wide variety of uses due to its malleability, reflectivity 19% Ag ■ Jewelry and lustre. It is commonly used in jewelry and silverware, and also ■ Coins & bars used in medical science, batteries, circuit boards, the glass industry 50% ■ Silverware and photography. Silver is also used to make mirrors, as it is the 25% ■ Industrial fabrication best known reflector of visible light. 6% The most common application of lead is in lead-acid batteries World Lead Demand (4) 10% Pb (e.g. car batteries), accounting for approximately 80% of world consumption. Although gasoline, soldering and plumbing no ■ Batteries – Starting Lighting Ignition (SLI) longer account for significant lead use, lead’s malleable, dense and 20% 40% ■ Batteries – Industrial anti-corrosive properties mean it is now often used to line tanks ■ Non-battery uses that store corrosive liquids and as a shield against Xand gamma■B  atteries – SLI original 30% equipment ray radiation. Other uses include the manufacture of paints and pigments and other chemical compounds. 4% Zinc is the fourth most widely consumed metal in the world, with World Zinc Demand (5) 6% Zn most production used in zinc galvanizing to prevent the rusting of iron and steel. Zinc is commonly used in alloys such as brass, 6% ■ Galvanizing ■ Zinc alloying nickel, silver and aluminum solder, materials used in automobiles, 17% 50% ■ Brass and bronze electrical components and household fixtures. It is also important ■ Z inc semi-manufactured products as a health supplement. 17% ■ Chemicals ■M  iscellaneous (1) Our Skouries project will also produce a copper concentrate once in production, expected in 2019. (2) www.gold.org/supply-and-demand/gold-demand-trends (3) World Silver Survey 2016, GFMS, Thomson Reuters/The Silver Institute. (4) www.lme.com/en-gb/metals/non-ferrous/lead/production-and-consumption (5) www.statista.com/statistics/240626/share-of-zinc-consumption-by-category 18 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Facts about Gold (1) ● Gold melts at 1064°C and boils at 2808°C ● One ounce of gold can be stretched to a wire length of ● It is more rare to find a one-ounce gold nugget than 80 kilometres; the resulting wire would be just five microns wide YEAR IN REVIEW a five-carat diamond ● The world’s oceans are estimated to hold up to 15,000 tonnes ● There are just over 31 g of gold in a troy ounce of gold ● All of the gold ever mined would fit into a crate ● The US Federal Reserve holds 6,700 tonnes of gold in of 21 m3 530,000 gold bars. At its peak in 1973, the Reserve stored more than 12,000 tonnes of monetary gold OUR BUSINESS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Our doré, which largely contains gold and silver, has no environmental or safety risks associated with handling or disposal, and requires no product Eldorado supports industry-wide efforts to steward the responsible service or labelling. As a result, other than for product transport and production of gold and precious metals, and we acknowledge that our security, we have not developed detailed protocols, procedures or public licence to operate includes demonstrating that our production takes labelling as it relates to product handling and responsibility. place in a manner that does not cause, support, or contribute towards, unlawful conflict, human rights abuses, or breaches of international Our concentrates, which can contain gold, silver, lead and zinc, are humanitarian law. As members of the World Gold Council (WGC) and OUR OPERATIONS transported by conveyor to a local port facility (e.g. Stratoni) or loaded the Mining Association of Canada (MAC), we are committed to operating onto enclosed trucks and transported to sea ports for export to foreign to leading social and environmental standards. Our operating mines smelters. Transportation of concentrate is subject to numerous risks, adhere to the: mainly related to theft and environmental liabilities in the event of a spill. All road and marine shipments of concentrate from Efemçukuru ● ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards and Stratoni are performed under ADR (formally, the European ● Conflict-Free Gold Standard Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods ● International Cyanide Management Code by Road) (2) and International Maritime Organization (IMO) regulations, using sub-contractors who are certified and trained to follow the OUR APPROACH PRODUCT HANDLING standard ADR and IMO procedures for emergency response addressing All Eldorado products are sold in bulk to downstream refineries for transportation and security. secondary treatment. We do not sell our products to the public and do not require packaging. At Kişladağ and Efemçukuru, doré is sold and transported to precious metals refineries to be further processed into pure (99.9%) metal. At Efemçukuru and Stratoni, metal concentrates are transported to offshore smelting facilities for further refinement. As 100% of Eldorado’s metal products are sold to downstream refineries MATERIAL TOPICS for further processing, we do not conduct recycling or reclamation of our products. Gold pour at Kişladağ, Turkey. (1) www.gold.org/history-and-facts/facts-about-gold (2) www.unece.org/trans/danger/publi/adr/adr_e.html ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 19 Our Operations Eldorado has a portfolio of high-quality assets in prospective jurisdictions, including Turkey, Greece, Brazil and Romania. The quality of these assets positions Eldorado as an industry leader when measuring our cash operating costs. Efemçukuru gold mine, Turkey. 20 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Our Assets YEAR IN REVIEW 3 operating mines Kişladağ, Efemçukuru and Stratoni Eldorado also holds 100% ownership of the following two assets: ● Vila Nova – an open-pit iron ore mine located in Amapá State Kişladağ Efemçukuru Stratoni in northern Brazil. It is currently on care and maintenance pending a recovery in iron ore prices. ● Sapes project – a high-grade epithermal gold deposit located OUR BUSINESS in northeastern Greece near Eldorado’s Perama Hill project. We are currently assessing the project and will determine the optimal project scope after further drilling. 2 projects in construction OUR OPERATIONS Skouries and Olympias Skouries Olympias OUR APPROACH 3 projects in evaluation and development Tocantinzinho, Certej and Perama Hill (1) MATERIAL TOPICS Tocantinzinho Certej Perama Hill (1) Perama Hill is currently on care and maintenance pending receipt of the EIA permit. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 21 Operating Mines KIŞLADAĞ Kişladağ is our flagship gold mine and the largest gold mine in Turkey. It is a low-grade, bulk-tonnage, open-pit operation that uses heap leaching for gold recovery. After leaching and recovery, doré produced at the site’s refinery is transported to Istanbul and sold to local refineries for further processing before being sold on the Istanbul Gold Exchange. 1997 2003 2005 2006 2013 2014 Identified deposit Received EIA Began Produced first doré Certified under the Poured two millionth and began in-depth construction International Cyanide ounce of gold exploration Management Code 2016 HIGHLIGHTS 2016 PERFORMANCE QUICK FACTS Gold production in 2016 was lower than anticipated 16,565,254 due to slower than expected leach rates from ore mined earlier in the year. While gold production Location Uşak Province, Turkey Tonnes to leach pad improved in the final quarter, leach pad inventory Deposit levels over the year increased by approximately 0.80 g/t 35,500 ounces. A reduction in leach pad inventory levels occurred during the fourth quarter due to Gold porphyry Ownership Average grade the installation of new leach trains. Cash operating 100% Eldorado costs were lower year over year as a result of the 211,161 oz higher head grade. Capital expenditures for the year included capitalized waste stripping, leach pad Mining/Processing Open-pit/Heap leach Gold produced construction and mine equipment overhauls, along with various process improvements. Life of mine 17 years, based on mining 211,284 oz 2016 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS of 13 Mtpa (1) Gold sold ● Reduced the number of lost-time and recordable Employees/Contractors injuries, including injury frequency rates 1,102 $474/oz ● Improved incident reporting and job safety analysis, increasing hazard awareness and Certifications Cash operating costs ISO 14001 certified employee disclosure of near-miss events OHSAS 18001 certified Completed the first “Large Scale Accident $488/oz ● Prevention Report” in accordance with Turkey’s International Cyanide Management Legislation on Reducing Major Industrial Accident Code certified Total cash costs Risks (BEKRA) (2) $263.2 M Gold revenues $39.8 M Sustaining capital expenditure (1) Based on current proven and probable reserves. (2) BEKRA puts the European Union’s Seveso Directive into force, aiming to prevent major accidents involving dangerous substances and limiting the consequence of any accidents on society and the environment. 22 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD EFEMÇUKURU YEAR IN REVIEW Efemçukuru is a high-grade underground gold operation located approximately 20 kilometres southwest of Izmir in western Turkey. It uses gravity circuits followed by flotation to produce a flotation concentrate and a gravity concentrate. A very small amount of doré is also produced annually, which is transported to Istanbul and sold to a local refinery. 1992 2005 2008 2011 2014 2016 OUR BUSINESS Deposit identified Received positive Started Produced first Increased mine Increased process EIA certificate construction concentrate throughput to throughput to of the mine 435 ktpa 472 ktpa 2016 HIGHLIGHTS OUR OPERATIONS QUICK FACTS 476,528 Location Izmir Province, Turkey Mining/Processing Underground/Flotation Employees/Contractors 766 Tonnes milled Deposit Life of mine Certifications 7.40 g/t Epithermal vein Ownership 12 years (1) ISO 14001 certified OHSAS 18001 certified Average grade 100% Eldorado OUR APPROACH 98,364 oz Gold produced 2016 PERFORMANCE 2016 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS 99,744 oz Efemçukuru met its planned production and cost Recertified under the Occupational Health and ● guidance in 2016. Gold production was consistent Safety (OHSAS 18001) and Environmental Gold sold year over year as higher milled tonnes and recoveries (ISO 14001) management system standards compensated for lower average treated head MATERIAL TOPICS ● No major environmental incidents or grade. Lower cash operating costs were the result $514/oz of continued cost-reduction initiatives. Capital expenditures included costs related to underground ● non-compliances Completed the first “Large Scale Accident Cash operating costs development, the Kestane Beleni exploration drift and Prevention Report” in accordance with BEKRA the tailings dam expansion. $530/oz Total cash costs $125.4 M Gold revenues $23.5 M Sustaining capital expenditure (1) Based on current proven and probable reserves. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 23 STRATONI Stratoni is an underground, silver-lead-zinc mine located in the Halkidiki Peninsula in northern Greece. It uses a multi-stage flotation process to extract a lead-silver concentrate and a zinc concentrate, which is then shipped from the Stratoni and Thessaloniki ports and sold to overseas refineries. 1996 2003 2004 2005 2011 2012 TVX Gold TVX Gold Operation passed to EGU restarted Received EIA Eldorado acquired purchased Stratoni closed Stratoni Greek State and then to operations at Stratoni Stratoni via EGU European Goldfields (EGU) 2016 HIGHLIGHTS 2016 PERFORMANCE 2016 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS Concentrate tonnes produced at Stratoni were Obtained Road Traffic Safety (ISO 39001) 184,963 t ● 20% higher year over year due to increased mill and Energy (ISO 50001) management Ore processed throughput and higher zinc grade. Improved lead system certifications and zinc prices resulted in a higher average realized ● Finalized and published an online environmental price for concentrate and improved profitability year monitoring database 6.1% over year. Sustaining capital expenditures for the year included new mine mobile equipment and upgrades ● Successfully transitioned to a 24/7 operation, Lead grade improving efficiency and production rates to the processing plant, water treatment circuit and the analytical laboratory. 10.2% Zinc grade QUICK FACTS Location Mining/Processing Certifications 48,394 t Halkidiki Peninsula, Greece Underground/Flotation ISO 14001 certified Concentrate produced Deposit Life of mine ISO 39001 certified Silver-lead-zinc carbonate A little more than 1 year (1) ISO 50001 certified 42,655 t replacement OHSAS 18001 certified Employees/Contractors Ownership 629 Concentrate sold 95% Eldorado, 5% Aktor $804/t (1) The Mavres Petres mine currently has a life of approximately 18 months based on the known proven and probable reserves. Geological potential exists to extend the mine life at Mavres Petres by delineation of additional resources. In 2016, the Company initiated a three-year mine development and Cash operating costs drilling program for this purpose at an anticipated total cost of $25 million. $40.6 M Concentrate revenues $3.2 M Sustaining capital expenditure 24 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Construction Projects OLYMPIAS YEAR IN REVIEW Olympias is a pre-existing gold-silver-lead-zinc mine located in the Halkidiki Peninsula in northern Greece. It has very high gold grades and an ore body that will allow for underground mining rates of up to 1 million tonnes per annum. 2011 2012 2013 2015 2016 2017 Q1 OUR BUSINESS EIA received for Acquired from EGU Began Phase I Began Phase I Completed Phase I Planned Phase II Kassandra Mines retreatment development retreatment commissioning OUR OPERATIONS QUICK FACTS Location Mining/Processing Certifications Halkidiki Peninsula, Greece Underground/Flotation ISO 14001 certified Deposit Life of mine ISO 39001 certified Gold-silver-lead-zinc 25+ years (1) ISO 50001 certified carbonate replacement Employees/Contractors OHSAS 18001 certified OUR APPROACH Ownership 1,235 95% Eldorado, 5% Aktor (1) Based on current proven and probable reserves and dependent on timing of conversion from Phase II to Phase III. DEVELOPMENT APPROACH Phase III (~2022 onwards) Eldorado is developing Olympias in three phases. Commissioning Phase III involves a production ramp-up to an estimated 170,000 payable of Phase II is targeted for Q1 2017. ounces of gold per year plus significant byproduct credits. Designs are MATERIAL TOPICS currently under development with engineering ongoing for a new mill site Phase I (2013–2016) in the adjacent Stratoni Valley. Phase I was an environmental clean-up of previously mined tailings and included the refurbishment of the processing plant and underground 2016 REVIEW mine. Tailings retreatment began in 2012, produced approximately Underground mine development and access rehabilitation continued 20,000 ounces of gold per year, and is now complete. Environmental at Olympias in 2016 in readiness for commencement of underground reclamation of the old Olympias tailings management facility is ongoing. ore production and mill commissioning in the first quarter of 2017. Phase II (2017–2022) 3,680 metres of development and rehabilitation was completed during the year together with 21,400 metres of orebody definition drilling. Phase II involves processing ore from the underground through a refurbished mill using a flotation process to produce three concentrates: Construction of the initial stage of the new Kokkinolakas tailings lead-silver, zinc and gold-bearing pyrite-arsenopyrite. Phase II production management facility (TMF) advanced substantially and commercial is estimated to be approximately 85,000 payable ounces of gold per year production is expected in the second half of 2017. plus approximately 14,000 tonnes of lead, 1.2 million ounces of silver and 14,000 tonnes of zinc. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 25 SKOURIES Skouries is a high-grade gold-copper porphyry deposit located in the Halkidiki Peninsula in northern Greece. It will operate as an open-pit and underground mine for about nine years, followed by approximately 15 years of underground mining. 2016 Conducted ongoing 2006 2011 2012 2013 2015 prefeasibility, feasibility 2019 and basic engineering EGU prepared Received Eldorado Began Began prefeasibility studies of underground Production feasibility positive acquires Skouries construction study of mine, tailings facilities target study EIA certificate via EGU underground mine and LOM mining options QUICK FACTS Location Mining/Processing Certifications Halkidiki Peninsula, Greece Open-pit and underground/ ISO 14001 certified Gravity circuit and flotation Deposit ISO 39001 certified Gold-copper porphyry Life of mine ISO 50001 certified 24 years (1) Ownership OHSAS 18001 certified 95% Eldorado, 5% Aktor Employees/Contractors 334 DEVELOPMENT APPROACH 2016 REVIEW Eldorado plans to develop Skouries in two phases. Development activities were suspended at Skouries in early 2016 due to delays in the issuance of routine permits and licences by the Greek Phase I (2019–2027) permitting authorities. The project remained on care and maintenance Phase I will be a combination of open-pit and underground mining over until early June, when construction teams were remobilized following a nine-year period, producing an expected total of 1.4 million ounces of approval of the site’s updated Technical Study. Activities such as earthworks, gold and 620 million pounds of copper at average cash operating costs of completion of building foundations, and enabling works for the tailings -$255 per ounce of gold due to copper byproduct credits. (2) Development management facility were prioritized to take advantage of the summer capital for Phase I is budgeted at $710 million. weather, and basic engineering is now underway to design a filtered tailings plant. Following internal reviews and engineering studies, a decision was Phase II (2028–2042) made to convert waste management at Skouries from thickened tailings Phase II will involve underground mining for a 15-year period to industry best-practice filtered tailings, which will ultimately reduce the once Phase I is complete. Total production during this phase is expected surface footprint and mine reclamation costs at closure. to be 1.7 million ounces of gold and 850 million pounds of copper at average cash operating costs of $165 per ounce of gold due to copper byproduct credits. (2) Development capital during Phase II is budgeted at approximately $460 million. (1) Based on current proven and probable reserves. (2) Assuming a $6,000/tonne copper price. 26 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 Development Projects ELDORADO GOLD TOCANTINZINHO YEAR IN REVIEW QUICK FACTS Tocantinzinho is a non-refractory intrusion-related gold deposit located in the prolific Tapajós region of Pará State in northern Brazil. Ownership Life of mine 100% Eldorado 10 years (1) 2016 REVIEW Mining/Processing Employees/Contractors Eldorado applied for installation licences for the site, road and power line and Open-pit/Flotation CIP 55 initiated basic engineering for Tocantinzinho during 2016. Contingent upon completion of permitting and Board approval, construction will commence. OUR BUSINESS Currently, total development capital costs are estimated at $441 million. 2008 2010 2012 2015 Formed option Acquired Approval of Positive Feasibility agreement Tocantinzinho preliminary EIA Study project OUR OPERATIONS OUR APPROACH CERTEJ QUICK FACTS Certej is an epithermal gold-silver project located in the Apuseni Mountains of Transylvania in western Romania. The deposit extends from surface and Ownership Mining/Processing will operate as an open-pit mine. 80.5% Eldorado, 19.25% Open-pit/Flotation, Minvest S.A., 0.25% oxidation, CIL 2016 REVIEW minority shareholder Life of mine MATERIAL TOPICS Engineering work continued during 2016 on metallurgical testwork 15 years (1) and trade-off studies with a focus on further optimizations to improve the project and increase the level of engineering confidence. Employees/Contractors 321 2000 2012 2013 2014 2015 EGU acquired stake Acquired project 10% increase in Updated Positive Feasibility via EGU gold resources Technical Report Study (1) Based on current proven and probable reserves. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 27 PERAMA HILL QUICK FACTS Perama Hill is an epithermal gold-silver deposit located in the Thrace region of northern Greece. Ownership Life of mine 100% Eldorado 8 years (1) 2016 REVIEW Mining/Processing Employees/Contractors Perama Hill was placed on care and maintenance in 2016 pending receipt Open-pit/Whole ore CIL 13 (2) of the project’s EIA permit. Our focus in 2017 is to maintain community relations and work closely with regional stakeholders to grow local support, continue maintenance of the site’s geology facilities, and to update the capital and operating cost base. 1995 2008 2012 2013 2016 Deposit identified Acquired Perama Hill Received approval of Submitted EIA Put on care and via Frontier Pacific preliminary EIA maintenance Tocantinzinho, Certej, Perama Hill, Brazil Romania Greece (1) Based on current proven and probable reserves. (2) Includes Perama Hill and Sapes. 28 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Exploration Highlights 51,000 m $35 M 80,000 m 16 projects YEAR IN REVIEW drilled by Eldorado in 2016 exploration budget in 2017 planned drilling for 2017 drilled in 2016 We invested a total of $26.2 million on exploration programs in 2016. Exploration drilling totalled 51,000 metres and was conducted at 16 projects including early-stage, brownfields and in-mine programs in Turkey, China, Brazil, Greece, Romania and Serbia. OUR BUSINESS TURKEY ROMANIA At Efemçukuru, surface drilling programs tested extensions to previously In Romania, drilling was conducted at the Brad, Sacaramb, Certej North defined mineralized zones within the Kokarpinar vein system. Greenfields and Bolcana projects. At Sacaramb, drillholes targeted along-strike reconnaissance exploration programs evaluated grassroots targets in extensions of historically mined high-grade vein systems. Two drillholes OUR OPERATIONS the eastern Pontide belt and associated with Cenozoic volcanic centres tested deeper levels of the Bolcana porphyry system, and porphyry and in western Turkey. epithermal targets peripheral to the Bolcana system were tested on the adjacent Certej North licence. CHINA SERBIA Prior to the close of the transactions, exploration drilling was conducted from underground platforms at White Mountain, testing extensions to the In Serbia, the Company completed the acquisition of the KMC project North and Far North Zones. Surface drilling programs were completed on from Euromax Resources Ltd. and acquired five new early-stage licences. OUR APPROACH the Xiaoshiren licence and the White Mountain licence. At Tanjianshan, Drilling at KMC tested the Copper Canyon, Gravina and Shanac areas. exploration drilling was limited to testing step-out targets at the Xijingou A large gold-rich magnetite skarn system was identified at Shanac, and deposit and at the Dushugou, Qingshan and Qinlongshan occurrences. will be further drilled in 2017. BRAZIL In Brazil, option agreements were signed for the large Borborema and MATERIAL TOPICS Nazareno licence areas. Mapping and geochemical sampling programs were conducted on both of these licence areas as well as at the Mara Rosa project. An initial drilling program was completed on the Vulture target at Borborema. GREECE Exploration in Greece included drilling programs at the Fisoka porphyry target and at the Rian prospect near the Skouries deposit. At Mavres Petres, an exploration crosscut was driven into the hangingwall of the Stratoni Fault, enabling systematic underground exploration and definition drilling of the untested down-dip and along-strike extensions to the orebody beginning in early 2017. Drilling at Efemçukuru, Turkey. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 29 Our Approach to Responsible Mining For Eldorado, operating responsibly means protecting the environment, providing safe workplaces for our people, maintaining good relationships with our stakeholders and investing in infrastructure, economic development, health and education in the communities where we operate. From exploration to reclamation, we anticipate our impacts and monitor our progress in order to achieve the high standards we have set for ourselves. We practise this commitment to excellence everywhere we do business. Plant nursery at Olympias, Greece. 30 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Guiding Principles Our guiding principles underpin all that we do: YEAR IN REVIEW Operate Safely Enrich Lives People come first. We We aim to create real, lasting implement industry best practices, and tangible benefits for the adhere to all safety regulations and people whose lives our have strict management systems operations touch. in place to promote a culture of safety wherever we operate. Behave Act with Integrity Engage Openly Responsibly OUR BUSINESS We are committed to being We believe that clear, We strive to demonstrate that honest, straightforward comprehensive disclosure, mining can be done responsibly. and accountable in all our high standards of corporate We do this by emphasizing business practices. governance and ethical environmental stewardship business practices are the at every stage of the only ways to do business. project life cycle. OUR OPERATIONS OUR GUIDING FRAMEWORKS AND COMMITMENTS To support our internal policies and strict controls on ethical conduct, Many of these frameworks have been developed in consultation with health and safety, and environmental and social responsibility, we non-governmental organizations, academics, regulators and other participate in several industry associations and global initiatives that stakeholder groups, and provide a means to verify, measure and establish standards and guidelines for best practices in these areas. report on our performance. These include: OUR APPROACH CERTIFICATIONS, STANDARDS, AND COMMITMENTS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS We report under the: We are members of: ● Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Climate Change Report ● European Association of Mining Industries, Metal Ores & Industrial Minerals (Euromines) ● CDP’s Water Report ● International Cyanide Management Institute ● GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ● Mining Association of Canada MATERIAL TOPICS We are certified to the: ● Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada ● International Cyanide Management Code ● World Gold Council ● ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Standard ● ISO 50001 Energy Management System Standard (1) ● WGC’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard ● OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Standard We are guided by the: ● Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights ● United Nations Global Compact ● United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ● MAC’s Towards Sustainable Mining program (1) Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries mines only. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 31 SPOTLIGHT: TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE MINING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS In late 2015, Eldorado began the process of aligning In July 2016, Eldorado joined the UNGC. This Report represents our first operations with the Mining Association of Canada’s Communication on Progress of actions we have taken to advance the UNGC Ten Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) program. This Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. is a voluntary initiative, as the programs and practices prescribed by TSM can strengthen existing practices and Please see the GRI Content Index on page 72 for details of how this Report speaks enable us to demonstrate leadership by: to our progress towards each of the UNGC Ten Principles. • Engaging with communities • Driving world-leading environmental practices • Committing to the safety and health of employees and surrounding communities We initially identified four of the TSM Assessment Protocols to prioritize for implementation: Reclamation in action at Kişladağ, Turkey. • Tailings Management • Community Outreach • Safety and Health • Crisis Management and Communications Planning Site reviews found that our existing practices already reflect many of the guidelines suggested by TSM. In 2016, we strengthened our commitment to TSM and set new targets to advance each of our site’s performance scores against all six of the TSM Protocols. Site gap assessments will be conducted in early 2017 to set a baseline for measuring performance, and by year end each site will be required to demonstrate what actions were completed to further improve TSM scores against each Protocol. Our development projects are also incorporating the TSM Assessment Protocols into their management programs. 32 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD UN Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the UN member states adopted a set of Sustainable less-developed areas. Yet each of our sites creates jobs, spurs innovation Development Goals (SDGs), representing a plan of action for equitable, and provides investment and infrastructure over mine lives that can socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable economic development. continue well over 20 years. The SDGs were designed to provide a common framework for navigating YEAR IN REVIEW the most urgent economic, social and environmental challenges of our Below we have mapped Eldorado’s priorities for achieving the SDGs, generation, including the respective roles for government and industry which are aligned with the feedback obtained during our materiality in achieving sustainable development. analysis (see page 37), the social, environmental and economic impacts our stakeholders are interested in, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s The mining industry, including Eldorado, has the opportunity and SDG Selector tool. (1) potential to positively contribute to all 17 of the SDGs. Our projects and sites are located across a variety of remote, ecologically sensitive and OUR BUSINESS SDG #3 – GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. SDG RELEVANCE ELDORADO’S ACTIVITIES TO ADDRESS THIS GOAL ● There are significant occupational health and ● Promoting a strong, Company-wide ● Offering healthy canteen food options safety risks associated with mining workplace health and safety culture and following good hygiene protocols OUR OPERATIONS ● Mining can occur in remote locations with limited ● Certifying Occupational Health and ● Conducting regular occupational health access to healthcare Safety Management Systems at all sites and safety training for all site employees to drive safety performance ● Mining can take place in areas exposed to tropical ● Conducting regular employee testing disease (e.g. Zika virus or malaria) ● Certifying Environmental Management for drug and alcohol use at all sites Systems at all sites to prevent harmful ● The mining workforce can be exposed to various ● Continuing support and investment discharges or emissions hazards, illnesses or diseases as a result of in community health programs employment in this sector, such as respiratory ● Continuing our focus on road safety and infrastructure disease from air pollutants, carpal tunnel both in and around our sites OUR APPROACH syndrome and noise-induced hearing loss ● Conducting annual physical examinations and employee health check-ups at sites SDG #6 – CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. MATERIAL TOPICS SDG RELEVANCE ELDORADO’S ACTIVITIES TO ADDRESS THIS GOAL ● Mining is a significant user of water ● Recycling water at all sites ● Publicly disclosing annual water reporting (e.g. the CDP’s Water ● Mining can help bring clean water to ● Treating all contact water prior Questionnaire) remote areas to discharge ● Publishing Eldorado’s Environmental ● Conducting research and engineering Policy, which sets out a commitment projects to improve water efficiency and to reduce water use, recycle and reduce water consumption reuse water wherever possible, and to ● Conducting comprehensive monitoring discharge water in accordance with of water sources (upstream and water quality standards downstream) at all sites ● Collaborating with community and government representatives to monitor water at sites (1) The SDG Selector tool summarizes which SDGs are relevant to a business based on their industry, country or theme (People, Prosperity, Planet, Peace, Partnership). The tool is based on business leader responses to which SDGs they thought their business had an impact on, and which might be an opportunity going forward. Country SDG selection is based on PwC’s Global Business Navigator tool, taking over 200 data sources to score a country’s performance against each SDG target. For more details: https://dm.pwc.com/SDGSelector. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 33 SDG #8 – DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all. SDG RELEVANCE ELDORADO’S ACTIVITIES TO ADDRESS THIS GOAL ● Mining generates direct employment for ● Providing well-paying local employment ● Training and supporting local businesses employees and contractors for our communities and partners to build capacity and help them obtain the permits, licences or additional skills ● Local procurement takes place throughout the ● Identifying and working with needed to work with our sites mining life cycle, which offers the potential for local suppliers significant economic multipliers ● Collaborating with local chambers of commerce to drive economic growth in ● Mining can help to create new businesses other sectors and partnerships to improve local supply capacity, and help strengthen and diversify local economies SDG #9 – INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation. SDG RELEVANCE ELDORADO’S ACTIVITIES TO ADDRESS THIS GOAL ● Mining requires transport, water, energy, ● Prioritizing local procurement and and information and communication training of suppliers to upgrade technology infrastructure expertise, capacity and the quality of services offered ● Through investment in local infrastructure development, mining regularly can be a ● Co-funding and investing in significant source of capital investment for local infrastructure and shared local society municipal services ● Mining can also contribute to innovation ● Collaborating and creating partnerships through research and development, and with local businesses and universities to through local procurement promote research and development SDG #13 – CLIMATE ACTION Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. SDG RELEVANCE ELDORADO’S ACTIVITIES TO ADDRESS THIS GOAL ● Mining companies can help by reducing their ● Undertaking energy-efficiency projects ● Implementing Crisis Management carbon footprint to reduce emissions Plans in accordance with the Towards Sustainable Mining program, to improve ● Companies can work collaboratively with ● Measuring and reporting direct our response to emergency situations stakeholders to enhance abilities to adapt to (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) such as fires or floods climate change and integrate measures into greenhouse gas emissions policies and strategies ● Through our membership in the Mining Association of Canada, publicly supporting carbon pricing 34 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Corporate Governance and Transparency Central to Eldorado’s record as a trusted operator is a commitment to ethical business practices and high standards of corporate governance. We recognize the importance of having an integrated approach to managing our operations, risks and relationships. YEAR IN REVIEW BOARD OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY Governance at Eldorado is headed by our Board of Directors. The Board of Our governance systems are designed so that we consistently evaluate Directors’ terms of reference explicitly require the Chairman of our Board and effectively manage our risks; this, in turn, helps us stay focused on and all members of our Board committees to be independent. Together, our long-term planning, decision-making and communication. We believe the Board works with senior management to set long-term goals, develop that clear, comprehensive disclosure and open communication with our strategy and monitor Eldorado’s progress toward achieving its goals while stakeholders will continue to encourage confidence in the legitimacy and providing independent and objective advice. The Board also regularly honesty of our business practices. OUR BUSINESS evaluates our principal business risks and monitors the effectiveness of our risk management process. Governance Policies Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Our Board is composed of the following four standing committees: Audit, Policy, and Insider Trading Policy reinforce our standards and values Compensation, Corporate Governance & Nominating and Sustainability. and outline our expectation that all employees and suppliers operate in The mandate of the Sustainability Committee is as follows. accordance with the highest standards of legal and ethical behaviour. We also outline our commitments to protecting the environment and the SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE safety of our people and neighbours in our Environmental and Health and OUR OPERATIONS The Sustainability Committee oversees our policies, programs and Safety policies. These were last updated in 2016. In early 2016, we also practices in the areas of environment, health, safety, community published a Human Rights Policy outlining our commitment to respect and relations and security. The Committee seeks assurance that Eldorado protect human rights everywhere we operate. consistently promotes ethical, transparent and responsible behaviour, and For more information, visit meaningfully engages its stakeholders. www.eldoradogold.com/about-us/governance The Sustainability Committee receives detailed quarterly reports from all Sustainability Factors in Compensation sites and works with Eldorado leadership to suggest directives for senior management to pursue. The Committee receives a briefing within 24 hours Regular employee performance reviews are performed at all our sites, OUR APPROACH if a fatality, serious lost-time injury, significant environmental incident typically on an annual basis, although some sites conduct monthly or anything that is material or legally reportable occurs. The Board of performance reviews. Health, safety and environmental key performance Directors, including members of the Committee, periodically visit our sites indicators and social performance measures are embedded into performance for first-hand validation and interaction with our operations personnel. reviews that are linked to our senior management compensation. For more information on our Board committees, visit www.eldoradogold.com/about-us/leadership/board-committees. Senior Management Oversight MATERIAL TOPICS Eldorado operates with a decentralized yet coordinated business infrastructure. Our senior management team in Vancouver works closely with management teams in each of our operating jurisdictions, providing a clear line of sight to each operation. One of our underground team at Efemçukuru, Turkey. Ultimate accountability for social and environmental performance rests with our President & Chief Executive Officer, while day-to-day oversight is shared at the corporate level by the Chief Operating Officer and the Vice President Investor Relations & Corporate Communications. In addition to frequent site visits, our senior management team aims for open communication and appropriate oversight through weekly reporting on safety, health, environment and community performance from mine General Managers and country Vice Presidents & General Managers. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 35 Material Topics We conduct an annual materiality assessment to identify the key topics and aspects that should receive attention in this Report. Although we have a clear understanding of what is important from an internal perspective, the annual materiality assessment process enables us to consider external views when we are identifying and selecting the sustainability topics to report on. On site at Efemçukuru, Turkey. 36 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Materiality Beyond helping Eldorado decide on the key topics to highlight in its annual OUR APPROACH sustainability reporting, the materiality exercise creates additional value YEAR IN REVIEW In 2016 we updated our methodology to determine the material topics because it: to include in our Report, while maintaining adherence to the GRI G4 materiality requirements and the GRI Principles for Defining Report ● Adds purpose and structure to our internal and external engagement initiatives Content. An overview of our approach is outlined below: ● Encourages new levels of collaboration among our senior management and stakeholders on the topics that matter most to them 1. Design materiality assessment ● Provides direction and validation to the importance of new sustainability We defined the purpose and objective of the materiality assessment, initiatives and strategies we adopt determined information sources, selected stakeholders to OUR BUSINESS ● Improves our understanding and responses to stakeholder needs participate, and designed interview questionnaires for internal and concerns and external stakeholders. 2. Identify material topics We reviewed prior-year materiality assessment results, peer reports, industry reports, internal documentation, records and other sources A student inspects some OUR OPERATIONS ore on a mine tour in to determine and summarize the most important social, environmental Halkidiki, Greece. and economic topics and priorities affecting Eldorado in 2016. 3. Prioritize material topics internally We conducted online interview-questionnaires with Eldorado’s senior executives and management across Corporate, regions and sites, including professionals responsible for overseeing site social, OUR APPROACH environmental and economic performance. Respondents were asked to rank the material topics and priorities during the year based on their relevance, level of importance and impact on our stakeholders and Company. We use the GRI G4 definition of materiality to determine 4. Review and validate results externally the topics to include in this Report. A topic is material if, We aggregated and reviewed the results of our internal materiality in the view of senior management and/or key stakeholder MATERIAL TOPICS assessment with a selection of Eldorado’s external stakeholders, and groups, it is of such importance that it could in the short, obtained feedback on additional topics and priorities to be highlighted medium or long term: in this Report. ● have a substantial influence on the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders, or 5. Finalize and publish results ● significantly impact Eldorado’s economic, environmental and social performance. We reviewed the results of our materiality assessment with Eldorado’s leadership, decided on the final categories and then prioritized material topics for reporting. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 37 RESULTS The results of our 2016 materiality assessment are outlined in the following Response rate to the 2016 Materiality Assessment Materiality Matrix. Interview-Questionnaire: Topics that significantly increased in materiality when compared to 2015 ● 91% from internal stakeholders results include: health and safety performance, permits & licences, and the ● 73% from external stakeholders, comprising: political climate in countries of operation. Topics that significantly decreased in materiality from 2015 include biodiversity & reclamation, energy use, and – Industry associations (11%) water use & management. – Consultants (26%) – Peers (21%) REPORTING THRESHOLD – Institutional investors (5%) Moderate-to-higher material topics and priorities identified in the Matrix form the main content of this Report, where we describe our management – Government (15%) approach and provide performance data and analysis. For topics of lower – Not-for-profit organizations (NGOs) (11%) materiality, we describe our management approach only. – Other (11%) Figure 1: Material Topics/Aspects HIGHER Health and Safety Community & Government Support Permits & Licences IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder Engagement Local Employment and Procurement Water Use & Management Political Climate in Countries of Operation Waste Management (including Tailings) Human Rights Regional Economic Training & Skills Development Development Emergency Preparedness Complaints & Grievances Metal Production Community Investment Operational Costs Corporate Reputation Bribery & Corruption Transparency of Payments to Government Relationships with Labour Unions LOWER LOWER INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS HIGHER ■ Moderate-to-higher material topic ■ Lower material topic 38 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Material topics are captured within the following chapters of this Report: YEAR IN REVIEW OUR ECONOMIC AND KEEPING OUR PEOPLE SAFE MINIMIZING OUR OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT ● Health and safety performance ● Operational costs ● Water use & management ● Training & skills development ● Metal production ● Waste management ● Emergency preparedness (including tailings) OUR BUSINESS STRENGTHENING OUR COMMUNITY RELATIONS RUNNING RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS ● Community & government support ● Permits & licences ● Stakeholder engagement ● Political climate in countries of operation OUR OPERATIONS ● Local employment and procurement ● Human rights ● Community investment ● Complaints & grievances ● Corporate reputation ● Bribery & corruption ● Regional economic development ● Transparency of payments to government ● Relationships with labour unions OUR APPROACH MATERIAL TOPICS Following the 2016 Materiality Assessment, a number of additional topics An employee attends a health and priorities were identified; however, given that they were of lower check-up at Kişladağ, Turkey. materiality we did not include them in this Report. These topics are: ● Biodiversity & reclamation ● Land acquisition & use ● Supply chain management ● Security standards ● Capital allocation & budgets (1) Energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and cyanide management were also identified as lesser material topics for reporting, but are briefly discussed within the Environment section of this Report. (1) For details on capital allocation and budgets, please see Eldorado’s MD&A and Financials: www.eldoradogold.com/investors/financial-information/annual-reports. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 39 Our Economic and Operational Performance SUSTAINING LONG-TERM ECONOMIC GROWTH WHY THIS MATTERS AND PERFORMANCE Eldorado is committed to building a sustainable, competitive business We aim to build value for all those invested in us – from our employees that aims to benefit each of our stakeholders, from investors through to our shareholders. We do this by discovering, acquiring and developing to host countries and communities. Our ability to operate at a profit quality gold assets in prospective jurisdictions. This has been our strategy and return value to all our stakeholders is central to our contribution for the past 24 years and underpins our vision to build a sustainable, highto sustainable development. quality business in the gold sector. RESPONSIBILITY FOR ECONOMIC AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Operations teams located at each of our sites are responsible for the Eldorado’s focus on building a sustainable, competitive business day-to-day oversight, management and operation of our assets, with stems from a commitment to the following four strategic priorities: each reporting directly to their mine General Manager and country 1. Quality assets – Our business is based on a portfolio of longVice President & General Manager, who in turn report to Eldorado’s Chief life assets in prospective jurisdictions. The quality of our asset Operating Officer (COO). The COO annually sets operational objectives and base allows us to achieve long-term growth with high margins, targets, and reviews operational performance on a weekly basis. enhancing our ability to generate free cash flows and earnings Finance teams in each of our operating regions are responsible for per share. overseeing our economic performance and working with sites to ensure 2. Operational excellence – We invest in new technologies and production and development activities follow mine plans and budgets. training our people with the aim of increasing productivity, Regional finance teams report to Eldorado’s Corporate Controller, who in reducing risk and operating to guidance year over year. turn reports to Eldorado’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The CFO annually sets financial objectives and targets, and reviews progress against plans and 3. Capital discipline – Capital discipline underpins every budgets on a monthly basis. business decision we make. We consider all competing uses of cash and prioritize capital for sustaining our operations and At Eldorado’s Corporate Office, the Vice President Corporate Development developing our key projects. Our balance sheet strength is a and Executive Vice President Administration are responsible for overseeing key competitive advantage, as it positions us to develop our activities related to the acquisition or sale of assets by the Company. assets, take advantage of opportunities and withstand external Eldorado’s President & CEO is ultimately accountable for our economic and market pressures. operational performance and is responsible for reviewing annual objectives, 4. Accountability – We are committed to doing business honestly, targets, budgets and plans, while working together with the Board of respecting our neighbours, minimizing our environmental impacts Directors. The CEO and Board oversee the Company’s senior management and keeping our people safe. Operating this way is essential to team who are responsible for the daily operations of the business. the sustainability of our business. Gold pour at Kişladağ, Turkey. 40 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2016 YEAR IN REVIEW Table 1: Annual Operational and Financial Performance (At December 31, 2016) 2016 (1) 2015 2014 Operational Gold produced (oz) 486,025 723,532 789,224 Average realized gold price ($/oz) 1,253 1,168 1,266 Cash operating costs ($/oz) 579 552 500 OUR BUSINESS Total cash costs ($/oz) 621 606 557 All-in sustaining cash costs ($/oz) 900 842 779 Gold reserves (Moz) 19.3 24.9 25.9 Financial ($ millions unless otherwise noted) Revenues (from all metals) 650.2 863.3 1,067.9 Gold revenues 605.9 823.8 980.9 Gross profit from gold mining operations 203.5 230.0 382.7 OUR OPERATIONS Adjusted net earnings 47.4 13.2 138.7 Net profit (loss) attributable to shareholders (344.2) (1,540.9) 102.6 Cash flow from operations (before changes in working capital) 142.0 192.3 342.9 Dividends paid (CDN$/share) 0.00 0.02 0.02 We finished 2016 with an average realized gold price of $1,253, 7% higher The sale of our Jinfeng, White Mountain and Tanjianshan mines and the OUR APPROACH than in 2015. However, profit from gold mining operations (including Eastern Dragon project in 2016 marked the end of Eldorado’s 11-year discontinued operations) fell year over year due to lower gold sales and history of operating in China. The Company realized net proceeds of higher unit costs. The sale of our Chinese assets during the year and $881.6 million on the sale of our Chinese assets. lower gold production at Kişladağ led to a decrease in gold sales, which in turn impacted our all-in sustaining costs that increased year over year to The cash acquired through the divestiture provides the Company with $900 per ounce of gold sold. Revenues for the year (including discontinued the financial flexibility to advance our internal project pipeline, most operations) were $650.2 million. notably the Olympias and Skouries development projects in Greece. These long-life, high-quality assets will further strengthen Eldorado’s operating position in Europe and will provide a long-term source of gold production MATERIAL TOPICS and revenue. (1) 2016 figures include both continuing and discontinued operations. Ounces produced include production from tailings retreatment at Olympias. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 41 Keeping Our People Safe Safety is a core value at Eldorado and is fully ingrained in the way we do business. From planning through to operations, we strive to reduce risk through elimination, substitution, engineering controls, training procedures and protective equipment. Our managers are expected to lead by example, and to prioritize and implement safe attitudes and initiatives to promote a culture of safety. WHY THIS MATTERS culture by taking a holistic view towards safety leadership that incorporates psychological aspects (how our people feel), behavioural aspects (what our Health and safety in the workplace matters to everyone at Eldorado, people do) and situational aspects (our policies, procedures and systems). particularly given that the risks of working in heavy industry are inherent across all our sites. Protecting the health and safety of our employees, Through a global commitment to leadership and training, the identification contractors and communities is therefore one of our biggest priorities and and mitigation of risks, and being prepared for and learning from incidents, a cornerstone of our operating philosophy. we continue to explore ways to make our workplaces safer. High-risk and safety-sensitive activities include but are not limited to: working at heights, handling and using explosives, exposure to hazardous HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS chemicals, working in confined spaces, operating heavy or mobile Each of our operations has established a site-specific occupational health equipment and driving vehicles. Health and safety also encompasses and safety policy that is aligned with our corporate Health and Safety industrial hygiene, which may include disease or injury resulting from Policy, and establishes requirements to monitor and report lead and lag prolonged employee exposure to certain physical elements, such as heat, indicators. We have found site-specific approaches to be particularly noise or dust. successful as they account for cultural attitudes towards safety and can be targeted at areas of priority. Site-specific health and safety targets are defined annually as part of the management review element of our health and safety management systems. The core principles of Eldorado’s approach to health and safety are: To complement our internal systems, we use the internationally recognized ● Safe work practices go hand-in-hand with productivity OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Standard to help us better identify and manage safety risks and improve ● Risks must be identified and controlled our safety performance. Our Kişladağ and Efemçukuru mines in Turkey ● Investing in education and training for our workforce and our Halkidiki assets in Greece are all independently certified to ● Demonstrating empathy in leadership OHSAS 18001. ● Continuously reviewing safety performance to achieve improvements 100% of Eldorado’s operating mines and construction projects have Occupational RESPONSIBILITY FOR SAFETY Health and Safety Management Systems Everyone has a primary responsibility for their own and their colleagues’ certified to OHSAS 18001 safety. Health and Safety teams and site management at each of our sites are responsible for the day-to-day oversight, implementation and management of our Health and Safety policies, programs and activities. Each team reports directly to their mine General Manager and country Vice President & General Manager, who in turn report to Eldorado’s COO. The COO annually sets safety objectives and targets, and reviews safety performance on a week-to-week basis. Eldorado’s President & CEO is ultimately accountable for our safety performance. At the Board level, the Sustainability Committee has oversight of all health and safety activities. CREATING A SAFETY CULTURE Our approach to health and safety is a balance between equipping individuals with the skills to recognize hazards and the values to make the right decisions, while ensuring that strong policies, procedures and systems are in place to safeguard workplaces. We continue to strengthen our safety Welding at Kişladağ, Turkey. 42 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD TRAINING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Developing workforce capacity and conducting regular training across all All new recruits and interns at our facilities undergo training on safety, of our sites is an ongoing priority. The majority of our workforce comes accident prevention, environmental issues and Company procedures, from local communities and regions, and they often have no prior mining among other topics. Ongoing training priorities are defined based on job experience. We believe there are significant social and economic benefits requirements, performance evaluation notes and legal requirements. Even to building a local workforce and economy, and we invest in relevant at sites with a long mining history and a well-established workforce, such YEAR IN REVIEW training and development initiatives to improve the productivity and safety as Kişladağ, we see the benefits of refresher training to improve employee of our employees. We are proud of the low turnover rates across each of capacity, productivity, and health and safety performance. our sites, as the retention of personnel (see page 64) is a great indicator of both our Company performance and employee satisfaction. Table 2: Total Hours of Employee Training by Region Turkey Greece Brazil Romania Total OUR BUSINESS Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Employees 65,314 1,428 26,391 3,392 762 – 4,874 288 97,341 5,108 Supervisors 4,345 299 5,335 142 185 – 352 – 10,217 441 Executives 400 102 1,468 152 – – 904 448 2,772 702 Contractors 23,402 252 4,521 175 4,142 117 232 – 32,297 544 Total: 149,422 OUR OPERATIONS Table 3: Total Hours of Safety Training by Region Turkey Greece Brazil Romania Total Employee training hours 31,551 17,580 165 6,226 55,522 Contractor training hours 14,816 4,234 3,876 – 22,925 Total: 78,447 Training programs provided by Eldorado in 2016 included: OUR APPROACH Governance – Eldorado policies, including Code of Business Conduct Technical – Software (AutoCAD, Datamine, Microsoft Office, SAP), and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Analytical Methods, Preparation of Environmental Samples, Maintenance & General Machinery Operation, Supply Chain Management, Technical Safety – General Safety Orientation, Underground Safety Orientation, Field Training (e.g. geological modelling) MATERIAL TOPICS Hand Injuries, Use of Diphoterine, Working at Heights, Train the Trainer, Five Point Safety System, Mine Rescue, Safe & Economic Driving, Management – Leadership Skills Development, Successful Team Defensive Driving, Basic Principles of Fire & Fire Fighting, Emergency Building, Business Management, 5S Lean Management Plan and Response, Hazard Awareness, Safe Use of Chemicals and Contaminants, Energy Isolation and Permits Environment – Coaching on ISO 14064 – 1 GHG, Verification, Solid Waste Management – Solid Waste Characterization, Environmental Health – Ambulance Driving Training, First Aid Training for Licensing Project – Environmental Inspections: Legislation, Interpretation Fieldwork, CPR – AED, Training on Dust Sampling, Snake & Insect Bites, & Applications Noise & Measurements ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 43 HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Figure 2: 2016 LTI Categories We achieved strong health and safety performance in 2016, with a 10% reduction to our LTIFR to 0.93 – the fifth consecutive year of ■ Chemical hazard reduction. We still have significant room for improvement, as we sadly 8% 8% ■ Fall of rock face experienced a fatal accident in February 2016 at our underground Stratoni 15% ■ Handling of material Mine in Greece. We also saw a 13% increase to our TRIFR, (1) largely due 23% ■ Use of hand tools to a drop in our total man-hours worked following the sale of our Chinese ■ Use of machinery assets, without a corresponding drop in the total number of injuries 15% ■ Power haulage 8% ■ Slip or fall of person experienced. Employee health and safety are major priorities and we 8% ■ Striking or bumping continue to review and reinforce our safety practices across each of our 15% sites and projects to prevent future incidents from occurring. Table 4: Safety Performance Turkey Greece Eldorado Global (2) Kişladağ Efemçukuru Stratoni Olympias Skouries 2016 Total 2015 Total 2014 Total Fatalities 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 LTIFR (3) 0.4 1.9 3.4 1.5 1.8 0.93 1.04 (4) 1.38 TRIFR (3) 4.4 13.5 18.0 5.3 5.4 5.47 4.86 (4) 6.68 Weekly health and safety incident reports are prepared by each Restricted work injuries – An injury or disease that resulted in the site and region and outline weekly, month-to-date and year-to-date restriction of work or motion, including temporary or permanent statistics, including: transfer to another job Near misses – An incident which, in different circumstances, could have Lost-Time Injuries – A work-related injury or disease that resulted in resulted in harm to people, damage to property or loss to a process time lost from work of at least one day or shift, a permanent disability, or a fatality First aid incidents – Care is provided to a person who is injured or who suddenly becomes ill (e.g. disinfecting a cut, applying a bandage, Fatalities – Death resulting from a work-related accident treating a sunburn, etc.) Medically treated injuries – An injury or disease that resulted in basic treatment (not first aid treatment) given by a physician or other medical personnel (e.g. prescription medication, sutures, therapeutic treatment) SPOTLIGHT: REDUCING VEHICLE ACCIDENTS WITH THE ISO ROAD SAFETY STANDARD In 2016, there were a number of road accidents both within and aspects including speed, vehicle condition and driver awareness. around our Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries sites in Greece. Most Our goal is that implementing this standard will further strengthen incidents were not work-related and involved members of the our safety culture and that this culture will permeate to local public, but our Health and Safety Department saw an opportunity communities where many of our employees reside. to address this by implementing the ISO 39001 Road Traffic Safety management system standard. The standard provides a tool for In December 2016, Hellas Gold’s Road Traffic Safety Management vehicle fleet operators to reduce death and serious injury due to System was independently certified in accordance with ISO 39001. road accidents, and creates additional requirements for safety (1) A recordable injury includes fatalities, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries and medical treatment cases. Minor injuries, such as first aid cases, are not considered recordable injuries. (2) Eldorado Global includes all injuries incurred across Turkey, Greece, Romania, Brazil, exploration activities and China (as at date-of-sale). (3) The frequency rate is the number of injuries that occurred per 1 million man-hours worked. (4) An adjustment to the reported LTIFR and TRIFR in 2015 occurred following updated site data for total man-hours worked, increasing from 1.03 to 1.04. 44 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD SPOTLIGHT: REDUCING SAFETY HAZARDS IN GREECE We regularly conduct safety training as part of our continuous contractors, which were recorded, aggregated and reported back efforts to improve safety awareness and performance. Our to employees and contractors, helping to raise safety awareness. commitment to safety extends beyond our own employees. Any Good practices were also identified in order to highlight and YEAR IN REVIEW incident affecting a contractor or visitor at our sites is treated with commend strong safety processes, and to help strengthen the equal importance, diligence and attention. safety culture of the workforce to drive continuous improvement. In 2016, as Eldorado continued with construction of the Olympias In Greece, where safety management has historically focused and Skouries projects in Greece, we saw an increase in the number on lagging statistics and indicators, this new approach has been of safety incidents and injuries affecting our workforce. particularly effective as it facilitated a positive change to health and safety management through a simple focus on leading indicators. At our Olympias Phase II project and at Skouries, where the majority of our Greek employees and contractors are employed, In February 2017, the Olympias Phase II project celebrated a key OUR BUSINESS our Health and Safety team undertook an initiative to increase milestone, with one million man-hours worked and no LTIs. Since the number of site safety inspections, identifying safety hazards April 2016, there have been over 500,000 man-hours worked and in advance of potential incidents occurring. We define a hazard no LTIs at our Skouries project. as anything in the workplace that has the potential to harm our people or equipment. During daily inspections, the Health and Safety team flagged any hazards caused by employees or individual OUR OPERATIONS ENSURING CONTRACTOR SAFETY emergencies if needed. Health programs at our sites provide basic medical treatments and services for employees and contractors, including We communicate our minimum expectations regarding contractor immunizations and medical checkups. health and safety rules as a component of the tender notice and project OUR APPROACH assignments at our mining facilities. These expectations form an integral part of the contracts Eldorado signs with each contractor and they educate EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS contractors to carry out work safely and in line with Eldorado’s standards; By planning for emergencies, we identify, prioritize and implement controls prevent accidents among their staff, our staff or third parties; and avoid for potential hazards at our sites, which helps to minimize their impact damage or harm to facilities and equipment belonging to the contractor, while safeguarding our employees and the environment. Eldorado or third parties. Emergency response programs are in place at our operations. Our emergency If contractors do not follow safe practices, we require them to cease work response teams are made up of employees who have received additional until remedial actions have been taken. This may include implementing training in emergency protocols, procedures and equipment. The MATERIAL TOPICS written procedures for high-risk tasks within the contractor’s scope, emergency response programs include extensive emergency drills documenting training for all personnel, conducting fit-for-purpose and emergency training, such as mine rescue drills, fire drills and CPR first audits of machinery, materials, personal protective equipment (PPE) and aid training and include training in the use of hazardous materials suits and emergency equipment used by the contractor, and re-inducting their other safety equipment. Our emergency response teams also maintain close employees to Eldorado’s site safety requirements. working relationships with community-based emergency responders, and provide additional support and resources to local responders in the event SAFETY BEYOND THE MINE of a serious off-site incident. Our commitment to health and safety does not end with our employees Our operating regions have also implemented crisis management plans and contractors. We also consider local stakeholders’ health and safety consistent with the MAC’s TSM Crisis Management and Communications in our activities. To promote health and safety in the communities near Planning protocol. our operations, our sites have informal or formal aid assistance programs in which Eldorado’s emergency response teams help in community ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 45 Minimizing Our Environmental Footprint We are committed to protecting the air, water and soil – resources that we all share. This is why we carefully plan, design and build operations to limit our environmental footprint to what is necessary. It is why we implement new technologies to get the best efficiency out of the resources and materials we use while adhering to safety and environmental regulations, and reclaiming areas no longer needed for mining use. And it is why we maintain systems to identify, manage, monitor and mitigate our potential impacts from project inception through to closure. WHY THIS MATTERS PRINCIPLES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL EXCELLENCE Mining by its very nature impacts the natural environment. It is important We are focused on maintaining sound environmental practices in our to us and our stakeholders that we avoid, minimize or, at the very least, activities with the aim of developing, operating and closing mines in a manage the environmental impacts of our operations throughout the life of responsible manner. Across development operations and sites, our actions our mines. Our permits and licences outline the environmental parameters are guided by the following principles for environmental excellence: within which we must operate and specify the environmental standards that we are obliged to meet. Poor environmental management and ● Ensuring that the protection of human health and the natural performance would prohibit our ability to operate legally, responsibly and environment is accomplished at the same time as benefits are derived with the support of our stakeholders and local communities. from economic and social development ● Providing necessary training on environmental matters to contribute RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP to greater environmental awareness in our operating jurisdictions Environment teams located at each of our sites are responsible for day● Protecting social and cultural assets within our project area to-day oversight, implementation and management of our environmental ● Making sure that environmental legislation is strictly observed and policies, programs and activities. Each team reports directly to its mine complied with General Manager and country Vice President & General Manager, who ● Informing the public, relevant government institutions and in turn report to Eldorado’s COO. The COO annually sets environmental other stakeholders of our environmental performance in a fully objectives and targets, and reviews environmental performance on a transparent manner weekly basis. Eldorado’s President & CEO is ultimately accountable for our environmental performance. At the Board level, the Sustainability Committee has oversight of all environmental activities. Environmental testing at Efemçukuru, Turkey. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Eldorado’s Environmental Policy forms part of our governance system and outlines our commitment to protect the natural environment where we work. We seek to apply best practices to minimize our impact on and to protect the environment across every stage of our mines’ life cycles. Our Environmental Policy is centred on: ● A commitment to strict compliance with local and national regulations, and our operating permits and licences ● A commitment to the continuous improvement of our environmental performance ● The application of best available technologies and practices whenever possible ● A commitment to remediation and rehabilitation of areas no longer needed for mining use 46 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD SPOTLIGHT: THE INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CYANIDE MANAGEMENT CODE We have achieved certification under the International Standards Cyanide management is a core focus of our operating and Organization 14001 (ISO 14001) Environmental Management System monitoring activities at our sites that use cyanide to separate gold Standard at our Kişladağ and Efemçukuru mines in Turkey and at from ore. We use very dilute solutions, in the range of 0.01–0.05% our Halkidiki assets in Greece. The overall aim of ISO 14001 is to sodium cyanide, and we have strict protocols and procedures in YEAR IN REVIEW support environmental protection and prevent pollution. ISO 14001 place for cyanide storage, handling and disposal. represents a stringent guideline created to help organizations achieve environmental goals, using a structured approach that enables We applied to become an ICMC signatory in 2012. The International consistent environmental performance over time. Cyanide Management Code is a voluntary initiative for gold mining companies aimed at protecting human health and preventing adverse environmental impacts. The Code provides guidance on 100% of Eldorado’s operating mines the safe management of cyanide before, during and after the gold recovery process. Certification involves an independent audit of and construction projects have mining operations to verify that site policies and procedures meet Environmental Management Systems OUR BUSINESS the ICMC’s rigorous standards. Audit results are made public to certified to ISO 14001 inform stakeholders of the status of cyanide management practices at the certified operation. In 2016, Kişladağ successfully completed its first re-certification audit Establishing environmental management systems at our operations under the ICMC. Kişladağ is currently the only mine operated by has involved: Eldorado that uses cyanidation for gold extraction. ● Developing site-specific environmental policies As part of the original certification, we developed and implemented OUR OPERATIONS ● Establishing objectives and processes to achieve the policy additional health, safety and environmental management systems commitments and procedures in order to fully comply with all nine of the Code’s principles: ● Continuously taking action as needed to improve performance ● Demonstrating our performance through regular audits 1. Production – Kişladağ uses suppliers who limit their workers’ and reporting and the environment’s exposure to cyanide. Every newly recruited employee, including the personnel of suppliers 2. Transportation – Our cyanide transporters have rigorous and contractors, must complete environmental training, and existing emergency response plans and cyanide management practices. employees are provided with ongoing environmental training to keep OUR APPROACH 3. Handling and storage – Our unloading, storing and mixing their environmental knowledge up to date. facility complies with the Code, with effective ventilation and measures to prevent cyanide from leaching. 4. Operations – Updated policies and emergency procedures that Kişladağ water treatment plant. govern Kişladağ’s management and control of cyanide help facilitate its safe use. 5. Decommissioning – When Kişladağ reaches the end of its mine life, we have stringent decommissioning plans in place to protect MATERIAL TOPICS human health and wildlife. 6. Worker safety – From contractors to employees, we consider the exposure risk to everyone on our site, and work to minimize or eliminate this risk. 7. Emergency response – In the event of an emergency, Kişladağ is prepared to protect human health and minimize environmental impacts through training and investment in appropriate response equipment. 8. Training – Cyanide management is the responsibility of our employees and contractors, and their competency, skill and awareness begin with the training we provide them to safely operate with and respond to any issues with cyanide. 9. Dialogue – We’ve successfully maintained communications with our local communities, informing them about our plans and the safety of our facility. For more information on the ICMC, please visit www.cyanidecode.org. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 47 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS As part of our commitment to transparency and accountability, our operating sites have established independent environmental committees. EIAs are conducted to evaluate the potential impacts a proposed project These external committees include academics, scientists and representatives may have on environmental resources and the people who depend on from local authorities. Committee members collect environmental data them. As part of the permitting procedure during project development, from the site and submit it to third-party laboratories for testing, to we identify potential impacts and submit mitigation plans to regulators. confirm independence and accuracy. This approach has helped strengthen Once completed, EIAs are comprehensive documents that include baseline our credibility by providing our stakeholders with additional third-party studies to assess the current state of the environment at the proposed mine accredited information. site. They also identify potential effects of our planned activities and outline steps to minimize any identified risks. EIAs require extensive consultation In 2016 we also finalized an environmental monitoring database that with local communities, as well as considerable input from technical and provides information from Stratoni, Skouries and Olympias online. The environmental experts. database enables public access to our environmental monitoring data from 320 stations across Halkidiki that measure soil, water and air quality, ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING greenhouse gas emissions, noise and vibration. With an investment of over In line with international best practices, Eldorado regularly monitors air, soil €3 million in state-of-the-art equipment, this initiative is one of the leading and water quality, as well as noise levels and energy use at our projects and environmental monitoring programs in Europe. operations. This enables us to operate within regulatory frameworks and provides a benchmark upon which we can implement programs to further Reportable Spills minimize our use of water, energy and chemicals. We had no reportable spills at Eldorado’s sites in 2016 or in 2015. SPOTLIGHT: BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AT KIŞLADAĞ We believe that mining can co-exist with biodiversity conservation. • Stage 1 – Establish baseline information on biodiversity, and Identifying and protecting high-value species and habitats, and assess risks and impacts associated with project activities. returning landscapes to conditions similar to their pre-mining state, • Stage 2 – Identify stakeholders and prioritize biodiversity risks are critical to our social licence to operate and ability to advance and impacts on biodiversity. new projects. • Stage 3 – Define priority habitats and species of conservation Since 2015, the Kişladağ mine has supported biodiversity efforts importance, and determine BAP actions targeting each of them. by studying the mine’s impacts on local flora and fauna in • Stage 4 –Establish a management schedule and monitoring partnership with the faculty of sciences from two local universities program, and take corrective measures whenever necessary. and environmental consultants. As part of these studies, Kişladağ published a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) in 2015 to reinforce Following publication of the initial BAP, Kişladağ completed additional the site’s conservation activities and achieve its objective of no studies in July and November of 2016 to capture additional seasons net loss of biodiversity due to mining. The BAP was developed in within the study, and in December 2016 a final BAP was published four stages. and adopted by Kişladağ. Studies to date have determined that no perceptible impacts on biodiversity outside of the direct mining area have occurred. 48 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD WATER USE AND MANAGEMENT limit values set out in pertinent regulations and our operating permits, and we share these detailed results with regulators and government, typically Availability and access to water is critical for our mining operations. on a quarterly basis. We use water for mineral processing, dust suppression, slurry transport and personal consumption, and responsibly managing water is therefore Water availability varies by site. At the Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries in essential to our long-term sustainable development. Effective water Greece, water seeping into our underground mines provides the majority YEAR IN REVIEW management and recycling practices help limit our reliance on water of water we require to operate, with small additional volumes collected sources, and effective governance ensures that water discharges fall via rainwater and municipal supplies. For our operations that have within the parameters of our permits and licences. While we do not set limited access to water, such as Kişladağ in Turkey, we have implemented quantitative targets regarding water consumption, our water use is strictly an extensive water conservation and recycling program to reduce our controlled across all of our sites, and each operation has implemented need to withdraw water. The Kişladağ water treatment plant treats up to practices that reduce, reuse and recycle water. 5,000 m3/day of surface water from the waste rock dump and groundwater from the open pit. Monitoring Water Resources Recycled water makes up the majority of our water use, particularly at OUR BUSINESS Across our operations, we withdrew nearly 11 million m3 of water in those sites where we have zero water discharge requirements. Recycled 2016. This includes water removed from our sites following precipitation water is used for mineral processing, dust suppression and slurry transport, as well as groundwater that must be continuously pumped out from our as well as throughout our leach pad areas and adsorption, desorption, underground mines. Overall, we experienced a 4% increase in total water recovery (ADR) carbon plants. withdrawals in 2016 compared to 2015 volumes, largely attributable to an increase of groundwater flows and subsequent mine dewatering. All water that comes into contact with our sites is treated and tested before being used or discharged back into the environment (e.g. rivers, lakes and Water use is continuously monitored using flow meters, and we regularly reinjection into groundwater) where regulations allow. take water quality samples from groundwater and surface water sources OUR OPERATIONS within and around our sites. We compare water quality results with the WATER FLOW THROUGH A MINE SITE WATER INPUTS WATER TREATMENT A Precipitation (rainfall and snow) L Wastewater treatment ponds B Surface water (lakes, rivers, oceans) M Water treatment plant C Ground water (wells, mine dewatering) OUR APPROACH D Wastewater from another organization WATER OUTPUTS E Municipal water N Releases to aquatic A environment (treated water) WATER USE O Water diversion of P non-contaminated water F Potable water, fire suppression G Drilling P Evaporation H Dust suppression I Processing (ore preparation, solids/water preparation, mineral extraction) F J Leach pad K Tailings slurry I MATERIAL TOPICS J K L M B O H N B&C G C D E ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 49 Table 5: Total Water Withdrawals (m3 thousands) Site Rainwater Ground water – renewable Municipal supply 2016 Total 2015 Total (1) Kişladağ – 1,254 – 1,254 837 Efemçukuru – 976 – 976 692 Stratoni 16 3,909 8 3,933 4,373 Olympias 53 4,228 – 4,281 4,113 Skouries 8 458 – 466 485 Total 77 10,825 8 10,910 10,500 Our reported water efficiency is not a true reflection of site water use or Table 6: Water Efficiency (m3/oz Au production) its correlation to production. In reality, due to the need to dewater our Year Kişladağ Efemçukuru Total mines, we withdraw far more water than we use and consequently our actual water efficiency is much higher. As we continue to improve our data 2016 5.9 9.9 7.2 collection and reporting we are investigating new data sources in order to 2015 (2) 3.0 6.9 4.0 improve our understanding of water balances and to calculate our water efficiency as a relationship of water used in production per ounce of gold produced. Table 7: Volume of Water Recycled and Reused (m3 thousands) Category Kişladağ Efemçukuru Stratoni Olympias Skouries 2016 Total Water processed by Company water treatment plants 443 – 3,900 4,226 – 8,570 Water recycled and reused 26,909 – 1,325 951 457 29,641 Water recycled and reused (as % of total water use) 96% – 25% 18% 50% 73% Site water treatment plants operate continuously year-round to reduce our Other sites, like Skouries, will not allow any contact water to be openly reliance on external water sources. Kişladağ uses a leach pad to extract discharged back into the environment. Instead, we use water diversion gold from ore, treating and circulating approximately 50,000 litres of water channels to redirect surface water flows away from the site, and any per minute through a closed system, with minor losses attributable to precipitation or groundwater that enters the site is captured, stored, evaporation. Approximately 21 times more water is recycled and reused reused and/or evaporated. by the site compared to new water withdrawals. For more detailed information on Eldorado’s water use and management practices, please see our annual responses to the Carbon Disclosure Project Water Survey available on the CDP website: www.cdp.net. (1) 2015 total water withdrawals have been adjusted to exclude data related to Eldorado’s former Chinese assets. Minor updates to water withdrawals have been applied based on the latest available data. (2) Minor adjustments have been made to Efemçukuru’s calculated 2015 water efficiency, based on updated water withdrawal data. 50 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD ENERGY USE AND MANAGEMENT Although energy use was not identified by our stakeholders as a material Our energy is sourced primarily from fossil fuels (diesel, liquefied petroleum topic, it is a significant operating cost and related air emissions are one gas (LPG), gasoline and natural gas) and electricity. Diesel is consumed by of our major environmental impacts. We have therefore included a brief our mines’ heavy-vehicle fleet, portable light towers and emergency backsummary of our energy use and management practices. up generators. LPG and gasoline is consumed by our light-vehicle fleet, and natural gas is used for building heating. Finally, electricity is primarily used YEAR IN REVIEW by our electric excavators, as well as for mining and milling operations. Electricity is primarily sourced from the national grid, while the Skouries project will continue to use diesel generators until the construction of site transmission lines and transformers is completed. Figure 3: 2016 Energy Sources Lubricant 0.01% OUR BUSINESS Inside the Efemçukuru processing plant, Turkey. LPG 0.02% Gasoline 0.05% OUR OPERATIONS Natural gas 0.18% Electricity 41.2% 1.04 Diesel 58.5% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% OUR APPROACH Globally we are seeing an emphasis on regulation that may penalize heavy At the Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries sites in Greece, we implemented energy users and greenhouse gas (GHG) emitters. As a result of both the ISO 50001 Energy Management Standard in 2016 to help improve the upfront costs associated with energy use at our operations and the energy efficiency and identify efficiency opportunities. ISO 50001 assists potential for our operating jurisdictions to impose GHG emission levies, us in systematically setting and reaching energy use goals and achieving improving the energy efficiency of our operations is important to us. cost savings. In some of our operating jurisdictions, energy efficiency and GHG In 2017, Eldorado will review plans for an Energy Policy that establishes MATERIAL TOPICS emission reduction goals are already represented in national regulations. energy efficiency and GHG targets at each of our sites. For example, in Turkey each year, an energy usage declaration is made to the government, and every four years an energy efficiency study must be The following tables outline the energy use, energy intensity and the performed and submitted to the government. GHG emissions produced at each of our sites in 2016. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 51 Table 8: Total Direct and Indirect Energy Use by Source (GJ) Diesel (mobile Diesel (stationary Natural % Change Site equipment) equipment) gas Electricity 2016 Total 2015 Total since 2015 Kişladağ 738,938 12,434 2,491 328,193 1,082,056 1,316,900 (18)% Efemçukuru 90,743 – – 188,228 278,971 233,019 20% Stratoni 34,783 – – 92,137 126,920 119,476 6% Olympias 35,358 – – 66,315 101,673 139,221 (27)% Skouries – 26,670 – – 26,670 28,982 (8)% Total 899,822 39,104 2,491 674,873 1,616,290 1,837,598 (12)% Table 9: Energy Intensity (GJ/oz Au produced) Year Kişladağ Efemçukuru Total % Change 2016 5.12 2.84 4.40 8% 2015 4.68 2.32 4.06 – In 2016 we reduced energy consumption by 12% across our sites. This was largely due to significantly reduced tonnes mined (-32%) and waste production (-54%) at Kişladağ in 2016 as compared to 2015. While Kişladağ saw an increase in gold grade from 0.7 g/t in 2015 to 0.8 g/t in 2016, Efemçukuru saw an 8% drop from 7.82 g/t in 2015 to 7.21 g/t in 2016. This drop meant that Efemçukuru had to mine and process more ore to maintain a consistent level of production compared to the prior year. Overall, we saw a net increase in energy intensity to 4.4 GJ per ounce of gold produced. A haul truck in the Kişladağ open pit, Turkey. 52 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Table 10: Greenhouse Gas Emissions (1) (tCO2e) Year Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total % Change since 2015 2016 67,268 98,366 654 168,304 (10.2)% 2015 82,700 101,754 892 187,361 – YEAR IN REVIEW Our calculated GHG emissions are attributable to all of Eldorado’s operating WASTE MANAGEMENT mines, construction and development projects, with the exception of Different forms of waste are generated through our mining activities, Perama Hill (no on-site activity) and our previously owned Chinese sites. including overburden, waste rock, tailings, slag, mine water, sludge and Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions relate to the combustion of energy sources refuse. Waste rock is the primary form of waste generated, which is that are owned or controlled by Eldorado, the majority of which are material that has been extracted from the mining areas in order to access attributable to diesel consumption by our vehicle fleets. Scope 2 (indirect) ore. Waste rock contains no economically valuable material. OUR BUSINESS GHG emissions are from the consumption of purchased electricity. Waste generated is sorted and classified as hazardous or nonWe estimate scope 3 (other indirect) GHG emissions from employee air hazardous waste, in line with regulations. All types of waste, travel, which saw a significant decrease compared to 2015 emissions, including hazardous waste, are stored and disposed of with consideration attributable to less travel by Eldorado’s corporate staff to our operating for their potential environmental impacts. Management programs are regions and sites. developed and implemented, depending on the characteristics of the waste being generated. For example, at Efemçukuru, where waste rock has acid For more detailed information on Eldorado’s energy use, energy rock drainage potential, storage areas are lined and seepage is collected efficiency, emissions and air quality, please see our annual responses to and treated before disposal. Where waste rock does not pose any toxicity OUR OPERATIONS the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Change Survey available on the risk, such as at Olympias, it is partially reused for mine backfill. CDP website: www.cdp.net. Waste management activities and objectives represent significant elements of our ISO 14001 environmental management systems. As per local regulations in each of our operating jurisdictions, all disposed waste types and quantities are recorded in legal disposal documents that are periodically submitted to host governments. We conduct due diligence on our waste disposal contractors, and periodically visit disposal and recycling contractors to evaluate their environmental practices. OUR APPROACH MATERIAL TOPICS (1) Emissions have been calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council on Sustainable Development. Conversion factors were obtained from the National Energy Board’s Energy Conversion Tables, while emission factors were obtained using the relevant year DEFRA Conversion Factors, applying Global Warming Potential factors from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s fourth assessment report. Scope 3 emission totals were independently calculated by Eldorado’s travel agent. 2015 and 2014 GHG totals have been adjusted to exclude emissions related to Eldorado’s previously owned Chinese assets. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 53 DUST CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT We also have comprehensive tailings management systems at Efemçukuru, Stratoni, Olympias and Vila Nova. These include: The creation of dust is one impact we manage closely and actively. Major sources of dust emissions include: ● Plans and procedures that identify clear roles, responsibilities and communication channels for personnel responsible for ● Blasting operations in the open-pit area tailings management ● Loading, haulage and offloading of ore and waste rock ● Ongoing training of personnel responsible for tailings management ● Operation of crushing units ● Operational controls such as real-time monitoring of tailings ● Road traffic facilities, routine inspections and risk assessments and regular maintenance programs Where we have the potential to create significant dust, we ensure that water tank trucks continuously perform on-site watering activities to ● Emergency preparedness and response plans suppress dust. In fact, dust suppression is one of our major uses of water ● Periodic review of tailings facility design, construction, operation and on site, particularly at our open-pit sites. In dry seasons, materials are closure plans to facilitate ongoing relevance and alignment with current dampened before we conduct blasting operations. Water spraying and best practices closed dust collecting systems are provided, particularly at the primary ● Oversight from corporate head office to verify completion of any crusher and the fine ore stockpile areas. Water sprayers are also used on updates or corrective actions and to identify opportunities for shared conveyor belts at certain intervals. With the goal of measuring the results learning across Company operations of these mitigation activities, regular dust measurements are taken around our operations and in neighbouring villages at regular intervals. As part of our commitment to the continuous improvement of tailings management practices, our site teams conduct daily monitoring of TAILINGS MANAGEMENT the tailings facilities and must complete an audit every three years by Tailings management is a core activity at our Efemçukuru, Stratoni and an independent and recognized expert in tailings management and Olympias sites, and it is embedded in daily working and monitoring dam safety. Our most recent external audit did not identify any major practices. As a heap-leach operation, there are no tailings produced at deficiencies in our tailings management practices. Kişladağ. Vila Nova, currently under care and maintenance, also has a We are strengthening our management approach further by aligning our tailings facility that falls under the site’s environmental monitoring program. operating practices with MAC’s TSM Tailings Management Protocol. This Tailings are the material that remains after the mineral extraction process is based on a “plan, do, check, act” system of continuous improvement. is completed and are primarily a mixture of ground rock and water. Tailings are typically stored in a specially designed tailings storage facility and can ENVIRONMENTAL FINES AND PENALTIES contain trace amounts of chemicals from the extraction process, which We incurred one fine in 2016 at Kişladağ. The local Environmental can make them acidic or alkaline. Their safe management and disposal is a Directorate issued a $10,000 fine due to washing activities at the secondary priority for us in order to protect the nearby environment and communities. and tertiary crusher base area. The site responded immediately and, as a corrective action, the washing activity was stopped and drainage channels We manage our tailings facilities consistent with robust government were covered. regulations, accepted international standards and leading practices. Our tailings facilities are all site-specific and have been carefully designed In addition to the above, in early 2016 the Ministry of Environment and and constructed by specialized engineering consulting firms, in line with Energy in Greece issued two decisions imposing fines to Hellas Gold regulations, in order to minimize environmental risks. At each of our regarding alleged environmental non-compliances that occurred between tailings facilities we have: 2012 and 2014 at Olympias and Stratoni. Site inspections were carried out during this period by environmental inspectors and, in response to their ● Conducted extensive studies to locate the facility away from sensitive findings, Hellas Gold prepared and submitted detailed answers. Despite the environmental areas such as lakes, streams, wetlands and key responses, the Ministry imposed fines totalling €1.7 million and Hellas Gold biodiversity zones has filed respective appeals against the fines before the Administrative ● Designed the extraction process so that tailings contain as few Court in Athens. impurities as possible and are environmentally stable No other fines, penalties or non-monetary sanctions were incurred in 2016 ● Constructed facilities able to withstand extreme weather and for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. seismic events ● Installed upstream and downstream monitoring facilities to measure water quality 54 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Strengthening Our Community Relations For the past 24 years, we have built partnerships with our stakeholders designed to enrich lives by developing lasting opportunities for local communities. This is achieved by improving employment, infrastructure, health and education, and supporting initiatives that will last beyond the life of our operations. YEAR IN REVIEW WHY THIS MATTERS OUR REPUTATION Mining can create significant long-term economic value for host Eldorado’s reputation is built on our interactions with our stakeholders, communities. In many of Eldorado’s operating jurisdictions, the opportunity following through on our promises and operating responsibly. We look to for meaningful long-term employment or investment is limited outside the continuously improve how we listen to stakeholders so that we are aware existence of our operations. Wages and benefits, taxes and royalties, local of issues of importance and can find mutually agreeable solutions. Our procurement, and investments in community programs and infrastructure actions and track record help us to foster trust, strengthen our relationships OUR BUSINESS are ways in which Eldorado helps to stimulate socio-economic development and facilitate support for our operations. in local communities. We aim to build trust through open, honest dialogue and by building opportunities designed to positively impact To strengthen our reputation we: local communities. ● Identify and listen to our stakeholders ● Look to understand stakeholders’ needs, concerns and expectations RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMMUNITY AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONS AND ENGAGEMENT ● Take action to address and respond to concerns Community and Public Relations teams are located at each of our sites ● Operate ethically and transparently OUR OPERATIONS and lead our stakeholder engagement and community relations activities, ● Follow through on our promises with specific accountability assigned to our mine General Managers and country Vice President & General Managers. More broadly, government This section of the Report expands on some of the actions we take to relations are led by each of our country Vice President & General Managers manage and build our community relations. for their respective operating jurisdictions, and are supported by Eldorado’s corporate office and the President & CEO. Eldorado’s President & CEO is ultimately accountable for the success of our community and stakeholder engagement. At the Board level, the OUR APPROACH Sustainability Committee has oversight of all policies and programs with respect to community relations. Handing out T-shirts near Efemçukuru gold mine, Turkey. MATERIAL TOPICS ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 55 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We aim to build trust through our ongoing collaboration with a broad range of stakeholders, including communities and government, which involves listening and responding to stakeholder needs and concerns. We broadly define our core group of stakeholders as employees, contractors, suppliers, shareholders, local community members, governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and industry groups. Each stakeholder group has unique expectations and we therefore tailor our engagement practices to best meet their needs. Presentation to visitors prior to touring our Kişladağ mine site in Turkey. Table 11: How We Interact with Stakeholders Stakeholder Ways We Interact Employees ● Corporate, regional and site personnel engagement ● Employee newsletters, social media and email ● Workplace health and safety committees ● Performance and development reviews Shareholders ● Perception studies ● Annual shareholder meeting ● Quarterly conference calls to discuss results ● Frequent one-on-one or group meetings Government ● Ongoing communication and dialogue with government officials at the municipal, regional and national levels Suppliers and contractors ● Ongoing communication and dialogue between representatives ● Performance reviews Industry associations ● Membership in industry associations such as the International Cyanide Management Institute, the World Gold Council, the Mining Association of Canada and the Canadian Mining Innovation Council. We also participate in several working committees, such as MAC’s International Social Responsibility Committee NGOs ● Meetings and collaborations with NGOs at both the corporate and regional levels ● At Kışladağ, we established an independent environmental committee, which includes representatives from NGOs Communities ● Ongoing community engagement activities, including collaborative community projects ● Neighbourhood meetings ● Site tours for local residents and students ● Regional newsletters, local media and social media UNDERSTANDING HOW WE CAN CONTRIBUTE We have conducted studies to anticipate and manage the social and economic impacts of our operations. Socio-economic impact assessments (SIAs) represent a best-practice approach to identifying local stakeholders and their social, cultural and economic characteristics. An SIA analyzes how a mining project may affect communities and puts forward strategies to minimize negative impacts and maximize positive benefits. 56 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Table 12: Local Impact Assessment and Management Tools Turkey Greece (1) Brazil (2) Romania Kişladağ Efemçukuru Stratoni Olympias Skouries Tocantinzinho Certej Formalized stakeholder ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Awaiting ✓ mapping Installation Licence YEAR IN REVIEW Social impact assessment ✓ ✓ Yes – in progress Awaiting ✓ Installation Licence Public disclosure ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ of impact assessments Local community ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ n/a ✓ development programs OUR BUSINESS SPOTLIGHT: SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT ASSESMENT IN HALKIDIKI In October 2016, Eldorado’s Greek subsidiary Hellas Gold sponsored • The fall in land values during the Greek economic crisis has OUR OPERATIONS a socio-economic impact assessment (SIA) of the Stratoni, affected the Municipality of Aristotle less in recent years than Olympias and Skouries operations. The objective of the study neighbouring municipalities (such as Polygiros and Volvi) where was to independently identify, assess and document the main there are no mining facilities impacts of the operations on the local region and to develop an • The local housing market has increased in value action plan going forward to enhance impact management and governance. The SIA was managed by an independent consultant • There have been no negative impacts on agricultural land, local and representatives from the mining villages around our sites. This settlements, tourist areas or archaeological sites within the allowed Hellas Gold to remain impartial to the SIA’s findings. vicinity or wider area of the mines • Hellas Gold has appropriate mechanisms for measuring, OUR APPROACH Preliminary results from the assessment highlight that: monitoring and reporting socio-economic data that often, particularly in the case of environmental governance, exceeds • The impact on revenue growth to the municipal administration regulatory requirements has been positive • Hellas Gold’s operations significantly contribute towards job and • The land value of the Panagia and Stageira-Akantha areas, income creation within local communities which surround the Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries sites, are the highest within the Municipality of Aristotle • Hellas Gold supports cultural, athletic and other activities, promoting a model of multilateral development A young visitor attends a mine tour MATERIAL TOPICS in Halkidiki, Greece. (1) Due to the close proximity of Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries, impact assessments and management tools are jointly performed. (2) Tocantinzinho is awaiting an Installation Licence before proceeding with broader stakeholder monitoring. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 57 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Effective communication with our local stakeholders is essential to our continued success and we have made this integral to our operating approach for over 24 years. We have established various methods for communicating with local stakeholders that emphasize two-way dialogue and provide opportunities for local stakeholders to submit anonymous feedback to our site personnel. Please see Table 13 for details on the various communication methods currently established at our operations. Table 13: How We Engage with Local Communities Turkey Greece (1) Brazil Romania Kişladağ Efemçukuru Stratoni Olympias Skouries Tocantinzinho Certej Local site grievance mechanism (2) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ Email feedback ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ Site office – open door policy ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Informal engagement (daily interaction in communities) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Formal engagement mechanisms ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✗ COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Our operations are located in diverse jurisdictions, each with their own cultural and social characteristics. As a result, we have adopted site-specific approaches to community investment that are appropriate to local customs, values and needs, yet are based on the same core principles of community inclusion and transparency. The stakeholder engagement practices described earlier help identify relevant community investment projects. Table 14: 2016 Payments to Communities and Community Investments (3) ($ millions) Turkey Greece (4) Brazil Romania Total Payments to communities and community investments 1.30 1.65 0.02 0.15 3.11 Payments relate to infrastructure, health and well-being, education and training, scholarships, donations, and investments in preserving or rehabilitating the local environment. They also include support to civil society organizations (excluding expenditures related to advertising or publicity). (1) Due to the close proximity of Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries, site engagement is jointly performed. (2) In 2016, Eldorado finalized a formal Company-wide grievance mechanism, comprising a global directive and implementation guide for sites. Each of our sites and projects are in the process of aligning existing processes with the guidelines. (3) Where the recipient entity is a government organization, relevant community investments have been reported as a “payment to government” in accordance with the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA). Eldorado’s total payments to government are reported within Table 22. Due to this change, comparisons to community payments reported in Eldorado’s 2015 Year in Review Report cannot be made. (4) Total payments exclude $183,900 attributable to Hellas Gold’s 2016 summer internship program. This is considered a payment to employees. 58 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD KIŞLADAĞ, TURKEY STRATONI, OLYMPIAS AND SKOURIES, GREECE Community relations personnel meet with stakeholders, local leaders, At our operations and development projects in Greece, community village mukhtars, mayors and sub-governors on an ongoing basis. There investment priorities are set after discussions with representatives of is a community interest group that meets every six months to discuss the local villages. They are also based on the annual materiality analysis investment priorities. Hellas Gold conducts as part of its sustainability reporting. Most YEAR IN REVIEW community investments are for ongoing needs and infrastructure 2016 Highlights projects that are shared equally among community stakeholders. We also hold monthly meetings with the heads of the villages to discuss ● Provided subsidies and donations to schools and universities, adjustments and evaluate the success of the infrastructure investments including travel costs for students, gold to a local arts faculty, to date. and used vehicles, computers and saplings to local schools ● Provided in-kind support to gendarmes, village mukhtars and district 2016 Highlights and provincial municipalities, including office equipment, building ● Collaborated with local suppliers and businesses to increase local materials, excavation and repair works OUR BUSINESS procurement and employment levels for women ● Supported local villages to maintain potable water supplies, sewage ● Supported local tourism agencies, government and hotels to systems and village halls develop marketing campaigns aimed at attracting new visitors to the area EFEMÇUKURU, TURKEY ● Partnered with academic institutions and experts to train local Each quarter, community relations personnel engage with local residents in rural farm practices, including planting and cultivating communities through defined communication channels to new herbs and crops collaboratively evaluate, prioritize and select community projects to ● Organized Hellas Gold’s annual summer internship program OUR OPERATIONS be completed. Community investment projects are generally focused targeting local students, and provided donations to local schools, on health, education, agriculture and infrastructure. university students and sporting teams 2016 Highlights ● Maintained local roads and infrastructure, and supported local healthcare services (e.g. the Paleohori Healthcare Centre) ● Provided medical examinations, supplies and emergency support to 1,477 people from local villages in 2016 ● Worked with suppliers and businesses to increase local procurement, while providing training to local villages to increase local job hiring OUR APPROACH and skill development ● Planted trees and performed landscaping along local roads and access ways MATERIAL TOPICS ELDORADO’S COMMUNITY INVESTMENT FALLS BROADLY UNDER THE FOLLOWING CATEGORIES Education Childhood, youth and adult continuing studies initiatives, as well research and education initiatives relevant to the mining sector Employment Programs and projects that are proven to generate long-term and sustained employment for local communities, together with socio-economic benefits for the area Environment The protection and preservation of the natural environment around our mines Health and sport Improved quality and access to local health care services that can operate independently and sustainably, and supporting recreational projects and sport clubs that promote healthy and active lifestyles Community development Capacity building and physical infrastructure that supports community needs and a post-mine economy Arts & culture The culture and diversity of local communities, including the preservation of heritage and the promotion of local traditions and practices Payments made to local suppliers of goods and services can be found on page 62. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 59 REGIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GOVERNMENT SUPPORT Our mining projects create significant job opportunities for local Mining is a heavily regulated industry and our operations are subject to communities and beyond. Direct jobs are created at the mine itself and the laws and policies of the countries in which we operate. Our in-country indirect jobs are created throughout the industry supply chain. Jobs in the teams maintain regular dialogue with government authorities at the local, wider economy are created as demand increases for local services, such as regional and national levels in order to better understand government shops, restaurants, hotels, schools and hospitals. The International Council objectives and policies, provide information about our projects, discuss on Mining and Metals (ICMM) estimates that for every one direct mining relevant issues and advance our permits. At the corporate level, we work employee, three to five people may be employed indirectly elsewhere in with ministerial offices and diplomats, both in Canada and abroad, to the host nation’s economy. communicate our development successes and challenges. Our mines can be a significant source of income for employees and for We do not participate in any party politics or make payments to governments, generating revenues in the form of wages, income taxes political parties. (personal and corporate), royalties and exports. Depending on metal prices, production from our assets can contribute significantly to a country’s trade balance. Studies by the ICMM indicate that for every $1 of economic activity invested by a mining project, an additional $3 or more is generated elsewhere in the host economy. ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF A MINING PROJECT INDUCED impacts result from employees of both the mine and Increased need for Development of Development Job creation the supply chain relocating to, municipal services local goods and services of municipal facilities (wider economy) (police, fire, transport) (shops, grocers, (schools, universities, and spending their wages in the restaurants, hospitals, sport centres) local community. leisure activities) BANK H Utilities Accounting and Transport Mining fleet Parts, equipment legal services (trucks and and machinery INDIRECT impacts result loaders) from suppliers purchasing goods and services to meet mine demand. Industrial Engineering and Job creation materials environmental services (supply chain) MINING PROJECT Payments for Infrastructure Lodging for land use development mine personnel (installation of power, water, roads) Salaries Community Skill development Royalties Sales of metals Export revenues projects DIRECT impacts result from Payments Job creation Government taxes the development and to suppliers (mining company) (personal & corporate) operation of a mine. 60 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD LOCAL EMPLOYMENT AND PROCUREMENT Local employment and procurement provides significant direct and indirect Our employment and procurement practices are centred on: benefits to the regions where we operate, including skills development, ● Hiring employees, contractors and suppliers from the increased income levels and economic diversification. local community While we do not have a formal policy, we encourage the purchasing ● Promoting an open and shared culture across all our workplaces department at each site to hire locally and use local suppliers wherever YEAR IN REVIEW ● Providing ongoing training and education possible, as well as to work with local suppliers to improve their capacity and ability to work with us. ● Upholding equal opportunities, diversity and anti-discrimination practices Positive impacts of this strategy include strong working relationships with local communities and industry, and operating efficiencies combined with lower long-term costs by having an educated and experienced workforce near our sites. Conversely, negative impacts can include inflated local prices for goods and services, and income disparity between the mining and nonmining workforce. OUR BUSINESS Our broad target is to increase the percentage of materials purchased from companies near our sites every year. In this way, local suppliers can develop their businesses and increase their capability of providing a larger proportion of products and services. Domestic suppliers of goods and services are the biggest recipients of our supplier expenditure, accounting for 79% and 80% of our host-country investment in 2016 and 2015, respectively. OUR OPERATIONS Local electrical suppliers at Efemçukuru, Turkey. OUR APPROACH MATERIAL TOPICS ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 61 Table 15: Payments to Suppliers (1) ($ millions) Turkey Greece Brazil Romania Total 2016 Total 2015 (2) Payments to domestic suppliers 174.4 160.8 10.7 12.4 358.4 383.0 Payments to international suppliers 42.4 45.7 – 4.5 92.6 97.0 Total 216.9 206.5 10.7 17.0 451.0 480.0 % spend on domestic versus international suppliers 80% 78% 100% 73% 79% 80% SPOTLIGHT: TARGETING LOCAL PROCUREMENT IN GREECE Eldorado’s investments in Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries represent one N of the largest economic developments and opportunities for Greece today. By the end of 2016, Eldorado had invested over $750 million in GREECE Greece in these three projects, including over $160 million on national, regional and local suppliers in 2016 alone. As mining forms a large part of the Halkidiki economy, it has the potential to be a significant catalyst for Greece’s economy, particularly through the growth and utilization of local suppliers of goods and services. In Greece, we take great efforts to map local businesses, suppliers and contractors in order to categorize companies as: ● Local suppliers: from the Municipality of Aristotle ● Regional suppliers: from the Halkidiki region (excluding Aristotle) and nearby Muncipality of Volvi ■ Local suppliers/Contractors (Municipality of Aristotle) ● National suppliers: from the rest of Greece ■ Regional suppliers/Contractors (Rest of Chalkidiki/Municipality of Volvi) In 2016, €20.4 million was spent on local supplies from the Municipality ■ National suppliers/Contractors of Aristotle, representing over 13% of Eldorado’s total spend in the (Rest of Greece) Greek market in 2016. €14.2 million €3.2 million €2.9 million Contracts purchased in 2016 Services purchased in 2016 Goods purchased in 2016 One of our site team at Olympias, Greece. (1) We define “local” as procurement from contractors and suppliers located within the neighbouring villages and communities of our sites. However, for data-reporting purposes, we report on “payments to suppliers” within the categories of domestic and international suppliers only. Domestic suppliers are those where the payment recipient is located in the same jurisdiction. Payments to commercial enterprises are considered “domestic” if the commercial enterprise is registered in the same jurisdiction for tax purposes. (2) For comparative purposes, payments to suppliers have been adjusted to exclude data related to Eldorado’s former Chinese assets. 62 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD OUR WORKFORCE Our success is a result of the dedicated employees and contractors who In accordance with the relevant laws and regulations, we uphold strong work for us and our global subsidiaries. It is our people’s motivation and and fair labour practices. We encourage equal opportunities and base commitment to excellence that drives our performance and helps us our hiring practices on skills and experience. Male and female employees achieve our corporate objectives. are paid equally for equivalent jobs. As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, everyone at Eldorado is expected to maintain a safe Across the organization, 99% of our employees and contractors are YEAR IN REVIEW and healthy work environment and promote a workplace that is free from nationals. We believe in recruiting local employees whenever possible and discrimination and harassment on any basis, including race, colour, religion, for senior roles. Turkish, Greek, Brazilian and Romanian employees form gender, age, national origin, disability or sexual orientation. the majority of our management teams working in their respective home countries, alongside a small number of expatriate employees. Please see Tables 17 to 20 for a detailed breakdown of our employee and contractor numbers. Table 16: Total Workforce and Composition OUR BUSINESS National Local Expatriate Total Employees 99% 72% 1% 2,729 Contractors 99% 42% 0% 2,142 Total 99% 59% 0.4% 4,871 OUR OPERATIONS Table 17: Eldorado Employees by Gender and National Representation Male Female % % from Country Site Description employees employees Total Expatriates Nationals Local communities Turkey Kışladağ Operating mine 726 37 763 6 99% 81% OUR APPROACH Efemçukuru Operating mine 426 21 447 1 100% 50% Other Offices, quarries 45 15 60 1 98% – and laboratory Greece Stratoni & Mavres Petres Operating mine 370 13 383 – 100% 93% Olympias Construction project 456 15 471 1 100% 86% Skouries Construction project 40 10 50 2 96% 74% Kassandra mines Offices 87 42 129 3 98% 84% Perama Hill & Sapes Development project 11 2 13 – 100% 100% MATERIAL TOPICS Other Offices and exploration 25 22 47 3 94% 81% Brazil Tocantinzinho Development project 5 3 8 – 100% 63% Vila Nova Care and maintenance 20 – 20 – 100% 75% Other Offices and exploration 22 6 28 – 100% 82% Romania Certej & Deva Construction project 215 36 251 1 100% 41% and office Canada Vancouver Corporate office 31 16 47 – 68% 21% Netherlands Amsterdam Office 4 3 7 1 (1) 43% 43% Serbia – Exploration 4 – 4 – 100% n/a Barbados Bridgetown Office 1 – 1 1 0% – 2,488 241 2,729 20 99% 72% (1) Includes exploration personnel. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 63 Table 18: Eldorado Employees by Gender and Employment Type Turkey Greece Brazil Romania Total Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Full-time employees 1,197 73 989 102 47 9 214 35 2,485 237 Part-time employees – – – 2 – – 1 1 3 4 Total 1,197 73 989 104 47 9 215 36 2,488 241 Permanent employees 1,177 71 937 93 47 9 182 35 2,380 225 Fixed-term employees 20 2 52 11 – – 33 1 108 16 Total 1,197 73 989 104 47 9 215 36 2,488 241 Expatriates 8 – 9 – – – 1 – 19 1 Table 19: Numbers of Employee Hires and Rates of Turnover Turkey Greece Brazil Romania Total Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female New employee hires 32 3 245 171 1 – 35 4 318 183 Rate of new employee hires 2.5% 0.2% 22.4% 15.6% 1.8% 0.0% 13.9% 1.6% 11.7% 6.7% Employee turnover 59 5 189 167 3 – 8 – 261 175 Rate of employee turnover (1) 4.6% 0.4% 17.3% 15.3% 5.4% – 3.2% – 9.6% 6.4% (1) Voluntary and involuntary turnover. OUR CONTRACTORS In 2016, we strengthened our commitment to using local contractors. All contractors that work on our sites must adhere to Eldorado’s We regularly partner with contractors, particularly during the construction governance policies, including our Code of Business Conduct and of new projects (such as Skouries) and when significant investments Ethics, and our Environmental, and Health and Safety policies. are made to our existing operations (such as Olympias Phase II). These Contracting companies are required to implement systems or partnerships enable us to draw on short-term labour and leverage specific procedures that, at a minimum, meet our requirements for social construction expertise that may not be readily available within our and environmental performance. own workforce. It also enables us to focus on our core business, while supplementing expertise, experience and manpower. Examples of our contractor activities include: ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES One-off major projects Significant capital-intensive projects, where ● Mine construction at Skouries and Olympias short-term contract labour is hired for the ● Mine development at Tocantinzinho and Certej duration of the project Specialized projects Minor to major projects, using skills, ● Construction of the Kokkinolakkas tailings equipment and/or labour not typically facility at Stratoni available in the normal mine workforce ● Diamond drilling at exploration sites Major support services Full-time services for important ● Catering and employee transportation services at Kişladağ non-mining work and Efemçukuru ● Private security services at all sites Minor support services Part-time support services ● Office cleaning ● Ad hoc professional services (auditors, lawyers, consultants, etc.) 64 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Table 20: Contractors by Gender and National Representation Male Female % % from Country Site Description contractors contractors Total Nationals Local communities Turkey Kışladağ Operating mine 335 4 339 100% 67% Efemçukuru Operating mine 296 23 319 100% 34% YEAR IN REVIEW Other Offices, quarries – – – n/a n/a and laboratory Greece Stratoni & Mavres Petres Operating mine 186 60 246 100% 48% Olympias Construction project 739 25 764 100% 26% Skouries Construction project 272 12 284 100% 32% Kassandra mines Offices – – – n/a n/a Perama Hill & Sapes Development project – – – n/a n/a Other Offices and exploration 15 12 27 100% 85% OUR BUSINESS Brazil Tocantinzinho Development project 42 5 47 100% 79% Vila Nova Care and maintenance 8 – 8 100% 100% Other Offices and exploration 34 1 35 100% 100% Romania Certej & Deva Construction project 69 1 70 100% 79% and office Canada Vancouver Corporate office – – – n/a n/a Netherlands Amsterdam Office – 1 1 100% 100% OUR OPERATIONS Serbia – Exploration – – – n/a n/a Barbados Bridgetown Office 1 1 2 100% 100% 1,997 145 2,142 100% 42% OUR APPROACH Our Olympias Phase II team celebrates one million man-hours worked with no LTIs. MATERIAL TOPICS ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 65 Running Responsible Operations Mining is a complex industry and we must increasingly demonstrate how we manage risks and mitigate impacts affecting our environmental and social performance. As we continue to improve our transparency and disclosures, we aim to show that the controls that we have in place protect and respect human rights, address and respond to community concerns, provide a safe and respectful working environment, and minimize harm to the environment, while – ultimately – leaving a positive and lasting legacy. WHY THIS MATTERS POLITICAL CLIMATE IN COUNTRIES OF OPERATION Eldorado is committed to the long-term sustainable development of the Mining can only happen where mineral deposits are located, and communities and countries where we operate. However, unpredictable orebodies are often found in remote or politically challenging jurisdictions. political climates, government sentiment towards foreign investment, As mining is a capital-intensive business that requires a significant amount excessive regulation and fiscal policies can create an environment that of investment before metals are produced, we undertake extensive due discourages additional investment, leading to mine closure and job losses. diligence of regions prior to investing. The resulting due diligence reports assess the host country’s political climate, governance structures, legal We faced several challenges in 2016, both social and political, that systems, transparency of doing business, track record of working with affected our sites. Managing these risks requires us to exhibit strong foreign investors, and tax and royalty regimes. However, even having governance and transparency – as well as continued support and extensive due diligence, a mine can last for 20 or more years and there can respect for our workforce – to demonstrate our commitment to deliver therefore be multiple changes to political situations within that timeframe. shared value. This section of our Report discusses some of these topics that were highlighted by our stakeholders during Eldorado’s annual Political and economic uncertainty is challenging for nations and for materiality assessment. industry, with too much political and regulatory uncertainty challenging a jurisdiction’s attractiveness for investment. Eldorado advocates for clear, PERMITS AND LICENCES fair and transparent regulations and proactively shares its experience as a global operator to help host governments develop and maintain Obtaining permits and licences is critical for our project development and appropriate legislation. ongoing operations. It is our responsibility to meet relevant environmental and commercial regulations and it is the host governments’ responsibility Eldorado continued to experience delays in receiving the necessary permits to grant permits and licences in a timely fashion when regulations are met. in Greece for its Olympias and Skouries assets in the first half of 2016. As a result, we halted construction works at Skouries from January until June. During construction and development, Eldorado’s Engineering and Capital Projects teams are responsible for preparing our applications Eldorado has a track record of working with all levels of government to and submitting these to government to obtain the permits and licences find common ground and has continued to engage with multiple levels of we require to operate. These teams report to Eldorado’s Vice President the Greek government – with help from our unions, industry associations in Engineering & Capital Projects who in turn reports to Eldorado’s COO. Greece and the Canadian government – to emphasize the socio-economic Throughout the permitting process our teams are supported by country merits of our investment. Vice President & General Managers who frequently engage with local government to address questions or concerns. During production, our mines must maintain adherence to the operating requirements prescribed within our permits and licences.These generally include explicit social or environmental conditions, such as targets for local employment or air quality and emission thresholds. Our various mine departments, including Environmental, Health and Safety, and Public Relations & Corporate Social Responsibility, are responsible for monitoring and adhering to these requirements. Mine General Managers are ultimately accountable for compliance with our permits and licences, and report directly to Eldorado’s COO. Kişladağ leach pad at dusk. 66 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD HUMAN RIGHTS Eldorado is committed to supporting the protection of international Our workforce – employees and contractors – is required to comply with human rights through best practices in our business activities. While Eldorado’s Human Rights Policy. The policy was signed by Eldorado’s governments have the primary responsibility for protecting and upholding President & CEO and published in January 2016, and outlines our the human rights of their citizens, we recognize our responsibility for requirements for upholding and respecting the human rights of our respecting human rights across our sites. In addition, we recognize that employees, contractors, workers in our supply chain, local community YEAR IN REVIEW we have an opportunity to promote human rights where we can make members, and other stakeholders who may be impacted by our activities. a positive contribution. It explicitly outlines our support for the elimination of child labour and forced labour, as well as the elimination of workplace discrimination on the basis of race, gender, religion, age, social status, sexual orientation or any other arbitrary characteristic unrelated to an individual’s job performance. OUR BUSINESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD In 2016 we further advanced our commitment to responsible The Conflict-Free Gold Standard was published by the World Gold business practices by joining the UNGC, the world’s largest corporate Council in October 2012, following an extensive consultation process responsibility initiative. Our participation is part of an ongoing involving governments, civil society, external auditors and supply chain commitment to uphold the UNGC’s Ten Principles in the areas of participants. The standard creates a framework for assurance that human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. gold is not contributing to conflict or contributing to human rights Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Antiabuses, and helps to “operationalize” the Organisation for Economic Corruption Policy, Human Rights Policy and our Environmental Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Policy make sure that we consistently evaluate and effectively manage Responsible Supply Chains for Minerals from Conflict-Affected and OUR OPERATIONS our operations, risk and relationships. Our aim is to be a welcome High-Risk Areas. partner everywhere we operate. Eldorado’s sites are not located in conflict-affected areas but we adopted the Conflict-Free Gold Standard in 2013 to provide assurance VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS that the gold we produce does not cause, support or benefit armed The Voluntary Principles are “a set of principles designed to guide conflict, or contribute to human rights abuses or breaches of companies in maintaining the safety and security of their operations international humanitarian law. within an operating framework that encourages respect for human rights.” The Voluntary Principles were established in 2000 and are In 2016 we published our third annual Conflict-Free Gold Report OUR APPROACH considered to set the standard for leading practice in managing outlining our findings that Eldorado’s operations, and all gold and goldsecurity for extractive sector operations. bearing material produced by our operations, conform to the ConflictFree Gold Standard. Conformance with the Standard was subject to Eldorado is committed to implementing a human rights and security independent assurance. approach consistent with the Voluntary Principles at each of our operations that rely upon private or public security forces, and based A copy of our Report and independent assurance statement can be on a determination of risk. We are working with MAC to formalize this found here: www.eldoradogold.com/responsibility/our-approach/ further through a joint MAC membership commitment, and will report accountability. MATERIAL TOPICS annually to MAC with an overview of our approach to risk assessments, how our security-related management systems align with the Voluntary Principles, and the nature of our assurance process. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 67 COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES We believe that to conduct business honestly and respectfully we must In addition, each of our operations has established various mechanisms create and encourage open communication between our sites and for receiving and responding to external grievances. However, as part stakeholders. This is essential when managing disputes regarding our of Eldorado’s commitment to implement a framework consistent with activities and relationships. When grievances are raised, we act and respond the Voluntary Principles, we are developing a new approach to monitoring, with due diligence, and effective grievance mechanisms play an important documenting and reporting on community feedback – including role in governing and remediating any impacts. grievances – in order to improve the way we track and respond to stakeholder concerns. In 2016 we finalized our global Grievance As part of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, we have a Mechanism directive, outlining Eldorado’s minimum expectations for whistleblower policy so that any stakeholder – internal or external – identifying, classifying, responding to and reporting grievances. Our sites can confidentially report any concerns about our financial statements, and regions are working towards adopting and aligning existing grievance accounting practices, internal controls or any suspected or known illegal mechanisms to this directive in 2017. behaviour that violates laws, government regulations or our Code. Concerns can be submitted anonymously and are managed by an external whistleblower reporting agency. All submissions and investigations are overseen by Eldorado’s Audit Committee Chair and Corporate Secretary. Table 21: Requests and Complaints Received Turkey Greece (1) Kişladağ Efemçukuru Stratoni Olympias Skouries Number received 6 57 15 Predominant topics Dust; noise; land acquisition; Dust; Desire for employment; subcontractor vehicle speed prioritized local environmental concerns; donations through local villages employment and sponsorships BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION the importance of initiatives such as the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) in improving revenue transparency, as well It is the policy of Eldorado and its subsidiaries to comply with applicable as in strengthening government and Company systems, informing public anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations. Our Anti-Bribery debate and enhancing stakeholder trust. While we do not operate in and Anti-Corruption Policy is designed to educate our employees and any EITI signatory countries, both Canada and the European Union (EU) consultants on their responsibility to comply with applicable anti-bribery have passed laws that require mandatory public reporting of payments and anti-corruption laws. It also encourages staff to be alert to potential to governments by the extractive sector. The respective laws are: violations of applicable laws by any of Eldorado’s personnel or independent representatives, distributors, consultants or agents. ● Canada’s Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA), which came into force on June 1, 2015 Anti-bribery and anti-corruption workshops and training were made available to all employees in 2016. Company officers, leadership and key ● EU’s Transparency and Accounting Directives (EU Directives), staff also attended in-person anti-corruption training at corporate, regional introduced in 2013 and site levels. Company leadership, key management and corporate staff are also required to sign an annual declaration confirming that they have Eldorado’s first report under ESTMA – covering payments made to foreign read and understood Eldorado’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, as and domestic governments at all levels during the 2016 fiscal year – will be well our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Copies of these policies are published by the Act’s May 29, 2017 deadline. Reporting will be publicly posted at each of our sites, in communal work areas and on noticeboards. available on our website after June 30, 2017 and will summarize Eldorado’s The policies are overseen by Eldorado’s Corporate Secretary and Global payments of taxes, royalties, fees, bonuses, production entitlements, Internal Controls Manager. dividends and other categories of payment as prescribed by the Act. Under the EU Directives, member states were required to adopt the TRANSPARENCY OF PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT requirements into domestic law in 2015, which became effective on Revenue transparency is important to our investors and stakeholders. January 1, 2016. Romania and Greece have both implemented this Beyond public financial reporting, we aspire to further increase the level legislation. As we do not have mining operations in the Netherlands, of disclosure we make with respect to payments made to governments our Dutch subsidiaries fall outside the scope of the EU Directives. as part of a broader industry mandate to fight corruption. We recognize (1) Due to the close proximity of Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries, impact assessments and management tools are conducted in concert. 68 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 ELDORADO GOLD Table 22: 2016 Payments to Government (1) ($ millions) Turkey Greece Brazil Romania Total 2016 Royalties and land-use payments 8.51 0.85 – 0.30 9.66 Income and other corporate tax 26.49 0.14 0.0 0.86 27.49 Employee taxes 7.36 11.57 0.79 1.27 20.99 YEAR IN REVIEW Other (2) 13.19 0.95 0.59 0.28 15.01 Total 55.55 13.51 1.38 2.71 73.14 For an overview of payments made by Eldorado to our local communities and suppliers, please see: ● Table 14: 2016 Payments to Communities and Community Investments (page 58) OUR BUSINESS ● Table 15: Payments to Suppliers (page 62) RELATIONSHIPS WITH LABOUR UNIONS TAX STRATEGY The majority of our employees are unionized with employment terms and conditions negotiated through collective bargaining agreements. In 2016, OUR OPERATIONS Eldorado is working to refine its tax management and tax planning in line with current global political and regulatory environments that we renewed each of our agreements in Turkey, Greece, Brazil and Romania. are focused on tax transparency and non-abusive tax strategies. The only significant change was to our underground workforce agreement in Greece and the adoption of a 24/7 continuous underground working In 2017, Eldorado aims to incorporate a tax strategy that supports schedule. The agreements will remain valid until December 31, 2017 in the overall business strategy and provides more clarity on the Greece, Brazil and Romania, and until December 31, 2018 in Turkey. Company’s tax risk management approach. We believe we have good relations with both our unionized and nonunionized employees. We are committed to resolving employee relations OUR APPROACH matters promptly and to mutually beneficial outcomes. Eldorado’s labour agreements are overseen by our mine General Managers and country Vice President & General Managers. Table 23: Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements MATERIAL TOPICS Turkey Greece Brazil Romania Kişladağ Efemçukuru Stratoni Olympias Skouries Tocantinzinho Certej Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 71% 69% 67% 67% 67% 100% 100% (1) Payments to government have been calculated on a cash basis and in accordance with the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA). Eldorado’s 2016 ESTMA Report will be finalized by the May 29, 2017 deadline and therefore totals here may differ from Eldorado’s final ESTMA Report. Payments to government in Eldorado’s 2015 Year in Review Report were calculated on an accrual basis using Mining Association of Canada guidelines and has therefore not been included for comparative purposes. (2) Payments of taxes related to procurement of goods and services including withholding taxes, import and fuel duties. Also includes indirect taxes (such as value-added tax) where these are not repaid to the Company during the period. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 69 MINERAL RESERVES as of December 31, 2016 Proven Mineral Reserves Probable Mineral Reserves Total Proven & Probable Tonnes In-situ oz Tonnes In-situ oz Tonnes In-situ oz GOLD (x1,000) g/t (x1,000) (x1,000) g/t (x1,000) (x1,000) g/t (x1,000) Certej 22,788 1.93 1,414 21,500 1.43 988 44,288 1.69 2,402 Efemçukuru 1,687 8.08 438 2,137 7.18 493 3,824 7.57 931 Kişladağ 205,442 0.76 5,046 11,884 0.58 221 217,326 0.75 5,267 Olympias 4,851 8.65 1,349 11,236 7.54 2,724 16,087 7.87 4,073 Perama 2,477 4.44 354 7,220 2.68 621 9,697 3.13 975 Skouries 73,474 0.91 2,148 79,262 0.64 1,643 152,736 0.77 3,791 Tocantinzinho 16,699 1.53 821 22,914 1.36 1,003 39,613 1.43 1,824 Total gold 327,418 1.10 11,570 156,153 1.53 7,693 483,571 1.24 19,263 SILVER Certej 22,788 10 7,004 21,500 12 8,551 44,288 11 15,555 Olympias 4,851 124 19,339 11,236 130 46,962 16,087 128 66,301 Perama 2,477 3 254 7,220 4 897 9,697 4 1,151 Stratoni 118 169 641 69 144 319 187 160 960 Total silver 30,234 28 27,238 40,025 44 56,729 70,259 37 83,967 Tonnes In-situ t Tonnes In-situ t Tonnes In-situ t COPPER (x1,000) % (x1,000) (x1,000) % (x1,000) (x1,000) % (x1,000) Skouries 73,474 0.54 394 79,262 0.48 382 152,736 0.51 776 Total copper 73,474 0.54 394 79,262 0.48 382 152,736 0.51 776 LEAD Olympias 4,851 4.1 199 11,236 4.4 494 16,087 4.3 693 Stratoni 118 6.3 7 69 5.5 4 187 6.0 11 Total lead 4,969 4.1 206 11,305 4.4 498 16,274 4.3 704 ZINC Olympias 4,851 5.1 247 11,236 6.0 674 16,087 5.7 921 Stratoni 118 9.2 11 69 8.2 6 187 8.8 17 Total zinc 4,969 5.2 258 11,305 6.0 680 16,274 5.8 938 Notes on Mineral Resources and Reserves Mineral Reserve Notes 1. Mineral reserves and mineral resources are as of 1. Long-Term Metal Price Assumptions: 3. Cut-off grades: December 31, 2016. Gold = $1,200/oz; Silver = $16.00/oz (for Stratoni it was Kişladağ: $7.65 NSR; Efemçukuru: 3.24 g/t Au; Perama: $7.74/oz Ag as governed by a streaming agreement with 0.8 g/t Au; Tocantinzinho: 0.42 g/t Au; Skouries: $12.00 2. Mineral reserves are included in the mineral resources. Silver Wheaton (Caymans) Ltd.); Copper = $2.75/lb; NSR (open pit), $33.33 NSR (underground); Olympias: Lead = $1,800/t and Zinc = $2,000/t. $62.00 NSR; Stratoni: 15.54% Zn Equivalent grade 3. Mineral reserves and mineral resources are disclosed (=Zn%+Pb%*1.20+Ag%*165); Certej: 0.90 g/t Au on a total project basis. 2. Skouries: Equivalent grade (=Au(g/t)+Ag(g/t)*0.0121). The current open-pit and underground designs used a copper price of $3.00/lb. Because the open pit is governed 4. Qualified persons: by permit limits, its reserves remain unchanged at the lower • John Nilsson, P.Eng., of Nilsson Mine Services, is reserve price of $2.75/lb. In the underground portion, responsible for the Kişladağ, Skouries open pit, Certej and the change in metal price has no impact on mine design Tocantinzinho reserves and extraction philosophy, or placement of long-term • Doug Jones (Registered Member – SME), consultant for underground infrastructure. Furthermore, the lower price the Company, is responsible for the Efemçukuru, Olympias, does not affect the first half of the planned underground Stratoni and Perama reserves mine life due to starting in higher-grade gold and copper • Colm Keogh, P.Eng, Principal Mining Engineer, AMC Mining sections of the orebody. The latter part of the project’s long mine life does contain stopes with mineral reserve tonnes and metal at risk at the lower copper price. These are in the lowermost parts of the planned mine and along its peripheries, and comprise 7% tonnes, 4% gold metal and 6% copper metal of the stated mineral reserves. 70 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 MINERAL RESOURCES as of December 31, 2016 Measured Resources Indicated Resources Total Measured & Indicated Inferred Resources Tonnes In-situ oz Tonnes In-situ oz Tonnes In-situ oz Tonnes In-situ oz GOLD (x1,000) g/t (x1,000) (x1,000) g/t (x1,000) (x1,000) g/t (x1,000) (x1,000) g/t (x1,000) Certej 27,518 1.80 1,592 62,463 1.23 2,472 89,981 1.40 4,064 12,228 0.96 376 Efemçukuru 2,277 8.58 628 2,224 8.02 574 4,501 8.30 1,202 5,095 4.94 809 Kişladağ 383,886 0.65 8,047 93,312 0.47 1,419 477,198 0.62 9,466 290,466 0.45 4,165 Olympias 4,464 9.97 1,431 10,644 8.55 2,926 15,108 8.97 4,357 3,955 8.34 1,060 Perama 3,064 4.30 424 9,375 3.18 958 12,439 3.46 1,382 8,766 1.96 554 Piavitsa – – – – – – – – – 10,542 5.70 1,932 Sapes – – – 2,423 6.08 474 2,423 6.08 474 1,011 10.65 347 Skouries 100,018 0.79 2,534 189,263 0.47 2,867 289,281 0.58 5,401 170,136 0.31 1,680 Tocantinzinho 17,530 1.51 851 31,202 1.26 1,264 48,732 1.35 2,115 2,395 0.90 69 Total gold 538,757 0.90 15,507 400,906 1.01 12,954 939,663 0.94 28,461 504,594 0.68 10,992 SILVER Certej 27,518 9 7,768 62,463 9 17,833 89,981 9 25,601 12,228 3 1,364 Olympias 4,464 142 20,380 10,644 147 50,305 15,108 146 70,685 3,955 118 15,050 Perama 3,064 3 335 9,375 9 2,833 12,439 8 3,168 8,766 7 1,860 Piavitsa – – – – – – – – – 10,542 57 19,156 Stratoni 480 218 3,364 70 169 380 550 212 3,744 – – – Total silver 35,526 28 31,847 82,552 27 71,351 118,078 27 103,198 35,491 33 37,430 Tonnes In-situ t Tonnes In-situ t Tonnes In-situ t Tonnes In-situ t COPPER (x1,000) % (x1,000) (x1,000) % (x1,000) (x1,000) % (x1,000) (x1,000) % (x1,000) Skouries 100,018 0.48 484 189,263 0.40 758 289,281 0.43 1,242 170,136 0.34 578 Total copper 100,018 0.48 484 189,263 0.40 758 289,281 0.43 1,242 170,136 0.34 578 LEAD Olympias 4,464 4.7 210 10,644 5.0 532 15,108 4.9 742 3,955 3.9 153 Stratoni 480 8.3 40 70 7.0 5 550 8.1 45 – – – Total lead 4,944 5.1 250 10,714 5.0 537 15,658 5.0 787 3,955 3.9 153 ZINC Olympias 4,464 5.8 259 10,644 6.8 724 15,108 6.5 983 3,955 4.3 171 Stratoni 480 11.1 53 70 10.6 7 550 11.0 60 – – – Total zinc 4,944 6.3 312 10,714 6.8 731 15,658 6.7 1,043 3,955 4.3 171 IRON Vila Nova 2,212 59.3 10,982 58.5 13,194 58.7 9,519 59.7 Total iron 2,212 59.3 10,982 58.5 13,194 58.7 9,519 59.7 Mineral Resource Notes 1. Cut-off grades: 2. Qualified persons: Kişladağ: 0.30 g/t Au for M+I, 0.35 g/t for Inferred; and Stratoni are geologically based due to the sharpness • Stephen Juras, Ph.D., P.Geo., Director, Technical Services Efemçukuru: 2.5 g/t Au; Perama: 0.5 g/t Au; of the mineralized contacts and the high-grade nature of for the Company, is responsible for all of the Company’s Tocantinzinho: 0.3 g/t Au; Certej: 0.7 g/t Au; Skouries: the mineralization. mineral resources except for those associated with Sapes 0.20 g/t Au equivalent grade (open pit), 0.60 g/t Au • Peter Lewis, Ph.D., P.Geo., Vice President, Exploration equivalent grade (underground) (=Au g/t + 1.6*Cu%); for the Company, is responsible for the Sapes Piavitsa: 3.5 g/t Au; Sapes: 2.5 g/t Au (underground), mineral resources 1.0 g/t Au (open pit). Resource cut-offs for Olympias ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 71 GRI G4 “CORE” CONTENT INDEX GRI General Standard Disclosures General standard Page UNGC disclosures Description of indicator number Chapter, link or location of information principle STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Letter from CEO 8–9 Letter from Our President & CEO ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Organization name IFC Eldorado Gold Corporation G4-4 Primary brands, products, 14–19 Our Business, Our Products and services G4-5 Location of headquarters 1 Eldorado Gold at a Glance G4-6 Number of countries 1–3, Eldorado Gold at a Glance, Where We Operate, Our Operations where the organization 20–29 has significant operations G4-7 Nature of ownership 2–3, Where We Operate, Our Operations 20–29 G4-8 Markets served 2–3, 14–29 Where We Operate, Our Business, Our Operations G4-9 Scale of the organization: 1–3, 20–29, Eldorado Gold at a Glance, Where We Operate, Our Operations, employees, operations, 40–41, 61–65 Economic and Operational Performance, Local Employment net revenues, production and Procurement G4-10 Employee numbers 63–64 Our Workforce 6 (by region, type and gender) G4-11 Percentage of employees 69 Relationships with Labour Unions 3 covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 14–19, 61–62 Our Business, Our Products, Local Procurement G4-13 Significant changes during 4–13, 20–29 Our Track Record, 2016 Highlights, Letter from Our President & CEO, the reporting period Our Performance and Targets, Our Operations G4-14 Precautionary principle – We recognize there are environmental and social impacts from our 7 operations. Eldorado Gold is committed to using a precautionary approach throughout the lives of our mines, and before any activities commence we assess the potential environmental and social impacts, and evaluate how to avoid, control, or mitigate these, even when impacts are not scientifically certain. G4-15 Externally developed 31 Our Guiding Frameworks and Commitments economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations 31 Our Guiding Frameworks and Commitments 72 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 General standard Page UNGC disclosures Description of indicator number Chapter, link or location of information principle IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 All entities included in the – Please see Eldorado Gold’s 2016 Annual Information Form – organization’s consolidated www.eldoradogold.com/investors/financial-information/filings/ financial statements G4-18 Process for defining 36–39 Materiality report content and aspect boundaries G4-19 List all Material Aspects 38–39 Materiality Results G4-20 Which Aspects are material 38–39 Materiality Results within the organization G4-21 Which Aspects are material 38–39 Materiality Results external to the organization G4-22 Restatements of information IFC About This Report G4-23 Significant changes from – Performance information and data related to Eldorado’s previously previous reporting periods owned Chinese operations have been excluded from reporting, unless in the Scope and Aspect otherwise noted. Where information has been included, data reflects boundaries 2016 performance up to the asset’s final date of sale: ● September 6, 2016: Jinfeng mine is sold to China National Gold Group Corporation ● November 22, 2016: White Mountain mine, Tanjianshan mine and Eastern Dragon Development project are sold to Yintai Resources Co. Ltd With the exception of the above, the report scope has not changed. Material aspects were determined in a materiality assessment undertaken in 2016. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 38, 56 Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and 14–17, Our Business, Strengthening Our Community Relations selection of stakeholders 55–65 with whom to engage G4-26 Organization’s approach to 55–65 Strengthening Our Community Relations stakeholder management G4-27 Key topics and concerns 36–39, 68 Materiality Assessment, Complaints and Grievances raised through stakeholder engagement ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 73 General standard Page UNGC disclosures Description of indicator number Chapter, link or location of information principle REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period IFC About This Report G4-29 Date of most previous report IFC About This Report G4-30 Reporting cycle IFC About This Report G4-31 Contact point IFC About This Report G4-32 GRI reporting level IFC About This Report G4-33 External assurance IFC About This Report GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the 35 Corporate Governance and Transparency, 1, 2, 8, 10 organization www.eldoradogold.com/about-us/governance/ ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards 35 Corporate Governance and Transparency, 1, 2, 8, 10 and norms of behaviour of www.eldoradogold.com/about-us/governance/ the organization 74 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 Fully ✓ Partially ♦ Reported Elsewhere ✗ GRI Material Topics Material Page Level of Identified omission(s) and UNGC topics Report section number reporting reason(s) for omission(s) Comments & links principle OUR ECONOMIC AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Letter from Our President 8–9, ✓ For additional information & CEO, Our Business, 14–19, on Eldorado’s financial Our Approach to 30–35, performance, please see our Responsible Mining, 40–41 Annual Report: Sustaining Long-Term www.eldoradogold.com/ Economic Growth investors/financialand Performance information/annual-reports/ Operational Costs G4-EC1 2016 Highlights, 7, 10, 41 ✓ G4-EC1 financial data has been Additional information Our Performance and reported within the relevant for G4-EC1 indicator: Targets, Our Operations, Report sections (economic ● 2016 employee wages and Annual Operational and and operational performance, benefits for continuing Financial Performance community investment, operations: $86.08 million payments to government, etc.) ● 2016 payments to providers of capital for continuing operations: $101.55 million Metal Production G4-EC1 Where We Operate, 2–3, ✓ Our Operations, Annual 20–29, Operational and Financial 41 Performance KEEPING OUR PEOPLE SAFE G4-DMA Keeping Our People Safe 42–45 ✓ Health and Safety Performance G4-LA6 2016 Highlights, Our 7, 11, 44 ✓ Safety performance is not Performance and Targets, broken down by employees and Health and Safety contractors or gender, as we Performance do track and report by these breakdowns at a Corporate level. Site safety performance is reported in accordance with local government requirements. Training and Skills Development G4-LA6 2016 Highlights, Our 7, 11, 44 ✓ Safety performance is not Performance and Targets, broken down by employees and Health and Safety contractors or gender, as we Performance do track and report by these breakdowns at a Corporate level. Site safety performance is reported in accordance with local government requirements. ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 75 Material Page Level of Identified omission(s) and UNGC topics Report section number reporting reason(s) for omission(s) Comments & links principle Training and Skills Development (continued) G4-DMA Training and Skills 43 ✓ Development G4-LA9 Total Hours of Employee 43 ✓ Training, Total Hours of Safety Training G4-LA10 Training Programs Provided 43 ♦ We do not report on transition by Eldorado assistance programs provided to retired or terminated employees. Emergency Preparedness G4-DMA Safety Beyond The Mine, 45 ✓ Emergency Preparedness MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT G4-DMA Our Performance and 12, ✓ 8, 9 Targets, Our Approach 30–35, to Responsible Mining, 46–54 Minimizing our Environmental Footprint Water Use and Management G4-DMA Water Use and 49–50 ✓ Management G4-EN8 Total Water Withdrawals 50 ✓ Further disclosures on Eldorado’s water use and G4-EN10 Volume of Water Recycled 50 ✓ management can be found and Reused within our annual survey responses to the CDP: G4-EN22 Total Water Discharge by – ✗ Eldorado’s water discharge by www.cdp.net. Quality and Destination destination is reported in the Company’s annual submission to the CDP. Waste Management (Including Tailings) G4-DMA Waste Management, 53–54 ✓ 8, 9 Tailings Management G4-EN22 Total Water Discharge by – ✗ Eldorado’s water discharge by Further disclosures on Eldorado’s Quality and Destination destination is reported in the water use and management Company’s annual submission to can be found within our annual the CDP. survey responses to the CDP: www.cdp.net. G4-EN24 Number of Reportable Spills 48 ♦ The volume of reportable spills in G4-EN24 seeks disclosures on 2016 has not been disclosed. significant spills. Eldorado has chosen to use this indicator to disclose reportable spills, defined as reportable to local regulatory authorities. Neither of the two reportable spills in 2016 was considered significant. 76 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 Fully ✓ Partially ♦ Reported Elsewhere ✗ Material Page Level of Identified omission(s) and UNGC topics Report section number reporting reason(s) for omission(s) Comments & links principle Waste Management (Including Tailings) (continued) G4-EN29 Environmental Fines and 54 ✓ Penalties Energy Use G4-DMA Energy Use and 51–52 ✓ Further disclosures on Management Eldorado’s energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and G4-EN3 Total Direct and Indirect 52 ✓ management can be found Energy Use by Source within our annual survey G4-EN5 Energy Intensity 52 responses to the CDP: ✓ www.cdp.net/ Greenhouse Gas Emissions G4-DMA Energy Use and 51–52 ✓ Management G4-EN15 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 53 ✓ (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 53 ✓ (Scope 2) Further disclosures on Eldorado’s greenhouse gas G4-EN17 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 53 ✓ emissions and management (Scope 3) can be found within our annual survey responses to the CDP: G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emission – ✗ Eldorado’s GHG intensity is www.cdp.net/ Intensity reported in the Company’s annual submission to the CDP. G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse – ✗ Eldorado’s change in annual Gas Emissions GHG emissions is reported in the Company’s annual submission to the CDP. Cyanide Management G4-DMA SPOTLIGHT: The 47 ✓ International Cyanide Management Code ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 77 Material Page Level of Identified omission(s) and UNGC topics Report section number reporting reason(s) for omission(s) Comments & links principle STRENGTHENING OUR COMMUNITY RELATIONS G4-DMA Letter from Our President 8–9, ✓ For additional information 6 & CEO, Our Approach 30–35, on Eldorado’s financial to Responsible Mining, 55–65 performance, please see our Strengthening Our annual report: Community Relations www.eldoradogold.com/ investors/financialinformation/annual-reports/ Community and Government Support G4-DMA Community Engagement, 55–60 ✓ Government Support G4-SO1 Local Impact Assessment 57 ♦ At this time, we are unable and Management Tools to report the number of site stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping. Stakeholder Engagement G4-DMA Stakeholder Engagement 56 ✓ G4-SO1 Local Impact Assessment 57 ♦ See above and Management Tools Local Employment and Procurement G4-EC6 Eldorado Employees by 63 ♦ We do not track the percentage Gender and National of senior management hired Representation from local communities, but instead focus on the total percentage of our workforce hired from local communities. G4-LA1 Numbers of Employee Hires 64 ✓ We do not monitor or report on and Rates of Turnover new employee hires or employee turnover by age group. G4-LA11 Sustainability Factors in 35 ✓ We do not track our We aim for all our employees Compensation performance review (100%) to conduct regular information by gender or (annual, if not more frequent) employment category. performance reviews. Community Investment G4-DMA Community Investment 58–59 ✓ G4-EC1 Payments to Communities 58–59 ✓ and Community Investments Corporate Reputation G4-DMA Our Reputation 55–56 ✓ Regional Economic Development G4-DMA Regional Economic 60 ✓ Development 78 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 Fully ✓ Partially ♦ Reported Elsewhere ✗ Material Page Level of Identified omission(s) and UNGC topics Report section number reporting reason(s) for omission(s) Comments & links principle RUNNING RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS G4-DMA Running Responsible 66–69 ✓ Operations Permits and Licences G4-DMA Permits and Licences 66 ✓ Political Climate in Countries of Operation G4-DMA Political Climate in 66 ✓ Countries of Operation Human Rights G4-DMA Human Rights 67 ✓ 1, 2, 4, 5 Complaints and Grievances G4-DMA Complaints and Grievances 68 ✓ G4-SO11 Requests and 68 ♦ At this time, we do not track We are reviewing the ways we Complaints Received the number of grievances track and report grievances, addressed and resolved during with the objective of improving the reporting period. how we disclose the number and status of grievances raised each year. Bribery and Corruption G4-DMA Bribery and Corruption 68 ✓ Relationships with Labour Unions G4-DMA Relationships with 69 ✓ Labour Unions Transparency of Payments to Government G4-DMA Transparency of Payments 68–69 ✓ to Government G4-EC1 Payments to Government 69 ✓ ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 79 CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION Certain statements and information in this Year in Review Report, including all statements • risks associated with maintaining substantial levels of indebtedness, including potential that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements and forward-looking information financial constraints on operations, interest rate risk and credit rating risk; within the meaning of applicable U.S. and Canadian securities laws. Such forward-looking • the risks that the integration of acquired businesses may take longer than expected, statements or information include, but are not limited to, statements or information with the anticipated benefits of the integration may be less than estimated or the costs of respect to our strategy, plans, goals, outlook, financial disclosure; our future financial and acquisition may be higher than anticipated; operating performance, price of gold and other commodities, cash flow, cash costs, targets, • the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, monetization, mergers and other business production and expenditures; our mineral reserve and resource estimates; and our proposed combinations or transactions, including effect of changes in our portfolio of projects mine development (including permitting), exploration, acquisitions, dispositions, our on our current and future operations, capital requirements, and financial condition and expectation as to future performance at our mines and other events and developments that ability to complete such transactions; have not yet happened. Often, these statements include words such as “plans”, “expects” • litigation risks, including the uncertainties inherent in current and future legal challenges “is expected”, “budget”, “continue”, “projected”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, we are, or may become, a party to; “intends”, “anticipates” or “believes”, or negatives thereof or variations of such words • share capital dilution and share price volatility; and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will” be taken, occur or be achieved. • taxation, including change in tax laws and interpretations of tax laws; • financial reporting risks; In particular, this Report includes forward-looking statements or information with respect to: • failure, security breaches or disruption of our information technology systems; and • our strategic priorities and principles, including commitments or targets in respect of • risks related to natural disasters and climate change. economic/operations; health, safety, environmental, governance and community matters and adherence to or proposed adherence to certain global ethical, environmental and The reader is directed to our most recent Annual Information Form and our quarterly and social responsibility guiding frameworks; annual MD&A, each filed on SEDAR under our Company name, for a detailed discussion • our guidance and outlook, including targeted 2017 production and cash cost, planned of these and other risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking capital and exploration expenditures for 2017 and mineral reserve and mineral resource statements and information. The discussion under “Risk factors in our business” in our most estimates; recent Annual Information Form is incorporated by reference in this Report. • future financial and operating performance, including mineral reserve targets, debt to Although we have attempted to identify factors that would cause actual actions, events capital ratio target, future cash flow, estimated cash costs and gold price outlook; and or results to differ materially from those disclosed in the forward-looking statements • our plans and goals, including our proposed exploration, development, construction, or information, there may be other factors that cause actual results, performances, permitting, and operating plans and priorities, and related timelines. achievements or events not to be anticipated, estimated or intended. Also, many of the factors are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which Should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or other factors materialize, or should the may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forwarddescribed in forward-looking statements or information. Accordingly, readers should not looking statements or information. place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. We have made numerous assumptions, estimates and opinions that may prove to be incorrect, We undertake no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information including among other things, assumptions about the geopolitical, economic, permitting as a result of new information or events after the date of this Report except as may be and legal climate in which we operate; the price of gold and other commodities; exchange required by law. rates; anticipated costs and expenditures; production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries; the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on our All forward-looking statements and information made in this document are qualified by this business; and the ability to achieve our goals. Even though our management believes that the cautionary statement. assumptions made and the expectations represented by such statements or information are Cautionary Note about Production Outlook, Guidance and Estimates reasonable, there is no assurance that the forward-looking statements or information will prove Readers are cautioned that production outlook, guidance and estimates are subject to a variety to be accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our control. of factors that are likely to cause actual results to vary from our estimates, and such variations Forward-looking statements and information contained in this Report are subject to risks, may be material. Forward-looking information generally involves risks and uncertainties uncertainties and other factors including, among other things, the following: as described above which are, in many instances, beyond our control, including: (i) global and local economic and political conditions; (ii) pricing and cost factors; (iii) unanticipated • volatility of global and local economic climate and geopolitical risk; events, changes or delays in current development plans, execution of development plans, • title, permitting and licensing risks, including the risks of obtaining and maintaining the future operating results, financial conditions or other aspects of our business over time; and validity and enforceability of necessary permits and licences, the timing of obtaining and (iv) unfavourable legal, regulatory or policy developments, that could cause actual events renewing such permits and licences, and risks of defective title to mineral property; and results to vary significantly from those included in or contemplated by such statements. • gold and other metal price volatility and the impact of any related hedging activities; The production outlook, guidance and estimates reflect certain assumptions by us, which • development, mining and operational risk, including timing, hazards and losses that are assumptions may differ with respect to future events, political, economic, competitive and uninsured or uninsurable; regulatory conditions, geopolitical climate, financial market conditions and future business decisions, including, without limitation, a continuation of existing business operations on • risks of operating in foreign countries in which we currently or may in the future conduct substantially the same basis as currently exists all of which assumptions are difficult to predict business, including controls, laws, regulations, changes in mining regimes or governments and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the and political or economic developments; outlook, guidance and estimates are indicative of our future performance or that actual results • regulatory restrictions, including environmental regulatory restrictions and liability, would not differ materially from those in the outlook, guidance and estimates. including actual costs of reclamation; • changes in law and regulatory requirements or policies, including permitting, foreign Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Concerning Estimates of Measured, investment, environmental, tax and health and safety laws and regulations; Indicated and Inferred Resources • competition for mineral properties and merger and acquisition targets; The terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource”, • environmental risks, including use and transport of regulated substances; “inferred mineral resource” used herein are Canadian mining terms used in accordance with National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”) under • infrastructure, water, energy, equipment and other input availability and durability, and the guidelines set out in the Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and Petroleum (the their cost and impact on capital and operating costs, exploration, development and “CIM”) Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, adopted by the CIM Council, as production schedules; may be amended from time to time. These definitions differ from the definitions in the United • community and non-governmental actions and regulatory risks, including the possibility States Securities & Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Industry Guide 7. In the United States, a of a shutdown at any of our operations; mineral reserve is defined as a part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and • ability to maintain positive relationships with the communities in which we operate in and legally extracted or produced at the time the mineral reserve determination is made. potential loss of reputation; • perception of local people about foreign companies operating their lands; While the terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource,” “indicated mineral • subjectivity of estimating mineral reserves and resources and the reliance on available resource”, and “inferred mineral resource” are recognized and required by Canadian data and assumptions and judgements used in interpretation of such data and depletion regulations, they are not defined terms under standards in the United States and normally of grades or quantities of mineral reserves; are not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. As • discrepancies between actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and resources such, information contained herein concerning descriptions of mineralization and resources and metallurgical recoveries; under Canadian standards may not be comparable to similar information made public by • speculative and uncertain nature of gold and other mineral exploration; U.S. companies in SEC filings. • risks of not meeting production and cost targets or estimates; Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic • the loss of key employees and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; viability. With respect to “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource”, there • employee health and safety laws and human rights; is a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and a great uncertainty as to their • labour disputes, labour shortages and risks associated with unionized labour; economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of a “measured • prices for energy inputs, labour, material costs, supplies and services (including shipping) mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource” or “inferred mineral resource” will ever be remaining consistent with expectations; upgraded to a higher category. • risk associated with co-ownership (including joint ventures); • impact on operations of compliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery and sanction laws; Accordingly, information herein containing descriptions of our mineral deposits may • increased capital requirements and the ability to obtain financing; not be comparable to similar information made public by U.S. companies subject to the • currency exchange fluctuations and the impact of any related hedging activities; reporting and disclosure requirements under U.S. federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. 80 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 CORPORATE INFORMATION CANADA (HEAD OFFICE) GREECE BARBADOS Eldorado Gold Corporation Hellas Gold SA & Thracean Eldorado Gold (Barbados) Limited 1188 Bentall 5 Gold Mining SA White Park House 550 Burrard Street 23A Vasilissis Sofias Avenue White Park Road Vancouver, BC V6C 2B5 Canada Athens Bridgetown 10674 Greece BB11135 Barbados Tel: +1 604 687 4018 Fax: +1 604 687 4026 Tel: +30 214 687 0000 Tel: +1 246 271 5357 Toll-free: +1 888 353 8166 Fax: +30 214 687 0095 Fax: +1 246 271 5357 TURKEY BRAZIL THE NETHERLANDS Tüprag Metal Madencilik Unamgen Mineração e Metalurgia S/A Eldorado Gold (Netherlands) BV Sanayive Ticaret A.S. Avenida Olegário Maciel Barbara Strozzilaan 101 Iran Caddesi 1846 – Santo Agostinho 1083 HN, Amsterdam Turan Emeksiz Sok. No. 1 Belo Horizonte, MG The Netherlands 06700 Gaziosmanpasa CEP 30180-112 Brazil Ankara Turkey Tel: +31 204 509 610 Tel: +55 31 2101 3750 Fax: +31 204 509 611 Tel: +90 312 468 4536 Fax: +55 31 2101 3758 Fax: +90 312 468 2646 ROMANIA CHINA Deva Gold SA Eldorado Gold Corporation No. 9 Dragos Voda Street Room 1001, West Tower BL. 28, SC. A-B LG Twin Towers Deva, Hunedoara County B-12 Jianguomenwai Avenue 330034 Romania Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022 China Tel: +40 25 423 3680 Fax: +40 25 423 3682 Tel: +86 10 5828 7966 Fax: +86 10 5828 7967 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 81 GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS, SYMBOLS AND ABBREVIATIONS °C Degrees celsius ISO International Standards oz Troy ounce (31.1 grams) Organization 2P Proven and probable Pb Lead ISO 14001 Environmental Ag Silver Management System PDAC Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada Au Gold ISO 14064 International standard for GHG emissions, inventories PPE Personal protective B Billion equipment and verification BAP Biodiversity Action Plan SDG Sustainable ISO 39001 Road Traffic Safety Management System Development Goal CDP Carbon Disclosure Project ISO 50001 Energy Management System SIA Socio-economic CEO Chief Executive Officer impact assessment CFO Chief Financial Officer Koz One thousand troy ounces SLI Starting, lighting, ignition CIL Carbon-in-Leach Kt One thousand tonnes t Tonne (one thousand COO Chief Operating Officer LPG Liquefied petroleum gas kilograms) EGU European Goldfields Ltd LTI Lost-Time Injury tCO2e Tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent EIA Environmental impact LTIFR Lost-Time Injury Frequency assessment Rate (per million man-hours TRIFR Total Recordable Injury worked) Frequency Rate (per million ESTMA Extractive Sector man-hours worked) Transparency Measures Act m Metre TSM Towards Sustainable Mining g Grams m3 Metre cubed UNGC United Nations G4 GRI’s fourth-generation M Million Global Compact sustainability reporting MAC Mining Association VPs Voluntary Principles on guidelines of Canada Security and Human Rights GHG Greenhouse gases Moz One million troy ounces WGC World Gold Council GJ Gigajoule NGO Non-governmental Zn Zinc GRI Global Reporting Initiative organization ICMC International Cyanide OECD Organisation for Economic Management Code Co-operation and Development ICMI International Cyanide Management Institute OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System 82 ELDORADO GOLD YEAR IN REVIEW 2016 Eldorado Gold Corporation 1188 Bentall 5 550 Burrard Street Vancouver, BC V6C 2B5 Canada Tel: +1 604 687 4018 Fax: +1 604 687 4026 Toll-free: +1 888 353 8166 eldoradogold.com TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO
