STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT We are pleased to inform that Broste Copenhagen once again support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Our progress towards internalizing our beliefs, behavior and values into policies grounded in the UN Global Compact principles is progressing every year. It is our experience that our continued commitment to the ten principles constitutes a good foundation for promoting and demonstrating our responsible business practices. As a leading Scandinavian interior brand the principles are consistent with our business philosophy and general business conduct. We wish to express our approach to integrate the Global Compact and its principle into our strategy, culture and daily operations, through our creation of unique product designs and collections. In this Communication on Progress we share our achievements during 2016 and also the opportunities we see ahead. By supporting the Global Compact, we set ourselves to the highest standards and remain committed to share our information with our customers, partners and other stakeholders. Kim John Larsen CEO Broste Copenhagen HUMAN RIGHTS Vision Broste Copenhagen emphasizes due diligence in regards to Human Rights. We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and The European Human Rights Declaration and adhere to Danish legislation which legally binds us to avoid engaging in any form of human rights abuse. Progress Our commitment to respect human rights has always been important and we practice due diligence on an ongoing basis. Our business operations takes us many different places around the world when seeking inspiration and discovering new design opportunities. Avoiding complicity in human rights abuses is part of our efforts and to promote our high Scandinavian standards in every location we establish partnerships and business relationships. We always encourage our designers and employees to promote and respect human rights in countries and locations that are not used to our high standards in Scandinavia. This includes non-discrimination in regards of gender, nationality or otherwise cultural background. We do, however, consider diversity among our employees, designers and other partnerships to include experience and competences as part of our selection. Broste Copenhagen will never hesitate to remove products or cancel partnerships if any detection is made which seems questionable in terms of human rights abuse. By having suppliers in India and Lithuania it is utmost important that our representatives engaging with our suppliers exercise due diligence and report back if any abuse is detected. Results We do believe that we have a social responsibility as a private company to respect human rights, different cultures, religions and freedom of expression without any abuse to achieve a broader vision of peaceful and inclusive societies and business relationships between boarders. So far, there have been no reported incidents in our company’s history regarding human rights abuse but we find it more important than ever due to our continuous growth. From 2018 we are planning to conduct our own supplier audits and in 2017 we will develop the auditing scheme. We believe that we have an opportunity to impact and educate our suppliers and the option to push a positive development in regards to the Sustainable Development Goals. LABOUR Vision Broste Copenhagen strives to ensure that the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are upheld, that the company does not engage in any forced and compulsory labour or child labour, and that the company works to ensure diversity and non-discrimination in respect of employment and occupation to ensure our adherence to the UN Global Compact. Progress We support international and national proclaimed labour rights including freedom of association and collective bargaining. We believe in decent employment and working conditions and strive to ensure that all employees working conditions are considered and that employees have the opportunity to discuss working conditions. We want to promote a healthy and safe working environment. Employees have the opportunity to discuss working conditions with a work representative or individual chosen union if any work-related issue should be a concern including grievances. This of cause accounts for every single employee of Broste Copenhagen. We do not tolerate forced labour at our warehouses, stores where our products are being sold or at our suppliers should we be aware of any issues regarding forced labour we will not hesitate to take appropriate action according to our Code of Conduct. UN Global Compact. We have made labour rights one of our main areas of interest in 2017/2018. We wish to improve on every aspect regarding labour rights – both at our own facilities and in our supply chain. We wish to make a positive impact on general labour standards through our suppliers in less developed countries. Results We have conducted assessments of our workplace since 2015 and in light of this we established a satisfaction council and allocated a perceptible funds to progress on the matters we believed needed improvement. The management do not administer or supervise the use of the donation. In 2017 we wish to conduct a more through and measurable employee satisfaction survey and use this as a tool to make necessary changes to improve working conditions internally. By monitoring our employees’ satisfaction, we aim to support and promote a working culture where every employee and management can take responsibility to ensure safe and healthy working conditions by taking preventive measures and carry out systematic risk assessments to improve work-related issues systematically. We are looking forward to show you our results in our next Communication on Progress. In regards of improving working standards with the employees of our suppliers new auditing scheme that will promotes a positive and open minded approach. While we expect our suppliers to respect internationally recognized human rights including labour rights, we do not believe that it will be fruitful to impose our suppliers with the same high standards we have spent decades to achieve in Europe. We want to create cohesion with our suppliers and develop a realistic approach to better conditions for employees and promote and advocate the positive change towards better working conditions. ENVIRONMENT Vision Broste Copenhagen is committed to building a more sustainable future, by meeting the needs of today without compromising the possibility for future generations to meet their needs. We are committed to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and all suppliers have to sign our Code of Conduct, promising that they follow the guidelines of the UN Global Compact and its principles. Progress Broste Copenhagen will continue to focus on our environmental performance and deliver on our commitment to create sustainable solutions. Our environmental considerations towards our interior designs and products should be to the benefit of both the environment and our consumer’s health. We consider the use of resources, including textiles, the use of raw materials for food safety and energy use as part of our impact on the environment. Numerous products in our collection is supported by certified labels and GOTS schemes. Our Executive Management and Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for setting direction for the strategic and proactive initiatives of our sustainability agenda. This would also include our employee’s opinion and voluntary ENERGY CONSUMPTION (kWh) commitment towards greater environmental steps. Our 40.000 company’s commitment and policy are build on the support of our 35.000 30.000 employees and every action surrounding environmental risk 25.000 20.000 reduction and implementation should be supported by everyone 15.000 10.000 5.000 in our company. Results Throughout the past two years we have conducted a systematic 2015 2016 approach to measure our energy consumption. Each month between 2015 and 2016 has left us with a reduction in energy consumption reducing our overall environmental energy use. This is a result we are proud of and could not have been done without the support of our great employees making sure that our energy use does not progress in an upward direction. We will continue our effort in reducing our energy consumption by tracking and monitoring our KWh each year. We already installed LED-lighting in warehouse facilities and plan to do the same to the main office building to further reduce our energy consumption. Further we have constructed an online platform for all our customers (retail stores etc.), sales agents and personnel. This has reduced the need for paper-based marketing material significantly which accounted for a lot of unnecessary deforestation. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Broste Copenhagen has a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption and bribery or otherwise related unethical behavior. We expect that our surroundings also adhere to our expectations that corruption, bribery and fraud is both wrong and illegal. Progress Our company will always abolish corruption in our business, from our engagement with customer, partners and in our supply chain. Our business practice is rooted in our corporate social responsibility and the UN’s Global Compact principles working towards eliminating corruption, extortion and bribery. Results If any employees should be in doubt of incident or situations, it is our policy to address and approach the management for further instruction and guidance. Since the beginning of Broste Copenhagen there have been no concerns regarding anti-corruption and the delivery of our services or products. The company has not been the subject of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other necessary actions taken related to corruption, extortion or bribery.
