DIAB Group Sustainability report 2016 Sweden, Helsingborg 2017-05-14 Diab Group Sustainability Office Report revision 1.0 GRI Standards Page | 1 Content Diab sustainability reporting ................................................................................................................... 3 Statement from CEO ............................................................................................................................... 3 Diab in brief ............................................................................................................................................. 4 A focus on materiality ............................................................................................................................. 5 Responsibility and Commitment ........................................................................................................... 10 Governance, Organization and Suppliers .............................................................................................. 13 Stakeholder engagement ...................................................................................................................... 14 Management approach ......................................................................................................................... 16 Occupational Health and Safety ............................................................................................................ 17 Diversity and Equal Opportunity ........................................................................................................... 19 Effluents and Waste .............................................................................................................................. 21 Energy .................................................................................................................................................... 22 Emissions ............................................................................................................................................... 24 GRI content index .................................................................................................................................. 26 Page | 2 Diab sustainability reporting 2016 is the first year historically that Diab is making a more comprehensive non-financial reporting above what is in line with Ratos CR Framework. Earlier years a minor sustainability reporting to our owners has been made but together with our increased focus within this field we also want to follow this trend in our reporting. Further, 2017 is the first year that Diab is covered by legislation on nonfinancial reporting. In order to prepare for next year’s requirements on sustainability reporting Diab chose to start already this year with the reporting with the target to follow GRI standards. The report has been prepared in accordance with the Standards Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Core option, and is also Diab’s Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. This year’s report is based on already existing stakeholder dialogs, but this is something that will be renewed for the coming year with a thorough materiality analysis performed during 2017. Diab sustainability report 2016 is published internally on the intranet but the report for the coming year will be published also externally. Statement from CEO Sustainable development have been established as a strategic part of the Diab business, we work within numerous areas of sustainability issues, and we prioritise issues regarding good business ethics, meeting customers’ needs and ensuring good health and safety. We also aim to use resources such as materials, energy and water as efficiently as possible and, of course, to minimise our environmental impact. Our main production sites are underpinned by our certified management systems in accordance with ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. By reaffirming the UN Global Compact during 2016, Diab is making a long-term statement to continuously focus on our sustainable development. New record year 2016 was Diab’s best ever year in turn over. Our sales totalled SEK 1516 million and operating profit (EBITA) was SEK 109 million. All of our business areas performed well and we have built a new IPN production facility in China, Zhangjiagang. By offering customers innovative technical solutions together with world-class productivity and quality, we are able to support them from initial concept to finished product. We have come a long way but there is, of course, plenty still to do. We want to offer customers even greater value creation. Continual development of our core values by implementing and educating in “One Diab” – “We cooperate, we help each other out and we work as one global company” this year to all our employees. With our highly capable employees, a solid organisation, responsible business practices, Diab will continue its journey towards achieving the company’s mission “to provide stronger, lighter and smarter composite solutions realizing a more sustainable world. Page | 3 Diab in brief Activities, brands, products, and services Diab is a global company that develops, manufactures and sells core materials for sandwich composite structures used in, among other objects, leisure boats, wind turbine blades and components for aircraft, trains, industrial applications and buildings. The core materials have a unique combination of characteristics such as low weight, high strength, insulation properties and chemical resistance. Diab products highly contribute to a sustainable world by significantly reducing the weight of the final application as for example aircrafts, boats, trains and other vehicles. This reduce the usage of fossil fuels and strongly contributes to reduce GHG emissions on our planet. Location of operations The company has production units for material in Sweden, Italy, the US, China and Ecuador. Material processing takes place in the production units as well in China and Lithuania. Scale of the organization 2016  Total Number of Employees: 1242  Total number of Operations: 7  Net sales of 1516 MSEK split between Private sector and Public Sector: 100% Private sector  Total capitalization: Out of investments of 127 MSEK, 26 MSEK from new loans and the rest financed through internal cash flow. Total Net sales: 1516 MSEK Page | 4 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Defining report content and topic Boundaries A focus on materiality Diab’s sustainability report for 2016, in accordance with GRI Standards includes aspects relating to the environment, health and safety, financial and social responsibility and ethics. Our ambition is for this report, together with supplementary information, to give our employees and external stakeholders a transparent view of the company’s corporate responsibility activities and how these interact with our business activities. All units belonging to Diab in 2016 are included in the report, including a new factory in China. In total 7 production facilities contributed with data. Page | 5 All Diab prioritised materiality areas were prepared through a process were each sustainability responsible for all sites made an evaluation together with stakeholders locally. These analysis and evaluations were then summarized to a global diagram as Diab’s materiality analysis represents all sites and their corresponding stakeholders. Reporting principles The reporting is made on core option and the material topics identified through the process of the materiality assessment. In line with the Ratos CR Framework, Diab reports implementation and status of progress in Q1 annually. The framework is continuously updated and revised by Ratos Head of Sustainability and reflects the wish of the shareholders of Diab. Each production unit provides quantitative and qualitative information in accordance with Diab’s sustainability KPI: s. The sustainability responsible of each company/unit is responsible for assuring the quality of the information submitted. The year’s performance is compared and verified against information for previous years. All production sites report figures for calculating CO2e emissions in the software tool “Our Impact” (following Greenhouse Gas Protocol). This GHG emission assessment quantifies the total greenhouse gases produced directly and indirectly by Diab global activities. Most of the figures and data are received from the process connected to the ISO certification of the different units. Changes in reporting No significant changes in the list of material topics and topic boundaries have been done compared to previous reporting periods. As this is the first year when reporting according to GRI standards the nomenclature in the above mentioned topics have been changed to fit the terminology in the standard. Page | 6 List of material topics Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Materiality analysis Within the framework of the ISO 14001and ISO 9001 standards, Diab’s companies endeavour to identify and manage significant aspects relating to environment, health and safety, and energy. This forms an important backdrop to Diab’s materiality analysis, which is developed based on the requirements set out in the GRI Standards sustainability reporting guidelines. Area Sustainability target Performance in 2016 The object is more efficient energy use. The Group-wide KPI is energy Energy audits and efficiency Environmental Energy consumed per product, measures were carried out during responsibility kWh/m3 and many of the the year at Diab's facilities. production units use locally adapted targets. Page | 7 During 2016 the first CO2 e emission survey for Diab Group was performed. This knowledge Carbon emissions are a has created the ground for where global challenge and Carbon to focus and put the first actions Diab's objective is to emissions in order to reduce the carbon reduce its emissions of footprint. Further, this opens up greenhouse gases. the possibilities to actually put concrete targets on reduction of CO2 e emissions. Chemicals that are One new chemical was hazardous to the introduced, partly replacing Chemicals environment or health another as its contribution to shall be identified and reduction of energy needed phased out. during production is significant. During 2016 the recycling of PET The Group-wide objective waste in Longarone site has Waste is for the volume of waste increased. Further, equipment for to be reduced. recycling of PES waste in DeSoto has been installed. Environmental The objective is for all ISO certified units are Siaulai, management units to be ISO 14001Longarone, Laholm and Duran, 4 systems certified. out of 7 production units. Diab continuously develops further improved Diab markets environmentally sustainable environmentally products. During 2016 a new Environmentally sustainable products as product was developed with sustainable they significantly significantly improved properties, products contributes to reduced which reduces the carbon usage of fossil fuels and footprint not only for Diab but other types of energy. also customers. New equipment for production of this product was installed in Laholm. All facilities record LTA index, occurrence index, severity index and the accident rate remains Continually reducing the unchanged. Further recording is Social number of accidents and overtime rate, H&S training rate Safe workplaces responsibility illnesses in the workplace and sick leave rate. Training in is an essential objective. One Diab for all employees at all facilities about Diab values, were safety is one of the main items. Page | 8 There should be no cases of infringements of human rights, Ethical and No cases of infringements of discrimination or forced humane human rights were recorded labour. Active information principles during the year. shall continue to be provided to employees and new staff. The Group has a whistle blowing system and events relating to There should be no cases corruption or inadequate of bribery, corruption or business ethics were recorded in Anti-corruption cartel formation. 2016. All Diab employees has measures Continued active undergone a web based antiinformation for corruption training during 2016, employees. except the teams in Thailand, Australia and India. Evaluation of suppliers' sustainability work is Supplier Code of Conduct is Suppliers continuously made under introduction at our together with other strategic suppliers. crucial suppliers' tasks. Some customers perform their Financial own supplier assessments at Diab responsibility production units of which several Business are made each year, also during partners and Customer requirements 2016. Here, questions regarding other regarding the environment and social stakeholders Customers environment and social responsibility are regularly responsibility shall be met considered. Occasionally, by a comfortable margin. customers have specific sustainability requirements, which Diab replies to in a timely manner. Reporting must be in accordance with GRI First survey and reporting of CO2 standards. Diab shall e emissions according to GHG Society, continue to endorse the Protocol for 2016. Investors and UN Global Compact. We analysts shall achieve good results Continued support for the UN in evaluations by analysts Global Compact and its ten and independent principles institutions through transparent information Page | 9 in the field of sustainability. Governance of sustainability work Sustainability issues relate to Diab’s operations in a number of ways, including the introduction of new technology, internal and external communication, corporate acquisitions, crisis and risk management, accounting and training. The overall focus of and responsibility for our sustainability work is set out in Diab’s Code of Conduct and Diab Group Sustainability Policy. Operational responsibility for sustainability issues is delegated to the Managing Director of each company. Group management regularly follows up on the development of this work and how sustainability measures are being integrated into strategic planning. Along with the annual sustainability report, we also carry out an analysis of compliance with legislation, target outcomes and the development of performance and key KPI:s during the year. Responsibility and Commitment Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior “Our commitment is to be a long-term, ethical, profitable company providing a solid return on investment for our shareholders & valuable solutions to our customers, as well as being a good employer to the Diab co-workers”. We believe that fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities is instrumental in meeting our commitment and reaching our targets. To this end  Safety for our people always comes first. Simply put, no one should get hurt while working at Diab. Together, we all take responsibility for each other’s safety.  We work in strict adherence with regulatory requirements  We are a trustworthy partner for our business associates  We work in close cooperation with local society and continuously focus on minimizing the impact on the environment on a local and global scale. Page | 10 To ensure that we meet the commitments to our stakeholders and interact with our customers, partners, internally as well as with local and global society, in a respectful and correct manner, we have implemented the Diab Code of Conduct. In any given situation we can lean on our Code of Conduct to give guidance on how to act. In Diab it is every co-workers’ responsibility to follow the Code and to report if there should be activities not in compliance with the same.” The Diab Code of Conduct, summarized: Respect for people and human rights  We respect basic human rights  We offer our employees fair and reasonable working conditions  Diab rejects child labour and forced labour  We appreciate diversity  We respect our co-workers’ right to be organised  We are against the procurement of sexual services and child pornography Good business ethics  All co-workers and representatives are expected to show honesty and integrity in dealing with other co-workers, customers, suppliers, business partners, organisations and authorities.  Diab works systematically to prevent corruption  We support and aim to achieve fair competition  We comply with applicable rules for export controls  We comply fair sourcing and supply Conflicts of interest are avoided  Diab’s organisation is politically independent and our co-workers work in the best interests of the company Respect for confidential information  Diab’s co-workers may not spread or abuse confidential information Respect for the environment  Consistent and long-term environmental work creates both environmental benefits and value  Regular control of product safety Page | 11 Relationships with external parties, such as suppliers and co-operation partners  Our business partners must comply with the principles in this code Duty of care for the company’s assets  Our employees respect Diab’s property Accounting, information and financial reporting  Diab aims to provide transparent, accurate, continuous and timely information of the highest quality Personal information  Diab respects personal information and handles it carefully Personal responsibility and routines for reporting violations All Diab managers must ensure that their respective co-worker are aware of and given the opportunity to read and/or get a thorough presentation of the Diab Code of Conduct. All Diab coworkers are responsible for knowing the laws, guidelines and regulations relevant for their working duties. The Diab Code of Conduct is available in English, Italian, Chinese, Swedish, Spanish and Lithuanian for all Diab employees. Further, the Diab Code of Conduct is signed and revised on a yearly basis by the board. Precautionary Principle or approach According to Diab Group Sustainability Policy, 20161012, Diab Group is committed to (among other items);  caring about our natural resources by continuously improving the utilization of raw materials, chemicals, energy, water and minimizing waste  continuous improvement of the environmental performance of our activities, products and services and preventing pollution to ground, air and water through the implementation of the principles in the ISO 14001 standard  systematically assessing and optimizing the environmental impact from the design of new and redesigned products External initiatives External initiatives are crucial for Diab in order to assure customers and others that we are following recommended working structure in order to achieve long term goals that are beneficial for Diab, our customers and other stakeholders. Our sites in Laholm, Longarone, Durán and Siaulai are all ISO 14001 certified and all our sites are ISO 9001 certified. Our site in Durán is FSC certified. Diab’s target is to increase the amount of certified sites according to ISO 14001. Page | 12 2016-09-23 Diab reaffirmed its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Diab does not have any obligation to comply with any of the mentioned external initiatives. Governance, Organization and Suppliers Governance structure Diab board have at least 6 fixed meetings throughout the year. Here, above the board, also CEO and CFO always attends. Further participation from the remaining Diab Management Team regularly occurs when specific fields are on the agenda. Directives from decisions made during the board meetings are realized through communication from CEO to DMT. Sustainability is put on the agenda at least once a year when revising Diab Code of Conduct and Diab’s Sustainability Policy. Page | 13 DMT –Diab Executive Management Team  Lead the Strategic Process of the Group, and execute the Strategy decided by the Board  Decide and communicate on budget, over-all targets, goals and KPIs  Monitor and follow up Regions, Segments and global units  Follow up global financial performance and conformity to global processes  Approve companywide issues as Branding, Product portfolio, Strategic Investments, Global Footprint in Sales and Manufacturing  Approve Market price lists  Approve on Patent and IPR related topics  Approve strategies for common infrastructure, such as IT  Approve Group R&D projects and Strategic Business development  Establish and follow up other group procedures and policies  Approve customer contracts, investments and other agreements according to governance instruction Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain A new IPN factory was built in China, Zhangjiagang, and finalized in June 2016. Production was started by then and run for approximately 1 month when there was a fire and the production unfortunately had to stop. Repair work was run until November 2016, when the production was started again. Due to opening of the new IPN China factory new suppliers, more locally based in Asia has been identified and implemented for many of the IPN raw materials. No changes in share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance or alteration operation has been performed during 2016. Supply chain The main suppliers engaged are except for balsa and a few minor others supplying raw materials as chemicals. This gives in total 30-40 unique suppliers, which are for IPN mainly located in Europe with a few exceptions for Asia for IPN production in Europe. As the new IPN production unit in Zhangjiagang is now established during 2016 suppliers in Asia will and already have increased in number to about 5 to serve this IPN production unit in China. PET (polyethylene terephthalate) production suppliers are served from Europe, balsa mainly from South America and PES (polyether sulfone) from Europe and US. Stakeholder engagement Identifying and selecting stakeholders Diab interacts with a number of stakeholder groups, which brings a range of requirements and expectations in relation to sustainable development. Our understanding of which stakeholders are significant – and what they consider to be important – is based on experience, commercial relationships and dialogue over a long period, as well as events over the past financial year. Page | 14 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders Aims, requirements and expectations Value created Diab's sustainability work is Diab believes that sustainability continuously reviewed by customers, measures strengthen customer also during 2016. The overall results relationships. Many customers are good and Diab's sustainable demand that Diab have a code of development aims are valued by conduct, certified management customers. A new product has been systems and phasing-out of hazardous developed which offers better Customers chemicals. Also, as Diab offers properties with lower density. Further resource efficient products customers it requires a significantly less resin expect the product range to consumption during customer's continuously decrease the processing. All together reducing the environmental impact during environmental impact in total and production and in customer's final fulfilling the basics for remaining with application. the resource efficient product range. All Diab's products are sold to industrial customers. Although this Consumers' views were addressed relates to some consumer products during the year via dialogue with Consumers such as yachts and other sport gears, customers and the demands they it is unlikely that the product will be place on Diab. linked directly to Diab's operations.  Occurrence Index: 17,9  Lost Time due to Accidents: Health, safety, benefits, social 12,5 Employees conditions, well-being, development  Fatalities: 0 opportunities.  Share of employees in risk positions attending training: 100% Diab endeavours to have long-term and transparent relationships with Over the year the Group conducted suppliers. The aim is to ensure the Suppliers assessments, which also addressed right quality, financial stability and sustainability issues. sustainable development for both parties. Page | 15 The major shareholder RATOS has a clear Corporate Responsibility The aim is for this sustainability work Framework that is mandatory for Diab to create value for shareholders. Diab to follow. The status and progress of ensures this, for example, through implementation of the framework is efficient resource usage and reported to RATOS yearly in Q1. investments in new environmentally 2016 reported all-time high in turn Shareholders sustainable technology. The over. First calculations and CO2e integration of sustainability issues in emissions survey conducted for the business operations, such as more Group according to GHG Protocol. environmentally sustainable products, Diab Group has reaffirmed its support reduces risks and creates business of the Ten Principles of the United opportunities. Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Social engagement is an important aspect and something that is expected By reaffirming the UN Global by local communities where the Compact, Diab is making a long-term Society Group operates. As a global company, contribution to these global the Group is expected to undertake development goals. measures that contribute to national global sustainable development goals. Management approach The management approach and its components Anti-corruption Anti-corruption is specifically stated in Diab’s Code of Conduct as follows: Diab works systematically to prevent corruption Diab’s management is responsible for maintaining an adequate anti-corruption programme and implementing any other measures regarded as necessary in order to prevent the corruption risks identified in the risk analysis. Page | 16 Above the Code of Conduct Diab has also implemented and taken actions as below:  Supplier Code of Conduct  Introduction of an external whistle blow system  Face to Face training of high risk groups  E-learning for all employees Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety is a part of Diab’s Code of Conduct as follows: We offer our employees fair and reasonable working conditions  Our co-workers are one of our most important resources and relationships must be based upon mutual respect and trust.  Diab seeks to attract, develop and retain qualified and motivated co-workers in a professional environment.  Our co-workers shall be offered a safe and healthy work environment that we continuously seek to improve.  The conditions of employment offered to co-workers must meet the minimum requirements in national law and/or collective agreements as well as relevant ILO conventions (International Labour Organization – part of UN).  Diab makes every effort to pay fair salaries and remuneration in accordance Diab relevant norms in the locations in which the Group has its operations.  Nobody should get hurt while working in Diab. Diab shall be a safe and healthy place to work and Diab will strictly comply with all rules and regulations in all countries where operations are run. Diab’s safety program is implemented in all factories and operations to continuously improve the safety and working environment in our operations.  Diab encourages co-workers to seek opportunities within other parts of the organisation. Page | 17 Recorded data health and safety data Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities. Data here is recorded according to the Swedish safety regulations and does therefore not fit into the GRI standard model of reported indexes. These data will continually be recorded in order to meet these requirements. Nomenclature used: Lost Time Accidents (LTA): Accidents that result in an employee missing the next regularly scheduled work day or shift. Diab records LTA per million of worked hours (including temps, contractors excluded; only accidents happened inside our premises, not on the travel to/from home) Occurrence index: LTA + Recordable per million of worked hours (including temps, contractors excluded; only accidents happened inside our premises, not on the travel to/from home) Sick leave rate: percentage of not worked hours in relation to worked hours due to sick leave. 2016 results: In the diagram below the LTA values for all sites measured during 2016 are shown. Page | 18 In the diagram below the Occurrence index values for all sites measured during 2016 are shown. In the diagram below the Sick leave rate values for all sites measured during 2016 are shown. All employees get training in Health and Safety H&S Training: percentage of hours put on training on Health and Safety in relation to worked hours. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Information on employees and other workers FTE (Full Time Employment) is continuously recorded by our HR organization but further detailed data as temporary employees, part-time employees, workers who are not employees etc is not. The target within HR organization, the next coming years, is to increase the employee recording above only FTE. Diab has no seasonal or other variations in numbers of employees. Page | 19 Permanent FTE, see table below. Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Number of Employees, FTE Average number of ALL employees Men Women Total Current Last year Current Last year Current year Last year end Country year end end year end end end Sweden HQ 23,9 18,8 9,3 6,0 33,2 24,8 Sweden 191,5 177,8 36,4 36,2 227,9 214,0 Norway 3,0 3,0 1,0 1,0 4,0 4,0 Denmark 1,0 1,3 1,0 1,3 England 6,0 6,0 3,0 2,0 9,0 8,0 France 3,0 2,0 2,0 2,0 5,0 4,0 Italy 182,4 181,9 7,6 7,6 190,0 189,5 Germany 4,0 4,0 0,5 0,5 4,5 4,5 Australia 5,0 5,0 2,0 2,0 7,0 7,0 China 272,9 207,0 97,3 85,9 370,2 292,9 Ecuador 105,0 123,0 9,0 9,0 114,0 132,0 USA 60,0 49,0 17,0 13,0 77,0 62,0 Lithuania 124,0 109,0 49,0 40,0 173,0 149,0 India 7,0 7,0 4,0 2,0 11,0 9,0 Thailand 2,0 3,0 5,0 4,0 7,0 7,0 Poland 1,0 1,0 1,0 1,0 2,0 2,0 Spain 3,0 3,0 2,5 2,0 5,5 5,0 Singapore 0,0 5,0 other country 1,0 1,0 0,0 which: Total 995,7 901,8 246,6 214,2 1 242,3 1 121,0 Page | 20 Diversity and Equal Opportunity is a part of Diab’s Code of Conduct as follows: We appreciate diversity  We offer all individuals equal opportunities regardless of skin colour, gender, nationality, religion, ethnicity or other distinguishing characteristics.  We make active efforts to achieve a corporate culture and workplace free from discrimination and harassment. Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diab Group Board members are divided as follows:  7 men and 3 women.  4 persons are in the age group of 30-50 years and 6 persons are > 50 years. DMT members are divided as follows:  7 men and 2 women.  3 persons are in the age group of 30-50 years and 6 persons are > 50 years. Effluents and Waste In Diab’s Sustainability policy it is clearly stated that:  caring about our natural resources by continuously improving the utilization of raw materials, chemicals, energy, water and minimizing waste  continuous improvement of the environmental performance of our activities, products and services and preventing pollution to ground, air and water through the implementation of the principles in the ISO 14001 standard  systematically assessing and optimizing the environmental impact from the design of new and redesigned products The Diab Sustainability Policy is followed up in the Business Review Meetings according to Diab’s Corporate Governance Instruction. Water discharge by quality and destination The measured water supply to Diab was calculated to in total 3555 216 m3. 3521 500 m3 of these are supplied to Longarone. Here the main part is taken from the river passing the factory and is used as cooling water. The water is recycled to the river after having passed the cooling system. The same process is used in Laholm but the amount of water from the river here is not measured and therefore not calculated. The remaining water used in Laholm and the other sites is clean water used in offices and minor parts in the factories. Waste by type and disposal method In general Diab does not handle any hazardous chemicals and thereby no hazardous waste. For that reason this is not measured or recorded. In the diagram below the total amount of waste put on landfill, incinerated and recycled is presented for Diab in 2016 in total. Page | 21 The waste disposal method is generally decided by the waste disposal contractor and as the IPN waste, which is the main part, is difficult to incinerate and only the landfill alternative remains. The recycled waste consists of PET and PES and all necessary equipment for recycling this waste is installed in the production facilities in Longarone (PET) and DeSoto (PES). Energy Diab’s Sustainability policy is clearly stating that caring about natural resources as energy by continuously improving the utilization is crucial. Each operating site is measuring and keeping track on the usage of energy per produced amount of product, which is also reported internally on a monthly basis and annually to shareholders. By the implementation of the yearly CO2e emissions calculations a global and deeper understanding of the contribution from the type of energy used to the total CO2 e emissions is achieved. One of the main findings is the necessity of decreasing the usage of natural gas as energy supplier to Diab’s production sites. Energy consumption within the organization Below the energy consumption in MWh during 2016 from electricity and heating for all sites together. Page | 22 Below the energy consumption divided per site in MWh. The total energy consumption in Diab during 2016 is 118 291 MWh. All data for energy consumption is measured values from all production sites. These are put in the software “Our Impacts” that is designed to help to conduct high quality assessments of organizations greenhouse gas emissions. Our Impacts is flexible accounting service that brings together extensive research databases and carbon and energy expertise. This tool continuously also updates on scientifically based emission factor for energy calculations. Page | 23 Emissions Diab’s Sustainability policy is clearly stating continuous improvement of the environmental performance of our activities, products and services and preventing pollution to ground, air and water through the implementation of the principles in the ISO 14001 standard. By the implementation of the yearly CO2 e emissions calculations a global and deeper understanding of all Diab activities and their corresponding contribution to GHG emissions in Scope 1 to 3 has been achieved. By this learning concrete, realistic and valuable targets will be set to reduce the environmental impact from emissions. All seven Kyoto gases as carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and perfluorocarbons (PFCs) has been included in the calculations, which has been carried out in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol; a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. In the diagram below the ton CO2 e emission volumes divided per Scope is shown for Diab Group totally. As could be seen scope 3 is by far the largest. Page | 24 In the diagram below the CO2 e emissions per main cathegory is shown. As could be seen the largest cathegories are “Materials purchased” and “Electricity and Heating”. In the diagram below the CO2 e emissions divided per site is shown. The reason for Longarone and Lahom being the sites with the largest emissions is only connected to the size of these productions units and nothing else. 2016 is considered to be the base year for calculations as this was the year when implementation of the calculation tool Our Impact and the work to register necessary data here was started. Page | 25 GRI content index GRI GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Number Omission Standard Standard Number Title Number Title GRI 102 General 102-01 Name of the Diab Group AB Disclosures organization GRI 102 General 102-02 Activities, 4 Disclosures brands, products, and services GRI 102 General 102-03 Location of Laholm, Sweden Disclosures headquarters GRI 102 General 102-04 Location of 4 Disclosures operations GRI 102 General 102-05 Ownership and Ratos 96%, Management and Disclosures legal form Board 4%. Limited company GRI 102 General 102-06 Markets served Americas, Europe, Asia, Disclosures Australia and Africa. GRI 102 General 102-07 Scale of the 4 Disclosures organization GRI 102 General 102-08 Information on 19 Disclosures employees and Partly not other workers applicable GRI 102 General 102-09 Supply chain 14 Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-10 Significant 14 Disclosures changes to the organization and its supply chain GRI 102 General 102-11 Precautionary 12 Disclosures Principle or approach GRI 102 General 102-12 External 12 Disclosures initiatives GRI 102 General 102-13 Membership of IKEM Disclosures associations GRI 102 General 102-14 Statement 3 Disclosures from senior decision-maker GRI 102 General 102-16 Values, 13 Disclosures principles, standards, and norms of behavior GRI 102 General 102-18 Governance 13 Disclosures structure GRI 102 General 102-40 List of 15 Disclosures stakeholder groups GRI 102 General 102-41 Collective Employees with collective Disclosures bargaining bargaining agreements are agreements engaged in Italy, Sweden and Page | 26 China. They represent 63% of the personnel. GRI 102 General 102-42 Identifying and 14 Disclosures selecting stakeholders GRI 102 General 102-43 Approach to 15 Disclosures stakeholder engagement GRI 102 General 102-44 Key topics and 11 Disclosures concerns raised GRI 102 General 102-45 Entities 5 Disclosures included in the consolidated financial statements GRI 102 General 102-46 Defining report 5 Disclosures content and topic Boundaries GRI 102 General 102-47 List of material 7 Disclosures topics GRI 102 General 102-48 Restatements None during the year. Disclosures of information GRI 102 General 102-49 Changes in 7 Disclosures reporting GRI 102 General 102-50 Reporting The reporting period for the Disclosures period information provided is 2016. GRI 102 General 102-51 Date of most The Sustainability Report FY15 Disclosures recent report was issued 2016-01-28. GRI 102 General 102-52 Reporting cycle The reporting cycle is annual. Disclosures GRI 102 General 102-53 Contact point Per Hökfelt, Group EVP Disclosures for questions Sustainability. regarding the Per.Hokfelt@se.diabgroup.com report GRI 102 General 102-54 Claims of This report has been prepared Disclosures reporting in in accordance with the GRI accordance Standards: Core option. with the GRI Standards GRI 102 General 102-55 GRI content 26 Disclosures index GRI 102 General 102-56 External Not applicable this year. Disclosures assurance GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of 7 Approach the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 Management 103-2 The 16 Approach management approach and its components GRI 103 Management 103-3 Evaluation of 16 Approach the Page | 27 management approach GRI 205 Anti205-1 Operations 14% of operations. corruption assessed for risks related to All data not corruption available GRI 205 Anti205-2 Communication a. 100% corruption and training b. 100% in Americas and about antiEurope 70% in Asia. White corruption collar in all regions policies and c. 0% procedures d. 100% e. Same as b GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy 22 consumption No energy has been sold within the from any of the production organization sites. GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 24 GHG emissions emiGRI Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect 24 305 (Scope 2) GHG emissions GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect 24 (Scope 3) GHG emissions GRI 306 Effluents and 306-1 Water 21 Waste discharge by quality and destination GRI 306 Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type 21 Waste and disposal a. Not method applicable GRI 306 Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills 0 spills Waste GRI 403 Occupational 403-2 Types of injury 17 Health and and rates of Safety injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Not applicable. GRI 405 Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of 19 Equal governance b. Specific Opportunity bodies and legal employees prohibitions. Page | 28
