Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Creating for Tomorrow Group Mission We, the Asahi Kasei Group, contribute to life and living for people around the world. Group Providing new value to society by enabling “living in health and Vision comfort” and “harmony with the natural environment.” Sincerity—Being sincere with everyone. Group Values Challenge—Boldly taking challenges, continuously seeking change. Creativity—Creating new value through unity and synergy. Group Slogan Creating for Tomorrow Editorial policy Organizational scope For greater ease of understanding among our stakeholders, since fiscal The scope of the report is Asahi Kasei Corp. and its consolidated subsidiar2014 we are integrating information regarding our business strategy and ies, except with respect to Responsible Care, in which case the scope is financial performance, which had been published in our Annual Report, operations in Japan that implement the Asahi Kasei Group’s Responsible with information regarding our CSR activities, which had been published Care program. Asahi Kasei’s three operating segments are Material, Homes, in our CSR Report, in a single Asahi Kasei Report. We hope that the Asahi and Health Care. Unless otherwise specified, the titles and positions of Kasei Report will help you gain a clear perception of the Asahi Kasei Group’s corporate officers and other personnel as shown in this report are current efforts toward sustainability in society in addition to our management as of October 2016. strategy, business conditions, and management configuration. Guidelines consulted Period under review The Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4, The period under review is fiscal 2015 (April 2015 to March 2016). Some ISO 26000, and other guidelines were consulted during the preparation of qualitative information pertaining to April to September 2016 has also this report. been included. Disclaimer The forecasts and estimates shown in this report are dependent on a variety of assumptions and economic conditions. Plans and figures depicting the future do not imply a guarantee of actual outcome. Contents 2 Report on Manipulation of Precast Concrete Pile Installation Data by Subsidiary CSR 50 CSR Asahi Kasei Construction Materials 52 CSR Fundamentals 3 To Our Stakeholders • Responsible Care • Respect for Employee Individuality Management Overview • Corporate Citizenship 4 Directors 60 Connecting Business Operations 6  Feature: with Contribution to Society New Medium-Term Management Initiative • BembergTM “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” • Condominium Redevelopment 12 History of Providing Solutions • AEDs for the Challenges of Society 14 Message from the President Financial Section 22 Interview with the CFO 68 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 24 Interview with the Chairman of the Board 74 Risk Analysis 26 Interview with an Outside Director 76 Consolidated Financial Statements 28 Corporate Governance Corporate Information Review of Operations 110 Major Subsidiaries and Affiliates 34 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 112 Company Information 36 At a Glance 113 Investors Information 38 Material 40 Homes 42 Health Care 44 Review of “For Tomorrow 2015” 46 Interview with the Executive Officer for R&D Asahi Kasei Report 2016 1 Report on Manipulation of Precast Concrete Pile Installation Data by Subsidiary Asahi Kasei Construction Materials We deeply apologize that subsidiary Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. manipulated a portion of data for the installation of precast concrete piles. To ensure against any similar situation occurring again, we have investigated the causes and implemented preventative measures. On January 8, 2016, an interim report was received from the independent commission which was established to investigate the matter. On February 9, 2016, our internal fact-finding committee issued its interim report. Causes of data manipulation and measures to prevent recurrence were identified as follows: ■ Causes of data manipulation i) Circumstances conducive to occurrence of lack of data ii) Absence of clear measures to deal with lack of data iii) Poor recognition of importance of installation data among site agents, etc. iv) Issues related to management of the pile business at Asahi Kasei Construction Materials ■ Measures to prevent recurrence i) Sound acquisition and handling of installation data ii) Formulation of rules to deal with lack of data iii) Establishment of a proper management system iv) Performing training of site agents and other workers v) Measures to deal with organizational, personnel, and awareness problems at Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Taking this matter with the utmost gravity, we are working to reinforce compliance throughout all operations based on the “three actuals” of the actual place, the actual thing, and the actual fact. On January 1, 2016, Corporate ESH & QA was reorganized to place greater emphasis on quality assurance. Furthermore, Risk Management & Compliance was newly established as a central corporate organ to aggregate information related to risks and compliance. The Asahi Kasei Group is committed to restoring the trust of society and our customers by thoroughly applying measures to prevent recurrence. 2 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 To Our Stakeholders Thank you for reading the Asahi Kasei Report 2016. In 2014 we integrated the description of financial information, which had been published in our Annual Report, with the description of our CSR activities, which had been published in our CSR Report, in a single Asahi Kasei Report for greater ease of understanding by our various stakeholders. We hope that the Asahi Kasei Report will enhance your understanding of the Asahi Kasei Group’s management strategy, business operations, and financial performance, as well as our contribution to the sustainability of society. From fiscal 2011 to 2015, the Asahi Kasei Group executed its “For Tomorrow 2015” strategic management initiative to expand world-leading businesses and create new value for society. While expanding capacity for globally competitive products, we further diversified and strengthened our operations through large-scale acquisitions of ZOLL Medical Corporation in the field of acute critical care and Polypore International, LP in the field of battery separators. In fiscal 2016 we began a new three-year strategic management initiative “Cs for Tomorrow 2018.” The three-year period is focused on building the base for the next phase, creating a portfolio of high-profitability and high value-added businesses in fiscal 2025. We aim to contribute to a “society of clean environmental energy” and a “society of healthy/ comfortable longevity with peace of mind” by leveraging our diverse business operations. To facilitate greater efficiency and strategic allocation of management resources, in April 2016 we transitioned from a holding company configuration to an operating holding company configuration through the merger of three core operating companies with Asahi Kasei Corp., and reconfigured our operations into the three business sectors of Material, Homes, and Health Care. Throughout these efforts, we will maintain proactive communication with our stakeholders to ensure transparency through appropriate information disclosure. I would like to thank you for your continuous support. September 2016 Hideki Kobori President Asahi Kasei Report 2016 3 Directors 2. President & Representative Director 1. Chairman & Director Ichiro Itoh Presidential Executive Officer Hideki Kobori After many years of experience in the fibers business, he held After many years of experience in the electronics business, including several leadership positions including executive officer for planning, as President & Representative Director of Asahi Kasei Microdevices accounting, and finance, and vice-presidential executive officer. He Corp., he oversaw strategy, accounting, finance, and internal control. has been Chairman & Director since April 2010. He possesses a wealth He assumed the role of President of Asahi Kasei in April 2016. He posof experience and a broad range of knowledge on the Asahi Kasei sesses a wealth of experience and a broad range of knowledge on the Group’s businesses and corporate management. Asahi Kasei Group’s businesses and corporate management. 5. Director 6. Director Senior Executive Officer Shuichi Sakamoto Lead Executive Officer Nobuyuki Kakizawa After many years of experience in the petrochemicals business, he After many years of experience in the housing business, he held became General Manager of Corporate Strategy in November 2014 several leadership positions including General Manager of Accounting with responsibility for formulating and executing the management and Finance at Asahi Kasei Corp. and General Manager of General strategy and business strategies of the Asahi Kasei Group. Since April Affairs at Asahi Kasei Homes Corp. He became General Manager of 2016, he has overseen accounting, finance, and IT. He possesses a General Affairs in April 2013 with responsibility for formulating and wealth of experience and a broad range of knowledge on the Asahi executing measures for risk management and compliance of the Asahi Kasei Group’s businesses and corporate management. Kasei Group. He possesses a wealth of experience and a broad range of knowledge on risk management and compliance. 9. Outside Director Tsuneyoshi Tatsuoka With his wealth of experience and broad range of insight into industrial and economic policy, including as administrative vice-minister of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, he fulfills his role as 9 8 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 Outside Director in deciding on important matters of the Asahi Kasei Group as well as overseeing business execution. 4 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 3. Representative Director 4. Director Vice-Presidential Executive Officer Yuji Kobayashi Primary Executive Officer Masafumi Nakao After many years of experience in the petrochemicals business, he After many years of experience in R&D and new business development became President & Representative Director of Asahi Kasei Chemicals in the electronics business, he held several leadership roles including Corp. From April 2014, he oversaw the Chemicals & Fibers business General Manager of the R&D Center and executive officer for quality sector. He possesses a wealth of experience and a broad range assurance at Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. Since April 2012, he has of knowledge on business in the Material sector and corporate overseen R&D of the Asahi Kasei Group. He possesses a wealth of management. experience and a broad range of knowledge on R&D. 7. Outside Director Norio Ichino 8. Outside Director Masumi Shiraishi With his wealth of business management experience and broad range With her wealth of experience and broad range of insight into ecoof insight as a corporate executive, including as President of Tokyo Gas nomics and society as a university professor at Kansai University, she Co., Ltd., he fulfills his role as Outside Director in deciding on important fulfills her role as Outside Director in deciding on important matters of matters of the Asahi Kasei Group as well as overseeing business the Asahi Kasei Group as well as overseeing business execution. execution. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 5 Feature: New Medium-Term Management Initiative Cs for Building the base for the next phase with various Cs There are five “Cs” that represent important aspects of Cs for Tomorrow 2018 (CT2018) as we advance toward our objectives. The first “C” is from our Group Slogan, Creating for Tomorrow. The second “C” is for Connections. We aim to build new connections in various aspects (external, internal, geography, technology) to facilitate the creation of new markets. The third to fifth “Cs” are for Compliance, Communication, and Challenge—key facets of our endeavor to restore trust and drive further growth. Group slogan Creating for Tomorrow Create new markets through connections Restore trust based on three Cs New stage of growth Compliance Thorough compliance based on the “three actuals” External Internal • CVC*, joint R&D • Group-wide Communication • M&A • Alliances Connect • People and businesses Open communication that fosters mutual understanding and trust Technology Geography Challenge • Technology and business combinations • Accelerating globalization Relishing new challenges to advance * CVC = Corporate Venture Capital and evolve 6 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Tomorrow 2018 Throughout the history of the Asahi Kasei Group, we have continuously realigned our business portfolio to meet the changing needs of the times, and proactively branched into new fields to create new value for society. Since 2003, under the configuration of Asahi Kasei Corp. as a holding company, three medium-term management initiatives successfully steered us towards specific milestones. Ishin-05 (FY2003–2005) promoted “selective diversification” and “creation of cash flow,” and Growth Action—2010 (FY2006–2010) focused on “business portfolio realignment for expansion and growth” and “strategic investment.” Under the previous initiative For Tomorrow 2015 (FY2011–2015) with its focus on “expansion of world-leading businesses” and “creation of new value for society,” we achieved our highest operating income ever in fiscal 2015. CT2018 (FY2016–2018) is focused on building the base for the next phase. At the beginning of fiscal 2016, Asahi Kasei transitioned to an operating holding company configuration, with realigned business sectors. The new medium-term management initiative is directed toward creating a portfolio of high value-added businesses with high profitability in fiscal 2025. Providing solutions to two important challenges faced by society with our diversified business In the midst of rapid changes in the economic environment and social structure, we are working to contribute to the realization of a society of clean environmental energy and a society of healthy/comfortable longevity with peace of mind through our diverse products, technologies, and services. The environment Healthcare Shift to sustainable society; Expansion of Management tightening environmental global healthcare markets IT regulations Greater importance of Spread of IoT and transparency and CSR other IT advances Society of Society of healthy/comfortable clean environmental energy longevity with peace of mind Energy Food Increasing energy demand; diversification of supply Demographic Social Growing food demand change economy Increasing world population; Increasing globalization; aging population in growing geopolitical risks developed countries Asahi Kasei Report 2016 7 Feature: New Medium-Term Management Initiative Financial targets In fiscal 2015, we achieved net sales of ¥1,940.9 billion and operating income of ¥165.2 billion, a new record high in operating income for the third consecutive year. Our goal in fiscal 2025 is to achieve net sales of ¥3 trillion and operating income of ¥280 billion. The three year period of CT2018 is positioned as a time for building the base for the next phase by making connections among our diverse businesses and diverse human resources, with fiscal 2018 targets of ¥2.2 trillion in net sales and ¥180 billion in operating income. Net sales and operating income Net sales (left scale) Operating income (right scale) Net sales ¥3 trillion ¥280 billion (¥ billion) Operating (¥ billion) 3,000 Net sales ¥2.2 trillion income 300 ¥180 billion Operating 2,500 income 250 2,000 200 1,500 150 1,000 100 500 50 0 0 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17 '18 '25 (FY) * Formulated assuming exchange rates of ¥110/$ and ¥120/€ Main performance metrics FY2015–2018 FY2018 FY2025 (¥ billion, except where noted) FY2003 FY2010 FY2015 (annual growth) (target) (outlook) Net sales 1,253.5 1,555.9 1,940.9 4.3% 2,200.0 3,000.0 Operating income 60.9 122.9 165.2 180.0 280.0 Operating margin 4.9% 7.9% 8.5% 8.2% 9.3% Net income attributable 27.7 60.3 91.8 110.0 to owners of the parent EBITDA1 125.3 207.8 274.8 300.0 Net income per share (¥) 19.6 43.1 65.7 78.0 Total return ratio 30.6% 25.5% 30.4% 35.0% Net income per shareholders’ 6.4% 9.3% 8.6% 9.0% 10.0% equity (ROE) Net income per shareholders’ equity and interest-bearing 5.0% 7.9% 7.1% 7.0% 8.0% debt (ROIC) D/E ratio 0.62 0.38 0.43 0.50 0.50 Exchange rate (¥/$) 113 86 120 110 110 1 Operating income, depreciation, and amortization (tangible, intangible, and goodwill). FY2016–2018 investment plan: ¥ 700 billion 8 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Basic strategy of Cs for Tomorrow 2018 CT2018 is focused on the three basic strategies of “pursuit of Basic growth and profitability,” “creation of new businesses,” and strategy “acceleration of globalization,” which are implemented across 1. Pursuit of growth the Asahi Kasei Group. The three sectors of Material, Homes, and profitability and Health Care will each expand operations by leveraging 2. Creation of new businesses their respective strengths, while the Asahi Kasei Group as a 3. Acceleration of whole will solidify the base for further growth by leveraging globalization our combined strength. 1 Pursuit of growth and profitability Each individual business works to generate greater cash flow by raising competitiveness. Within each sector, we will create new added value through combinations and integration among the different businesses. For the creation of new businesses, management resources are connected across the different sectors. Each business sector also has a specific role to play. The Material sector aims for enhanced profitability through connections among businesses within the sector, Material Homes Health Care optimization of the business portfolio, and heightEnhanced Continuous stable High growth ened competitiveness. The Homes sector focuses profitability growth on continuous stable growth by strengthening established businesses with comprehensive prodEach business: generate cash flow by raising competitiveness ucts, construction, and services that meet the needs of society, while expanding the value chain through business development. The Health Care sector aims Within each sector: create added value through combinations and integration for high growth by reinforcing its global business platform while strengthening the profitability of Group-wide: create new businesses by connecting resources domestic businesses. 2 Creation of new businesses The greatest strength of Asahi Kasei lies in our combination of various technologies, cultivated Various Diverse business throughout our history of diversification, that technologies operations • Materials, devices • Fibers enable the creation of new value for society. We are • Production technology Strengths of • Chemicals • Systems Asahi Kasei • Electronics enhancing our ability to create new businesses by • Analysis, simulation etc. • Homes connecting our technologies, business models, and • Construction Materials • Health Care human resources internally, as well as by connect• Critical Care ing externally through joint R&D, business alliances, corporate venture capital (CVC), and M&A. Open innovation Joint R&D Technology Business models Connect M&A CVC Diverse human resources Asahi Kasei Report 2016 9 Feature: New Medium-Term Management Initiative 3 Acceleration of globalization Under the previous medium-term management initiative For Tomorrow 2015, we newly constructed or expanded several production facilities for globally competitive products in Japan and overseas. From fiscal 2016 onward, those capital investments will bear fruit by contributing to earnings. We are also advancing with clearer strategies in each region for our businesses to develop more efficiently and profitably on a global scale. Europe North America mature markets; origin of standards and regulations continuing growth; origin of innovation • Enhance marketing functions in • Expand automotive/healthcare-related businesses automotive/healthcare-related businesses • Obtain leading-edge technology by utilizing CVC • Develop business through M&A; Globalization create new business models • Adapt to new trade arrangements such as TPP Asia Japan transitioning from manufacturing base to growth market continuing growth; origin of innovation • Raise competitiveness of manufacturing • Lead R&D and create new businesses • Serve markets in China and ASEAN • Heighten technology at “mother factories” Financial and capital strategy Execute strategy to raise corporate value while performing return to shareholders. Operating cash flow Total investment Target for total return ratio Funding policy We expect that a total of We plan to invest a total of We will flexibly perform share In principal we will raise funds ¥600–700 billion in operating some ¥700 billion over the buybacks in addition to stable through borrowings while cash flow will be generated 3-year period to proactively and continuous dividend maintaining a D/E ratio of over the 3-year period advance M&A and other increases with a target for around 0.5. by enhancing the comnew investment in addition total return ratio of 35% in petitiveness of established to investment to maintain fiscal 2018. businesses and creating new and expand established added value in each sector. businesses. 10 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Future path for each sector toward fiscal 2025 In our vision of creating a portfolio of high-profitability and high value-added businesses in fiscal 2025, the three years under the current management initiative are positioned as a time to build the base for the next phase. Each sector’s path forward is shown below. (¥ billion) Material sector 2,000 Membranes, coating materials, • S eek greater profitability by 1,500 etc. expanding in performance products • Solidify No. 1 position of battery Performance 1,000 products separator business Automotive, battery-related, • Use combined strength to healthcare cultivate new markets for materials 500 Earnings base 0 '15 '18 '25 (FY) (¥ billion) Homes sector 1,000 Overseas, seniors Const. Mat. • Secure stable earnings by raising 750 market share for established businesses Real estate, remodeling • Advance new businesses focused 500 on medium-rise homes, seniors, and overseas markets 250 • Create distinctive added value Order-built through connections with other sectors in Asahi Kasei 0 '15 '18 '25 (FY) (¥ billion) Health Care sector 800 • Increase overseas sales; 600 operating income to reach 1/3 of Asahi Kasei Group total Overseas • Pharmaceuticals: 400 RecomodulinTM as the growth driver for global expansion 200 • Medical devices: Japan grow by further utilizing and strengthening global platform 0 '15 '18 '25 (FY) Asahi Kasei Report 2016 11 History of Providing Solutions for the Challenges of Society The Asahi Kasei Group has consistently grown through proactive transformation of its business portfolio to meet the evolving needs of every age. We have constantly provided products and services that form solutions to various environmental and social challenges. As society undergoes further changes, we will continue to contribute to life and living for people around the world by Creating for Tomorrow. From 1970 Shitagau Noguchi From 1922 From 1950 In 1972 we entered the homes business with the launch of the Hebel Haus™, and In 1957 we began production of polystyin 1974 we entered the medical device Shitagau Noguchi, the founder of Asahi rene, and in 1959 entered the synthetic business with hollow-fiber membrane Kasei, succeeded in Japan’s first industrial fiber business. These were followed by artificial kidneys. Our entry into the elecproduction of ammonia by chemical the three new businesses of nylon fiber, tronics business began with our launch of synthesis in Nobeoka, Miyazaki, in 1923 synthetic rubber, and construction mateHall elements (magnetic sensors) in 1980 using technology licensed from Italy. The rials. In 1968 we began construction of a and start of LSI manufacture in 1987. ammonia was used in the production of petrochemical complex in the Mizushima Our products continued to help make Bemberg™ regenerated cellulose fiber, area of Kurashiki, Okayama, Japan, paving life more comfortable and convenient as part of a diverse range of business operathe way for our full-scale development of society’s needs diversified. tions that included chemical fertilizer and petrochemical operations. Our products viscose rayon. As industry modernized during this period supported improveand the economy of Japan achieved selfments in the quality of life during Japan’s sustainable growth, our operations made high-growth period. important contributions to the stability of people’s lives. The first Hebel Haus™ (Kamata model home park) Saran Wrap™ launched in Japan in 1960 Part of the ammonia plant completed in 1923 (Nobeoka, Miyazaki, Japan) Hollow-fiber membrane LSIs artificial kidneys Naphtha cracker (Kurashiki, Okayama, Japan) The Bemberg™ plant which started operation in Others 1931 (Nobeoka, Miyazaki, Japan) Foods and Fermentation Chemistry Fibers Foods Construction Fibers Materials Portfolio transformation Chemicals Homes Fiscal 1980 Fiscal 1960 Net sales Fiscal 1940 Net sales ¥ 800.1 billion ¥ Net sales 56 million ¥ 44.9 billion Chemicals Establishing the basis Sufficiency of daily necessities, improvement in quality of homes, for modern life development of public infrastructure • Development of chemical industry and • Post-war recovery and • Stable economic growth modern agriculture modernization of industry • Economic bubble • Interbellum economic downturn and • Period of high economic growth World War II 12 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 We are Creating for Tomorrow, providing From 2010 new value to society Under the “For Tomorrow 2015” management initiative which began in 2011, we by enabling living in proactively expanded our operations through major acquisitions. In 2012 we health and comfort From 1990 entered the acute critical care business by acquiring ZOLL Medical Corporation, and harmony with the In 1992 we acquired Toyo Jozo Co., Ltd. to reinforce pharmaceutical operations. and in 2015 we acquired battery separator manufacturer Polypore International, natural environment From 1999, we executed a program to LP. In 2016 we launched a new three-year heighten selectivity and focus in operamanagement initiative “Cs for Tomorrow tions, divesting our food business and 2018” focused on expanding operations closing some fiber businesses, achieving by heightening the combined strength of selective diversification. From 2000 the Asahi Kasei Group. onward, we also established many overseas operations, mainly in Asia, laying the foundation for global management. 1922– 2015 The LifeVest™ wearable defibrillator Pharmaceutical products after the Toyo Jozo merger Celgard™ Li-ion battery separator of Polypore Asahi Kasei Electronics Materials (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., a major manufacturing base for photosensitive dry film Others Critical Care Fibers Health Care Others Fibers Health Care Fiscal 2015 Electronics Electronics Net sales 1,940.9 billion Fiscal 2000 Construction Construction Materials Net sales Materials ¥ ¥1,269.4 billion Homes Chemicals Homes Chemicals Increased comfort and Heightened environmental consciousness convenience • Two decades of meager growth • Changing values after the Great East Japan Earthquake after collapse of bubble • Emergence from period of slow economic growth • Effect of global economic crisis Asahi Kasei Report 2016 13 Message from the President Taking bold steps forward toward our next milestones under “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” We enjoyed strong results in fiscal 2015, setting a new record high for operating income, owing to the success of our strategic investments and M&As executed over the past years. We are further strengthening our base of operations to create a portfolio of high-profitability and high value-added businesses in fiscal 2025. Hideki Kobori President 14 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Back to basics as we continue to forge ahead When I became President of Asahi Kasei this April, I reflected on my early experience. My first job when I joined the company was as a salesperson for an engineering resin that we had just commercialized, and then I was involved in ramping up our LSI business. When a business is young, you are always cultivating new customers and developing new products; there are constant challenges. Ever since then, I always bear in mind the importance of being alert to forthcoming changes and building valuable relationships with customers and other parties. My sense is that this is what the Asahi Kasei Group has always done to successfully diversify, and what we must continue to do now more than ever as we forge ahead. Last fall, regrettably, we disclosed the occurrence of data irregularities regarding the installation of precast concrete piles by subsidiary Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. We sincerely apologize to our shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders who placed their trust in us. We are focused on achieving thorough compliance based on the “three actuals” of the actual place, the actual thing, and the actual fact as we work to restore the trust of all stakeholders. Connecting diverse businesses and human resources For over nine decades since our founding in 1922, we have continued to proactively diversify and adapt the Asahi Kasei Group’s operating portfolio in accordance with changes in the operating environment, in the economy, and in society at large. With businesses that increasingly span the globe, it becomes difficult to steer a clear path in a world of constant change. It is especially under such circumstances that we must leverage our diverse businesses and human resources to build a portfolio of high-profitability and high value-added businesses to ensure our stable and sustainable development for the future. In accordance with our Group Mission of contributing to life and living for people around the world, we will create unmatched value in each field with innovative technologies and products that will be appreciated by our customers as we strive for further global reach. We are working to build the base for the next phase through our new medium-term management initiative starting from fiscal 2016. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 15 Message from the President New record-high operating income in fiscal 2015 with past efforts bearing fruit Under the previous medium-term management initiative “For Tomorrow 2015” which ended in fiscal 2015, the Asahi Kasei Group targeted net sales of ¥2 trillion and operating income of ¥160 billion. A number of actions were executed in accordance with the two strategic pillars of “expansion of worldleading businesses” and “creation of new value for society,” including some ¥1 trillion of strategic investment for growth. In the expansion of world-leading businesses, we increased production capacity for highly competitive products including S-SBR for fuel-efficient tires, spunbond nonwovens, and Roica™ spandex. In the creation of new value for society, we acquired ZOLL Medical Corporation, a leading US manufacturer of acute critical care devices and systems, marking our full-scale entry into this field. We also acquired Polypore International, LP to reinforce our battery separator business by adding new product lines. Furthermore, we acquired the US-based venture company Crystal IS, Inc. with which we jointly developed UVC LEDs, and began commercial production for disinfection applications. ZOLL’s operations grew remarkably during this period, yielding positive consolidated operating income even after amortization of goodwill, etc. With Polypore, the post-merger integration process is making good progress, and we are currently advancing the development of new products leveraging synergies between our two companies. In domestic petrochemicals operations, our naphtha cracker in Mizushima, which began operation in 1972, was unified with the adjacent naphtha cracker of Mitsubishi Chemical Corp. Joint operation began in April 2016, and we improved the earnings structure of derivative products. Those efforts bore fruit in fiscal 2015, with ¥1,940.9 billion in consolidated net sales and ¥165.2 billion in operating income. Although net sales were slightly below the target, operating income reached a new record high for the third year in a row. Over the five-year period of the initiative, net sales grew by some ¥400 billion and operating income grew by some ¥40 billion. With solid growth in health care operations, we attained a more balanced structure among our three business sectors of Material, Homes, and Health Care. Connection as the key element of “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” In April 2016, we launched a new medium-term management initiative, “Cs for Tomorrow 2018,” targeting consolidated net sales of ¥2.2 trillion and operating income of ¥180 billion in fiscal 2018. We are fostering innovation through our broad spectrum of businesses focused on contributing to the realization of a “society of clean environmental energy” and a “society of healthy/comfortable longevity with peace of mind.” Our aim is to create a portfolio of high-profitability and high value-added businesses over the next decade. Basic strategies under the new initiative ending in fiscal 2018 are “pursuit of growth and profitability,” “creation of new businesses,” and “acceleration of globalization.” We will build the base for the next phase by enhancing connections among our diverse businesses and diverse human resources. “Connection,” an important aspect of the new initiative, is a key concept in the electronics industry, where I worked for a long time. We will look to build new connections in many ways under the new initiative, both externally through joint R&D, M&A, and business alliances, and internally among our different businesses, different technologies, and different regions of operation. I believe such connections will open up new possibilities for further growth. 16 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Transformation to an operating holding company On April 1, 2016, Asahi Kasei Corp. became an operating holding company through the absorption of three of its core operating companies, Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp., and Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. The Asahi Kasei Group now operates in the three business sectors of Material, Homes, and Health Care. The holding company configuration adopted in October 2003 enabled each of our businesses to swiftly adapt to changes in their respective operating environments, with greater clarity of responsibility and authority for business management. The greater autonomy and independence of each business led to business expansion and increased profits. Comparing financial results of fiscal 2015 with those of fiscal 2003, net sales increased by a factor of 1.5 and operating income tripled. A stronger financial constitution was obtained with the operating margin rising from 4.9% to 8.5% and ROE rising from 6.4% to 8.6%. And yet, some downsides were also recognized; interactions among different businesses in terms of human resources, technology, and R&D had diminished, and some administrative functions overlapped. Under our new configuration we are aiming even higher, targeting net sales of ¥3 trillion and operating income of ¥280 billion in fiscal 2025. Achieving this will require more interaction among personnel and technologies to create synergies among different businesses and unleash the collective strength of the Asahi Kasei Group. Especially in the Material sector, we are placing greater strategic focus on automotive-related businesses. Previously, each business unit approached the same customers independently. Now we will work together as a group to formulate common strategies for marketing and technology tailored to each major customer and each region, enabling one-stop service for greater efficiency. Emphasizing the creation of new businesses to enhance growth We essentially achieved our targets under the previous initiative and set the stage for further growth under the new initiative. One objective of the new initiative is to reinforce in-house R&D for new business creation. We are now working to enhance connections among various technologies and businesses, and to further leverage M&A, joint R&D, and corporate venture capital (CVC) to facilitate the creation of businesses. Throughout the history of Asahi Kasei, we have repeatedly transformed our business portfolio and provided new value to society to meet the changing needs of the times. In each case, this was made possible through our strengths in R&D and our willingness to take on challenges. Having realigned our corporate structure in April 2016 to further enhance collaboration among different businesses, we will be better able to discern business potential as we forge ahead with the creation of new businesses. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 17 Message from the President Expansion in the automotive field with coordinated marketing across different business units The automotive industry is changing dramatically with the motorization of emerging countries, the ascendance of eco cars such as hybrid, electric, and fuel-cell vehicles, and the evolution of automated driving technologies based on IT. This area is now the focus of intense interest among material manufacturers offering various leading-edge materials. Though our Material sector has a rich range of products for the automotive industry, our different business units have been interacting separately with the same customers. This inhibited our ability to gain a complete picture of customer needs and market information. Our new configuration will make our business activities more efficient and effective as an integrated whole, with a comprehensive approach to marketing and technology development for key customers. Our newly established Automotive Marketing Department will coordinate these efforts throughout the Material sector, ensuring swift and effective action. Particular emphasis will be placed on achieving growth in Europe, where many environmental and technology trends originate. Asahi Kasei Europe GmbH, newly established in Dusseldorf, Germany, will serve as a base for marketing in Europe. Reinforcing our world-leading position Our August 2015 acquisition of Polypore reinforced our world-leading position in the field of battery separators. By combining the Celgard™ dry-process products with our Hipore™ wet-process products, we have significantly expanded our lithium-ion battery (LIB) separator product portfolio, enabling us to meet a wider variety of customer needs. Daramic™ lead-acid battery separator also has excellent growth potential with the motorization of emerging countries and the increasing adoption of idling stop-start systems around the world. The Asahi Kasei Group’s total LIB separator capacity, combining both wet and dry processes, is now 550 million m2/year. We are currently adding a new production line at the Hipore™ manufacturing plant located in Moriyama, Shiga, Japan, that will raise this to 610 million m2/year in 2018. To keep pace with forecasted growth in demand, we plan to continue to raise our total LIB separator capacity to 1,100 million m2/year by 2020. We will continue to leverage our comprehensive battery separator lineup of Hipore™, Celgard™, and Daramic™, heightening synergies among our manufacturing technologies, processing technologies, and marketing functions. 18 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 ¥700 billion of strategic investment budgeted over three years While we performed some ¥1 trillion of strategic investment over the five-year period of the previous initiative, including investment to expand existing businesses and large-scale M&A, we plan to allocate ¥700 billion to strategic investment during the three-year period of the new initiative. While over ¥100 billion was allocated to existing businesses each year during the previous initiative, in the new initiative we plan to divide strategic investment roughly evenly between measures to expand existing businesses and non-linear growth measures such as M&A. Investment to expand existing businesses will be focused on competitive products such as performance polymers and compounds for automotive applications, fiber materials enjoying strong demand, and especially LIB separator. LIB separator for consumer electronics applications continues to perform well, and that for automotive applications is forecasted to grow significantly. As for M&A, we will focus on acquiring technologies that are at an early stage of development. We would like to have as many growth drivers as possible. We will also look at M&A as a way to enhance our services and customer support systems, enabling us to extend business models for fuller service provision. Strategic path toward our vision for the future in each sector We are advancing strategic actions toward the achievement of our vision for each business sector in fiscal 2025. FY15–18 increase, FY2018 FY18–25 increase, FY2025 (¥ billion) FY2015 growth rate target growth rate outlook Net sales (a) 1,004.4 1,250.0 1,650.0 Material Operating income (b) 79.2 100.0 140.0 Operating margin (b/a) 7.9% +0.1 pt 8.0% +0.5 pt 8.5% Net sales (a) 632.4 700.0 1,000.0 Homes Operating income (b) 71.0 (1.0) 70.0 +30.0 100.0 Operating margin (b/a) 11.2% 10.0% 10.0% Net sales (a) 285.4 +9.0%/year 370.0 +7.2%/year 600.0 Health Care Operating income (b) 36.2 50.0 80.0 Operating margin (b/a) 12.7% 13.5% 13.3% Note: Totals of net sales and operating income targets and outlooks shown here do not match those shown on page 8. Material sector There are three main elements of our policy for future business expansion toward fiscal 2025 in the Material sector. The first is to enhance profitability by expanding operations in performance products. The second is to reinforce the world-leading position of our battery separator business. And the third is to use our combined strength to cultivate new markets for materials. In line with these, the three-year period of the new initiative will focus on enhancing profitability by strengthening established businesses while advancing measures for the future that span across the sector. Advancing toward fiscal 2025, we will solidify the earnings base of our petrochemicals and consumables businesses focused on the domestic Japanese market as well as that of our steadily growing fibers business, while expanding businesses with automotive materials, battery materials, and new materials for healthcare and hygiene applications. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 19 Message from the President Homes sector In addition to securing stable earnings by raising market share for established businesses in the Homes sector toward fiscal 2025, we will advance new businesses focused on medium-rise homes, seniors, and overseas markets, and work to create distinctive added value through connections with our other business sectors. The three-year period of the new initiative will focus on securing stable earnings in our main businesses and seeking stable growth by expanding in real estate, remodeling, and insulation materials. We are also working to expand through a capital alliance with a construction company and through joint projects with companies in Taiwan. Health Care sector Toward fiscal 2025, this sector will work to expand its overseas sales and raise its operating income to one-third of the consolidated total. Pharmaceuticals operations will globally expand with Recomodulin™ anticoagulant as a growth driver. Medical devices operations will grow further by utilizing and reinforcing ZOLL’s global operating platform. While reinforcing the global platform during the three-year period of the new initiative, we will further expand in overseas markets, especially the US where higher growth is forecasted, by accumulating information on early-stage R&D utilizing CVC, etc. Transparent, fair, and timely decision-making We aim to provide solutions to society by creating synergies among our various businesses, and to achieve sustainable growth and enhance corporate value over the medium to long term. As a part of this effort, we believe that it is important to have a corporate governance framework that ensures transparent, fair, and timely decisions. In fiscal 2015, we established a Nomination Advisory Committee and a Remuneration Advisory Committee to obtain the active participation of Outside Directors in the process of considering the optimal makeup and size of the Board of Directors, ­policies for nominating candidates and the remuneration system for Directors and Corporate Auditors, and system to evaluate Directors for performance-based remuneration, etc. We also began analyzing, evaluating, and disclosing results of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, and established a system to monitor its effectiveness on a regular basis. We will continue to review our system of corporate governance to ensure that it remains optimal for highly transparent management. Enhancing corporate value by providing solutions to society through our business activities With a clear understanding of the effects of our operations on the global environment and local communities, our efforts and actions related to CSR are based on four CSR Fundamentals: Compliance, Responsible Care, Corporate Citizenship, and Respect for Employee Individuality. We consider CSR in Action, on the other hand, to be the creation of value for society by providing solutions through our business operations to fulfill our Group Mission of contributing to life and living for people around the world, ultimately resulting in increased corporate value for all of our stakeholders. We see CSR Fundamentals as prerequisite for the sustainable development of our corporation as a trustworthy member of society, and although we will continue to realign our business portfolio in line with evolving needs of the times, we will retain the four CSR Fundamentals as an unchanging core. Meanwhile, CSR in Action is advanced by providing solutions to society through our business operations in accordance with the business strategies of our medium-term management initiative. With the basic strategies “pursuit of growth and profitability,” “creation of new businesses,” and “acceleration of globalization,” we will create new value for society. 20 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Creating for Tomorrow CSR Fundamentals Based on a clear understanding of the effects of our operations on the global environment and local The communities, our efforts and actions related to CSR community are focused on four CSR Fundamentals: Compliance, The Community The employee outreach environment Responsible Care, Corporate Citizenship, and Respect Employee Environmental fulfillment protection for Employee Individuality. The Sustainable Increase The CSR in Action customer in Corporate Value shareholder We believe that CSR is achieved by raising corporate Customer Shareholder satisfaction returns value for our various stakeholders through our The The local supplier economy business operations in accordance with our Group Fair business Local economic Mission of contributing to life and living for people Society of clean dealings participation Society of healthy/comfortable around the world. environmental energy longevity with peace of mind Business operations Structure and organization for CSR In order to promote separate important activities Creation of regarding CSR more efficiently and decisively, we Pursuit of new businesses have five committees under the direct supervision of Acceleration of growth and the Asahi Kasei President as follows: globalization profitability Corporate Ethics Committee “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” Asahi Kasei • Preparation of Basic Policy and Code of strategic management initiative President Conduct for corporate ethics • Advancement of ethics education and CSR in Action operation of compliance hotline Responsible Care Committee • Deliberation of plans and results in regard CSR Fundamentals to environmental protection, product safety, operational safety, etc. Compliance, Responsible Care, Corporate Citizenship, Respect for Employee Individuality Global Environment Committee • Deliberation and adoption of group-wide measures to counter global warming Group Mission Risk Management Committee Contributing to life and living for people around the world • Formulation of plans and measures to respond to actual or potential crises Community Fellowship Committee • Formulation of policy, plans, and courses of action in regard to community fellowship activities Note: In September 2016, the Corporate Ethics Committee and Risk Management Committee were integrated into a Risk Management & Compliance Committee chaired by the Asahi Kasei President. (as of April 1, 2016) Human resource development and sustainable growth The Asahi Kasei Group will celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2022. Our founder, Shitagau Noguchi, began ammonia synthesis in Nobeoka, Miyazaki, Japan, with an ambition of helping to solve global food supply issues and eliminate strife from the world. Since then, Asahi Kasei has always worked to solve challenges faced by society through our business activities. The major milestone of our 100th anniversary is a reminder that we need to be prepared for further changes in the coming century. It is crucial to develop human resources who will be ready for this. While valuing our personnel, we will reallocate people to areas of focus, systematically rotate them, and develop talent as our business portfolio evolves. It is also important to maintain an environment that fosters personnel who demonstrate outstanding specialist skill. We need to make sure we are not only rewarding people based on management ability, but also valuing specialists who excel in other areas. By building new connections among our diverse businesses and diverse personnel, we will further strengthen the Asahi Kasei Group for the future. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 21 Interview with the CFO Executing strategies aimed at future growth to increase our corporate value; promoting proactive investments for growth and a robust capital policy Shuichi Sakamoto Director Senior Executive Officer Q What is your basic financial strategy under “Cs for Tomorrow 2018”? We are focused on consistent generation of cash flow, with an appropriate balance between A investment for growth and shareholder returns. The Asahi Kasei Group aims to consistently expand cash flow “creation of new businesses,” and “acceleration of globalizain two basic ways. One is by enhancing profitability through tion,” and by further raising competitiveness of established greater cost competitiveness, enhanced product performance, businesses, but also by creating new added value in each and business structure improvement, and the other is by sector. Cash flow generated through these efforts provides improving capital efficiency through intragroup financing and further resources to invest for growth as well as to return to appropriate control of inventory levels. To obtain stable and shareholders. We are careful to maintain an appropriate ballow-cost financing, we employ various fund-raising methods ance between the two. such as borrowing from banks, issuing bonds, and issuing We expect the total operating cash flow during the threecommercial paper flexibly and dynamically in accordance with year period of CT2018 to be ¥600–700 billion, which is to be our financial circumstances. assigned for strategic investments and shareholder returns. The Under our “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” (CT2018) management total amount of investment for growth will be ¥700 billion for initiative, we will generate cash flow not only by implementing three years, and we will strive to continuously increase sharethree basic strategies of “pursuit of growth and profitability,” holder returns with a total return ratio of 35% in fiscal 2018. Primary financial metrics FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Dividends per share ¥14 ¥14 ¥17 ¥19 ¥20 Payout ratio 35.1% 36.4% 23.5% 25.1% 30.4% Net income per share (EPS) ¥39.89 ¥38.43 ¥72.48 ¥75.62 ¥65.69 Net income per total assets (ROA) 3.9% 3.3% 5.5% 5.4% 4.3% Net income per shareholders’ equity (ROE) 8.1% 7.1% 11.7% 10.6% 8.6% Net income per shareholders’ equity and 6.9% 5.7% 7.7% 7.5% 7.1% interest-bearing debt (ROIC) D/E ratio 0.26 0.47 0.33 0.25 0.43 22 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Q What is the thinking behind your “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” financial targets? The 3-year period to fiscal 2018 is a time to build a solid foundation toward our vision of A becoming a collection of high-profitability, and high value-added businesses in fiscal 2025. The targets for the previous medium-term management operating income. The figures for fiscal 2018 are calculated initiative were ¥2 trillion in net sales, ¥160 billion in operating on the assumption that the exchange rate will be ¥110 per income, return on equity (ROE) of at least 10%, and return on dollar, which is 10 yen lower than the level of fiscal 2015. If invested capital (ROIC) of at least 7%, which were achieved genthe exchange outlook had remained steady, we would have erally as planned. We reached a new high in operating income assumed the same operating margin as in fiscal 2015, but for the third consecutive year. These results are attributable to we had to make some adjustments prior to announcing our the previously implemented measures which steadily bore fruit. targets in light of the recent exchange rate trends. The basic The economic environment in fiscal 2015 was favorable for idea of strengthening our highly profitable businesses, and us in terms of the exchange rate and feedstock costs. However, raising their share of our total portfolio, remains consistent entering fiscal 2016, the business environment has become with our previous management initiatives. increasingly challenging with continued appreciation of the Our fiscal 2018 target for net income attributable to yen. In our vision of creating a portfolio of high-profitability owners of the parent is ¥110 billion, with net income per and high value-added businesses in fiscal 2025, the three years share reaching nearly ¥80. We will expand operating income under the current management initiative are positioned as the while focusing on greater profitability, and review strategic time to build the base for the next phase with connections shareholdings in accordance with the Corporate Governance among diverse businesses and diverse human resources. Code. Our other performance targets include ROE of 9%, Given that, our financial targets for fiscal 2025 are ¥3 trillion ROIC of 7%, and a D/E ratio of 0.5. We will continue to work to in net sales and ¥280 billion in operating income. Those for further increase earnings by executing our business strategies fiscal 2018 are ¥2.2 trillion in net sales and ¥180 billion in while reinforcing our financial strength. Please tell us your perspective on funding for strategic investment, Q and shareholder returns including share buybacks. Under CT2018, we will further increase strategic investments and aim for greater A shareholder returns. We made a total of ¥1 trillion in investments during the 5-year continuous earnings growth, with a payout ratio of 30% as our period of the previous medium-term management initiative basic standard. We now have a target for a total return ratio of which ended in fiscal 2015, investing slightly more than 35% in fiscal 2018. In addition to maintaining stable dividends ¥100 billion in existing businesses each year. In CT2018, the and continuously raising them, we will flexibly perform share total investment during the 3 years is planned to be about buybacks to achieve this return ratio. ¥700 billion, with slightly more than half being used to carry Dividends per share and payout ratio out initiatives to reinforce existing businesses. In addition (¥) (%) to heightening the competitive advantages of our existing 20 20 40 businesses, we will expand production capacity for businesses 19 36.4 operating on a global scale and for businesses capable of cap17 35.1 turing new markets in Japan. The remainder of the strategic 15 30.4 30 14 14 investment, slightly less than half, will be used for non-linear 25.5 growth measures similar to those in the previous initiative, 11 25.1 23.5 including M&A to proactively expand businesses. 10 20 Our funding policy to support these initiatives will be to rely on borrowings in principle, while maintaining a D/E ratio 5 10 of around 0.5. We will strive to maintain stable and low-cost financing, as well as a sound financial position, as we advance our strategic investments. 0 0 Our policy for shareholder returns in the previous initiative ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 ‘15 (FY) was to strive to continuously increase dividends through Dividends per share (left scale) Payout ratio (right scale) Asahi Kasei Report 2016 23 Interview with the Chairman of the Board A Board of Directors that engenders sustainable growth Ichiro Itoh Chairman & Director Fiscal 2015 marked a new beginning for corporate governance in Japan with the adoption of the Corporate Governance Code and Stewardship Code. As Chairman of the Board, Ichiro Itoh describes the characteristics of corporate governance at Asahi Kasei and tasks ahead for the Board of Directors in an atmosphere of heightening attention to corporate governance issues. Q What are the characteristics of corporate governance at Asahi Kasei? We were early to bring in Outside Directors, and have an objective and A rational governance configuration. Japan’s Corporate Governance Code issued in fiscal 2015 calls Another characteristic of our corporate governance is that for more than one Outside Director and evaluation of the in fiscal 2015 we established two advisory committees within effectiveness of the Board of Directors. In fact we were one the Board of Directors. The Nomination Advisory Committee of the first companies to have 2 Outside Directors as early in particular will ensure objective and rational selection of canas 2007. Since then we increased the proportion of Outside didates for election to the Board of Directors. The Nomination Directors, and now one-third of our Directors, 3 out of 9, are Advisory Committee is comprised of 2 Directors from inside Outside Directors. I think there are two major benefits of the company and 3 Outside Directors. As Outside Directors having Outside Directors. The first is the broader perspective form a majority, this prevents internal company logic from brought to discussions in the Board of Directors. Our Outside prevailing. If the company’s management is deemed to be off Directors have experience in corporate management, track, the committee can respond by deselecting Directors academic research, and industrial policy, and one of them is from candidacy for reelection. our first female Director. They contribute opinions and advice This year, in accordance with the Corporate Governance from a different perspective than Directors from inside the Code, we began evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board company. This yields deeper discussions, and ensures that of Directors. We performed a survey of Directors, discussed we reach objective, rational, and reasonable conclusions. The the results, and published a summary in this year’s Corporate second benefit of having Outside Directors on the Board is Governance Report. By continuing this process, any deficiency a heightened sense of constantly being observed from an found in the workings of the Board of Directors will be immeoutside perspective. This engenders an objective and balanced diately rectified. This mechanism will help ensure that we are perspective, which has a positive effect on business execution. constantly maintaining the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. 24 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Q How do you evaluate the current makeup of the Board of Directors? A We will study how to further raise diversity. We currently have 9 Directors. Before we adopted an Executive sales in fiscal 2015 were 35% of the total, and 51.9% if you Officer system in 2003, we had 30 Directors. This was reduced exclude the domestic homes business. To bring a global perto 7. In 2005 we amended our Articles of Incorporation to limit spective to important decisions and management oversight, the maximum size to 12 Directors. With too many people, it we need to consider the selection of a foreigner as Director. We becomes hard to have a deep discussion. I think 12 is a reasonalso hope to nurture a female candidate to be Director from able maximum number. within the company, though this will take a little more time. Regarding the proportion of Outside Directors, I feel that At this year’s annual general meeting of shareholders, the current proportion of one-third is appropriate to ensure we received over 96% approval for our candidates to the effective and objective decisions. As the Asahi Kasei Group’s Board of Directors. The main shareholder advisory firms all operations continue to grow, we may feel that 9 Directors recommended approval. I take this as an indication of a is not enough. If we increase the number, I think we should general consensus that the Board structure we proposed was maintain at least one third Outside Directors. considered appropriate. We will continue to strive to maintain Diversity is another issue we must consider. Our overseas a Board structure that is deemed to be appropriate. Q What are your expectations for the new President? A I anticipate that he will be resolute in management, and advance the creation of new businesses. The world is undergoing dramatic changes. Consider the business if necessary. The President of the company needs to UK’s decision to withdraw from the EU, the US presidential be resolute in all of these ways. I also look forward to new busielection, and the economic slowdown in China and other nesses and new products being created. During the previous emerging countries, to name just a few political and economic medium-term management initiative, we complemented our issues. There are many challenges to globally managing our own new business creation with M&A. But in line with Asahi company and achieving sustainable growth under these Kasei’s heritage of taking on challenges, I think we should put circumstances. We need not only courage to make decisions, more effort into creating new business on our own with an but also courage to correct ourselves and courage to close a entrepreneurial spirit. Q Is there anything that you think the Board of Directors should discuss more deeply? A We will place greater focus on monitoring the progress of management plans. The Board of Directors discusses medium-term management approves plans and budgets, so I think the Board of Directors plans and other aspects of growth strategy. In addition to should also follow up to confirm progress of achievement. As reviewing the financial results, from now on I intend to place Chairman of the Board of Directors, I will work to ensure that greater focus on monitoring the state of progress of execution the Board works effectively for the sustainable growth of the of management plans. It is the Board of Directors which Asahi Kasei Group. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 25 Interview with an Outside Director A medium-to-long term perspective for raising corporate value Norio Ichino Outside Director Career summary April 1964: Joined Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. June 1996: Director, Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. June 2003: President and Representative Director, Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. April 2006: Director and Vice Chairman of the Board, Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. April 2007: Director and Chairman of the Board, Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. April 2010: Director and Executive Advisor, Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. June 2010: Executive Advisor, Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. June 2011: Outside Director, Asahi Kasei Corp.* April 2014: Special Advisor, Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.* * Position held at present. Shareholders and investors are paying greater attention to the roles and responsibilities of Outside Directors in the Board of Directors. Norio Ichino shares his perspective on how the function of the Board of Directors can be further improved, as well as his own role on the Board of Directors, considering the future outlook for the Asahi Kasei Group. Q How do you evaluate Asahi Kasei’s Board of Directors? A There are very active discussions, with objectivity and fairness maintained. Under the leadership of Chairman Itoh, each Director’s opindecisions are made appropriately. I also feel that 9 Directors is ions are brought forward. The Corporate Auditors also freely an appropriate number. Considering that 3 of the 9 Directors express their opinions, and there are always active discussions. are Outside Directors and 3 of the 5 Corporate Auditors are Matters pending approval have always been thoroughly Outside Corporate Auditors, over 40% of the total are outsiddiscussed at the Management Council before being brought ers. I feel that this configuration ensures an objective and fair to the Board of Directors, and my impression is that the final perspective. Q Do you see any areas where the effectiveness of the Board of Directors could be improved? There should be more measures to nurture candidates for leadership positions and A greater diversity. I think there are 2 areas where there is room for improvement. In addition to the specialist knowledge gained through experiThe first would be to use the Board of Directors to nurture ence as President of a strategic business unit or core operating candidates for leadership positions. Considering the broad company, a birds-eye view of the overall Asahi Kasei Group scope and large scale of the Asahi Kasei Group’s operations, a requires a balanced perspective on which fields to concentrate leader needs to have considerable knowledge and judgment. investment in, a sense of how to achieve sustainable growth, 26 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 and a strong awareness of compliance-related issues, to name candidate to the Board of Directors must understand and a few. The Board of Directors is the ideal venue for fostering appreciate the Asahi Kasei Group’s vision and values. Currently such perspectives. Considering the future growth of operathe company has 3 foreign Executive Officers. I think we tions, I think the number of Directors could be increased by 1 should consider them as possible candidates to be Director. I or 2 people. also think we should consider female candidates from inside The second area would be to consider the selection of forthe company to be Director, not only for diversity but also eigners and women as candidates to be Director. Asahi Kasei to further raise the effectiveness of the Board of Directors by needs to further globalize. The Board of Directors also needs to bringing in a broader perspective. be made more global. This is not so simple, because a foreign Q How do you see your own role in helping to further raise Asahi Kasei’s corporate value? A I work to oversee the company’s management from a medium-to-long term perspective. For the oversight of the company’s management as an were expected to be used in electric vehicles. I straightforOutside Director, I offer opinions on corporate governance wardly asked, “Is the electric vehicle’s time really coming? Will and express the perspective of the consumer based on my it be the electric vehicle or the fuel-cell vehicle? What positive experience as a chief executive. When we are making the final impact can we expect in 10 years?” After thorough discussion decision on a matter, I am careful to consider whether it has we determined that there were significant merits in both the been studied from a medium-to-long term perspective. It’s short term and the long term, and that it would also contribnatural that people working on the front lines of business tend ute to the development of global human resources, and so we to focus on the short term, since they are working hard every approved the acquisition. day to achieve results. I see my role as offering advice from I sense that the role of a Director is becoming more and a medium-to-long term perspective, to help businesses add more important. I will continue to deepen my understandeven greater value. When we were considering the Polypore ing of the operations and vision of the Asahi Kasei Group, acquisition in 2015, I offered opinions based on a medium-tofulfilling my role of management oversight with a sense of long term perspective. Polypore’s battery separator products responsibility. Q How do you see the data manipulation issue at Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp.? A It’s time to get back to basics and thoroughly apply the “three actuals.” I think one cause of the data manipulation was poor manageThe Asahi Kasei Group is now working to prevent recurment of on-site workers by Asahi Kasei Construction Materials. rence by thoroughly applying the “three actuals” set forth by When work is entrusted to contractors and subcontractors President Kobori. Indeed, the “three actuals” are originally a without proper oversight, people become careless and part of Asahi Kasei’s heritage. When the company entered a management becomes lenient. To prevent that, there needs completely new field of business such as housing, they built to be a system where supervisors oversee the work from day the business into a success by focusing on the actual site and to day with a sense of responsibility, and they need to make putting the customer first. I hope that all employees will take this a regular practice. Furthermore, we need to share Asahi a moment to consider the principles of their actions, and feel Kasei’s vision and values with contractors and subcontractors, a sense of pride and responsibility in their work. The Board so that they can feel a sense of satisfaction in working within of Directors will thoroughly apply the lessons from this issue this corporate culture. If that had been the case, I don’t think as we work to heighten the company’s risk management this kind of problem would have occurred. functions. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 27 Corporate Governance 1 Basic Views on Corporate Governance The Group Vision of Asahi Kasei is to provide new value to value over the medium to long term by promoting innovation society and solve social issues by enabling “living in health and and creating synergy through integration of various busicomfort” and “harmony with the natural environment” under nesses. We continue to pursue optimal corporate governance the Group Mission of “contributing to life and living for people as a framework to make transparent, fair, timely, and resolute around the world.” With this as a base, we aim to contribute to decisions in accordance with changes in the business society, achieve sustainable growth, and enhance corporate environment. 2 Business Management Organization and Other Corporate Governance Systems regarding Decision-Making, Execution of Business, and Oversight in Management (as of June 28, 2016) Shareholders Meeting Election Election ○ Audit ○ Oversight Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors (5 Corporate Auditors, including (9 Directors, including 3 Independent Outside Corporate Auditors) 3 Independent Outside Directors) Cooperation Audit Nomination Advisory Committee Independent Auditors Remuneration Advisory Committee Audit Oversight ○ Execution of operations Management Council President Corporate Ethics Committee Compliance Hotline Responsible Care Committee Risk Management Committee Internal Audit Department Group staff functions Core Operating Companies, Strategic Business Units Note: In September 2016, the Corporate Ethics Committee and Risk Management Committee were replaced with a Risk Management & Compliance Committee chaired by the President of Asahi Kasei. 28 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Evolution of Asahi Kasei’s corporate governance system FY Board of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors Others • Changed term of office of Directors to 1 year (previously 2 years) • Changed maximum number of Directors to 15 (previously 45) • 2 Outside Corporate Auditors out of • Transformed to a holding company • Changed number of Directors to 7 4 Corporate Auditors configuration 2003 (previously 30) • Extended term of office of Corporate • Launched “Ishin-05” medium-term • Adopted Executive Officer system Auditors from 3 years to 4 years management initiative • Established Strategic Management Council (currently Management Council) • Launched “Growth Action—2010” 2006 medium-term management initiative • 2 Outside Directors out of 11 2007 Directors (previously 8 Directors all from inside) 2008 • 3 Outside Directors out of 10 Directors • Adopted takeover defense measures • Launched “For Tomorrow 2015” 2011 medium-term management initiative • Renewed takeover defense measures • Increased number of Outside • Withdrew takeover defense measures • Reduced number of Directors from Corporate Auditors from 2 to 3, • Discontinued system of retirement 2014 10 to 9, raising the proportion of making Outside Corporate Auditors bonuses for Directors and Corporate Outside Directors to 1/3 a majority Auditors • Established Nomination Advisory Committee and Remuneration Advisory Committee • Held regular meetings between Outside Directors and Independent Auditors • Clarified policy regarding prohibition • Held regular meetings between of disadvantageous treatment due to Outside Directors and Corporate reporting to Corporate Auditors and 2015 Auditors policy regarding bearing expenses of • Established policies for nomination of Corporate Auditors with amendment candidates for Director and Corporate of basic policy for internal control Auditor, criteria on the independence of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors, and policy regarding strategic shareholdings and exercise of voting rights thereof • Transformed to an operating holding company configuration 2016 • Launched “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” medium-term management initiative Asahi Kasei Report 2016 29 Corporate Governance 3 Corporate Governance System ◻ Oversight and audit Corporate Auditors from inside the company and Outside The Board of Directors, which consists of nine Directors includCorporate Auditors, a Corporate Auditors Office is staffed with ing three independent Outside Directors (one-third), makes full-time employees. decisions on matters requiring a Board of Directors resolution PricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata LLC performs financial in accordance with laws or the Articles of Incorporation, makes audits based on the Companies Act and the Financial decisions on important matters for Asahi Kasei Corp. (the Instruments and Exchange Act. Company) and other companies of the Group, and oversees Furthermore, the Internal Audit Department conducts execution of operations by Directors and Executive Officers. internal audits based on the audit plan. Results of internal The newly established Nomination Advisory Committee audits performed by each staff function are aggregated by and Remuneration Advisory Committee under the Board the Internal Audit Department and reported to the Board of of Directors consist of a majority of Outside Directors who Directors. provide active involvement in the consideration of matters such as: optimal makeup and size of the Board of Directors, ◻ Execution of operation policy regarding nomination of candidates for Directors and We have adopted an Executive Officer system to enable faster Corporate Auditors, criteria on the independence of Outside business execution, and clearly define responsibilities; Directors Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors, remuneration policy fulfill decision-making and oversight functions, and Executive and system for Directors, and evaluation of individual Directors Officers fulfill execution of operations. to determine remuneration based on performance. The Decision-Making and Approval Authority Regulations The Board of Corporate Auditors consists of five Corporate of the Group stipulate detailed criteria for decision-making Auditors including three independent Outside Corporate with regard to matters concerning the management plan, Auditors (a majority). In accordance with the audit policy investments and loans, funding and financial management, the stipulated by the Board of Corporate Auditors, each Corporate organization and management system, research and developAuditor oversees execution of duties by Directors by attending ment, and production technology, and delegate authority from the Board of Directors meetings and examining the state of the Board of Directors to the Management Council, strategic operations. To enhance functions of the Board of Corporate business units, and core operating companies. Auditors and to facilitate smooth cooperation among 4 Policy and Procedure to Nominate Candidates for Directors In selecting candidates for Directors, we appoint persons experts, or public officials. with deep insight and excellent skills suitable for the role. To further heighten objectivity and transparency in For Directors from inside the company, we select those with appointing candidates for Directors, we established a expertise, experience and skills required in the respective field. Nomination Advisory Committee which consists of a majority On the other hand, Outside Directors are expected to supervise of Outside Directors who take part in discussions on the the management from an objective standpoint based on their makeup and size of the Board of Directors and policies for deep insights and rich experience. Therefore we select from nomination of Directors and Corporate Auditors, and provide among people who were corporate executives, academic advice to the Board of Directors. 30 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 5 Policy and Procedure to Determine Remuneration of Directors Directors’ remuneration, within the remuneration limit management benchmarks including but not limited to net approved at a shareholders meeting, is determined based on sales, operating income, and ROA. We determine the level of the remuneration system approved in advance by the Board remuneration based on research data provided by external of Directors, and it consists of the fixed base remuneration specialized agencies, etc. In order to further improve the determined by rank of each Director and the performanceobjectivity and transparency of Directors’ remuneration, we linked remuneration determined based on consolidated and have established a Remuneration Advisory Committee, which non-consolidated financial results. Performance is evaluated consists of a majority of Outside Directors, who participate considering the degree of achievement of individually in discussions about the Directors’ remuneration system and established objectives, achievements, contributions to financial operation thereof, and provide advice to the Board of Directors. performance, and the degree of contributions, in addition to 6 Independence Standards and Qualification for Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors In determining that Outside Directors and Outside Corporate 5. Company which receives donation or aid (10 million yen or Auditors are independent, we ensure that they do not cormore in a year) from the Asahi Kasei Group or person who respond to any of the following and whether they are capable executes businesses thereof of performing duties from a fair and neutral standpoint. 6. Main shareholder of the Asahi Kasei Group (person or company who directly or indirectly owns 10% or more of 1. Person who currently executes or has executed businesses all voting rights in Asahi Kasei) or person who executes of the Asahi Kasei Group (executive directors, executive businesses thereof officers, employees, etc.) over the last 10 years 7. Person who executes businesses of a company which elects 2. Company or person who executes businesses thereof Directors, Corporate Auditors, or employees of the Asahi whose major business partner is the Asahi Kasei Group Kasei Group as its own Directors or Corporate Auditors (company with more than 2% of its annual consolidated 8. Independent Auditor of the Asahi Kasei Group or any staff net sales from the Asahi Kasei Group) thereof 3. Major business partner of the Asahi Kasei Group (when 9. Person who fell into any of the categories 2 through 8 payments by this partner to the Asahi Kasei Group account above over the last three years for more than 2% of our annual consolidated net sales or 10. Person who has a close relative (spouse, relative within when we borrow money from such partner amounting to the second degree of kinship, and those who share living more than 2% of our consolidated total assets) or person expenses) who falls under any of the categories 1 through who executes businesses thereof 8 above, provided that “person who executes businesses 4. Person who receives money or other financial gain (10 thereof” in 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7 above shall be replaced with million yen or more in a year) from the Asahi Kasei Group “important person who executes businesses thereof (execuas an individual other than remuneration as a Director or tive directors and executive officers, etc.)” Corporate Auditor of Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Report 2016 31 Corporate Governance 7 Audits In accordance with the audit policy adopted by the Board of accountants and other specialist accountants. Corporate Auditors, each Corporate Auditor attends meetings The Internal Audit Dept., the Board of Corporate Auditors, of the Board of Directors and audits Directors in the discharge and the Corporate Auditors of core operating companies and of their duties through examination of business performance. other subsidiaries regularly meet to confirm the effectiveness The Corporate Auditors Office provides staff to support of internal governance systems for legal compliance and risk Corporate Auditors in their duties. management. The Board of Corporate Auditors provides counPricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata LLC is contracted as the sel to the Independent Auditors of the consolidated financial Independent Auditors to perform financial audits in accoraudit of Asahi Kasei each quarter and each fiscal year. dance with the Companies Act and Financial Instruments and The Internal Audit Dept. (15 personnel as of March 31, Exchange Act. 2016) is a corporate organ under the direct authority of the The Independent Auditors form a team of assistants for President of Asahi Kasei. Each year, the Internal Audit Dept. performance of the audit in accordance with its audit plan. The prepares plans for an internal audit in accordance with basic team mainly comprises certified public accountants and junior corporate regulations for internal audits, obtains the President’s accountants, and also includes certified information systems approval for these plans, and then performs the internal audit. 8 Compliance ◻ Corporate ethics ◻ Protection of personal information Our Corporate Ethics—Basic Policy and Code of Conduct Asahi Kasei is committed to the proper handling and use of (enacted in August 1998, revised in April 2016) is the standard personal information, in accordance with our basic policy. and guide for ethical conduct throughout the day-to-day work Education and training for all employees, including the of each and every member of the Asahi Kasei Group. It is based distribution of an information security handbook (revised in on our Group Mission, Group Vision, and Group Values. April 2016) which covers issues related to personal information protection, is monitored by the Corporate Ethics Committee. 9 Information Disclosure Policy The Asahi Kasei Group has established an Information communication based on these basic concepts. Disclosure Policy, enhancing the management and disclosure Corporate information is disclosed fairly, impartially, of corporate information to obtain greater corporate value. accurately, and as swiftly as possible to stakeholders such as Corporate regulations for information disclosure based on this customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, employees, and policy were adopted on July 1, 2008. local communities, and to the general public. In our communication with stakeholders and with the ◻ Basic policy general public, we strive for dialog which fosters a relationship With our Group Mission of “contributing to life and living for of trust, promoting greater understanding of the Asahi Kasei people around the world,” we hold “ensuring transparency” Group and its operations, to increase brand strength and as a fundamental element of our Corporate Ethics—Basic heighten corporate value. Policy. We proactively engage in information disclosure and 10 Compliance Monitoring by the Corporate Ethics Committee Monitoring of compliance and oversight of education and improvement. The committee discusses the training programs training for compliance throughout the Asahi Kasei Group implemented at each group company, measures for prevenare performed by the Corporate Ethics Committee, which tion of sexual harassment, the state of compliance with laws was formed in July 1988. Where shortcomings are discovered, and regulations including personal information protection law, the committee formulates and implements measures for and operation of the Compliance Hotline. 32 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 11 Risk Management The Asahi Kasei Group has a Risk Management Committee to contact system to employ in the event of a disaster at each enhance the risk management system to prevent operational major operating location. We also held a series of internal crises and to minimize the effects of any crisis which may meetings and interviews to confirm that the management of occur. Our Basic Risk Management Regulations, which were personal information is implemented properly to prevent any established by the Board of Directors in March 2007 (effective inappropriate disclosure. Additionally, in May 2015 we adopted April 1, 2007), provide clear guidelines to heighten the capabila system to efficiently confirm the well-being of personnel ity and effectiveness for risk management and emergency stationed overseas and travelling on business overseas if an response throughout the Asahi Kasei Group. emergency situation should occur where they are located. In fiscal 2014, we reinforced familiarity with the emergency 12 Establishment of Risk Management & Compliance The expansion of our global businesses through several M&As, compliance-related information. To further enhance the including ZOLL in 2012 and Polypore International in 2015, and organization, managers responsible for risk management the occurrence of manipulation of precast concrete pile instaland compliance were designated in each strategic business lation data by subsidiary Asahi Kasei Construction Materials, unit and core operating company; they will lead the effort to have raised the exigency of a review of our compliance system. achieve thorough compliance and perform a review to identify To reinforce the company-wide configuration, we latent risks within each organization. We will formulate specific established Risk Management & Compliance in January 2016 methods to strengthen compliance and obtain thorough risk as the central hub to aggregate all risk management and management in accordance with the following policies. Compliance Risk management ◻ Basic policy: Formulate and disseminate Code of ◻ Basic policy: Understand risks by business and establish Conduct for all employees in Japan and overseas a crisis response system 1) Adopt global standardized Corporate Ethics—Basic Policy 1) Identify risks in each business and each affiliated company and Code of Conduct 2) Formulate countermeasures to identified risks; monitor 2) Formulate and implement compliance education and periodically review programs 3) Establish and maintain a crisis response system 3) Monitor the dissemination of the above 1) and 2) among employees For more information regarding corporate governance, please refer to the Asahi Kasei Group website. http://www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/aboutasahi/governance/ Asahi Kasei Report 2016 33 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights For the years ended March 31 2016 2015 2014 2013 Net sales ¥1,940,914 ¥1,986,405 ¥1,897,766 ¥1,666,640 Domestic sales 1,261,203 1,313,128 1,289,054 1,181,429 Overseas sales 679,711 673,277 608,712 485,211 Operating income 165,203 157,933 143,347 91,960 Ordinary income 161,370 166,543 142,865 95,125 Income before income taxes 146,389 158,440 163,860 82,302 Net income attributable to owners of the parent 91,754 105,652 101,296 53,712 Comprehensive income (11,925) 214,484 146,102 117,515 Net income per share, yen 65.69 75.62 72.48 38.43 Capital expenditure 99,000 89,108 92,397 113,785 Depreciation and amortization 93,811 86,058 86,052 80,050 R&D expenditures 81,118 75,540 71,101 71,120 Cash dividends per share, yen 20.00 19.00 17.00 14.00 As of March 31 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total assets ¥2,211,729 ¥2,014,531 ¥1,915,089 ¥1,800,170 Inventories 336,743 339,677 328,540 309,677 Property, plant and equipment 555,989 502,507 480,535 461,581 Investments and other assets 305,140 334,368 285,735 263,704 Net wortha 1,041,901 1,082,654 912,699 812,080 Net worth per share, yen 745.94 775.05 653.15 581.05 Net worth/total assets, % 47.1 53.7 47.7 45.1 Number of employees 32,821 30,313 29,127 28,363 a Net assets less non-controlling interests; shareholders’ equity shown for the year ended March 31, 2006. b In the year ended March 31, 2012, the accounting policy for naphtha resale was changed to exclude the naphtha resale amount from net sales. This change is applied retroactively from the year ended March 31, 2008, through the year ended March 31, 2011. Net sales Operating income1 (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 2,000 1,897.8 1,986.4 1,940.9 200 157.9 165.2 1,666.6 143.3 1,500 1,573.2 150 104.3 92.0 100 1,000 50 500 0 0 –50 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 (FY) '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 (FY) Chemicals Fibers Homes Construction Materials Electronics Chemicals Fibers Homes Construction Materials Electronics Health Care Critical Care Others Health Care Critical Care Others Corporate expenses and eliminations, etc. Net income attributable to owners of the parent, ROE Interest-bearing debt, D/E ratio (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) 120 24 500 1.0 105.7 449.7 100 101.3 20 91.8 400 381.4 0.8 80 16 300 303.9 0.6 60 12 269.0 55.8 53.7 200 184.1 0.43 0.4 40 11.7 8.6 8 10.6 0.47 20 8.1 7.1 4 100 0.26 0.33 0.25 0.2 0 0 0 0 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 (FY) '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 (FY) Net income attributable to owners of the parent (left scale) ROE (right scale) Interest-bearing debt (left scale) D/E ratio (right scale) 1 A  mortization of goodwill, etc., related to acquisition of ZOLL and Polypore are excluded from Critical Care and Electronics, respectively, and included in “Corporate expenses and eliminations, etc.” 34 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Millions of yen, except where noted 2012 2011b 2010b 2009b 2008b 2007 2006 ¥1,573,230 ¥1,555,945 ¥1,392,212 ¥1,521,178 ¥1,663,778 ¥1,623,791 ¥1,498,620 1,151,705 1,106,656 1,021,803 1,127,213 1,176,441 1,195,751 1,125,454 421,525 449,289 370,409 393,965 487,337 428,040 373,166 104,258 122,927 57,622 34,959 127,656 127,801 108,726 107,567 118,219 56,367 32,500 120,456 126,507 104,166 94,866 98,342 46,056 19,031 105,599 114,883 94,481 55,766 60,288 25,286 4,745 69,945 68,575 59,668 62,561 45,088 — — — — — 39.89 43.11 18.08 3.39 50.01 49.00 42.46 85,124 66,014 83,990 126,725 82,911 84,413 66,310 78,440 84,092 86,166 79,436 73,983 71,646 69,399 66,269 62,320 62,924 60,849 56,170 52,426 51,467 14.00 11.00 10.00 10.00 13.00 12.00 10.00 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 ¥1,410,568 ¥1,425,879 ¥1,368,892 ¥1,379,337 ¥1,425,367 ¥1,459,922 ¥1,376,044 279,206 256,248 251,084 273,539 272,372 240,006 214,062 416,119 418,354 447,497 441,271 424,193 426,959 414,368 227,489 220,773 226,331 218,477 234,873 281,502 284,390 706,846 663,566 633,343 603,846 666,244 645,655 594,211 505.72 474.59 452.91 431.77 476.39 461.50 424.34 50.1 46.5 46.3 43.8 46.7 44.2 43.2 25,409 25,016 25,085 24,244 23,854 23,715 23,030 Environmental and safety investment Greenhouse gas emissions from production processes (¥ billion) (million tons CO2 equivalent) 8 7.88 6 5 5.05 6 5.20 4 4.11 4.17 4.06 3.84 4 4.26 3.90 3 3.80 2 2 1 0 0 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 (FY) '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 (FY) Environmental investment Safety investment Carbon dioxide Nitrous oxide Methane HFCs PFCs Sulfur hexafluoride Number of women working as managers2 Employees using parental leave3 500 500 600 454 556 400 410 500 468 370 430 454 457 344 400 300 300 200 200 100 100 0 0 '12/6 '13/6 '14/6 '15/6 '16/6 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 (FY) Women Men 2  esults as of June 30 each year for personnel employed by Asahi Kasei Corp., R 3 Results for personnel employed by Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Construction Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp., and Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. (Asahi Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Kasei Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., and Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. Pharma Corp., and Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. included in FY2015 and earlier). Asahi Kasei Report 2016 35 At a Glance Beginning with fiscal 2016, the Asahi Kasei Group has adopted an operating holding company configuration and reorganized its business portfolio Material into the three business sectors of Material, Homes, • Fibers & Textiles SBU and Health Care. The new medium-term manage• Petrochemicals SBU • Performance Polymers SBU ment initiative, Cs for Tomorrow 2018, is focused on • Performance Materials SBU increasing corporate value through optimal alloca• Separators SBU tion of management resources into three sectors. • Consumables SBU • Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. (electronic devices) Health Care Material 14.9 % 52.0 % FY2016 forecast Net sales Operating income 17.4 % 42.8 % ¥ 980.0 billion ¥ 70.0 billion FY2016 (planned) FY2015 FY2016 Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp. Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Asahi Kasei Corp. Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. Homes Material ■ Net sales ■ Operating income Asahi Kasei 33.1 % Asahi Kasei 39.8 % Homes ■ Net sales ■ Operating income Health Care ■ Net sales ■ Operating income Microdevices Corp. Microdevices Corp. Note: Percentages shown exclude “Others” category and corporate expenses and eliminations. Net sales and operating income Chemicals & Fibers Homes & Construction Materials Net sales Net sales (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 1,000 954.6 700 912.5 603.8 632.4 800 835.6 600 589.4 500 600 400 400 300 200 200 100 0 0 '13 '14 '15 (FY) '13 '14 '15 (FY) Operating income Operating income (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 70 68.9 80 64.6 71.0 60 68.5 60 63.0 50 47.4 40 40 30 20 20 10 0 0 '13 '14 '15 (FY) '13 '14 '15 (FY) In fiscal 2016, the former Chemicals & Fibers segment and the former Electronics segment are combined as a Material segment, and the former Homes & Construction Materials segment is renamed as a Homes segment; the Health Care segment remains unchanged. As a result, the former 4 segments are 36 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Homes Health Care • Homes • Pharmaceuticals • Construction materials • Medical Care • Acute Critical Care FY2016 forecast FY2016 forecast Net sales Operating income Net sales Operating income ¥ 624.0 billion ¥ 65.0 billion ¥ 280.0 billion ¥ 28.5 billion FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 Asahi Kasei Homes Corp. Asahi Kasei Homes Corp. Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. Asahi Kasei Construction Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. Materials Corp. Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. ZOLL Medical Corporation ZOLL Medical Corporation by segment Electronics Health Care Net sales Net sales (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 200 300 285.4 174.5 250 257.1 150 145.0 150.4 232.4 200 100 150 100 50 50 0 0 '13 '14 '15 (FY) '13 '14 '15 (FY) Operating income Operating income (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 15 14.3 40 14.2 36.2 30 30.8 10 26.7 6.9 20 5 10 0 0 '13 '14 '15 (FY) '13 '14 '15 (FY) revised into the 3 segments of Material, Homes, and Health Care. Concurrently with the segment revision, some operations are reclassified among different business categories. Fiscal 2015 results shown in the new segment classifications have been recalculated for comparison purposes. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 37 Operating Segments Material From unique fiber materials to petrochemicals and synthetic resins, and from consumables such as Saran Wrap™ cling film to battery separators and electronic devices such as LSIs and sensors, our high value-added product portfolio is expanding on a global scale, contributing to a better future through unrivalled technologies. ■ Sales composition ■ Operating income Net sales & operating income composition (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 52.3 % 42.5 % 1,200 1,004.4 980.0 120 900 90 79.2 70.0 600 60 Fiscal 2015 300 30 Yuji Kobayashi Executive Officer 0 0 for Material business sector '15 '16 (FY) (forecast) Representative Director & Vice-Presidential Net sales (left scale) Operating income (right scale) Not including “Others” category and corporate Executive Officer, Asahi Kasei Corp. expenses and eliminations. Main products Highlights ■ Bemberg™ cupro fiber ■ Roica™ spandex ■ Spunbond nonwovens Asahi Kasei Europe began operating ■ Leona™ nylon 66 filament in Germany ■ Acrylonitrile Asahi Kasei Europe GmbH began operating on April 1, ■ Styrene 2016, in Dusseldorf, Germany, as a base for the further ■ Polyethylene expansion of material business in Europe mainly ■ Engineering plastics focusing on automotive-related applications. Asahi Kasei ■ Synthetic rubber Europe also functions as a regional headquarters for all ■ Microza™ hollow-fiber filtration operations of Asahi Kasei in Europe, working to maximize membranes earnings in the European market. ■ Ion-exchange membranes ■ Ceolus™ microcrystalline cellulose ■ Saran Wrap™ cling film Asahi Kasei Europe’s office building ■ Sunfort™ photosensitive dry film ■ Hipore™ and Celgard™ Li-ion battery Capacity expansion for Hipore™ separators LIB separator ■ Daramic™ lead-acid battery separator With increasing demand for hybrid-electric and ■ Mixed-signal LSIs all-electric vehicles worldwide, the lithium-ion ■ Hall elements battery (LIB) market is forecasted to grow substantially in automotive applications, in addition to applications for consumer electronics. This capacity expansion at its plant in Moriyama, Hipore™ LIB separator Shiga, will further reinforce Asahi Kasei’s capability to provide stable supply to meet rising global demand for LIB separators. 38 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Fibers and Textiles Q Please tell us about the situation of each business, and outlook for fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2015, we set a new record high in operating income for the second consecutive year. We forecast A that business will continue to perform well in fiscal 2016, but with an impact from the stronger yen. In fiscal 2015, the fibers business achieved its highest net In fiscal 2016, the operating climate is expected to be sales and operating income since the adoption of a holding challenging with a stronger yen and a slowdown in the company configuration in 2003. Feedstock costs declined for Chinese economy. We expect that the plants for our main each product, the weaker yen contributed to performance, products will continue to operate at full capacity. Capacity and shipments of Lamous™ artificial suede for automotive expansions made under the previous medium-term initiative, upholstery and Roica™ elastic polyurethane filament (spandex) including polypropylene (PP) spunbond and Roica™ spandex increased. The growth of overseas subsidiaries also contribin Thailand, and Leona™ nylon 66 filament for airbags in uted to increased operating income. Miyazaki, Japan, in June 2016, will contribute to earnings. Chemicals While feedstock costs fluctuate considerably, what is the situation of the main businesses and Q outlook for fiscal 2016? Lower sales in fiscal 2015 were mainly due to a significant decline in market prices for A petrochemical products. In fiscal 2016 we expect an impact from a stronger yen. In fiscal 2015, while feedstock costs for petrochemical membranes, and shipments of Saran Wrap™ cling film products declined with lower oil and naphtha prices, petroincreased, resulting in higher net sales and operating income chemicals had lower net sales and operating income than than in the previous year. in the previous year, due to deteriorated market prices most In fiscal 2016, we forecast increased shipments of notably for acrylonitrile. In performance polymers, terms of synthetic rubber for fuel-efficient tires and consumable trade improved due to lower feedstock costs, and sales of products such as Saran Wrap™ cling film. On the other hand, engineering plastics and synthetic rubber for fuel-efficient we expect a stronger yen to impact each business, and terms tires were firm, resulting in higher net sales and operating of trade centering on performance polymers to deteriorate. income than in the previous year. In specialty products, the Shipments of styrene will decrease due to structural realigneffect of the weaker yen was most notable for ion-exchange ment of our domestic petrochemicals business. Electronics Q Please recap fiscal 2015 and give your outlook for fiscal 2016. While there is an impact from amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets, etc., related A to the acquisition of Polypore, shipments of battery separators are expected to grow. In fiscal 2015, electronic devices operations benefited from Beginning with Q2 2015, results of Polypore International, the weaker yen and sales of devices for smartphones such LP and its consolidated subsidiaries are included in the as audio LSIs and devices for camera modules were firm, but ­electronics business. shipments of electronic compasses declined, resulting in In fiscal 2016, we forecast moderate growth continuing lower net sales and operating income than in the previous in the consumer electronics market, while automotive appliyear. In electronic materials operations, production and cations for electronic devices grow with advanced electronic sale of general purpose epoxy resin were terminated, but functions in vehicles, and demand for LIB separators in the weaker yen contributed to performance, and sales of electric vehicle applications continues to grow. Shipments Hipore™ LIB separator were firm, resulting in lower net sales are forecasted to increase for audio LSIs, devices for camera and higher operating income compared to the previous year. modules, and battery separators such as Hipore™. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 39 Operating Segments Homes With our homes business that provides high-quality products and services for Long Life Homes that maintain high customer satisfaction that lasts more than half a century, and our construction materials business that provides innovative and original high value-added products, we set the stage for a rich and fulfilling lifestyle. ■ Sales composition ■ Operating income Net sales & operating income composition 32.9 % 38.1 % (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 800 100 632.4 624.0 600 75 71.0 65.0 400 50 Fiscal 2015 200 25 Eisuke Ikeda Executive Officer 0 0 for Homes business sector '15 '16 (FY) Primary Executive Officer, Asahi Kasei Corp. (forecast) Not including “Others” category and corporate Net sales (left scale) Operating income (right scale) President & Representative Director, expenses and eliminations. Asahi Kasei Homes Corp. Main products Highlights ■ Hebel Haus™ unit homes ■ Hebel Maison™ apartment buildings ■ Atlas™ condominiums Development of condominiums ■ Hebel Rooms™ apartment rental in Taiwan network Asahi Kasei Homes began its first overseas hous■ Remodeling ing project, a condominium development in ■ Mortgage financing the Zhonghe District of New Taipei City, Taiwan. ■ Hebel™ AAC panels With growing needs to redevelop older housing ■ Neoma™ phenolic foam insulation panels forecasted, Taiwan is a promising potential ■ Foundation systems market for Asahi Kasei Homes to leverage its ■ Structural systems and components know-how for reconciling complex relationships between different ownership rights to create proposals that are acceptable to various Illustration of condominium planned in Taiwan interested parties. Alliance with Mori-Gumi Co., Ltd. Asahi Kasei Homes has concluded an agreement with construction company Mori-Gumi on a capital and business alliance including the sharing of know-how in the fields of construction of mid-to-high-rise homes and condominiums, and large-scale repair and renovation of existing condominiums. To create synergies between the two companies more smoothly and efficiently, Asahi Kasei Homes acquired 30.2% of the stock of Mori-Gumi. 40 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Homes How did your order-built homes and other peripheral businesses perform in fiscal 2015, and how Q was the trend for home orders? Homes operations achieved record highs in net sales and operating income in fiscal 2015. With A resumption of advertising this May, we look forward to receiving increased orders. Having received record-high orders in fiscal 2014, our an impact on orders centering on apartment buildings. order-built homes business continued to make full use of its Although unit-homes operations saw decreased customer construction capability to increase deliveries in fiscal 2015, traffic, the decline in orders was relatively modest thanks to especially of Hebel Maison™ apartment buildings, enabling an effective approach to customers at model home parks, sales growth. SG&A expenses such as promotional expenses etc. Resumption of advertising in May 2016 will help return decreased due to curtailed advertising from the second half orders to a growth trajectory. of the last fiscal year. The performance of peripheral businesses was firm. The rental management business in real estate operations grew in line with increased deliveries of Hebel Maison™ apartment buildings, and deliveries of large-scale condominiums included Atlas Chofu. Among remodeling operations, reroofing, repainting, and equipment installation performed well. As a result, consolidated net sales and operating income for homes operations renewed its record highs. Orders decreased by 5.9% from the previous year. In the Hebel Haus™ Cut & Gable first half, we proactively implemented marketing strategies including a campaign for celebrating the 40th anniversary of our two-generation homes that maintain leadership in urban markets. In the latter half, curtailed advertising had Atlas Chofu Construction Materials Q Please tell us about the situation of fiscal 2015, and prospects for the future. Although there is concern that the pile installation data manipulation incident may affect the A foundation systems business, other businesses are expected to remain strong. In fiscal 2015, while Japan’s overall total floor space of new continue to revitalize our foundation systems business construction and number of housing starts were largely through efforts including thorough compliance. unchanged from the previous year, the foundation systems business posted lower net sales and operating income due to the pile installation data incident that came to light during the second half of the fiscal year. Meanwhile, thermal insulation business performed well as an effect of reinforced marketing. Due to factors such as lower input costs, the overall construction materials businesses posted lower net Neoma™ phenolic foam sales and higher operating income from a year ago. insulation panel In fiscal 2016, the autoclaved aerated concrete (AAC) business is focused on capturing demand in major urban areas while raising productivity. In insulation materials business we are forecasting higher net sales and operating income with strong demand in homes with high-spec insulation, while further reinforcing marketing in residential markets and expanding sales in non-residential markets. While there is concern of an impact from the pile installation data incident on the foundation systems business, we will Plant for Neoma™ panels Asahi Kasei Report 2016 41 Operating Segments Health Care We contribute to advanced medical care around the world with world-class drugs in the fields of orthopedics, critical/intensive care, and the immune system; blood purification devices for chronic and acute renal failure, and various intractable diseases; and products for the manufacturing process of biopharmaceuticals and other new drugs. Our life-saving products in the field of acute critical care include AEDs, defibrillators for professional use, and intravascular temperature management systems. ■ Sales composition ■ Operating income Net sales & operating income composition (¥ billion) (¥ billion) Yutaka Shibata 14.8 % 19.4 % 300 285.4 280.0 60 Executive Officer for Health Care 200 40 business sector (joint) 36.2 Primary Executive Officer, Asahi Kasei Corp. 28.5 President & Representative Director, Fiscal 2015 100 20 Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. 0 0 '15 '16 (FY) (forecast) Not including “Others” category and corporate Net sales (left scale) Operating income (right scale) expenses and eliminations. Highlights Richard Packer Strategic collaboration with Orion Corporation Executive Officer for Health Care Asahi Kasei Pharma entered a global strategic collaboration with Orion Corporation of business sector (joint) Finland for the discovery, development, and commercialization of new pain managePrimary Executive Officer, Asahi Kasei Corp. Chairman & Board Director, ment therapies. Four discovery phase candidates, two being provided by each company, ZOLL Medical Corporation are subject to joint development. Each company has the right to exclusively license the other’s development-ready programs, with all development costs to be shared by both companies. Main products Sale of Teribone™ in Korea ■ Teribone™ osteoporosis drug Asahi Kasei Pharma’s licensing partner, Dong-A ■ Recomodulin™ anticoagulant ■ APS™ polysulfone-membrane dialyzers ST Co., Ltd., began the sale of Teribone™ osteo■ Therapeutic apheresis devices porosis drug for the treatment of osteoporosis ■ Planova™ virus removal filters in postmenopausal women at high risk of bone ■ Defibrillators for professional use fracture. Through Dong-A ST’s effort to quickly ■ LifeVest™ wearable defibrillator facilitate its widespread use, Teribone™ will ■ AED Plus™ automated external make a significant contribution to the treatment defibrillator of osteoporosis in Korea. Teribone™ osteoporosis drug ■ Thermogard System™ temperature management system 42 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Pharmaceuticals and Medical Care Please tell us the fiscal 2016 outlook for the pharmaceuticals and medical care businesses Q considering the impact of reduced reimbursement prices. Lower net sales and operating income are forecasted. Pharmaceuticals will be impacted from A reduced reimbursement prices and competition from generics. Medical care will be impacted by a stronger yen and reduced reimbursement prices. In fiscal 2015, although sales of Teribone™ and Recomodulin™ generics. Shipments of Teribone™ and Recomodulin™ are were firm, the pharmaceuticals operation had lower net expected to increase, but the net sales and operating income sales and operating income than the previous year due to from pharmaceuticals operation are expected to decrease. In a significant decrease in shipments of Flivas™ as a result of medical care, shipments of Planova™ are expected to increase, competition from generics. Ongoing efforts to enhance the but net sales and operating income are expected to decrease pharmaceutical product pipeline included the September due to a stronger yen and reduced reimbursement prices. 2015 filing of an application for approval to manufacture and market AK156 (zoledronic acid) for the treatment of osteoporosis in Japan, and the conclusion of joint R&D agreements with other companies. The medical care operation had higher net sales and operating income than the previous year due to increased shipments of dialysis products and Planova™, reaching the highest operating income for this business since the adoption of a holding company configuration. Pharmaceuticals and medical care operations are Medical care products forecasted to have lower net sales and operating income in fiscal 2016. In pharmaceuticals, reduced reimbursement prices will impact Teribone™, which is subject to repricing for market expansion, as well as other pharmaceutical products, while Flivas™ will continue to be impacted by competition from Pharmaceuticals Acute Critical Care Q The acute critical care operation has been growing steadily. Please tell us its outlook. We plan to continue to increase selling, general and administrative expenses for reinforced A sales activity, and forecast that operations will continue to expand centering on the LifeVest™ wearable defibrillator. Fiscal 2015 saw continued growth in the acute critical care businesses. The LifeVest™ wearable defibrillator business continued to expand well, especially in the US. Sales of other products such as defibrillators and related accessories also increased centering on the North American hospital market and overseas markets. In September 2015, ZOLL acquired Kyma Medical Technologies, Ltd. of Israel, a company developing technologies to measure early signs of congestive LifeVest™ wearable defibrillator heart failure, enabling ZOLL to broaden its product offerings with additional technologies designed to improve outcomes for heart failure patients. The trend in fiscal 2016 will be largely unchanged, with continued growth expected. Selling, general and administrative expenses are expected to grow with reinforced sales activities, but we aim to increase net sales and operating income mainly with the expansion of defibrillator businesses centering on LifeVest™. ZOLL AED Plus™ automated external defibrillator Asahi Kasei Report 2016 43 Review of “For Tomorrow 2015” (FT2015) Record-high operating results, more balanced sector structure Under the basic strategies of “expansion of Net sales world-leading businesses” and “creation of Operating income new value for society,” we achieved recordhigh operating income in the final year of FY2011 FY2015 FT2015. During the five-year period of the initiative, we further diversified with strategic Chemicals & Fibers actions including our two largest acquisitions. Homes & Construction Materials Here is a summary by fiscal year. Electronics Health Care Fiscal 2011 Highlights Launch of FT2015—group-wide effort to create Nov: Launch of Teribone™ osteoporosis value for society, with our group slogan “Creating drug in Japan Asahi Kasei Pharma launched the sale of a 56.5 µg for Tomorrow” subcutaneous injection formulation of Teribone™ The global economy significantly worsened due to the sovereign for treatment of osteoporosis with high risk debt crisis in Europe and a slowdown in exports to emerging of fracture, which has been increasing as the countries. Japan’s economic circumstances remained challenging population ages. When administered once a week, with the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, the persistent Teribone™ can increase bone strength with both improved bone quality and increased bone mass, strength of the yen, and high feedstock and fuel costs. This opermaking a significant contribution to the treatment ating environment was especially challenging for our chemicals of osteoporosis. business, while our housing business achieved record-high operating income. Dec: Acquisition of Crystal IS, Inc. Crystal IS, a US-based venture focused on the development of deep ultraviolet light emitting Net sales ¥1,573.2 billion Operating income ¥104.3 billion diodes (UVC LEDs), became a wholly owned Ordinary Net income attributable subsidiary of Asahi Kasei. income ¥107.6 billion to owners of the parent ¥55.8 billion Fiscal 2012 Highlights Solid steps for future growth following the basic Apr: Acquisition of ZOLL Medical strategies of FT2015 Corporation Asahi Kasei acquired ZOLL, a major US manufacThe global economy generally remained challenging with an turer of acute critical care devices and systems, for economic downturn in Europe and slowing demand in China and $2.2 billion, marking our full-scale entry into the other emerging economies. For the Japanese economy, expectafield. tions of recovery rose with domestic demand underpinned by firm consumer spending and with conditions for exports improving. While our global businesses such as chemicals and electronics faced difficult conditions, our domestic businesses performed Aug: Launch of new Hebel Haus™ series well; our homes businesses achieved record-high operating Asahi Kasei Homes Corp. launched a new series of income for the second consecutive year, and our pharmaceuticals Hebel Haus™ products with features for families business enjoyed growing sales of new drugs. living with their parents and a single sibling. Net sales ¥1,666.6 billion Operating income ¥92.0 billion Ordinary Net income attributable income ¥95.1 billion to owners of the parent ¥53.7 billion 44 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Fiscal 2013 Highlights Net sales, operating income, ordinary income, and Apr: Start of new S-SBR plant in Singapore net income all reaching record highs A new plant for S-SBR for fuel-efficient, highperformance tires started operation in Singapore. The global economy gradually recovered with growth in the US and Developed with our original technology, our S-SBR improvement in Europe, but the management climate was obscured is the optimal material for achieving a high-level by slower growth in China and other emerging economies. The balance of tire performance characteristics includJapanese economy recovered with a correction of the overvalued ing good wet grip and fuel efficiency as well as yen and a wealth effect from higher stock prices resulting in abrasion resistance and handling stability. improved corporate earnings and revived consumer spending, but instability in the global economy remained a concern. Record-high Jul: Approval in Japan for LifeVest™ results were achieved as our domestic businesses such as homes wearable defibrillator and pharmaceuticals performed well while our chemicals and elecApproval for manufacturing and marketing of the tronics businesses recovered due to improved export conditions. LifeVest™ wearable defibrillator was received in Japan. It provides protection for patients at risk of sudden cardiac arrest, automatically delivering a Net sales ¥1,897.8 billion Operating income ¥143.3 billion treatment shock to restore normal heart rhythm Ordinary Net income attributable income ¥142.9 billion to owners of the parent ¥101.3 billion when a life-threatening heart rhythm is detected. Fiscal 2014 Highlights Second year of record-high net sales, operating May: Start of new production facility income, ordinary income, and net income for Bemberg™ cupro fiber Our new production facility for Bemberg™ cupro While the US economy continued to recover, and slower growth fiber started operation to meet growing demand was seen in China and other emerging countries, political instabilin the fields of functional innerwear and ethnic ity in certain regions raised geopolitical risks. Consumer spending garments in emerging markets. in Japan softened early in the fiscal year due to the consumption tax increase, but the Japanese economy gradually recovered later in the fiscal year with the weaker yen and lower oil prices leading to improved corporate performance. While construction materials Feb: Announcement of acquisition of and pharmaceuticals had lower sales volumes, performance in Polypore International chemicals and critical care was strong, contributing to record-high We announced an agreement to acquire Polypore results for the second consecutive year. International to expand our battery separator business with high growth potential and reinforce operations in the field of the environment and Net sales ¥1,986.4 billion Operating income ¥157.9 billion energy. Ordinary Net income attributable income ¥166.5 billion to owners of the parent ¥105.7 billion Fiscal 2015 Highlights Final year of FT2015—third consecutive year of Sep: Capacity increase for Hipore™ LIB record-high operating income separator We announced an expansion of our plant in While slower growth persisted in China, the US and Europe were Moriyama, Shiga, Japan, for Hipore™ Li-ion battery on a path of gradual recovery with increased consumer spending. (LIB) separator to meet growing demand not only The Japanese economy saw steady consumer spending along with in consumer electronics such as smartphones and firm corporate performance, but uncertainty remained regarding tablet PCs, but also in hybrid electric vehicles, all the risk of further downturn in emerging economies and appreciaelectric vehicles, and other automotive applications. tion of the yen from the latter half of the period. Our consolidated net sales decreased from a year ago with lower market prices for Feb: Closing of our naphtha cracker petrochemical products in chemicals operations. Operating income in Mizushima increased with firm performance in homes and critical care operaOur naphtha cracker in Mizushima was unified tions, setting a new record high for the third consecutive year. with the adjacent naphtha cracker of Mitsubishi Chemical Corp. Joint operation of the unified naphtha cracker began in April 2016. Net sales ¥1,940.9 billion Operating income ¥165.2 billion Ordinary Net income attributable income ¥161.4 billion to owners of the parent ¥91.8 billion Asahi Kasei Report 2016 45 Interview with the Executive Officer for R&D SPECIAL FEATURE Creating new high value added businesses across the Asahi Kasei Group academia, M&A, etc. In any case, we still Evolution of new business need our own outstanding researchers creation who are capable of discerning which outside technologies we need, and to adapt them to suit our purposes. Having Watabe Asahi Kasei has grown to be one many such researchers is one of our of Japan’s leading diversified manufacturstrengths, together with our various core ers. Tell us about your company’s heritage technologies and business platforms of R&D. established in our diversified operations. Nakao There are bound to be various These enable us to access markets from challenges along the way from the start various angles. of research to final commercialization. Looking at the past decade, yes, it I think we have a heritage of working has taken time for our in-house R&D to persistently to overcome the challenges bear fruit, especially in materials. But we to successfully advance R&D ahead of our have made good progress with superior competitors. Take Planova™ virus removal new technologies which have excellent filters for biopharmaceutical manufacture, prospects for commercialization. for example, or ion-exchange membrane Watabe Asahi Kasei became an technology for chlor-alkali production. In operating holding company in April both cases, the early period of develop2016. Did the previous holding company ment was very tough going. But our configuration impede the creation of new researchers kept pressing ahead with the businesses? Masafumi Nakao support of management that believed Nakao We adopted the configuration Director, Primary Executive Officer; Executive Officer for R&D in the potential of these projects. In the of a holding company with core operating April 1978 Joined Asahi Kasei end we were able to create very healthy companies 13 years ago. Since then, we April 2004 President, Representative Director, businesses. improved management efficiency with Asahi Kasei Electronics Co., Ltd. Watabe My impression is that your a focus on greater cash flow as well as April 2006 General Manager of Research & Development Center, Asahi Kasei EMD Corp. in-house R&D did not sufficiently create independence and autonomy for each April 2009 Director, Executive Officer, new businesses in the past decade. What operation. This clearly brought enhanced Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. April 2012 Lead Executive Officer, do you think about this? earnings and financial strength. In other General Manager of New Business Nakao I don’t think this is an issue just words, we improved our ability to reap Development, Asahi Kasei Corp. June 2012 Director, Lead Executive Officer, for us; many companies have a similar a harvest from seeds sown in the past. General Manager of New Business challenge. Competition is becoming Nevertheless, we came to recognize that Development, Asahi Kasei Corp. April 2014 Lead Executive Officer, General more intense with the rise of emerging the previous configuration made it difManager of Corporate Research & countries, and conventional ways of ficult for us to fully coordinate among our Development, Asahi Kasei Corp. April 2015 Senior Executive Officer, General creating new business may no longer be different businesses. This was true both Manager of Corporate Research & effective. Even as we continue in-house for long-term R&D and for leveraging our Development, Asahi Kasei Corp. April 2016 Primary Executive Officer, Asahi Kasei Corp. R&D, we also need to be more flexible and diverse market channels across the Asahi June 2016 Director, Primary Executive Officer, venturesome to obtain new technologies Kasei Group. To overcome this shortcomAsahi Kasei Corp. externally, through collaboration with ing, in April 2016 we consolidated our 46 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Mr. Takato Watabe, a securities analyst who covers Asahi Kasei at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities, asks about the creation of new businesses as a basic strategy of the new “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” medium-term management initiative. material-related operations within Asahi “farming” type of approach, cultivating Kasei Corp., which transformed into an a market and fostering a business based operating holding company. Whereas on our seeds of technology. Being able future-oriented R&D at the holding comto combine the best aspects of each pany had been performed separately from approach is a significant strength for us. the R&D within established businesses at Each of the companies we acquired each core operating company, we now during the previous medium-term have an R&D organization that combines management initiative, namely ZOLL, material-related R&D together under Polypore, and Crystal IS, have very strong Corporate Research & Development, in market access. We will continue to look coordination with the R&D sections of for ways to more fully utilize their market each strategic business unit (SBU). Under channels in various other businesses. In the new configuration, R&D with a longer health care, for example, we are working perspective is seamlessly connected to achieve a higher degree of utilization with product development peripheral to of ZOLL’s business platform in the US, established businesses. the most advanced market for medical Watabe In addition to changing your technology. R&D configuration, your company has Watabe These are examples of “connecbecome more actively engaged in M&A, tions” as mentioned in the new managecreating synergy with ZOLL and Polypore. ment initiative, aren’t they? What is your perspective? Nakao Yes. We gain many fresh insights Nakao Since our Polypore acquisition by bringing different managerial perspecTakato Watabe is still fairly recent, let me talk about ZOLL. tives together. This yields much richer and Managing Director After we acquired them in 2012, we set up deeper management discussions. Equity Research a Health Care Council comprised of ZOLL, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma, and Joined Daiwa Institute of Research in 1990. After working at Merrill Lynch Securities, Asahi Kasei Medical. The council meets 3-axis perspective for Deutsche Securities, SMBC Nikko Securities, etc., regularly to share information on each assumed current position at Morgan Stanley new business creation MUFG Securities in February 2014. business, to discuss how to create new business, and to discuss what we need to do over the longer term to build the Watabe How do you plan to create new Health Care sector into the third major businesses under “Cs for Tomorrow 2018”? pillar of the Asahi Kasei Group. Nakao In the new initiative, we are We have learned a lot from ZOLL, focused on contributing to the realization which is adept at a “hunting” type of a “society of clean environmental of approach that is common among energy” and a “society of healthy/ American and European companies. comfortable longevity with peace of They identify a target, and then set up a mind.” We will create new businesses by business model to capture a market. Asahi leveraging our strengths in technology Kasei has traditionally succeeded with a and operations from a 3-axis perspective. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 47 Interview with Executive Officer for R&D SPECIAL FEATURE The first axis is to fully utilize our market Nakao In the field of the environment with various services. channels. By utilizing the various market & energy, we have been working on R&D Watabe Can you tell us more about your channels that we have throughout in anticipation of hydrogen becoming movement toward solution-oriented the Asahi Kasei Group, we can identify a mainstream source of energy. At business? emerging market needs and develop new the COP21 meeting in 2015, the Paris Nakao ICT (information and combusinesses accordingly. The second axis Agreement was adopted as an intermunication technology) is changing is to heighten added value. In addition national framework to mitigate global the world, and having a huge impact to just supplying substances, which had warming from 2020. The agreement aims on business. A good illustration of this been our main approach particularly in to limit global warming to less than 2°C. would be the business models of ZOLL. material businesses, we will place greater In effect this means that greenhouse gas ZOLL began as a pioneer in defibrillators, emphasis on building new business modemissions from human activity would and became a world leader with their els around services and solutions. ZOLL eventually need to be reduced to a net core technology of resuscitation. They has done this with its LifeVest™ business, zero. This is an enormous challenge for extended their business to cover the and we will look for ways to do something mankind, as our lives are highly depenwhole Chain of Survival—the steps in similar in other businesses as well. The dent on energy from fossil fuels. But this is the lifesaving process advocated by the third axis is to foster and acquire core also a huge opportunity for our company. American Heart Association—offering technology. While performing in-house Hydrogen is a source of energy with no solutions that address each step in the R&D, we may identify an area that falls greenhouse gas emissions. Hydrogen can chain. ZOLL extensively utilizes ICT in their short. In that case, we will seek an external be produced by alkaline water electrolysis business models. One example is the technology that complements our own using renewable energy such as sunlight LifeVest™ wearable defibrillator, which is to expedite commercialization. Our key or wind, and then stored to be used as a worn on a temporary basis by patients at fields of focus to create new businesses source of zero-emission energy. This is an risk of sudden cardiac arrest. It continuand to raise the profitability of established excellent opportunity for us. We are in a ously monitors the patient’s heart and, if a businesses are the environment & energy, position to lead the world in the field of life-threatening heart rhythm is detected, automotive, and health care. We will alkaline water electrolysis, by leveraging it automatically delivers a treatment shock leverage our strength in residential living our world-leading ion-exchange memto restore a normal rhythm. At the same to gain synergy with new developments brane technology. Ultimately, we hope to time, it uses ICT to alert the physician of in the fields of the environment & energy not only provide materials, components, the patient’s condition. ZOLL has many and health care. and systems for hydrogen production, but other products and services that utilize Watabe Could you give us an example of also to expand the scope of our business ICT. In many countries, they offer solutions R&D in your areas of focus? to include the provision of total solutions that allow physicians to remotely monitor Creation of Foster and acquire new businesses core technology Acquire technology seeds Apply technology laterally Heighten added value CVC Coordination/ Strengths of Business models combination Asahi Kasei Solutions Utilize market channels Enhance and fully M&A utilize business platforms 48 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 a patient’s heart, systems to manage expenditure was 4.2% of sales. When perspectives to identify emerging market the dispatch of emergency services, we look at our individual businesses, needs. We also have various unique and systems to connect patient data each of them is generally in line with core technologies that can facilitate the between medical providers and insurance the average for their respective industry. creation of new businesses. The new companies, to name a few. However, we are flexible when it comes corporate configuration that began in Watabe Considering ZOLL and your to concentrating resources on a strategic April enables more seamless collaboration other acquisitions, it looks like the ability project as necessary. We view this in the between corporate R&D and the R&D of to discern potential is the key to success. same way as strategic investment or each business unit. We are already making Nakao This is especially true of our M&A. Sometimes we will invest more to progress, and I look forward to achieving acquisition of Crystal IS in the field of UVC strengthen a certain area. So there will be concrete results. LEDs. These use compound semiconducsome fluctuation; we don’t just aim for a Watabe We talked about your heritage tor technology, an area where we have certain percentage. of innovation, diverse businesses, capable many years of experience. LEDs for researchers, and the ability to discern lighting use compound semiconductor promising opportunities over the medium technology as well, but since this field is A seamless R&D to long term. Stakeholders have high crowded with many players competing configuration expectations that your new configuration fiercely, it is not attractive to us despite its will enhance your ability to create new large market size. We decided to develop businesses through better connections UVC LEDs, where the technical hurdles Watabe What is the mission of corporate among various businesses, with busiare higher. Although the timing of market R&D towards 2025, and how does it coorness retaining the independence and uptake is uncertain, we see great growth dinate with R&D in each business unit? autonomy fostered under the previous potential in various application areas for Nakao We are focused on creating configuration. I am looking forward to disinfection and sterilization, replacing distinctive new businesses with high seeing your operations grow through power-hungry and hazardous mercury added value. We don’t want to play catchadvanced innovation. lamps. Together with Crystal IS, we are up, but to create new markets ourselves. determined to overcome the technical We want these to be transformational challenges in development, and lead the for our business portfolio. The key is our world in cultivating new markets. ability to discern the potential of a new Watabe How do you look at R&D expenbusiness. By enhancing coordination with diture for the creation of new businesses? each business unit, we will leverage our Nakao In fiscal 2015 our R&D broad range of operations and diverse R&D expenditures (¥ billion) 90 87.0 81.1 80 75.5 71.1 71.1 70 66.3 62.3 60 0 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 (FY) (planned) Asahi Kasei Report 2016 49 CSR Medium-Term Management Initiative and CSR Fundamentals The Asahi Kasei Group is focused on providing solutions to various challenges faced by society in accordance with our Group Mission of contributing to life and living for people around the world. Under our Cs for Tomorrow 2018 management initiative which began in fiscal 2016, we are emphasizing business operations that contribute to a “society of clean environmental energy” and a “society of healthy/comfortable longevity with peace of mind” based on four CSR Fundamentals: Compliance, Responsible Care, Corporate Citizenship, and Respect for Employee Individuality. Position of CSR Fundamentals Creating for Tomorrow Area of focus The The community Community The Compliance employee outreach environment Employee Environmental fulfillment protection The Sustainable Increase The customer in Corporate Value shareholder P. 32 Customer Shareholder satisfaction returns The The local supplier economy Fair business Local economic Society of clean dealings participation Society of healthy/comfortable Responsible Care environmental energy Business longevity with peace of mind operations Creation of Pursuit of new businesses P. 52 Acceleration of growth and globalization profitability “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” Respect for strategic management initiative CSR in Action Employee Individuality CSR Fundamentals P. 56 Compliance, Responsible Care, Corporate Citizenship, Respect for Employee Individuality Corporate Citizenship Group Mission Contributing to life and living for people around the world P. 58 50 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Our four CSR Fundamentals of Compliance, Responsible Care, Corporate Citizenship, and Respect for Employee Individuality are applied throughout the Asahi Kasei Group. CSR Fundamentals Key subjects under CT2018 Goals I dentification of • Gain trust through not only thorough compliance-related issues compliance with laws and regulations, but also consideration of generally accepted Enriching the risk compliance social norms system • Understand risks in management, and establish a system to mitigate them and enable sustainable development Environmental protection • Contribute to establishment of a recyclingoriented society Operational safety • Enrich system for risk assessment Workplace safety and hygiene • Zero workplace injuries Health maintenance • Maintain and promote employees’ health Product safety • Enrich RC compliance • Minimize risks from chemicals Managing chemical substances Dissemination of • Employee engagement in challenging and Human Resources Principles fulfilling work in global business operations Developing human resources • Workplace environment that respects (global human resources) diversity and work-life balance, enabling employees to perform to their full potential Valuing human rights and diversity Platinum Kurumin certification for Balancing work and family life outstanding support for the development of the next generation. Stakeholder dialog • Maintain good relationships with stakeholders • Customers • Investors • Utilize our resources to provide solutions to challenges faced by society • Suppliers • Public outreach Community fellowship Asahi Kasei Report 2016 51 Responsible Care CSR Fundamentals Safety is a fundamental prerequisite for the continuation of operations as a corporate member of society. To ensure that every aspect of safety is maintained, the Asahi Kasei Group implements a Responsible Care (RC) program comprising the six pillars of operational safety, workplace safety and hygiene, environmental protection, health maintenance, product safety, and community outreach. Message from Asahi Kasei adopted an operating holding company configuration in fiscal 2016 at the start of the Executive for RC the three-year medium-term management initiative “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” (CT2018). During fiscal 2016, we will not only implement various measures to achieve our business targets and build the base for the next phase towards fiscal 2025, but also contribute to society through our business operations. The operating climate is changing greatly with growing awareness for global environmental issues and corporate responsibility as a social entity. At the Asahi Kasei Group, in accordance with our Group Mission of contributing to life and living for people around the world, we will give due consideration to the environment, safety, and health throughout the full life cycle from R&D to manufacturing, product supply, and disposal, while focusing on the three fundamental “actuals” of the actual place, actual thing, and actual fact, as we ensure the stable provision of product quality that our customers can depend on. While working to achieve our annual RC objectives, we will also advance RC activities from a broader perspective, Masafumi Nakao reinforcing R&D to provide solutions to global warming and other environmental issues, in Director, Primary Executive Officer Asahi Kasei Corp. order to raise our corporate value for our various stakeholders. Responsible Care at Asahi Kasei RC represents the commitment and initiative to secure and improve safety and environmental protection at every step of the product life cycle through the individual determination and responsibility of each firm producing and handling chemical products, together with measures to gain greater public trust through disclosure and communication. RC was conceived in Canada in 1985, and was strengthened on a global scale with the establishment of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) in 1990. In 1995, the chemical industry in Japan began implementing RC with the establishment of the Japan Responsible Care Council (JRCC*). Asahi Kasei was among the founding members of the JRCC, and played a leading role in the expansion and development of RC in Japan. RC at the Asahi Kasei Group is not limited to chemicals-related operations but encompasses operations in all fields, ­including homes, health care, fibers, electronics, and construction materials. * JRCC: Operated as the Japan Chemical Industry Association’s RC Committee since April 2011. Asahi Kasei Group RC Principles We give the utmost consideration to environmental protection, quality assurance, operational safety, workplace safety and hygiene, and health maintenance, throughout the product life cycle from R&D to disposal, as RC at the Asahi Kasei Group is preeminent management tasks in all operations. • We give full consideration to the global environment, and make efforts to reduce the environmental guided by the following principles: burden of all operations. In April 2016, a statement • We continuously provide safe products and services with the quality that gives customers a sense of security and satisfaction. regarding quality assurance was • We strive for stable and safe operation while preventing workplace accidents and securing the safety of added, and the six elements were personnel and members of the community. • We strive for a comfortable workplace environment, and support the maintenance and promotion of condensed into four. employee health. In addition to maintaining legal compliance, we set self-imposed targets for continuous improvement, while performing proactive information disclosure and communication to gain public understanding and trust. Revised on April 1, 2016 RC Management System Certified compliance with internationally standardized The management system of Asahi Kasei Group RC is management systems is obtained for the RC Management maintained in accordance with our Group RC Management System of the Asahi Kasei Group. We have obtained ISO 14001 Guidelines and other internal standards. The RC Committee, a environmental management system certification for environcorporate organ under the direct authority of the President of mental protection and ISO 9001 quality management system Asahi Kasei, deliberates RC plans and results and ensures that certification for product safety. An Occupational Health & continuous reevaluation and improvement are systematically Safety Management System (OHSMS) is adopted for workplace pursued with “plan-do-check-act” (PDCA) cycles—for the Asahi safety, hygiene, and health. Kasei Group as a whole, within each core operating company * A site or group of sites consisting of several plants and facilities of various core and Region*, and within individual plants and facilities. operating companies. Each Region General Manager is responsible for the unified implementation of RC in the respective Region. 52 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 For more information, please refer to the Asahi Kasei Group CSR website. http://www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/csr/ RC objectives and results ★★★Complete ★★Satisfactory ★Unsatisfactory FY2015 RC Objectives FY2015 Results Attainment FY2016 RC Objectives Emergence of pile installation data issue at Asahi Kasei Review RC framework (including quality assurance) Enhance RC compliance ★ Construction Materials; lessons applied in review of RC system Enhance RC compliance RC compliance RC training course for section managers and assistant chiefs revised Advance RC education and training Group discussions enhanced ★★ Advance RC education and training Follow-up enhanced RC at affiliates enhanced through instructions and support by core Enhance RC at affiliates ★★★ Enhance RC at affiliates operating companies RC reports of 2 core operating companies and 8 plant complex sites ★★★ Enhance dialog with the public Continue to enhance dialog with the public were used in community outreach Avoid all polluting accidents and minor incidents No polluting accidents, 5 intermediate incidents (including 4 freon leaks) ★ Avoid all polluting accidents and minor incidents Promote recycling-oriented society: Promote recycling-oriented society: · Final disposal of 0.3% or less of generated industrial waste Goal reached with final disposal rate of 0.2% ★★★ · Maintain rate of final disposal at 0.3% or less of generated industrial waste · Recycling rate of at least 89% Goal reached with recycling rate of 98% · Maintain recycling rate of at least 90% Prevention of global warming: Prevention of global warming: Environmental protection · Reduce CO2 emissions in Japan by 25% from FY2005 level 28% reduction from FY2005 level · Reduce CO2 emissions in Japan by 28% from FY2005 level · Reduce CO2 emissions in Japan and overseas by 5% from FY2010 level 17% reduction from FY2010 level ★★ · Reduce CO2 emissions in Japan and overseas by 5% from FY2010 level · Reduce GHG emissions in Japan by 32% from FY2005 level 35% reduction from FY2005 level · Reduce GHG emissions in Japan by 35% from FY2005 level · LCA/CO2 contribution ratio1 of 7.9 LCA/CO2 contribution ratio of 7.7 · Achieve LCA/CO2 contribution ratio of 8.1 Protect water resources: Protect water resources: ★★★ · Water resource contribution ratio2 of 7.0 Water resource contribution ratio of 8.0 · Water resource contribution ratio of 8.3 Control emissions of chemical substances: Control emissions of chemical substances: · Control emissions of PRTR-specified substances Release of PRTR-specified substances and emission of VOCs ★★★ · Control emissions of PRTR specified substances · Control emissions of air and water pollutants reduced by 91% and 87%, respectively, from FY2000 level · Control emissions of air and water pollutants Investigated impact of our business activities on biodiversity, Preserve biodiversity when procuring biological resources ★★★ Promote preservation of biodiversity at each site including use of new materials; no problem found Advance CSR procurement Implemented CSR procurement ★★★ Advance CSR procurement Avoid all industrial accidents No industrial accidents, 4 incidents ★★ Continue to avoid all industrial accidents Continuously monitor for hazards of fire, explosion, and leaks; perform Review performed at time of on-site confirmation for preventing Enhance risk assessment: ★★★ training of managers abnormal reactions · Continuously monitor for hazards of fire, explosion, and leaks · Continue ongoing review to prevent abnormal reactions and confirm Operational safety Confirmed progress in preventing abnormal reactions and securing interlock functions Prevent abnormal reactions, confirm interlock functions on-site ★★★ interlock functions · Enhance pre-investment safety assessment system Control changes to equipment and operating conditions Control confirmed at RC Audits, etc. ★★★ Control changes to equipment and operating conditions Review earthquake response and enhance emergency response systems: Enhance earthquake response system: · Confirm seismic resistance of high-pressure gas facilities and formulate Completed according to the plan ★★★ · Review earthquake preparedness plans (emergency facilities, disaster response supplies) · Implement seismic retrofitting for specific and non-specific buildings Delay in some retrofitting for FY2016 ★★ · Advance seismic retrofitting of specific and non-specific buildings Monitor for items in need of replacement and uninspected items, ★★★ Monitor for items in need of replacement and uninspected items, Ongoing review with new perspectives implement remediation implement remediation Avoid all workplace injuries: Avoid all workplace injuries: · Achieve frequency rate3 of 0.1 or less 0.28 ★★ · Achieve frequency rate of 0.1 or less · Achieve severity rate4 of 0.005 or less 0.004 · Achieve severity rate of 0.005 or less Deepen utilization of OHSMS: Deepen utilization of OHSMS: · Reduce latent risks at workplaces Improvement in reducing latent risk confirmed at audit · Enhance internal audits Improvement confirmed at audit with reference to internal audit records ★★★ · Enhance risk assessment for workplace tasks · Make the effects of OHSMS more visible Improvement of risk level confirmed at audit · Ensure thorough compliance with safe working standards Compliance confirmed at audit Avoid all accidents in “caught in/between machinery” category Workplace safety and hygiene Avoid all accidents in “caught in/between machinery” category: (zero lost-workday injuries): ★★★ Zero lost-workday injuries; contributive effect from mechanical · No lost-workday injury due to “caught in/between machinery” accidents · Perform sound risk assessment for mechanical equipment equipment improvement and risk assessment Avoid fire, explosion, chemical burn, poisoning, etc. related to chemical Avoid chemical injury, poisoning, fire, explosion, etc. related to chemical substances: substances (zero lost-workday injuries): ★ · Perform sound risk assessment for chemical substances · Zero lost-workday injuries related to chemical substances 1 injury · Perform sound management of workplace environment Prevent injuries during working hours unrelated to operating procedures Prevent injuries during working hours unrelated to operating procedures and during commuting: and during commuting: ★ · Prevent lost-workday injury related to stairways and walking · Prevent lost-workday injury related to stairways 3 injuries · Prevent traffic accidents resulting in harm to self or others while commuting or traveling for sales Enhance safety management guidance of on-site contractors: Enhance safety management guidance of on-site contractors: · Enhance safety management structure as the contracting manufacturer Status and continuous improvement confirmed at audit ★★★ Safety management guidance at each site and continuous · No serious accident of on-site contractors · Enhance safety management of on-site contractors improvement confirmed Reinforce management of safety on equipment work: Reinforce management of safety on equipment work: ★★ · Enhance implementation of safety management standards Progress confirmed at audit; 1 lasting injury from equipment work · No serious accident of equipment workers Promote health maintenance and improvement among personnel: Promote health maintenance and improvement among personnel: Proportion of personnel with health warning signs and ratio of · Promote the prevention of and countermeasures to lifestyle-related · Promote the prevention of and countermeasures to lifestyle-related employees who smoke generally unchanged; slight increase in diseases ★★★ diseases employees with obesity Health maintenance Physical fitness tests performed as part of fall prevention program, · Prevent falls · Prevent falls follow-up implemented Promote countermeasures to mental health issues and enhance support Promote countermeasures to mental health issues and enhance support system: system: ★★★ · Implement company-wide stress survey, utilize its results, · Implement company-wide stress survey, utilize its results, Stress survey and follow-up implemented and perform follow-up and perform follow-up Develop the health management system: Develop the health management system: · Resolve critical tasks at each site with lateral extension Held internal meetings and interviews on health management activities ★★★ · Resolve critical tasks at each site with lateral extension · Establish the health management system at affiliates and independent Specialist industrial physicians supporting affiliates and · Establish the health management system at affiliates and independent plants independent plants plants Avoid serious product safety incidents No product safety incidents ★★★ Maintain zero serious product safety incidents Product safety and Enhance management of chemical substances: Enhance management of chemical substances: · Promote compliance with laws and regulations on management of · Promote compliance with laws and regulations on management of management of Compliance maintained and system enhanced ★★ chemical substances in Japan and overseas chemical substances in Japan and overseas · Encourage JIPS5 activities Continued risk assessment and public disclosure of safety documents · Encourage JIPS activities chemical substances · Promote JAMP6 tools Provided and received information via MSDSplus and AIS, ★★★ · Promote JAMP tools participated in verification of new JAMP-IT tools Number of people our health care business contributed to: Number of people our health care business contributed to: Living in ★ · 40% increase from FY2010 level 1% increase from FY2010 level · FY2018 objective: maintain FY2015 level health and Number of residents in Hebel Haus™ homes: Number of residents in Hebel Haus™ homes: comfort ★★★ · 20% increase from FY2010 level 20% increase from FY2010 level · FY2018 objective: 10% increase from FY2015 level 1 LCA is used to determine the amount of reduction in CO2 emissions enabled by Asahi Kasei products and technologies in comparison with conventional products and technologies. The ratio is calculated by dividing this amount by the global CO2 emissions of the entire Asahi Kasei Group. 2 The water resource contribution ratio is calculated by adding up the total quantity of water clarified and recycled using Asahi Kasei filtration technology and dividing this by the quantity of the Asahi Kasei Group’s water intake. 3 Number of accidental deaths and injuries resulting in the loss of one or more workdays, per million man-hours worked. 4 Lost workdays, severity-weighted, per thousand man-hours worked. 5 Japan Initiative of Product Stewardship: A chemical industry initiative promoted by the Japan Chemical Industry Association to minimize chemical risks through voluntary risk assessment and management. 6 Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 53 Responsible Care Environmental protection As in our Group Vision of “harmony with the natural environment,” the Asahi Kasei Group considers environmental preservation as one of the most important tasks. Our major focuses are on 1) prevention of global warming, 2) promotion of a recycling-oriented society, 3) management of chemical substances, and 4) preservation of biodiversity. For prevention of global warming, we have established new indicators and targets to curtail greenhouse gas emissions to be achieved by fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2030. Regarding promotion of a recycling-oriented society, we continue to reduce our rate of final disposal and increase our rate of recycling. Furthermore, as a chemical company, we are working to promote safe handling of chemical substances and actively provide safety information. We are also making efforts to reduce the impact of our business activities on biodiversity. The Asahi Kasei Group’s quantitative indicators and targets to curtail global warming (building a low-carbon society) Reduction in CO2 emissions Reduction in GHG emissions Clean power generation LCA/CO2 contribution ratio • Reduce CO2 emissions in Japan • Reduce GHG emissions in Japan • New coal-fired power plants must meet certain • Achieve a ratio of 10.0 in to 30% below the FY2005 level by to 35% below the FY2005 level criteria (criteria disclosed on our website) FY2020 (3.2 in FY2010) FY2020 by FY2020 • Maintain use of biomass fuel at 60% or more • Achieve a ratio of 15.0 in • Reduce CO2 emissions in Japan • Reduce GHG emissions in Japan by energy content in mixed combustion at the FY2030 and overseas to 5% below the to 10% below the FY2013 level biomass power plant in Nobeoka FY2010 level by FY2020 by FY2030 Operational safety To achieve safe operations, it is essential to build highly safe plants based on process hazard assessment prior to construction, to perform sound plant maintenance, and to operate facilities in a stable and safe manner. The Asahi Kasei Group avoids operational accidents through risk assessments prior to the construction of new plants, periodic inspections of existing plants performed by auditors specialized in fire and explosion prevention, process reviews from the perspective of preventing abnormal reactions and ensuring interlock functions, and process reviews corresponding to the age of facilities. In fiscal 2013, we completed a program of on-site confirmation are implementing education and training for managers and to identify hazards from the perspective of preventing abnoroperators to enable them to properly identify the cause and mal reactions and ensuring interlock functions. From fiscal take appropriate action if problems occur, including problems 2013 onwards, we have been preparing technical documents that have not been previously encountered. There were no on items with a high degree of hazard and on accidents and operational accidents during fiscal 2015. problems which occurred in the past. From fiscal 2015, we Workplace safety and hygiene The effort to prevent workplace accidents is integrated Occurrence of workplace injuries in a comprehensive OHSMS* program that combines conventional safety initiatives—such as tidiness/orderliness/cleanliness, reporting of near-accidents and potential Incidence of lost-workday Incidence of lost-workday hazards, hazard prediction analysis, safety patrols, and case injury by event category, injury by event category, studies—with risk assessments and a prevention-oriented FY2015 in Japan FY2005–2014 in Japan plan-do-check-act (PDCA) system. Total Total 15 cases 117 cases Integration of workplace safety initiatives Fall on same level 33% Caught in/between machinery 15% Conventional safety initiatives Risk assessments PDCA management system Fall from height 13% Caught in something else 3% Kickback/overexertion 13% Fall on same level 19% OHSMS Contact with harmful Fall from height 13% substance 7% Kickback/overexertion 12% Others 7% Fire 1% * Occupational Health and Safety Management System. A standardized system used Traffic accident 27% Explosion or rupture 2% to confirm that continuous improvement is being applied to measures to minimize Contact with high-temperature the risks of workplace injuries and to prevent the emergence of future risks. substance/object 5% Hit by flying/falling object 3% Others 5% Traffic accident 23% 54 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 For more information, please refer to the Asahi Kasei Group CSR website. http://www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/csr/ Health maintenance The Asahi Kasei Group implements various activities to help employees maintain and advance their mental and physical well-being in accordance with its health management guidelines, including screening for lifestyle-related diseases and mental health checkups. Enhanced health management framework industrial physicians and health nurses, are being performed in During fiscal 2015, interviews to monitor the effectiveness accordance with the Industrial Safety and Health Law and our of the health management centers were performed at 7 health management guidelines. Further guidance and support sites. The series of interviews launched in fiscal 2014 confirm is being provided as necessary. whether the activities at each site, including the duties of our Quality assurance Upon our transition to an operating holding company configuration in April 2016, Corporate ESH & QA was reorganized, including the establishment of a new Quality Assurance Group, to place greater emphasis on quality assurance to deliver safe and reliable products to our customers. In fiscal 2015, we once again met our target of no serious product safety incidents. Asahi Kasei Group Quality Policy including product safety. The Asahi Kasei Group creates and provides products Effort to maintain zero serious product safety incidents and services with the quality to meet the needs of As part of the effort to prevent serious product safety customers and society and ensure safety and security. incidents, we established new quality assurance bylaws that stipulate quality assurance activities for RC administrators to Reinforcing the quality assurance system: perform. The bylaws newly define the central role of quality maintaining zero serious product safety incidents assurance managers in activities to enhance quality assurance, Consumer satisfaction and safety and are applied in concert with our product safety guidelines Products and services provided by the Asahi Kasei Group to secure product safety and prevent the occurrence of serious include materials, products, installations, various services, and product safety incidents. after-sales support. We believe that providing products and All business units of the Asahi Kasei Group apply these uniservices that satisfy our customers is our ultimate mission. We form bylaws and guidelines to assure the quality of products constantly strive to enhance our systems for quality assurance, and services. Managing chemical substances To ensure the safety of products and production processes in the Asahi Kasei Group, we maintain awareness of the properties of the chemical substances we use, and manage them strictly and appropriately throughout each phase from materials procurement to production (including intermediates), use, and disposal. The Asahi Kasei Group’s effort upstream company, we also convey relevant information Strict management and control of chemical substances is a throughout the supply chain to help establish JAMP as a key element in the effort to ensure environmental protection, widely used tool. operational safety, workplace safety and hygiene, health In fiscal 2015, we continued to provide JAMP Tools via the maintenance, and product safety. Chemical substances JAMP-IT platform to convey relevant information on hazardare managed at each stage from development to use and ous chemicals and share information externally. As a major disposal. The management of chemical substances begins upstream company, we will continue to work with the JAMP with R&D, which is guided throughout every stage by a comOffice toward the greater adoption of the JAMP-IT platform as mitment to developing products and process characterized by a means of information sharing. We also took part in verificasafe, environmentally sound production, handling, and use. tion of information transmission tools for a new scheme called “chemSHERPA” promoted by the Ministry of Economy, Trade Industry-wide initiatives and Industry, and actively participated in detailed discussions Joint Article Management Program (JAMP) about the new tools and the list of chemical substances. We As an active member of JAMP, we participate in the developare also working on the transition process from the current ment of systems to manage chemical substance information JAMP scheme to chemSHERPA which will be performed over as well as revision of the list of applicable substances. As an two years from fiscal 2016. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 55 Respect for Employee Individuality CSR Fundamentals The Asahi Kasei Group considers fulfilling and satisfying working conditions and workplace culture, in which personnel feel motivated to achieve and take pride in their career, to be a key to business performance. Our human resources policies are focused on the maintenance and reinforcement of a corporate culture emphasizing Asahi Kasei characteristics, the personal growth of each employee, and the creation and expansion of business through superior people and organizations, based on the understanding that the exceptional power of our people and organizations is the source of our competitive strength. Human Resources Principles The Human Resources Principles of the Asahi Kasei Group are a distillation of the values and beliefs held in common by all employees, a key aspect of a corporate culture where personal growth and corporate development are mutually reinforcing. Corporate Commitment Basic Expectations Expectations of Leaders The basic commitment to human resources • Enterprise and growth through challenge • Building the team, heightening is to provide the venue for a dynamic and and change performance and achievement fulfilling career as a part of a lively and • Integrity and responsibility in action • Going beyond conventional boundaries, growing corporate group. • Respect for diversity in thought and action • Contributing to mutual development and growth Human resource development Group Masters A wide range of training programs The Asahi Kasei Group employs a “Group Masters” program Employees are given a wide range of training to develop the skills to recognize employees who have developed and exercised needed to successfully advance their careers. A regular program extraordinary expertise and skills that hold universal value, and of training is applied throughout the Asahi Kasei Group at key to facilitate their application throughout the Group. As of May career stages—upon hiring, promotion to manager, promotion 2016, 86 Group Masters are designated: 1 as a Group Fellow, to department general manager, promotion to division general 23 as Senior Group Experts, and 62 as Group Experts, with manager, and appointment to an executive position. From fiscal rank and remuneration commensurate with senior general 2016 we are placing greater emphasis on “Management by manager, general manager, and section manager, respectively. Objectives” training to enhance the management skills of section managers and general managers. Other individual training Development of global human resources programs such as for global management are implemented To support the expansion of world-leading businesses from according to business need. Each core operating company also the perspective of human resources, we are implementing implements training programs to support the development of measures such as internship programs for young personnel, employee skills required for its specific field of business. and holding training sessions for personnel at overseas subsidiaries on subjects such as dissemination of corporate philosophy and intercultural communication. Valuing human rights and diversity Basic policy capable personnel who will successfully execute our strategy Human Resources leads the effort to ensure that there will on a global scale. be no discrimination on the basis of gender, nationality, age, We continue to hire university graduates of foreign nationor otherwise, to maintain a lively workplace culture which ality every year, and the overall makeup of our personnel is enables personnel to perform at their best, to advance becoming more global. We are also strengthening our ties to employment of persons with disability, and to rehire personnel universities both in Japan and overseas, through career briefafter mandatory retirement. ing sessions and student internships, as part of an ongoing effort to attract talent. Hiring In April 2016, 351 new graduates were hired: 272 men and The Asahi Kasei Group is working to create new value for 79 women. In addition, 71 persons were hired in mid-career society by enabling living in health and comfort and harmony between April 2015 and March 2016. with the natural environment. We strive to hire motivated and 56 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 For more information, please refer to the Asahi Kasei Group CSR website. http://www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/csr/ Expansion of opportunities for women Employment of persons with disabilities In 1993, we established a dedicated corporate organ (now Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. was established in 1985 for the Diversity Promotion Group) to promote equal opportunity, employment of persons with disabilities, performing a wide and have proactively increased the proportion of women hired range of services for the Asahi Kasei Group. The employment and expanded the distribution of job assignments for women. rate at applicable companies of the Asahi Kasei Group was While only five employees at the rank of manager or above were 2.12% (529.0 persons) as of June 1, 2016, exceeding the legal women in 1993, this has risen to 500 in June 2016. In fiscal 2016, requirement. we also formulated an action plan and targets in accordance with the Act to Advance Women’s Success in Their Working Life. Rate of employment of persons with disabilities at applicable Group companies* Number of women as managers* (%) Asahi Kasei Group Legal minimum 500 500 2.2 454 2.12 2.12 400 410 2.1 2.08 370 2.05 344 300 2.0 1.98 2.00 200 1.9 100 1.8 0 1.7 ’12/6 ’13/6 ’14/6 ’15/6 ’16/6 ’12/6 ’13/6 ’14/6 ’15/6 ’16/6 * Results as of June 30 each year for personnel employed by Asahi Kasei Corp., * Results as of June 1 each year at applicable Group companies. Calculation based on Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Construction total employment of 25,000.5 persons in the 21 applicable companies. As of June 1, Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp., and Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. (Asahi 2016, the number of persons with disabilities employed by Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. Kasei Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. are stood at 334.0 of the total 529.0 employees with disabilities. Calculated in accorincluded up to June 30, 2015). dance with the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. Balancing work and family life Basic policy Shortened working hours for child care We provide various forms of support for personnel to work Personnel are able to utilize shortened working hours to care with security and vitality in accordance with their individual for preschoolers, with the working day shortened by up to 2 circumstances and values from the perspective of balancing hours until the child enters elementary school. In September work and family life. 2007, a provision called “Kids Support” was added to enable personnel with children in the first and second grades to work Parental leave shortened hours as well. These provisions may be used conOur parental leave is available through the fiscal year in which currently with a “flex-time” system for flexible working hours. the child turns three years old. In fiscal 2015, 556 personnel utilized parental leave. This is included 316 men, which is 40% Leave of absence to accompany spouse on overseas assignment of those who were qualified, and 240 women. As globalization continues to advance, an increasing number of personnel have a spouse who is transferred to an overseas Employees using parental leave* assignment. In fiscal 2013 we adopted a provision for such Women Men 330 personnel to take a leave of absence to accompany their 316 spouses living overseas. In fiscal 2015, 10 personnel utilized 240 242 235 233 240 this provision. 220 226 231 212 190 Platinum Kurumin certification mark 110 In 2016, we received the Platinum Kurumin certification mark from the Ministry of Health, 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) Labour and Welfare.* Platinum Kurumin certification is awarded in recognition of * Results for personnel employed by Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Chemicals proactive support for the development of Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp., Asahi the next generation which is superior to the Kasei Pharma Corp., and Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. previously received Kurumin certification. * Certification received for Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp., Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd., and Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. is the first company in Miyazaki prefecture to receive Platinum Kurumin certification. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 57 Corporate Citizenship CSR Fundamentals We are committed to advancing in harmony with society from a global perspective through fair information disclosure and the proactive employment of management resources for corporate responsibility and citizenship. Stakeholder dialog Different corporate organs hold responsibility for fair and open dialog with each of our different groups of stakeholders. Stakeholders Customers Shareholders, investors Suppliers Local communities Purchasing and logistics Corporate Communications sections Marketing and sales General affairs and Investor Relations sections, environment Communications at Asahi at core operating departments, administration sections at Asahi Kasei Corp. and safety sections at Kasei Corp. companies consumer contact offices at production sites production sites • Issuing news releases • Issuing news releases • Face-to-face discussion • Meeting with • Safety discussion • Periodic community • Holding news • Holding news by marketing and sales securities analysts and forums dialog meetings conferences conferences personnel institutional investors • Information exchange • Community outreach • Issuing documents for • Website disclosure of • Taking inquiries via • Seminars for Individual forums initiatives information disclosure information telephone, website, etc. investors • Website disclosure of • Website disclosure of information information • Responding to CSR• Taking inquiries via related questionnaires telephone, website, etc. • Promoting for social contribution activities Customer relations Investor Relations Principled supplier Public outreach relationships Asahi Kasei Group Customer relations We believe that it is by maintaining customer satisfaction that our products and services contribute to society. For materials, intermediates, and devices, communication with our customers is handled by the sales and technical support departments of each business unit. For end products and housing, communication with our customers is handled by the customer support center of each product. Investor Relations We strive to disclose information in a timely and fair manner to enable our domestic and international investors to gain an accurate understanding of the Asahi Kasei Group. Shareholder distribution also provide a wide variety of information for investors on our Information on shareholder distribution is available in the website. Corporate Citizenship section of our CSR website. Seminars for individual investors IR meetings with institutional investors and securities analysts We hold various seminars to provide individual investors with Investor Relations (IR) regularly holds meetings with institua better understanding of the operations of the Asahi Kasei tional investors and securities analysts in Japan and overseas, Group. We will continue to provide accurate and timely inforincluding quarterly results briefings and an annual managemation to individual investors through direct communications, ment briefing with the President. the corporate website, and articles published in magazines for In fiscal 2015, business briefings were held with the aim of individual investors. deepening understanding among institutional investors and securities analysts regarding key businesses of Asahi Kasei. We 58 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 For more information, please refer to the Asahi Kasei Group CSR website. http://www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/csr/ Principled supplier relationships A relationship of mutual trust with our suppliers is fostered through fair and principled purchasing practices based on regulatory compliance and respect for the environment and human rights. Purchasing departments throughout the Asahi Kasei Group emphasis on CSR in accordance with our Procurement Policy. regard suppliers as important partners and work to build Each year we conduct a survey of suppliers to help foster relationships with them based on sincerity in accordance with greater awareness of the importance of CSR issues. our Group Philosophy. To this end, we are placing greater Public outreach We work to honor and respect the local culture of each community where our operations are based, and to maintain effective dialog and communication with community members. Many of our major plants offer plant tours to provide the local local governments and members of local residents associacommunity with a better understanding of our operations tions. We also open our gymnasiums, sports fields, parking lots, and the measures we implement for the environment and and other facilities for public use and enjoyment, and host a safety. Measures for community dialog and interaction include variety of events. regularly held forums and meetings with representatives of Community fellowship The Community Fellowship Committee is organized under direct supervision of the President of Asahi Kasei. Its roles include formulation of overall policy, plans, and courses of action in regard to community fellowship activities. The Committee also monitors and reviews community fellowship activities at each site and at each affiliated company of the Asahi Kasei Group. Under our Community Fellowship Policy, we are involved in a wide range of community-focused activities in accordance with the three themes of Nurturing the Next Generation, Coexistence with the Environment, and Promotion of Culture, Art, and Sports. We participate in the One-Percent Club of the Keidanren Coexistence with the Environment (Japan Business Federation), and convert our social contribuIn addition to our afforestation activities in Miyazaki and tion activities into monetary value by a method set forth in Shizuoka, we participate in an afforestation project in the its annual Survey of Expenditure for Corporate Philanthropic Horqin Desert of Inner Mongolia, China. We also exhibit at Activities. In fiscal 2014, this was ¥1.299 billion. environmental-related events, and work to raise understanding of environmental issues. Nurturing the Next Generation To promote understanding and heighten interest in science Disaster relief and technology among elementary, junior high, and high We participate in a Disaster Relief Market featuring produce of school students, we visit schools and host visits by students to the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. factories to give explanations and demonstrations of science and Following the Kumamoto earthquakes in 2016, we technology and on environmental issues. We also support career donated ¥50 million to the Kumamoto prefectural governdevelopment with occupational lectures and host visits by junior ment to support people in affected areas. We also decided high and high school students to our corporate head office. Such to donate 100,000 rolls of Saran Wrap™ cling film to support activities were held 94 times in fiscal 2015, with a total of some people living in evacuation shelters. 2,650 students of 91 schools participating. In August 2015, we held a laboratory tour for female high school students, together Promotion of Culture, Art, and Sports with informal discussion with our researchers, as part of our effort Members of our corporate distance running and judo teams to foster interest in careers in science and technology among have competed in the Olympics a total of some 50 times. In young women. We also sponsor educational events including Nobeoka, Miyazaki, where the teams are based, we host a science competitions and environmental education programs major track event, and hold running and judo lessons for the organized by newspaper companies, exhibit at science and local youth. The Asahi Kasei Himuka Cultural Foundation was chemistry events, and have a partnership with National Museum established in 1985 to enrich the environment of day-to-day of Emerging Science and Innovation (Miraikan). life and culture in Miyazaki Prefecture, with a wide range of cultural activities being held. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 59 Connecting Business Operations with Contribution to Society CONNECTION 1 Bemberg™ Participation in Business Call to Action led by United Nations Development Programme: For sustainable development of India’s fiber industry Young women keep their eyes fixed on saris and dupattas that are woven from Asahi Kasei’s Bemberg™ cupro regenerated cellulose fiber. They are pleasantly soft, drape comfortably on the skin, and have colorful patterns. This is a university classroom in India where students are studying fashion. Bemberg™ is the subject of the lecture. Bemberg™ is the brand name for cupro. It is a regenerated cellulose fiber made from cotton linter—the short downy fibers on cotton seeds—featuring a luxurious silky feel, moisture absorption/release, and superior comfort. Being made from material of natural origin, it is an environmentally compatible fiber. Indian saris and other ethnic garments are traditionally made from silk. But silk is difficult to handle, and quite expensive. Asahi Kasei realized that Bemberg™ would be a good alternative to silk for saris and dupattas, and began selling it in India 40 years ago. Today, saris and other ethnic garments made of Bemberg™ are worn by many women. In developing the Bemberg™ business in India, Asahi Kasei became involved both directly and indirectly in the value chain from raw material to finished fabric. In order to empower the local residents through their active participation in business activities, Asahi Kasei has worked to help them develop skills, secure stable income, and create new business opportunities. Asahi Kasei also focuses on fostering young talent that will lead the future of India’s fiber industry and fashion industry, providing support for university education to develop the potential of the next generation. In May 2015, Asahi Kasei joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA)1 led by the United Nations Development Programme2, and has been promoting inclusive business with Bemberg™ fiber. “Although corporate growth and profitability are important, in today’s society a company can no longer act as a single entity seeking only its own benefits. To pursue sustainable development, a company also needs to promote initiatives that facilitate the well-being of local residents as well as the development of the community. That is the key to sustainable development of a business,” says Takehiro Kamiyama, General Manager of Bemberg Sales Dept. 2 in Asahi Kasei’s Fibers & Textiles SBU. Day by day, Asahi Kasei’s Bemberg™ business is helping India’s fiber industry achieve 1 sustainable development, while contributing to the local community. 1 Business Call to Action (BCtA): BCtA is a unique multilateral alliance by four donor governments and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) which hosts the secretariat. BCtA challenges companies to advance core business activities that are inclusive of poor populations and contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Worldwide, 137 companies, from SMEs to multinationals, have responded to the BCtA by making commitments to improve the lives and livelihoods of millions through commerciallyviable business ventures that engage low-income people as consumers, producers, suppliers, and distributors of goods and services. 2 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP): Highlight UNDP was founded in 1966 as one of the United Nation’s subsidiary bodies under the UN General Assembly and the UN Economic and Social Council. Headquartered in New York, UNDP provides development assistance in nearly 170 countries with focuses on sustainable development; democratic governance and peacebuilding; and climate and disaster resilience. 60 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Bemberg™ business initiatives in India We currently procure from India some Cotton linter imported to Japan is proWe also focus on the education of young one-third of the cotton linter used for the cessed into cupro yarn, which is exported people and students who will lead the production of cupro yarn. To support local to India and sold to weavers. We also next generation of India’s fiber industry producers, we loan equipment to collect provide continuing technical guidance on and fashion industry, and contribute to cotton linter free of charge, and have weaving and dyeing in the fabric produchuman resource development by supportengineers stationed in India to provide the tion process in India. ing the enhancement of skills at several local workers with training and technical Indian universities. instructions for improving productivity. 2 3 Sales of Bemberg™ in India (tons) 4,437 Robust growth 515 6 1976 2000 2015 Demand for ethnic garments in India (million garments) 1,918 2,029 1,720 1,596 1,729 1,798 Saris 98 103 109 76 88 72 Dupattas 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1 Education at a fashion university 2 Providing technical guidance for inspecting collected linter 3 Providing technical guidance for dyeing fabric Female Indian students studying Bemberg™ business in Japan Two female students majoring in Textile Design at India’s National Institute of Design (NID), one undergraduate and one graduate student, came to Japan as interns of Asahi Kasei for six weeks from June 2016. The internship covered a wide range of subjects, including the production of Bemberg™ and examples of its use in its fabric. Professor Srivastava Aarti of NID, who accompanied the students, said, “Bemberg™ is a wonderful alternative to silk, it’s cool and has a soft feel. As a textile designer myself, I really want to The interns visit Asahi Kasei’s Bemberg™ lining showroom use this material.” in Tokyo Asahi Kasei Report 2016 61 Connecting Business Operations with Contribution to Society CONNECTION 2 Condominium Redevelopment Providing a solution to the social issue of aging condominiums by persistently maintaining sincerity with the residents Several elderly women chat enjoyably in the 1st floor lobby of the newly built condominium. Some men are reading in the residents’ library. The symbolic tree stretches its branches across the courtyard, slowly passing the time. This is the Atlas Ikejiri Residence, completed in 2014 by Asahi Kasei Realty & Residence Corp. to replace the Ikejiri Danchi housing complex located here in Tokyo’s Setagaya Ward. Ikejiri Danchi included shops and offices in addition to residential units, and featured excellent transport access, but the aging structure had inadequate earthquake resistance. Although talk about rebuilding it began as early as 1993, concrete plans failed to materialize for many years due to the complex relationship of ownership and lease rights among the various residents and tenants. The structure continued to age further with no resolution in sight until Asahi Kasei came to carefully listen to the assorted views of each party, and successfully craft a proposal for rebuilding that was deemed acceptable among the many concerned parties. Aging condominiums are a challenging social issue for Japanese society. The supply of residential units in multi-dwelling structures swelled from the 1970s—including both commercially developed condominiums and publicly operated housing complexes—and condominium life became common in major urban areas. There are now over 6 million condominium units in Japan, and some 14 million people, over 1/10 of the population, live in condominiums. But over 1 million of these units are in buildings that do not meet the latest earthquake-resistance standards, and in many cases the older buildings are deteriorating beyond their age due to inadequate maintenance. While rebuilding such older structures would greatly contribute to the safety and security of the community, there are difficult challenges to overcome. Many residents and other parties with fractional ownership rights are retirees who are unable or unwilling to make a large investment in a project to rebuild. Although amendments to relevant laws and regulations have made it easier in principle to obtain agreement to rebuild, progress has been generally slow. To craft a complex proposal that meets the various needs of the many interested parties is a time-consuming process that requires persistence. 1 Many developers simply decided that there would not be a sufficient financial return to justify such effort. Asahi Kasei began tackling this challenge 15 years ago, leveraging the experience and know-how gained in its housing business to sincerely appreciate the needs of each concerned party, and to craft an acceptable proposal. Having successfully completed many such condominium redevelopment projects, the company is contributing to a comfortable life with peace of mind for a large number of Highlight people, with residential environments featuring not only outstanding earthquake resistance but also barrier-free functionality and many shared facilities to foster a greater sense of community among residents. 62 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Notable housing complex redevelopments by Asahi Kasei Realty & Residence Corp. Dojunkai Edogawa Apartment Complex, redeveloped as Atlas Edogawa Kokuryo Housing Complex, redeveloped as Atlas Kokuryo (Chofu City, Tokyo) Apartment Complex (Shinjuku Ward, Tokyo) The first redevelopment to remove the legal designation of a housing complex Achieved a redevelopment which had been in planning for 30 years Ikejiri Danchi, redeveloped as Atlas Ikejiri Residence (Setagaya Ward, Tokyo) Suwacho Housing Complex, redeveloped as Atlas Suwacho Residence Successful redevelopment overcoming coexistence of ownership rights and (Shinjuku Ward, Tokyo) lease rights The first successful redevelopment under the amended law Chofu Fuijimicho Housing Complex, redeveloped as Atlas Chofu (Chofu City, Tokyo) Redevelopment removing the legal designation of a housing complex and repositioning a public road ped e v e lo R ed 2 Condominiums in Japan (thousand units) 6,233 Total Redevelopment 5,057 demand  umber built under N former earthquakeresistance standard 1,061 227 53 118 103 Newly built 1968 1981 2007 2015 Condominiums in Tokyo 428 constructed at least 40 years earlier (thousand units) 126 at least 50 years earlier Source: Land Statistical Survey by Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications/ 246 Housing Starts Statistics by Tokyo Metropolitan Government Bureau of 54 Urban Development 302 126 26 192 54 40–49 years 26 100 earlier 54 2003 2008 2013 2018 2023 1 Atlas Ikejiri Residence 2 The former Ikejiri Danchi Condominium Redevelopment Research Center The Condominium Redevelopment Research Center of Asahi Kasei Realty & Residence Corp. serves as the central base for know-how to flexibly apply to individual projects. Mr. Yugo Ohki, who spent many years in the condominium redevelopment business puts it this way, “Redeveloping a condominium requires a detailed understanding of each individual resident’s feelings, their wants, and their needs. Many people have fractional ownership of the structure, and they all have different individual circumstances. I apply my years of experience to come up with a proposal that various different parties can accept. By replacing an old worn-out building with a new one, we contribute to the safety and security of the community, which creates value for society.” Asahi Kasei Report 2016 63 Connecting Business Operations with Contribution to Society CONNECTION 3 AEDs Aiming to reduce deaths from sudden cardiac arrest, teaching the youth the importance of life-saving action Elementary school students gathered around a manikin on the floor are practicing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and learning how to use an automated external defibrillator (AED). “Push harder!” “It’s not easy.” “I did it!” Employees of Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical Corp. are helping to teach the children how to save a life using an AED, and what to do until the ambulance arrives. “What would you do if one of your friends collapsed while playing?” The students are prompted to consider this seriously, realizing that it could really happen. AEDs became available for use by the general public in Japan in 2004, but most people would not be confident in using one if they suddenly needed to. In 2011, an elementary school girl in Saitama prefecture became the victim of sudden cardiac arrest. Even though the school had an AED, nobody used it. This tragic case prompted various initiatives to raise general awareness and confidence in AED use. In 2014, Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical Corp. began to help educate elementary school students about AEDs using hands-on demonstrations together while distributing an easy-to-understand booklet. Ms. Sumie Ikeda of Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical Corp. says, “Although AEDs are available in many public places in Japan, they are actually used only very seldom. This booklet helps make AEDs familiar to kids at an early age, so they can be prepared to use one if the need arises later in life. To really help save more lives means not only making AEDs available in more places, but also raising familiarity and confidence with AEDs among the general public. When sudden cardiac arrest strikes, every second matters. We want people to be able to act without hesitation when needed.” In addition to helping to educate the youth about AEDs, Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical Corp. also loans AEDs free of charge at marathons and other events, and holds training sessions and demonstrations in connection with them. Through such efforts, the company continues to strive to help reduce deaths from sudden cardiac arrest. Highlight 64 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Support for marathons and other events ZOLL Foundation Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical AEDs loaned free of charge in fiscal 2015 ZOLL Medical Corporation, parent company of Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical Corp. loans AEDs free • May 2015 Gifu Seiryu Half-Marathon Race, Corp., established the ZOLL Foundation in December 2013 as an of charge and holds 75 AEDs independent entity organized for scientific and educational purposes. training sessions and • May 2015 Tohoku Rokkon Festival, 15 AEDs The ZOLL Foundation provides grants to support research, education, demonstrations at • Nov 2015 Ibigawa Marathon, 78 AEDs and public awareness related to improving resuscitation practices, several marathons and • Feb 2016 Nobeoka Nishinippon Marathon, preventing patient deterioration associated with cardiac arrest and 8 AEDs other events throughout morbidity, and enhancing the care of acute patients to reduce mortality • Mar 2016 Itabashi City Marathon, 50 AEDs Japan. and morbidity. In fiscal 2015, grants were provided to the University of • Mar 2016 Kagoshima Marathon, 60 AEDs Pittsburgh, the University of Pennsylvania, and the University of Toronto. Public accessibility of AEDs in Japan (AED units) 636,007 Increasing 395,823 accessibility 137,569 7,361 2004 2007 2011 2014 Lives saved with AEDs in Japan (cases) Source: FY2015 Edition Fire and Disaster People who witnessed White Paper by Ministry of Internal cardiogenic cardiopulAffairs and Communications, Situation monary arrest in public of Emergency Care and Rescue 23,296 25,255 20,769 17,882 1,030 738 Cases of general 46 429 public using AEDs 2005 2008 2011 2014 AED booklet for elementary school students The booklet was produced to be easy to • What to do if someone suddenly collapses understand by the intended audience • How to call an ambulance of elementary students. Professor Taku • How to perform CPR Iwami of Kyoto University served as chief • How to use an AED editor. While being easy to understand, the booklet retains detailed accuracy. It is • How AEDs work and where they are informative for adults as well as students. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 65 66 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Financial Section Contents 68 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 74 Risk Analysis 76 Consolidated Financial Statements 76 Consolidated Balance Sheets 78 Consolidated Statements of Income 79 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 80 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets 81 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 82 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 82 1. Major policies for preparing the consolidated financial statements 82 2. Significant accounting policies 83 3. Changes in significant accounting policies 84 4. Notes to Consolidated Balance Sheets 85 5. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income 87 6. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 87 7. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets 89 8. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 89 9. Leases 90 10. Financial instruments 93 11. Marketable securities and investment securities 94 12. Derivative financial instruments 97 13. Provision for retirement benefits 99 14. Taxes 100 15. Business combinations 102 16. Asset retirement obligations 102 17. Business segment information 105 18. Information on related parties 106 19. Per share information 107 20. Subsequent events 108 21. Borrowings 109 Independent Auditor’s Report Asahi Kasei Report 2016 67 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Fiscal year 2015 (April 1, 2015 – March 31, 2016) Operating Environment Non-operating income and expenses, ordinary income Net non-operating expenses were ¥3.8 billion, a ¥12.4 billion Although slower growth persisted in China, and other emergdecline from the ¥8.6 billion net non-operating income of a ing economies continued to slow down during fiscal 2015, year earlier. Foreign exchange gain transitioned to foreign the global economy overall was on a path of gradual recovery exchange loss, and equity in earnings of affiliates transitioned with increased consumer spending together with improved to equity in losses of affiliates. As a result, ordinary income employment in the US, and signs of recovery in private decreased by ¥5.2 billion (3.1%) to ¥161.4 billion. consumption in Europe. The Japanese economy saw steady consumer spending along with firm corporate performance Extraordinary income and loss and capital expenditure, but uncertainty remained regarding Extraordinary loss of ¥24.2 billion included ¥5.3 billion in loss the risk of further downturn in emerging economies and on discontinuation of joint sales agreement, ¥5.2 billion in appreciation of the yen from the latter half of the period. loss on disposal of noncurrent assets, ¥3.6 billion in business structure improvement expenses, ¥3.5 billion in impairment Overview of Consolidated Results loss, ¥2.0 billion in special retirement expenses and other, ¥1.5 Net sales, operating income billion in business integration expense, and ¥1.5 billion in loss Consolidated net sales for the fiscal year decreased by ¥45.5 on piling business. The net extraordinary loss of ¥15.0 billion billion (2.3%) to ¥1,940.9 billion. Overseas sales increased by was ¥6.9 billion greater than a year ago. ¥6.4 billion (1.0%) to ¥679.7 billion, largely in the Health Care segment, and increased by 1.1 percentage points as a portion Net income attributable to owners of the parent of consolidated net sales from 33.9% to 35.0%. Domestic sales With ordinary income of ¥161.4 billion and net extraordinary decreased by ¥51.9 billion (4.0%) to ¥1,261.2 billion with lower loss of ¥15.0 billion, income before income taxes was ¥146.4 market prices in chemicals operations in the Chemicals & billion. Income tax expense was ¥53.0 billion (current income Fibers segment. taxes of ¥55.4 billion less deferred income taxes of ¥2.4 billion). Operating income increased by ¥7.3 billion (4.6%) to Net income attributable to non-controlling interests was ¥1.7 ¥165.2 billion. As a percentage of net sales, cost of sales billion. As a result, net income attributable to owners of the decreased by 2.7 percentage points to 69.8%. Selling, general parent decreased by ¥13.9 billion (13.2%) to ¥91.8 billion, and and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased by ¥31.9 billion net income per share decreased by ¥9.93 to ¥65.69 from the despite the decrease in net sales, increasing as a portion of ¥75.62 of the previous year. net sales by 2.1 percentage points to 21.7%. Operating margin increased by 0.6 percentage points to 8.5%. Net Income Attributable to Net Sales, Operating Income, Owners of the Parent, Overseas Sales Ratio Operating Margin SG&A, SG&A Ratio Net Income per Share (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (¥) 2,000 40 200 20 500 50 120 100 400 40 1,500 30 150 15 90 75 300 30 1,000 20 100 10 60 50 200 20 500 10 50 5 30 25 100 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) Net sales (left scale) Operating income (left scale) SG&A (left scale) Net income attributable to owners of Overseas sales ratio (right scale) Operating margin (right scale) SG&A ratio (right scale) the parent (left scale) Net income per share (right scale) 68 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Results by Operating Segment Homes & Construction Materials Sales increased by ¥28.6 billion (4.7%) from a year ago to The Asahi Kasei Group’s operations are described by major ¥632.4 billion, and operating income increased by ¥8.0 billion business classification: four reportable segments of Chemicals (12.6%) from a year ago to ¥71.0 billion. & Fibers, Homes & Construction Materials, Electronics, and Among homes operations, in order-built homes, deliveries Health Care, together with an “Others” category. Results of of Hebel Maison™ apartment buildings increased, and SG&A Polypore International, LP* and its consolidated subsidiaries expenses such as promotional expenses decreased. In real (collectively “Polypore”), acquired on August 26, 2015 (US estate, management of rental units was firm. In remodeling, Eastern time), are included in the Electronics segment. orders increased centering on renovation work and equip* Polypore International, Inc. changed to Polypore International, LP on March 31, 2016. ment installation. In construction materials operations, shipments decreased Chemicals & Fibers for foundation systems. Feedstock costs declined. Sales of Sales decreased by ¥119.0 billion (12.5%) from a year ago to Neoma™ high-performance phenolic foam insulation panels ¥835.6 billion, and operating income increased by ¥4.3 billion were firm. (6.7%) from a year ago to ¥68.9 billion. Among chemicals operations, feedstock costs for petrochemical products declined with lower oil and naphtha prices, but market prices deteriorated most notably for acrylonitrile. In performance polymers, terms of trade improved due to lower feedstock costs, and sales of engineering plastics and synthetic rubber for fuel-efficient tires were firm. In specialty products, the effect of the weaker yen was most notable for ion-exchange membranes, and shipment of Saran Wrap™ cling film increased. In fibers operations, feedstock costs declined for each product, the weaker yen contributed to performance, and shipments of Lamous™ artificial suede for automotive upholstery and Roica™ elastic polyurethane filament increased. Chemicals Business Fibers Business Homes Business Operating Income Increases/Decreases Operating Income Increases/Decreases Operating Income Increases/Decreases (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 60 15 80 54.2 Operating 55.3 13.7 Operating costs and Sales costs and Sales volume others Sales Sales –2.6 Sales prices others 40 +97.1 volume prices1 +0.3 65.4 12 volume +4.0 +1.3 –2.3 Foreign exchange2 60 +1.9 59.2 10.5 +1.3 20 Operating costs and 9 others +2.9 0 40 6 (20) 20 3 (40) Sales Foreign prices1 exchange2 (60) –111.8 +18.4 0 0 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’14 ’15 (FY) ’14 ’15 (FY) 1 Excluding impact of foreign exchange 1 Excluding impact of foreign exchange 2 Impact of foreign exchange on sales prices 2 Impact of foreign exchange on sales prices Asahi Kasei Report 2016 69 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Electronics In critical care operations, the LifeVest™ wearable defibrilSales increased by ¥24.1 billion (16.0%) from a year ago to lator business continues to expand consistently, and sales of ¥174.5 billion, and operating income decreased by ¥7.4 billion other products such as defibrillators and related accessories (51.8%) from a year ago to ¥6.9 billion. increased, but SG&A expenses grew with reinforced sales Electronic devices operations benefited from the weaker activity. yen, and sales of devices for smartphones such as audio LSIs and devices for camera modules were firm, but shipments of Others electronic compasses declined. Sales decreased by ¥7.4 billion (36.4%) from a year ago to ¥13.0 In electronic materials operations, production and sale of billion, and operating income decreased by ¥0.4 billion (41.7%) general purpose epoxy resin were terminated, but the weaker from a year ago to ¥0.6 billion. yen contributed to performance, and sales of Hipore™ Li-ion battery separator were firm. The effect on operating income from amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets, etc., related to the acquisition of Polypore was ¥9.8 billion. Health Care Sales increased by ¥28.3 billion (11.0%) from a year ago to ¥285.4 billion, and operating income increased by ¥5.4 billion (17.5%) from a year ago to ¥36.2 billion. In pharmaceuticals operations, sales of Teribone™ osteoporosis drug and Recomodulin™ recombinant thrombomodulin were firm, while shipments of Flivas™ agent for treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia decreased due to competition from generics. In medical devices operations, shipments increased for dialysis products and Planova™ virus removal filters. Construction Materials Business Electronics Business Health Care Business Operating Income Increases/Decreases Operating Income Increases/Decreases Operating Income Increases/Decreases (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) Sales Sales Operating 6.0 20 volume prices1 costs and others 30 5.8 +4.9 –6.8 –12.1 Sales Operating costs volume Sales and others 26.7 –1.1 prices1 Operating costs +2.6 –1.8 and others 24 0 24.3 4.5 15 14.3 Foreign exchange2 4.1 +0.5 18 Sales prices Foreign +0.1 exchange2 3.0 10 +6.7 Sales volume –1.0 12 6.9 1.5 5 6 0 0 0 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’14 ’15 (FY) ’14 ’15 (FY) 1 Excluding impact of foreign exchange 1 Excluding impact of foreign exchange 2 Impact of foreign exchange on sales prices 2 Impact of foreign exchange on sales prices 70 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Liquidity and Capital Resources Net assets decreased by ¥40.3 billion (3.7%) from ¥1,097.7 billion to ¥1,057.4 billion. Net income attributable to owners Financial position of the parent was ¥91.8 billion and dividend payments were Total assets at fiscal year end were ¥2,211.7 billion, ¥197.2 ¥27.9 billion, while foreign currency translation adjustment billion (9.8%) higher than a year earlier. decreased by ¥51.1 billion, remeasurements of defined benefit Current assets decreased by ¥35.6 billion (4.0%) to ¥856.0 plans decreased by ¥33.6 billion, and net unrealized gain on billion, mainly as notes and accounts receivable–trade other securities decreased by ¥21.3 billion. As a result, net decreased by ¥45.5 billion, while cash and deposits increased worth per share decreased by ¥29.11 to ¥745.94, net worth to by ¥22.2 billion. total assets decreased from 53.7% to 47.1%, and the D/E ratio Noncurrent assets increased by ¥232.8 billion (20.7%) increased by 0.18 points to 0.43. to ¥1,355.7 billion, notably with a ¥208.5 billion increase in intangible assets and a ¥53.5 billion increase in property, plant and equipment, while there was a ¥44.8 billion decrease in investment securities. Current liabilities increased by ¥218.2 billion (43.0%) to ¥725.7 billion, mainly as a result of a ¥217.6 billion increase in short-term loans payable and a ¥22.5 billion increase in income taxes payable, while there was a ¥25.2 billion decrease in notes and accounts payable–trade. Although long-term loans payable decreased by ¥35.8 billion, noncurrent liabilities increased by ¥19.3 billion (4.7%) to ¥428.7 billion with a ¥44.3 billion increase in net defined benefit liability. Interest-bearing debt increased by ¥180.7 billion (67.2%) to ¥449.7 billion. Critical Care Business Others Operating Income Increases/Decreases Operating Income Increases/Decreases Total Assets, Net Worth (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 20 2.0 2,500 Operating Sales costs and Operating prices1 Foreign others costs and +0.1 exchange2 –6.1 others 2,000 15 –1.0 1.5 –1.3 11.9 1,500 10 1.0 0.9 Sales 1,000 volume +0.9 0.6 5 0.5 4.1 500 Sales volume +14.8 0 0 0 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) 1 Excluding impact of foreign exchange Total assets 2 Impact of foreign exchange on sales prices Net worth Asahi Kasei Report 2016 71 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Capital Expenditure Notable capex by operating segment was as follows. Capital expenditure (capex) was primarily for new and Chemicals & Construction of a new production line for Fibers hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI)-based expanded production plant and equipment in long-term polyisocyanate, construction of a new growth fields. Investments were also made for rationalization, plant for synthetic rubber for fuel-efficient labor-saving, maintenance, and IT systems to bring greater high-performance tires, construction of a product reliability and cost reductions. new production line for spunbond nonwovens, construction of a new production Capex by operating segment shown below is for property, line for Roica™ elastic polyurethane plant and equipment and intangible assets (other than filament, construction of a new plant for goodwill), combined, excluding consumption tax. plastic compounds, rationalization, laborA total of ¥99.0 billion was invested during the fiscal year saving, and maintenance for the expansion of businesses with competitive superiority, Homes & Rationalization, labor-saving, and Construction maintenance particularly in the Chemicals & Fibers segment, as well as for Materials modification and rationalization. Electronics Rationalization, labor-saving, and Totals for the year Compared to maintenance (¥ million) previous year (%) Health Care Rationalization, labor-saving, and Chemicals & Fibers 43,669 104.7 maintenance Homes & Construction Others Rationalization, labor-saving, and 11,947 110.0 Materials maintenance Electronics 16,708 144.0 Corporate assets R&D equipment, IT systems, and Health Care 19,382 116.8 maintenance Others 1,513 109.0 Combined 93,220 113.5 Corporate assets and 5,780 83.3 eliminations Consolidated 99,000 111.1 Interest-Bearing Debt, Capex, Depreciation and Net Worth to Total Assets D/E Ratio Amortization (%) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 60 500 1.0 120 50 400 0.8 90 40 300 0.6 30 60 200 0.4 20 30 100 0.2 10 0 0 0 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) Interest-bearing debt (left scale) Capex D/E ratio (right scale) Depreciation and amortization 72 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Cash Flows Cash flows from financing activities Cash used included ¥91.8 billion to repay long-term loans Free cash flows* were a negative ¥69.1 billion, as cash used, payable. Cash provided included a ¥213.4 billion increase principally for purchase of shares in subsidiaries resulting in in short-term loans payable mainly to finance the Polypore change in scope of consolidation and purchase of property, acquisition. Net cash provided by financing activities was plant and equipment, exceeded cash provided principally ¥101.4 billion, ¥175.4 billion more than a year earlier. from income before income taxes and from depreciation and * Total of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and net cash provided amortization. Cash flows from financing activities were a net by (used in) investment activities. ¥101.4 billion provided, principally due to an increase in shortterm loans payable. As a result, cash and cash equivalents at Financial Policy fiscal year end were ¥145.3 billion, ¥33.0 billion more than a year earlier. We aim to increase free cash flows with increased earnings through enhanced cost efficiency, greater product competiCash flows from operating activities tiveness, and business structure improvements, and with Cash used included ¥60.4 billion for income taxes paid and a greater capital efficiency through utilization of group finance ¥24.1 billion decrease in notes and accounts payable–trade. and maintenance of optimum inventory levels. Income before income taxes provided ¥146.4 billion, depreciaA wide range of fund-raising methods including bank tion and amortization provided ¥93.8 billion, and decrease in borrowings, bonds, and commercial paper will be utilized notes and accounts receivable–trade provided ¥48.5 billion. dynamically in accordance with the financial circumstances Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥216.2 billion, of the Asahi Kasei Group in order to obtain stable financing at ¥78.6 billion more than a year earlier. low cost. These resources will be used to fund strategic investments Cash flows from investing activities under the “Cs for Tomorrow 2018” strategic management Cash used included ¥193.7 billion for purchase of shares in initiative focused on the pursuit of growth and profitability, subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation, creation of new businesses, and acceleration of globalization, including the acquisition of Polypore, and ¥85.2 billion for as well as dividends for shareholders. purchase of property, plant and equipment for continuing Advancing these measures will enable us to further expansion of competitively superior operations and enhanceenhance corporate value and provide an appropriate return to ment of overall competitiveness. Net cash used in investing shareholders while maintaining discipline for a sound financial activities was ¥285.3 billion, ¥184.8 billion more than a year constitution. earlier. Free Cash Flows Cash Flows (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 160 300 120 200 80 100 40 0 0 (40) (100) (80) (200) (120) (160) (300) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 (FY) Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash used in investing activities Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities Asahi Kasei Report 2016 73 Risk Analysis Operating risks and non-operating risks which may materially influence investor decisions are described below. The management maintains awareness of the possibility that these scenarios may emerge and, to the fullest possible extent, implements measures to avoid their emergence and to minimize their impact on corporate performance in the event that they do emerge. The description of risks given here includes elements which may emerge in the future, but as it is based on current evaluations as of June 28, 2016, it does not include risks which could not be foreseen. Crude oil and naphtha prices Profitability of electronics-related businesses Operating costs in operations based on petrochemicals are The electronics industry is characterized by sharp market affected by prices for crude oil and naphtha. If crude oil and cycles. The profitability of electronics-related businesses may naphtha prices rise, selling prices for products derived from decline significantly in a relatively short time, thereby affectthese feedstocks must be increased in a timely manner to ing our consolidated performance and financial condition. maintain sufficient price spreads. Price spreads may diminish, Because products in this field rapidly become obsolete, the thereby affecting our consolidated performance and financial timely development and commercialization of leading-edge condition. devices and materials is required. New product development may be delayed, or demand fluctuations may exceed expectaExchange rate fluctuation tions, thereby affecting our consolidated performance and The value of items denominated in currencies other than the financial condition. yen is affected by the rate of exchange at the time of conversion to yen. Although measures such as currency exchange Pharmaceutical, medical device, and critical care device hedges are utilized to minimize the short-term effects of businesses exchange rate fluctuations, such fluctuations may exceed the Pharmaceutical, medical device, and critical care device busiforeseeable range over the short to long term, thereby affectnesses may be significantly affected by government measures ing our consolidated performance and financial condition. regarding health care or other changes in government policy in various countries. Unforeseeable side effects or complicaOverseas operations tions may emerge, significantly affecting these businesses. Overseas operations may face a variety of risks which cannot be Product approval may be withdrawn as a result of reexaminaforeseen, including the existence or emergence of economition, and competition may intensify as a result of the market cally unfavorable circumstances due to legal and regulatory entry of generics. For products under development, regulatory changes, vulnerability of infrastructure, difficulty in hiring/retainapproval may be prolonged or fail to be obtained, market ing qualified employees, or other factors, and social or political demand may be lower than expected, and reimbursement instability due to terrorism, war, or other factors. Overseas prices may be lower than expected. Such scenarios may affect operations may be impaired by such scenarios, thereby affectour consolidated performance and financial condition. ing our consolidated performance and business plans. Housing-related tax policy, interest rate fluctuation Operations in the Homes segment are affected by Japanese tax policies as they relate to home acquisition and by fluctuations in Japanese interest rates. Changes in Japanese tax policy, including consumption taxes, or fluctuations in Japanese interest rates may result in diminished housing demand, thereby affecting our consolidated performance and financial condition. 74 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Industrial accidents and natural disasters Business and capital alliances The occurrence of a significant industrial accident or natural Acquisitions, business alliances, and capital alliances may disaster at a plant or elsewhere may result in a loss of public bear lower results or less synergy than anticipated due to trust, the emergence of costs associated with accident deterioration of the operating environment, thereby affecting response, including compensation, and opportunity loss due our consolidated performance and financial condition. Poor to plant shutdown caused by damage to plant facilities, supply performance at companies in which we have invested may chain disruptions which impede raw materials procurement, require the recording of an impairment loss for goodwill, etc., etc., thereby affecting our consolidated performance and thereby affecting our consolidated performance and financial financial condition. condition. Intellectual property, product liability, and legal regulation Manipulation of data for installation of foundation piles An unfavorable ruling may emerge in a dispute relating to It has become clear that consolidated subsidiary Asahi Kasei intellectual property, a product defect resulting in a large-scale Construction Materials Corp. submitted incorrect data in pile recall and compensation whose costs exceed insurance installation reports for the precast concrete piles which it coverage may emerge, and detrimental legal and regulatory installed as secondary subcontractor for the construction of a changes may emerge in any country where we operate. condominium complex in Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan, and a Such scenarios may affect our consolidated performance and portion of the similar pile installation work performed over the financial condition. past 10 years. On January 13, 2016, Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. received instructions in accordance with Business counterparties Paragraph 1 of Article 28 of the Construction Business Act, The occurrence of misconduct or unforeseeable credit impairan order to suspend business in accordance with Paragraph ment, etc., may necessitate additional losses or allowances 3 of Article 28 of the Construction Business Act, and a to be recorded in financial accounts, thereby affecting our recommendation in accordance with Paragraph 1 of Article consolidated performance and financial condition. 41 of the Construction Business Act from the Kanto Regional Development Bureau of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. This matter may result in diminished trust which could cause a decline in sales, etc., thereby affecting our consolidated performance and financial condition. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 75 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets Asahi Kasei Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries March 31, 2016 and 2015 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) ASSETS 2016 2015 2016 Current assets: Cash and deposits (Notes 8 and 10) ¥ 146,054 ¥ 123,821 $ 1,296,874 Notes and accounts receivable—trade 280,095 325,568 2,487,080 Short-term investment securities (Notes 8, 10 and 11) 1,534 1,802 13,621 Merchandise and finished goods 159,441 161,554 1,415,743 Work in process 108,684 112,813 965,051 Raw materials and supplies 68,618 65,311 609,288 Deferred tax assets (Note 14) 18,133 21,707 161,010 Other 75,324 80,520 668,833 Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,865) (1,517) (16,560) Total current assets 856,018 891,579 7,600,941 Noncurrent assets: Property, plant and equipment Buildings and structures (Note 4 (b), (d)) 495,817 471,033 4,402,566 Accumulated depreciation (268,635) (261,352) (2,385,322) Buildings and structures, net 227,183 209,681 2,017,253 Machinery, equipment and vehicles (Note 4 (b), (d)) 1,348,103 1,345,790 11,970,369 Accumulated depreciation (1,149,544) (1,170,771) (10,207,281) Machinery, equipment and vehicles, net 198,559 175,019 1,763,088 Land (Note 4 (d)) 61,046 59,287 542,053 Lease assets (Note 9) 12,928 13,054 114,793 Accumulated depreciation (11,183) (10,232) (99,299) Lease assets, net 1,745 2,822 15,495 Construction in progress 49,240 37,566 437,223 Other (Note 4 (d)) 147,286 143,593 1,307,814 Accumulated depreciation (129,072) (125,461) (1,146,084) Other, net 18,215 18,133 161,739 Subtotal 555,989 502,507 4,936,858 Intangible assets Goodwill (Note 15 (e)) 305,112 153,835 2,709,217 Other 189,470 132,241 1,682,383 Subtotal 494,582 286,076 4,391,600 Investments and other assets Investment securities (Notes 4 (a), (b), 10 and 11) 244,598 289,393 2,171,888 Long-term loans receivable (Note 10) 16,353 9,952 145,205 Net defined benefit asset (Note 13) — 2,929 — Deferred tax assets (Note 14) 20,098 11,351 178,459 Other 24,280 21,016 215,592 Allowance for doubtful accounts (189) (273) (1,678) Subtotal 305,140 334,368 2,709,465 Total noncurrent assets 1,355,711 1,122,952 12,037,924 Total assets ¥ 2,211,729 ¥ 2,014,531 $ 19,638,865 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 76 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2016 2015 2016 Liabilities: Current liabilities: Notes and accounts payable—trade (Note 10) ¥ 126,653 ¥ 151,867 $ 1,124,605 Short-term loans payable (Notes 4 (b), 10 and 21) 313,587 96,015 2,784,470 Lease obligations (Notes 9, 10 and 21) 919 1,383 8,160 Accrued expenses 98,717 101,164 876,549 Income taxes payable (Note 10) 32,735 10,203 290,668 Advances received 74,667 74,675 662,999 Provision for periodic repairs 3,908 2,396 34,701 Provision for product warranties 2,355 2,562 20,911 Provision for removal cost of property, plant and equipment 2,130 2,832 18,913 Asset retirement obligations (Note 16) 568 533 5,044 Other 69,423 63,817 616,436 Total current liabilities 725,662 507,449 6,443,456 Noncurrent liabilities: Bonds payable (Notes 10 and 21) 40,000 40,000 355,177 Long-term loans payable (Notes 4 (b), 10 and 21) 94,632 130,400 840,277 Lease obligations (Notes 9, 10 and 21) 537 1,219 4,768 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 14) 64,930 57,943 576,541 Provision for periodic repairs 558 1,248 4,955 Provision for removal cost of property, plant and equipment 7,228 7,865 64,180 Provision for loss on litigation 2,171 2,316 19,277 Net defined benefit liability (Note 13) 186,300 142,035 1,654,235 Asset retirement obligations (Note 16) 3,480 3,506 30,900 Long-term guarantee deposits (Note 10) 20,131 19,146 178,752 Other 8,702 3,683 77,269 Total noncurrent liabilities 428,669 409,360 3,806,331 Total liabilities 1,154,330 916,809 10,249,778 Net assets: Shareholders’ equity Capital stock Authorized—4,000,000,000 shares Issued and outstanding—1,402,616,332 shares 103,389 103,389 918,034 Capital surplus 79,410 79,408 705,115 Retained earnings (Note 7 (b) (ii)) 763,076 699,259 6,775,670 Treasury stock (3,150) (3,041) (27,970) (2016—5,861,678 shares, 2015—5,742,862 shares) Total shareholders’ equity 942,724 879,014 8,370,840 Accumulated other comprehensive income Net unrealized gain on other securities 92,280 113,562 819,393 Deferred gains or losses on hedges (179) (1,697) (1,589) Foreign currency translation adjustment 48,429 99,531 430,021 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (41,353) (7,757) (367,191) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 99,177 203,639 880,634 Non-controlling interests 15,498 15,068 137,613 Total net assets 1,057,399 1,097,722 9,389,087 Commitments and contingent liabilities (Notes 4 (c) and 9) Total liabilities and net assets ¥2,211,729 ¥2,014,531 $19,638,865 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 77 Consolidated Statements of Income Asahi Kasei Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2016 2015 2016 Net sales (Note 17) ¥1,940,914 ¥1,986,405 $17,234,186 Cost of sales (Note 5 (b)) 1,354,698 1,439,344 12,028,929 Gross profit 586,216 547,061 5,205,257 Selling, general and administrative expenses (Note 5 (a)) 421,013 389,128 3,738,350 Operating income (Note 17) 165,203 157,933 1,466,906 Non-operating income: Interest income 1,417 1,389 12,582 Dividends income 4,757 3,923 42,239 Equity in earnings of affiliates — 1,738 — Foreign exchange gain — 5,197 — Other 5,148 5,041 45,711 Total non-operating income 11,322 17,288 100,533 Non-operating expenses: Interest expense 3,611 3,056 32,064 Equity in losses of affiliates 854 — 7,583 Foreign exchange loss 3,679 — 32,667 Other 7,010 5,622 62,245 Total non-operating expenses 15,154 8,678 134,559 Ordinary income 161,370 166,543 1,432,872 Extraordinary income: Gain on sales of investment securities 8,275 2,756 73,477 Gain on sales of noncurrent assets (Note 5 (c)) 917 382 8,142 Total extraordinary income 9,192 3,137 81,620 Extraordinary loss: Loss on sales of investment securities — 112 — Loss on valuation of investment securities 363 1,136 3,223 Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets (Note 5 (d)) 5,214 4,728 46,297 Impairment loss (Note 5 (e)) 3,493 1,255 31,016 Business structure improvement expenses (Note 5 (e), (f )) 3,606 4,010 32,019 Litigation settlement 1,201 — 10,664 Loss on piling business (Note 5 (g)) 1,456 — 12,928 Business integration expense 1,547 — 13,736 Special retirement expenses and other 2,027 — 17,999 Loss on discontinuation of joint sales agreement (Note 5 (e), (h)) 5,266 — 46,759 Total extraordinary loss 24,173 11,241 214,642 Income before income taxes 146,389 158,440 1,299,849 Income taxes (Note 14) — current 55,419 44,059 492,088 — deferred (2,441) 7,483 (21,675) Total income taxes 52,978 51,542 470,414 Net income 93,412 106,898 829,444 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 1,658 1,246 14,722 Net income attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 91,754 ¥ 105,652 $ 814,722 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 78 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Asahi Kasei Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2016 2015 2016 Net income ¥ 93,412 ¥106,898 $ 829,444 Other comprehensive income Net (decrease) increase in unrealized gain on other securities (21,098) 37,947 (187,338) Deferred gains or losses on hedges 1,519 (1,526) 13,488 Foreign currency translation adjustment (48,860) 48,945 (433,848) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (33,331) 17,096 (295,960) Share of other comprehensive income of affiliates accounted for using equity method (3,567) 5,125 (31,673) Total other comprehensive income (Note 6) (105,337) 107,587 (935,331) Comprehensive income ¥ (11,925) ¥214,484 $(105,887) Comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ (12,708) ¥212,159 $(112,840) Non-controlling interests 783 2,326 6,953 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 79 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Asahi Kasei Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Millions of yen Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Net Deferred Foreign Remeasureaccumulated Retained Total unrealized gains or currency ments of other NonCapital Capital earnings Treasury shareholders’ gain on losses on translation defined comprehensive controlling Total stock surplus (Note 7(b)) stock equity other securities hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥103,389 ¥79,408 ¥699,259 ¥(3,041) ¥879,014 ¥113,562 ¥(1,697) ¥ 99,531 ¥ (7,757) ¥ 203,639 ¥15,068 ¥1,097,722 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting policies — — Restated balance 103,389 79,408 699,259 (3,041) 879,014 113,562 (1,697) 99,531 (7,757) 203,639 15,068 1,097,722 Changes during the fiscal year Dividends from surplus (27,937) (27,937) (27,937) Net income attributable to owners of the parent 91,754 91,754 91,754 Purchase of treasury stock (113) (113) (113) Disposal of treasury stock 2 4 6 6 Change of scope of consolidation Change of scope of equity method Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (21,282) 1,519 (51,102) (33,596) (104,462) 430 (104,032) Total changes of items during the period — 2 63,817 (109) 63,710 (21,282) 1,519 (51,102) (33,596) (104,462) 430 (40,323) Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥103,389 ¥79,410 ¥763,076 ¥(3,150) ¥942,724 ¥ 92,280 ¥ (179) ¥ 48,429 ¥(41,353) ¥ 99,177 ¥15,498 ¥1,057,399 Millions of yen Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Net Deferred Foreign Remeasureaccumulated Retained Total unrealized gains or currency ments of other NonCapital Capital earnings Treasury shareholders’ gain on losses on translation defined comprehensive controlling Total stock surplus (Note 7(b)) stock equity other securities hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Balance at March 31, 2014 ¥103,389 ¥79,404 ¥635,403 ¥(2,591) ¥815,605 ¥ 75,626 ¥ (171) ¥46,734 ¥(25,094) ¥ 97,095 ¥13,067 ¥ 925,766 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting policies (15,741) (15,741) (15,741) Restated balance 103,389 79,404 619,662 (2,591) 799,863 75,626 (171) 46,734 (25,094) 97,095 13,067 910,025 Changes during the fiscal year Dividends from surplus (26,547) (26,547) (26,547) Net income attributable to owners of the parent 105,652 105,652 105,652 Purchase of treasury stock (455) (455) (455) Disposal of treasury stock 3 5 8 8 Change of scope of consolidation 296 296 296 Change of scope of equity method 197 197 197 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 37,937 (1,526) 52,797 17,338 106,545 2,002 108,546 Total changes of items during the period — 3 79,597 (450) 79,151 37,937 (1,526) 52,797 17,338 106,545 2,002 187,697 Balance at March 31, 2015 ¥103,389 ¥79,408 ¥699,259 ¥(3,041) ¥879,014 ¥113,562 ¥(1,697) ¥99,531 ¥ (7,757) ¥203,639 ¥15,068 ¥1,097,722 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Net Deferred Foreign Remeasureaccumulated Retained Total unrealized gains or currency ments of other NonCapital Capital earnings Treasury shareholders’ gain on losses on translation defined comprehensive controlling Total stock surplus (Note 7(b)) stock equity other securities hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Balance at March 31, 2015 $918,034 $705,097 $6,209,013 $(27,002) $7,805,132 $1,008,364 $(15,068) $ 883,777 $ (68,878) $1,808,196 $133,795 $9,747,132 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting policies — — Restated balance 918,034 705,097 6,209,013 (27,002) 7,805,132 1,008,364 (15,068) 883,777 (68,878) 1,808,196 133,795 9,747,132 Changes during the fiscal year Dividends from surplus (248,064) (248,064) (248,064) Net income attributable to owners of the parent 814,722 814,722 814,722 Purchase of treasury stock (1,003) (1,003) (1,003) Disposal of treasury stock 18 36 53 53 Change of scope of consolidation Change of scope of equity method Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (188,972) 13,488 (453,756) (298,313) (927,562) 3,818 (923,744) Total changes of items during the period — 18 566,658 (968) 565,708 (188,972) 13,488 (453,756) (298,313) (927,562) 3,818 (358,045) Balance at March 31, 2016 $918,034 $705,115 $6,775,670 $(27,970) $8,370,840 $ 819,393 $ (1,589) $ 430,021 $(367,191) $ 880,634 $137,613 $9,389,087 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 80 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Asahi Kasei Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2016 2015 2016 Cash flows from operating activities: Income before income taxes ¥ 146,389 ¥ 158,440 $ 1,299,849 Depreciation and amortization 93,811 86,058 832,987 Impairment loss 3,493 1,255 31,016 Amortization of goodwill 15,821 9,320 140,481 Amortization of negative goodwill (159) (159) (1,412) Increase (decrease) in provision for periodic repairs 824 (4,496) 7,317 (Decrease) increase in provision for product warranties (193) 22 (1,714) Decrease in provision for removal cost of property, plant and equipment (1,339) (1,723) (11,890) Decrease in net defined benefit liability (9,227) (2,300) (81,930) Interest and dividend income (6,173) (5,312) (54,813) Interest expense 3,611 3,056 32,064 Equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates 854 (1,738) 7,583 Gain on sales of investment securities (8,275) (2,644) (73,477) Loss on valuation of investment securities 363 1,136 3,223 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (917) (382) (8,142) Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets 5,214 4,728 46,297 Decrease in notes and accounts receivable—trade 48,513 717 430,767 Increase (decrease) in inventories 12,901 (3,610) 114,553 Decrease in notes and accounts payable—trade (24,104) (13,559) (214,029) (Decrease) increase in accrued expenses (3,980) 5,662 (35,340) Increase (decrease) in advances received 120 (6,553) 1,066 Other, net (4,863) (8,587) (43,181) Subtotal 272,687 219,331 2,421,302 Interest and dividend income, received 7,558 6,761 67,111 Interest expense paid (3,596) (3,081) (31,930) Income taxes paid (60,431) (85,415) (536,592) Net cash provided by operating activities 216,218 137,597 1,919,890 Cash flows from investing activities: Payments into time deposits (6,360) (17,182) (56,473) Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 17,364 13,436 154,182 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (85,184) (82,990) (756,384) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 774 944 6,873 Purchase of intangible assets (10,330) (10,661) (91,724) Purchase of investment securities (7,017) (1,349) (62,307) Proceeds from sales of investment securities 10,197 5,341 90,543 Purchase of shares in subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation (193,680) (2,808) (1,719,766) Payments for transfer of business (200) (3,763) (1,776) Payments of loans receivable (11,131) (5,296) (98,837) Collection of loans receivable 2,520 6,295 22,376 Other, net (2,241) (2,438) (19,899) Net cash used in investing activities (285,287) (100,470) (2,533,182) Cash flows from financing activities: Increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable 213,417 (24,324) 1,895,019 Decrease in commercial paper — (10,000) — Proceeds from long-term loans payable 9,445 10,950 83,866 Repayment of long-term loans payable (91,760) (21,064) (814,775) Repayments of lease obligations (1,411) (1,830) (12,529) Purchase of treasury stock (113) (462) (1,003) Proceeds from disposal of treasury stock 6 8 53 Cash dividends paid (27,937) (26,547) (248,064) Cash dividends paid to non-controlling interests (653) (745) (5,798) Other, net 371 (2) 3,294 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 101,365 (74,016) 900,062 Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (5,560) 5,467 (49,370) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 26,736 (31,423) 237,400 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 112,297 143,139 997,132 Increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from changes in scope of consolidation 6,273 581 55,701 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 8) ¥ 145,307 ¥ 112,297 $ 1,290,242 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 81 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Asahi Kasei Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1. Major policies for preparing the consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements, which are filed with the prime Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei minister of Japan as required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Construction Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei Act in Japan, are prepared in accordance with accounting principles E-materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp., Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd., generally accepted in Japan, which are different in certain respects from ZOLL Medical Corporation and Polypore International, LP), and Tong Suh the application and disclosure requirements of International Financial Petrochemical Corp. Ltd. (Korea). Material inter-company transactions and Reporting Standards. The accompanying consolidated financial stateaccounts have been eliminated. ments are a translation of those filed with the prime minister of Japan and Investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and 20% to 50% owned incorporate certain modifications to enhance foreign readers’ understandcompanies in which the Company exercises significant influence are ing of the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the notes to the accounted for, with minor exceptions due to immateriality, using the consolidated financial statements include certain financial information equity method of accounting. There were 31 such unconsolidated subsidwhich is not required under the disclosure regulations in Japan, but is iaries and 20% to 50% owned companies to which the equity method is presented herein as additional information. applied at March 31, 2016 (37 at March 31, 2015), including Asahi Kasei EIC The U.S. dollar amounts presented in the consolidated financial Solutions Corp., Asahi Kasei Geotechnologies Co., Ltd. and Asahi Organic statements are included solely for the convenience of readers. These Chemicals Industry Co., Ltd. translations should not be construed as representations that the Japanese Certain subsidiaries’ results are reported in the consolidated financial yen amounts actually represent, or have been or could be converted into statements using a fiscal year ending December 31. Material differences in U.S. dollars. As the amounts shown in U.S. dollars are for convenience inter-company transactions and accounts arising from the use of different only, and are not intended to be computed in accordance with generally fiscal year-ends are appropriately adjusted for through consolidation accepted translation procedures, the approximate current exchange rate procedures. of ¥112.62=US$1 prevailing on March 31, 2016, has been used. All assets and liabilities of acquired companies are measured at their Consolidation and investments in affiliated companies fair value and any difference between the net assets and the cost of The consolidated financial statements consist of the accounts of the investment is recognized as goodwill or negative goodwill. Goodwill, and parent company and 174 subsidiaries (140 subsidiaries at March 31, negative goodwill incurred through business combinations which took 2015, hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Company”) which, with place before April 1, 2010, are amortized using the straight-line method minor exceptions due to immateriality, are all majority and wholly owned over a reasonable period during which their effects would last, with the companies, including 10 core operating companies (Asahi Kasei Chemicals exception of minor amounts which are charged to income as incurred. 2. Significant accounting policies (a) Cash and cash equivalents ii) Provision for periodic repairs For cash flow statement purposes, cash and cash equivalents include The portion of foreseeable periodic repair expenses deemed to corall highly liquid investments, generally with original maturities of three respond to normal wear and tear of plant and equipment as of the closing months or less, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, date of the fiscal year is recognized as provision for periodic repairs. and therefore present an insignificant risk of changes in value due to iii) Provision for product warranties changes in interest rates. Estimates of product warranty expenses based on historical rates are (b) Inventories recognized as provision for product warranties. Inventories held for sale in the ordinary course of business are stated at the iv) Provision for removal cost of property, plant and equipment lower of cost or net realizable value. Residential lots and dwellings for sale Provision for removal cost of property, plant and equipment is recorded are stated at specifically identified costs. based on estimated future removal cost of property, plant and equipment (c) Noncurrent assets and depreciation/amortization at the end of each fiscal year. Property, plant and equipment (except for lease assets) are stated at cost. v) Provision for loss on litigation Significant renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost, while Provision for loss on litigation is recorded for estimated losses related to maintenance and repairs are charged to income as incurred. Depreciation pending litigation. is provided for under the declining-balance method for property, plant (e) Accounting for retirement benefits and equipment, except for buildings which are depreciated using the straight-line method, at rates based on estimated useful lives of the assets, i) Method of attributing expected retirement benefits to each principally ranging from 5 to 60 years for buildings and from 4 to 22 years period for machinery and equipment and vehicles. In calculating retirement benefit obligations, the Company applies a Intangible fixed assets (except for lease assets), including software for method of attributing expected retirement benefits to each period based internal use, are mainly amortized using the straight-line method over the on a benefit formula basis. estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful life of software for ii) Accounting for actuarial gains/losses and prior service costs internal use is mainly 5 years. Actuarial gains/losses are amortized using the straight-line method from Lease assets (financing lease transactions without title transfer) are the fiscal year following their accrual over a certain period (mainly 10 depreciated/amortized on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease years) within the average remaining service period of employees at the with no residual value. For financing lease transactions without title transtime of accrual. Prior service costs are amortized using the straight-line fer whose transaction date is before March 31, 2008, the previous method method over a certain period (mainly 10 years) within the average remainof accounting for lease transactions continues to be applied, with periodic ing service period of employees at the time of accrual. lease charges for financing leases being charged to income as incurred. iii) Adoption of the simplified method (d) Significant allowances In calculating expected defined benefit liability and periodic retirement i) Allowance for doubtful accounts benefit expenses, certain consolidated subsidiaries have adopted the simEstimates of the unrecoverable portion of receivables, generally based plified method. Under this method, the expected defined benefit liability on historical rates and for specific receivables of particular concern based is recorded at the severance payment amount to be required should all on individual estimates of recoverability, are recognized as allowance for employees retire voluntarily at fiscal year end. doubtful accounts. 82 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 (f) Significant revenue and expense recognition arising from changes in fair value of these qualifying hedges are deferred i) Construction activities that are realizable as of fiscal year end as “Deferred gains or losses on hedges” until being offset against gains or The percentage-of-completion method (progress of work is estimated using losses of the underlying hedged assets and liabilities. the percentage of costs incurred to the total projected costs) is applied. (h) Taxes ii) Other construction activities Accrued income taxes are stated at the estimated amount of payables The completed-contract method is used. for corporation, enterprise, and inhabitant taxes. The asset and liability approach is used to recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the (g) Financial instruments expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the i) Securities carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Securities are classified into four categories: trading securities, held-toThe Company has elected to file its return under the consolidated maturity debt securities, equity securities of unconsolidated subsidiaries and tax filing system in Japan. Transactions subject to consumption taxes are affiliates, and other securities. At March 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company did recorded at amounts net of consumption taxes. not have trading securities or held-to-maturity debt securities. (i) Translation of foreign currencies Equity securities of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates are Foreign currency receivables and payables are translated into Japanese accounted for, with minor exceptions due to immateriality, using the yen at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Resulting equity method of accounting. gains and losses are charged to income for the period. Other securities whose fair values are readily determinable are carried Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Japanese at fair value with net unrealized gains or losses, net of income taxes, being yen at fiscal year-end exchange rates, and income and expenses of same included as a component of net assets. Other securities whose fair values are are translated into Japanese yen at the average exchange rate for the not readily determinable are stated at cost. In cases where any significant fiscal year. Shareholders’ equity of foreign subsidiaries is translated into decline in the realizable value is assessed to be other than temporary, the Japanese yen at the historical exchange rates. The translation differences cost of other securities is devalued by the impaired amount and is charged in Japanese yen amounts arising from the use of different rates are recto income. Realized gains and losses are determined using the average cost ognized as foreign currency translation adjustments in the consolidated method and are reflected in the consolidated income statements. balance sheets. A portion of the foreign currency translation adjustment ii) Derivative financial instruments is allocated to non-controlling interests and the Company’s portion is All derivatives are stated at fair value. Gains or losses arising from changes presented as a separate component of net assets in the consolidated in fair value are recognized in the period in which they arise, except for balance sheets. derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments. Gains or losses 3. Changes in significant accounting policies (a) Changes in accounting policies (b) Accounting standards issued but not yet applied The revisions of the “Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” The ASBJ issued ASBJ Guidance No. 26 “Implementation Guidance on (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) Statement No. 21), the Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets.” This guidance basically continues “Accounting Standard for Consolidated Financial Statements” (ASBJ to apply the framework adopted in the Audit Committee’s Report No. 66 Statement No. 22), and the “Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures” entitled “Auditing Treatment for Judgment of Recoverability of Deferred (ASBJ Statement No. 7) have been applied from the fiscal year ended Tax Assets,” which provided the criteria for classification of entities into March 31, 2016. Accordingly, differences resulting from changes in five categories to determine the estimated amount of deferred tax assets. ownership interest in a subsidiary as long as control over the subsidiary is However, this guidance provides certain necessary revisions as follows: retained are recorded as capital surplus, and costs related to acquisition 1) Treatment of entities not included in any category. of increased ownership interest are recognized as expenses during the 2) Requirements for classification in category 2 and in category 3. period in which they arise. Also, with regard to business combinations 3) Treatment of future deductible temporary differences that entities in performed on or after the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, category 2 cannot schedule. 2016, the revised allocation of acquisition costs arising from the settlement 4) Treatment of the reasonable estimable period of future taxable of provisional accounting treatment are retrospectively reflected as if the income before additions or deductions of temporary differences for accounting for the business combination had been completed at the entities in category 3. acquisition date. The presentation of “net income” was amended, and the 5) Treatment of entities fulfilling the requirements of category 4 which title of “minority interests” was changed to “non-controlling interests.” The are also applicable to category 2 or category 3. consolidated financial statements for the previous fiscal year have been The Company will apply the revised guidance from the beginning of reclassified to reflect these changes in presentation. the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017. The effects of the adoption of the In accordance with the transitional treatment set forth in Article 58-2 guidance on the consolidated financial statements will be immaterial. (4) of the “Accounting Standard for Business Combinations,” Article 44-5 (c) Changes in presentation (4) of the “Accounting Standard for Consolidated Financial Statements,” Consolidated statements of income and Article 57-4 (4) of the “Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures,” In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, “costs associated with idle the revised standards above have been applied from the beginning of the portion of facilities” and “donations,” both of which had previously been fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. As a result, operating income, ordinary reported separately, became 10% or less of total non-operating income income, and income before income taxes decreased respectively by respectively, and are included in “other” under non-operating expenses. ¥2,185 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. The consolidated statements of income for the fiscal year ended March 31, In the consolidated statements of cash flows for the fiscal year ended 2015, have been reclassified accordingly, resulting in “costs associated with March 31, 2016, cash flows from purchases or sales of shares of subsidiaries idle portion of facilities” of ¥1,168 million and “donations” of ¥869 million that do not result in changes in scope of consolidation are included being included in “other” under non-operating expenses. in cash flows from financing activities, while cash flows from expenses related to purchases of shares of subsidiaries that result in changes in scope of consolidation and expenses related to purchases or sales of shares of subsidiaries that do not result in changes in scope of consolidation are included in cash flows from operating activities. The effect on per-share information is shown in the relevant parts. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 83 4. Notes to Consolidated Balance Sheets (a) Investment securities Among investment securities, shares of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, amounted to ¥55,786 million (US$495,347 thousand) and ¥69,210 million, respectively. Included in those amounts are investments in joint ventures of ¥27,003 million (US$ 239,771 thousand) and ¥33,912 million, respectively. (b) Pledged assets and secured debt A summary of assets pledged as collateral and secured debt as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, is shown below: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Pledged assets Buildings and structures ¥118 ¥130 $1,048 Machinery, equipment and vehicles 1 2 9 Total pledged assets ¥120 ¥132 $1,066 Secured debt Short-term loans payable ¥ 1 ¥ 2 $ 9 Long-term loans payable 77 135 684 Total secured debt ¥ 78 ¥137 $ 693 Besides the above, investment securities pledged to suppliers as transaction guarantees at March 31, 2016 and 2015, were ¥54 million (US$479 thousand) and ¥64 million, respectively. (c) Contingent liabilities Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp., a consolidated subsidiary of Asahi Kasei Corp., submitted incorrect data within their pile installation report for the precast concrete piles installed as a secondary subcontractor for the construction of a condominium complex in Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan. There was manipulation of ammeter data obtained when boring holes for installation and manipulation of flowmeter data for the injection of cement milk for consolidation of pile tips. Asahi Kasei Corp. established a task force and fact-finding committee as well as an independent commission to aid in the investigation process, and on October 22, 2015, Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. reported its record of similar pile installation work over the past 10 years to Japan’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT). On November 24, 2015, Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. completed all possible investigation of whether or not there was manipulation of data installation of precast concrete piles, and reported the results to the MLIT. Out of the 3,052 projects subject to investigation, manipulation of data was identified in 360 projects. On January 13, 2016, Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. received instructions in accordance with Article 28, Paragraph 1 of the Construction Business Act, an order which suspended operations in accordance with Article 28, Paragraph 3 of the Construction Business Act, and a recommendation in accordance with Article 41, Paragraph 1 of the Construction Business Act from the Kanto Regional Development Bureau of the MLIT. Regarding those projects where manipulation of data was identified, Asahi Kasei Construction Materials will cooperate with the contractors and the owners of the buildings in efforts to confirm safety based on instructions from the MLIT. Where the Specific Administrative Agency has confirmed safety, the Specific Administrative Agency will issue a report to the MLIT. As a result of this matter, Asahi Kasei Corp. has recorded an extraordinary loss of approximately ¥1,456 million in the year ended March 31, 2016, as “loss on piling business” for expenses related to the investigation, etc., of the manipulation of data. Although there is potential for further effects on the consolidated results of Asahi Kasei Corp. which may emerge from the recording of an additional reserve, etc., no such effect is reflected in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2016, due to the difficulty of judgment in the rational estimate of the amount of financial impact from this matter as of the time of preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Contingent liabilities at March 31, 2016 and 2015, arising in the ordinary course of business were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Loans guaranteed ¥36,808 ¥38,664 $326,834 Letters of awareness — — — Completion guarantees 11,989 16,250 106,455 Total ¥48,797 ¥54,914 $433,289 The parent company and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates are defendants in several pending lawsuits. However, based upon the information currently available to both the Company and its legal counsel, management of the Company believes that any damages from such lawsuits will not have a material impact to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 84 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 (d) Deferred gain on property, plant and equipment deducted for tax purposes The accumulated reduced-value entries, which are directly deducted from property, plant and equipment, as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, were ¥9,684 million (US$85,988 thousand) and ¥9,176 million, respectively. The breakdown of reduced-value entries as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Buildings and structures ¥3,407 ¥3,442 $30,252 Machinery, equipment and vehicles 5,937 5,394 52,717 Land 167 167 1,483 Other 173 173 1,536 Total ¥9,684 ¥9,176 $85,988 5. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income (a) Selling, general and administrative expenses Major components of selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Salaries and benefits ¥160,091 ¥148,306 $1,421,515 Research and development* 60,990 57,896 541,556 Freight and storage 36,794 36,091 326,709 * The aggregate amounts of research and development expenses included in manufacturing costs and selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were ¥81,118 million (US$720,281 thousand) and ¥75,540 million, respectively. (b) Loss on valuation of inventories Inventories held for sale in the ordinary course of business are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Loss on valuation of inventories for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 ¥1,427 ¥2,142 $12,671 (c) Gain on sales of noncurrent assets Major components of gain on sales of noncurrent assets for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Land ¥777 ¥176 $6,899 Machinery 93 184 826 Other 47 21 417 (d) Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, was primarily loss on abandonment and sale of buildings, machinery and equipment, etc. The abandonment and sale of buildings, machinery and equipment, etc. was performed under a single, all-inclusive contract for each facility. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 85 (e) Impairment losses Major components of impairment losses for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Item on the Consolidated Use Asset class Location 2016 2015 2016 Statements of Income Joint sales rights of pharmaceutical Loss on discontinuation of products Sales rights Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo ¥3,942 — $35,003 joint sales agreement Underground uranium storage facility Buildings, etc. Hyuga, Miyazaki 1,850 — 16,427 Impairment losses Idle assets Buildings, etc. Fuji, Shizuoka, etc. 817 ¥621 7,254 Impairment losses Production facility for semiconductors Machinery and Impairment losses equipment, etc. Nobeoka, Miyazaki 550 — 4,884 Production facility for performance Machinery and Business structure improvement paper equipment, etc. Gobo, Wakayama 142 — 1,261 expenses Production facility for petrochemicals Machinery and Business structure improvement equipment, etc. Kurashiki, Okayama — 455 — expenses Production facility for semiconductors Machinery and Goshogawara, Impairment losses equipment, etc. Aomori — 268 — Production facility for plastic raw Machinery and Impairment losses materials equipment, etc. Ulsan, Korea — 217 — Facility for wastewater recycling Machinery and Impairment losses equipment Jiangsu, China — 145 — Others Machinery and Fuji, Shizuoka, Oita, Impairment losses and business equipment, etc. etc. 600 172 5,328 structure improvement expenses Grouping of operating assets is based on managerial accounting categories, with consideration given to production process, geographic location, and domain of authority for making investment decisions. Idle assets are recorded separately in each fixed assets class. With respect to underground uranium storage facility, the book value was reduced to the recoverable amount due to disappearance of prospects for future profit, and with respect to joint sales rights of pharmaceutical products, idle assets and part of others, the book value was reduced to the recoverable amount due to disappearance of prospects for future use, and with respect to production facility for semiconductors, production facility for performance paper and part of others, the book value was reduced to the recoverable amount due to diminished profitability. The recoverable amount is stated as value for future usage, which is calculated based on discounted future cash flows within applicable discount rate of 6% as of March 31, 2016 and 2015. Among the extraordinary losses under others, ¥324 million (US$2,877 thousand) and ¥168 million were recorded under business structure improvement expenses for the years ended March 2016 and 2015, respectively. (f) Business structure improvement expenses Major components of business structure improvement expenses for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Impairment of fixed assets ¥ 466 ¥ 623 $ 4,138 Additional payment of retirement benefits due to application of early retirement, etc. 110 — 977 Loss on disposal and devaluation of inventory and others 3,029 3,387 26,896 Total ¥3,606 ¥4,010 $32,019 (g) Loss on piling business Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp., a consolidated subsidiary of Asahi Kasei Corp., submitted incorrect data within their pile installation report for the precast concrete piles installed as a secondary subcontractor for the construction of a condominium complex in Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan. There was manipulation of ammeter data obtained when boring holes for installation, and manipulation of flowmeter data for the injection of cement milk for consolidation of pile tips. As a result of this matter, Asahi Kasei Corp. has recorded an extraordinary loss in the year ended March 31, 2016, as “loss on piling business” for expenses related to the investigation, etc., of the manipulation of such data. (h) Loss on discontinuation of joint sales agreement Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Impairment losses ¥3,942 ¥— $35,003 Cancellation fee 1,303 — 11,570 Other 22 — 195 Total ¥5,266 ¥— $46,759 86 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 6. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Recycling adjustment and tax effects on other comprehensive income for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Net unrealized gain on other securities Changes during the fiscal year ¥ (26,559) ¥ 53,024 $(235,828) Recycling adjustment (7,879) (2,689) (69,961) Pre-tax effect (34,438) 50,335 (305,789) Tax effect 13,341 (12,389) 118,460 Net increase in unrealized gain on other securities (21,098) 37,947 (187,338) Deferred gains or losses on hedges Changes during the fiscal year (5,649) (2,037) (50,160) Recycling adjustment 1,976 72 17,546 Adjustment on the acquisition cost of assets 5,718 — 50,773 Pre-tax effect 2,045 (1,965) 18,158 Tax effect (527) 438 (4,679) Deferred gains or losses on hedges 1,519 (1,526) 13,488 Foreign currency translation adjustment Changes during the fiscal year (49,549) 48,829 (439,966) Recycling adjustment 1,028 (24) 9,128 Pre-tax effect (48,522) 48,805 (430,847) Tax effect (338) 140 (3,001) Foreign currency translation adjustment (48,860) 48,945 433,848 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Changes during the fiscal year (50,607) 20,168 (449,361) Recycling adjustment 3,397 5,516 30,163 Pre-tax effect (47,210) 25,685 (419,197) Tax effect 13,880 (8,588) 123,246 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (33,331) 17,096 (295,960) Share of other comprehensive income of affiliates accounted for using equity method Changes during the fiscal year (3,363) 5,174 (29,861) Recycling adjustment (204) (49) (1,811) Share of other comprehensive income of affiliates accounted for using equity method (3,567) 5,125 (31,673) Total other comprehensive income ¥(105,337) ¥107,587 $(935,331) 7. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets For the year ended March 31, 2016 (a) Class and total number of issued and outstanding shares and treasury stock Thousands of shares Number of shares Increase in number of shares Decrease in number of shares Number of shares as of March 31, 2015 during the fiscal year during the fiscal year as of March 31, 2016 Issued and outstanding shares Common stock 1,402,616 — — 1,402,616 Total 1,402,616 — — 1,402,616 Treasury stock Common stock (Notes 1 & 2) 5,743 125 7 5,862 Total 5,743 125 7 5,862 Notes: 1. The increase of 125 thousand shares in common stock of treasury stock was due to the purchase of shares in quantities of less than one share unit. 2. The decrease of 7 thousand shares in common stock of treasury stock was due to the sale of shares in quantities of less than one share unit. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 87 (b) Dividends i) Cash dividends paid 1) The following was resolved by the Board of Directors on May 12, 2015. Dividends for common stock Total dividends ¥13,969 million (US$124,037 thousand) Dividend per share ¥10.00 (US$0.09) Date of record March 31, 2015 Payment date June 4, 2015 2) The following was resolved by the Board of Directors on November 6, 2015. Dividends for common stock Total dividends ¥13,968 million (US$124,028 thousand) Dividend per share ¥10.00 (US$0.09) Date of record September 30, 2015 Payment date December 1, 2015 ii) Dividends for which the date of record falls within the fiscal year under review but the payment date occurs in the following fiscal year The following was resolved by the Board of Directors on May 11, 2016. Dividends for common stock Total dividends ¥13,968 million (US$124,028 thousand) Source of dividends Retained earnings Dividend per share ¥10.00 (US$0.09) Date of record March 31, 2016 Payment date June 6, 2016 For the year ended March 31, 2015 (a) Class and total number of issued and outstanding shares and treasury stock Thousands of shares Number of shares Increase in number of shares Decrease in number of shares Number of shares as of March 31, 2014 during the fiscal year during the fiscal year as of March 31, 2015 Issued and outstanding shares Common stock 1,402,616 — — 1,402,616 Total 1,402,616 — — 1,402,616 Treasury stock Common stock (Notes 1 & 2) 5,231 522 10 5,743 Total 5,231 522 10 5,743 Notes: 1. The increase of 522 thousand shares in common stock of treasury stock was due to the purchase of shares in quantities of less than one share unit. 2. The decrease of 10 thousand shares in common stock of treasury stock was due to the sale of shares in quantities of less than one share unit. (b) Dividends i) Cash dividends paid 1) The following was resolved by the Board of Directors on May 9, 2014. Dividends for common stock Total dividends ¥13,974 million Dividend per share ¥10.00* Date of record March 31, 2014 Payment date June 5, 2014 * Including ¥8.00 ordinary dividend and ¥2.00 special dividend 2) The following was resolved by the Board of Directors on November 5, 2014. Dividends for common stock Total dividends ¥12,573 million Dividend per share ¥9.00 Date of record September 30, 2014 Payment date December 1, 2014 ii) Dividends for which the date of record falls within the fiscal year under review but the payment date occurs in the following fiscal year The following was resolved by the Board of Directors on May 12, 2015. Dividends for common stock Total dividends ¥13,969 million Source of dividends Retained earnings Dividend per share ¥10.00 Date of record March 31, 2015 Payment date June 4, 2015 88 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 8. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (a) Cash and cash equivalents Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated statements of cash flows to the amounts disclosed on the consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2016 and 2015, was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Cash and deposits ¥146,054 ¥123,821 $1,296,874 Time deposits with deposit term of over 3 months (2,281) (13,326) (20,254) Money market funds included in short-term investment securities 1,534 1,802 13,621 Cash and cash equivalents ¥145,307 ¥112,297 $1,290,242 (b) Assets and liabilities of newly consolidated subsidiaries through acquisition of shares Assets and liabilities of acquired companies (Polypore International, LP and its 22 consolidated subsidiaries) and net cash outflow for such acquisition is as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Current assets ¥ 42,963 $ 381,486 Noncurrent assets 140,091 1,243,926 Goodwill 183,553 1,629,844 Current liabilities (56,555) (502,175) Noncurrent liabilities (99,826) (886,397) Non-controlling interests (184) (1,634) Acquisition cost of shares 210,043 1,865,059 Cash and cash equivalents (20,759) (184,328) Net cash used for acquisition 189,284 1,680,732 Assets and liabilities of acquired company (Kyma Medical Technologies Ltd.) and net cash outflow for such acquisition is as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Current assets ¥ 185 $ 1,643 Noncurrent assets 1,313 11,659 Goodwill 3,406 30,243 Current liabilities (33) (293) Noncurrent liabilities (241) (2,140) Acquisition cost of shares 4,631 41,121 Account payables included in the acquisition price (63) (559) Cash and cash equivalents (170) (1,510) Net cash used for acquisition 4,397 39,043 9. Leases (a) Financing lease transactions Financing lease transactions without title transfer i) Components of lease assets are as follows: 1) Property, plant and equipment: Mainly model homes (buildings and structures) for housing business. 2) Intangible fixed assets: Software ii) Depreciation of lease assets: As stated in Note 2 “Significant accounting policies (c) Noncurrent assets and depreciation/amortization,” the financing lease transactions without title transfer which occurred prior to March 31, 2008, are accounted for on a basis similar to an operating lease. For such leases, information for the cost and related accumulated amortization, computed using the straight-line method over the term of the lease assuming such lease transactions accounted for as an operating lease had been accounted for as a financing lease, is required to be disclosed. However, such disclosure is omitted due to immateriality. (b) Operating lease transactions Future lease payments for the non-cancelable portion of the Company’s operating leases at March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Due within one year ¥ 5,414 ¥ 4,986 $48,073 Due after one year 5,255 7,313 46,661 Total ¥10,668 ¥12,300 $94,726 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 89 10. Financial instruments (a) Overview of financial instruments i) Policy related to financial instruments The Company raises long-term funds as required mainly for its planned capital expenditures by borrowing from banks, borrowing from life insurance companies, issuing bonds, etc. A portion of the surplus funds is invested only in highly stable financial assets. Short-term working funds are raised by bank borrowings, issuance of commercial paper, etc. Derivative transactions are mainly entered into for the purpose of reducing risks related to assets and liabilities which are exposed to risks of fluctuations of exchange rate and interest rate. Derivatives are not traded for speculative purposes. ii) Components of financial instruments, their risks and risk management structure As operating receivables, notes and accounts receivable—trade are exposed to credit risk of customers. As the business of the Company spans a wide range of fields, operating receivables are not excessively concentrated on specific customers, but the parent company and each consolidated subsidiary monitor and manage the credit condition of each customer. Investment securities are exposed to the risk of fluctuations in market price, but they are mainly equity securities of companies with which the Company has business relationships. These securities are held for the purpose of maintaining the business relationships. Fair value is periodically evaluated, and the financial condition of the issuing company is monitored. As operating liabilities, notes and accounts payable—trade generally have a payment term of 1 year or less. Variable interest-rate borrowings are exposed to the risk of interest-rate fluctuations, but derivatives (interest-rate and currency swaps, interest-rate swaps) are used as hedges to fix interest expenses for a portion of long-term variable interest-rate borrowings. Operating receivables and operating liabilities include those denominated in currencies other than Japanese yen, and are thus exposed to the risk of exchange-rate fluctuations. In order to minimize the effects of short-term exchange-rate fluctuations, the Company hedges with derivative transactions (forward exchange contracts), in principle, within the range of the underlying receivables and liabilities amount. Derivative transactions are exposed to the credit risk of transacting financial institutions, but the credit condition of those financial institutions is reviewed through periodical monitoring. Such transactions are performed and managed in accordance with the Company’s internal regulations which stipulate the related authority, procedures, limits, etc. Borrowings are exposed to liquidity risk, but the parent company specifies standards for required on-hand funds based on the Company’s funding plans, prepares and revises plans for cash receipts and disbursements as appropriate, and enters into commitment-line agreements with transacting financial institutions to manage such risk. Loan securitization in the housing business is exposed to the risk of interest-rate fluctuations between the time of origination of housing loans and the time of execution of their securitization, but derivative transactions (interest-rate swaps) are entered into in order to reduce such risk. iii) Supplementary explanation of fair value of financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments is based on their quoted market price, if available. In the case where no quoted market price is available, a reasonably estimated fair value is used. As variable factors are incorporated in its estimation, fair value may change due to the adoption of different assumptions, conditions, etc. The stated amount of contracts regarding derivative transactions included in Note 12 “Derivative financial instruments” is not itself an indication of the market risk of the derivative transactions. (b) Fair value of financial instruments Amounts carried on the consolidated balance sheets, their fair values, and the differences between them as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as shown below. Financial instruments whose fair values are deemed extremely difficult to determine are not included in this table (See Notes 2) and 3) below). Millions of yen 2016 Carrying amount Fair value Difference Cash and deposits ¥146,054 ¥146,054 ¥ — Notes and accounts receivable—trade 280,095 Allowance for doubtful accounts (*1) (1,699) 278,396 278,396 — Short-term investment securities and investment securities Investments in affiliates 10,890 5,985 (4,905) Other securities 183,672 183,672 — Long-term loans receivable 16,607 16,604 (3) Total assets ¥635,618 ¥630,711 ¥(4,908) Notes and accounts payable—trade ¥126,653 ¥126,653 ¥ — Short-term loans payable 273,418 273,418 — Income taxes payable 32,735 32,735 — Bonds payable 40,000 40,650 (650) Long-term loans payable 134,801 137,008 (2,207) Lease obligations 1,456 1,465 (9) Long-term guarantee deposits 8,032 8,088 (55) Total liabilities ¥617,096 ¥620,017 ¥(2,921) Derivative financial instruments (*2) ¥ 354 ¥ 354 ¥ — 90 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Millions of yen 2015 Carrying amount Fair value Difference Cash and deposits ¥123,821 ¥123,821 ¥ — Notes and accounts receivable—trade 325,568 Allowance for doubtful accounts (*1) (1,369) 324,199 324,199 — Short-term investment securities and investment securities Investment in affiliates 11,221 7,562 (3,659) Other securities 215,200 215,200 — Long-term loans receivable 10,758 10,751 (8) Total assets ¥685,200 ¥681,533 ¥(3,667) Notes and accounts payable—trade ¥151,867 ¥151,867 ¥ — Short-term loans payable 62,648 62,648 — Income taxes payable 10,203 10,203 — Bonds payable 40,000 41,190 (1,190) Long-term loans payable 163,767 165,733 (1,966) Lease obligations 2,603 2,605 (2) Long-term guarantee deposits 6,937 6,925 12 Total liabilities ¥438,025 ¥441,171 ¥(3,146) Derivative financial instruments (*2) ¥ (2,356) ¥ (2,356) ¥ — Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Carrying amount Fair value Difference Cash and deposits $1,296,874 $1,296,874 $ — Notes and accounts receivable—trade 2,487,080 Allowance for doubtful accounts (*1) (15,086) 2,471,994 2,471,994 — Short-term investment securities and investment securities Investment in affiliates 96,697 53,143 (43,554) Other securities 1,630,900 1,630,900 — Long-term loans receivable 147,460 147,434 (27) Total assets $5,643,918 $5,600,346 $(43,580) Notes and accounts payable—trade $1,124,605 $1,124,605 $ — Short-term loans payable 2,427,793 2,427,793 — Income taxes payable 290,668 290,668 — Bonds payable 355,177 360,948 (5,772) Long-term loans payable 1,196,954 1,216,551 (19,597) Lease obligations 12,928 13,008 (80) Long-term guarantee deposits 71,319 71,817 (488) Total liabilities $5,479,453 $5,505,390 $(25,937) Derivative financial instruments (*2) $ 3,143 $ 3,143 $ — (*1) This reduction represents specific allowance for doubtful accounts related to notes and ii) Liabilities accounts receivable—trade. 1) Notes and Accounts payable—trade; short-term loans payable; commercial paper; income taxes (*2) The amounts represent net amount of assets and liabilities resulting from derivative transacpayable tions. In the case of a net liability, the amount is shown in parentheses. As their fair values approximate book value due to their short maturity, the corresponding book Note 1) Method to determine the estimated fair value of financial instruments; securities and value amounts are used as fair value. derivative financial instruments 2) Bonds payable i) Assets Fair value of the bonds payable issued by the parent company is based on the quoted market 1) Cash and deposits, notes and accounts receivable—trade price if available. For those without a quoted market price that are subject to special treatment As their fair value approximates book value due to their short maturity, the corresponding book for interest-rate swaps, fair value is based on the present value by totaling the amount of value amount is used as fair value. principal and interest, together with related interest-rate swaps, discounted by the interest rate 2) Short-term investment securities and investment securities that would apply if equivalent bonds were newly issued. The stock exchange prices are used to determine fair value of traded stocks, and the correspond3) Long-term loans payable ing book value amount is used as fair value of money market funds, because their fair value The carrying amounts shown include long-term loans payable that are scheduled for repayment approximates book value. Refer to Note 11 “Marketable securities and investment securities” for within one year of March 31, 2016 and 2015, amounting to ¥40,169 million (US$356,677 thouinformation on securities classified by holding purpose. sand) and ¥33,367 million, respectively. Their fair values are based on present value of principal 3) Long-term loans receivable and interest discounted using the current assumed rates for similar long-term loans payable. The carrying amounts shown include long-term loans receivable scheduled for repayment For long-term loans payable bearing variable interest rates, fair value of those subject to special within one year. Their fair values are determined based on the present value of principal and treatment of interest rate-swaps is based on present value by totaling the amount of principal interest, discounted using current assumed rates for similar long-term loans receivable. For and interest, together with related interest-rate swaps, discounted by the interest rate that would long-term loans receivable bearing variable interest rates, as they are deemed to reflect market apply if equivalent long-term loans were newly entered. For other long-term loans payable, book interest rates within a short term, book values are used as fair value. value is used as fair value as they are deemed to reflect market interest rates within a short term. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 91 4) Lease obligations securities, as no quoted market price is available and it is deemed extremely difficult to The carrying amounts shown are the total amount of lease obligations under current liabilities determine fair value due to the impossibility of estimating future cash flows. and lease obligations under noncurrent liabilities. Present value, calculated by discounting the Note 3) For investment securities, with a carrying amount as of March 31, 2016 and 2015, amounttotal amount of principal and interest using the presumed interest rate that would apply if lease ing to ¥3,117 million (US$27,677 thousand) and ¥3,180 million, respectively, fair value is transactions were newly made, is used as the fair value. not included in short-term investment securities and investment securities, as no quoted 5) Long-term guarantee deposits market price is available and it is deemed extremely difficult to determine fair value due to In cases where the deposit period can be estimated, the fair value of long-term guarantee the impossibility of estimating future cash flows. deposits is determined using a discounted cash flow over that period. Note 4) For long-term guarantee deposits, the fair value of a portion having a carrying amount as iii) Derivative transactions of March 31, 2016 and 2015, amounting to ¥12,098 million (US$107,423 thousand) and Refer to Note 12 “Derivative financial instruments.” ¥12,209 million, respectively, is not included as no quoted market price is available and it Note 2) For equity investments in nonpublic companies, with a carrying amount as of March 31, is deemed extremely difficult to determine fair value due to the impossibility of estimating 2016 and 2015, amounting to ¥48,453 million (US$430,233 thousand) and ¥61,594 million, future cash flows. respectively, fair value is not included in short-term investment securities and investment Note 5) For monetary credits and securities with maturity, the amounts scheduled for redemption subsequent to the closing date are as follows: Millions of yen 2016 Due after one year, Due after five years, Due after more than Due within one year within five years within ten years ten years Cash and deposits ¥146,054 ¥ — ¥— ¥— Notes and accounts receivable—trade 280,095 — — — Long-term loans receivable 254 16,353 — — Total ¥426,402 ¥16,353 ¥— ¥— Millions of yen 2015 Due after one year, Due after five years, Due after more than Due within one year within five years within ten years ten years Cash and deposits ¥123,821 ¥ — ¥— ¥— Notes and accounts receivable—trade 325,568 — — — Long-term loans receivable 806 9,952 — — Total ¥450,196 ¥9,952 ¥— ¥— Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Due after one year, Due after five years, Due after more than Due within one year within five years within ten years ten years Cash and deposits $1,296,874 $ — $— $— Notes and accounts receivable—trade 2,487,080 — — — Long-term loans receivable 2,255 145,205 — — Total $3,786,201 $145,205 $— $— Note 6) For bonds payable, long-term loans payable, lease obligations, and other interest-bearing debt, the amounts scheduled for repayment subsequent to the closing date are as follows. Millions of yen 2016 Short-term loans Long-term loans Year ending March 31 payable Bonds payable payable Lease obligations Total 2017 ¥273,418 ¥ — ¥40,169 ¥919 ¥314,506 2018 — 20,000 18,941 280 39,221 2019 — — 49,616 118 49,734 2020 — 20,000 12,028 83 32,111 2021 — — 4,436 55 4,491 2022 and thereafter — — 9,611 1 9,612 Millions of yen 2015 Short-term loans Long-term loans Year ending March 31 payable Bonds payable payable Lease obligations Total 2016 ¥62,648 ¥ — ¥33,367 ¥1,383 ¥97,398 2017 — — 41,046 908 41,954 2018 — 20,000 20,566 227 40,793 2019 — — 49,468 59 49,527 2020 — 20,000 11,208 22 31,230 2021 and thereafter — — 8,112 2 8,114 92 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Short-term loans Long-term loans Year ending March 31 payable Bonds payable payable Lease obligations Total 2017 $2,427,793 $ — $356,677 $8,160 $2,792,630 2018 — 177,588 168,185 2,486 348,260 2019 — — 440,561 1,048 441,609 2020 — 177,588 106,802 737 285,127 2021 — — 39,389 488 39,877 2022 and thereafter — — 85,340 9 85,349 11. Marketable securities and investment securities (a) Other securities with available fair value The aggregate cost, carrying amount which was identical to fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses of debt and equity securities classified as other securities for which fair values were available at March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen 2016 Carrying Unrealized gains amount Cost (losses) Securities with unrealized gains: Equity securities ¥172,068 ¥36,960 ¥135,107 Others — — — Subtotal 172,068 36,960 135,107 Securities with unrealized losses: Equity securities 10,070 12,439 (2,369) Others 1,534 1,534 — Subtotal 11,604 13,973 (2,369) Total ¥183,672 ¥50,934 ¥132,738 Millions of yen 2015 Carrying Unrealized gains amount Cost (losses) Securities with unrealized gains: Equity securities ¥206,513 ¥39,063 ¥167,450 Others — — — Subtotal 206,513 39,063 167,450 Securities with unrealized losses: Equity securities 6,884 7,060 (176) Others 1,802 1,802 — Subtotal 8,686 8,862 (176) Total ¥215,200 ¥47,925 ¥167,274 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Carrying Unrealized gains amount Cost (losses) Securities with unrealized gains: Equity securities $1,527,864 $328,183 $1,199,671 Others — — — Subtotal 1,527,864 328,183 1,199,671 Securities with unrealized losses: Equity securities 89,416 110,451 (21,035) Others 13,621 13,621 — Subtotal 103,037 124,072 (21,035) Total $1,630,900 $452,264 $1,178,636 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 93 (b) Realized gains and losses on the sale of other securities The realized gains and losses on the sale of other securities during the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Selling amount ¥10,396 ¥3,005 $92,310 Gain on sales of securities 8,275 2,756 73,477 Loss on sales of securities — — — (c) Loss on other devaluation of investment securities whose fair values are readily determinable Loss on other devaluation of investment securities whose fair values are readily determinable for the year ended March 31, 2016, was ¥924 million (US$8,205 thousand), which is the sum of ¥796 million (US$7,068 thousand) for equity securities of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, and ¥127 million (US$1,128 thousand) for other securities, and for the year ended March 31, 2015, ¥1,656 million, which is the sum of ¥1,649 million for equity securities of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, and ¥7 million for other securities. Among the loss on other devaluation of investment securities for the year ended March 31, 2016, ¥561 million (US$4,981 thousand) was recorded under business structure improvement expenses. 12. Derivative financial instruments (a) Derivative financial instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied i) Foreign exchange forward contracts Millions of yen 2016 Amount of contract Profit (loss) from Classification Items Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value valuation Off-market transactions Foreign exchange forward contracts Selling U.S. dollar ¥21,694 ¥ — ¥ 698 ¥ 698 Euro 6,137 — 16 16 Thai baht 1,115 — (0) (0) Singapore dollar 396 — 40 40 Buying U.S. dollar 2,679 728 (148) (148) Euro 0 — (0) (0) Thai baht 9 — (0) (0) Total ¥32,030 ¥728 ¥ 605 ¥ 605 Millions of yen 2015 Amount of contract Profit (loss) from Classification Items Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value valuation Off-market transactions Foreign exchange forward contracts Selling U.S. dollar ¥21,592 ¥ — ¥(332) ¥(332) Euro 6,486 — 135 135 Thai baht 988 — (27) (27) Singapore dollar — — — — Buying U.S. dollar 2,672 260 (263) (263) Euro — — — — Thai baht — — — — Total ¥31,738 ¥260 ¥(486) ¥(486) 94 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Amount of contract Profit (loss) from Classification Items Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value valuation Off-market transactions Foreign exchange forward contracts Selling U.S. dollar $192,630 $ — $ 6,198 $ 6,198 Euro 54,493 — 142 142 Thai baht 9,901 — (0) (0) Singapore dollar 3,516 — 355 355 Buying U.S. dollar 23,788 6,464 (1,314) (1,314) Euro 0 — (0) (0) Thai baht 80 — (0) (0) Total $284,408 $6,464 $ 5,372 $ 5,372 (b) Derivative financial instruments for which hedge accounting is applied i) Foreign exchange forward contracts Millions of yen 2016 Amount of contract Classification Items Hedged assets/liabilities Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value Principle-based accounting Foreign exchange forward contracts Selling U.S. dollar Accounts receivable—trade ¥2,953 ¥— ¥(170) Euro Accounts receivable—trade 111 — (2) Singapore dollar Accounts receivable—trade 289 — (12) Buying U.S. dollar Accounts payable—trade 2,018 — (62) Euro Accounts payable—trade 21 — (0) Thai baht Accounts payable—trade 177 — (6) Singapore dollar Accounts payable—trade 29 — 1 U.S. dollar Investment securities — — — Total ¥5,596 ¥— ¥(251) Millions of yen 2015 Amount of contract Classification Items Hedged assets/liabilities Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value Principle-based accounting Foreign exchange forward contracts Selling U.S. dollar Accounts receivable—trade ¥ 2,039 ¥— ¥ 43 Euro Accounts receivable—trade — — — Buying U.S. dollar Accounts payable—trade 1,791 — 79 Thai baht Accounts payable—trade 55 — 2 U.S. dollar Investment securities 195,205 — (1,995) Total ¥199,089 ¥— ¥(1,870) Asahi Kasei Report 2016 95 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Amount of contract Classification Items Hedged assets/liabilities Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value Principle-based accounting Foreign exchange forward contracts Selling U.S. dollar Accounts receivable—trade $26,221 $— $(1,510) Euro Accounts receivable—trade 986 — (18) Singapore dollar Accounts receivable—trade 2,566 — (107) Buying U.S. dollar Accounts payable—trade 17,919 — (551) Euro Accounts payable—trade 186 — (0) Thai baht Accounts payable—trade 1,572 — (53) Singapore dollar Accounts payable—trade 258 — 9 U.S. dollar Investment securities — — — Total $49,689 $— $(2,229) ii) Interest-rate swaps, and interest-rate and currency swaps Millions of yen 2016 Amount of contract Classification Items Hedged assets/liabilities Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value Special treatment Interest-rate swaps for interest-rate swaps Pay fixed/receive floating Long-term loans payable ¥76,871 ¥64,084 (*) Special treatment Interest-rate and currency swaps for interest-rate U.S. dollar receive floating/ and currency swaps Thai baht pay fixed Long-term loans payable 477 318 (*) Total ¥77,349 ¥64,403 ¥— Millions of yen 2015 Amount of contract Classification Items Hedged assets/liabilities Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value Special treatment Interest-rate swaps for interest-rate swaps Pay fixed/receive floating Long-term loans payable ¥90,425 ¥77,122 (*) Special treatment Interest-rate and currency swaps for interest-rate U.S. dollar receive floating/ and currency swaps Thai baht pay fixed Long-term loans payable — — — Total ¥90,425 ¥77,122 ¥— Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Amount of contract Classification Items Hedged assets/liabilities Amount of contract over 1 year Fair value Special treatment Interest-rate swaps for interest-rate swaps Pay fixed/receive floating Long-term loans payable $682,570 $569,029 (*) Special treatment Interest-rate and currency swaps for interest-rate U.S. dollar receive floating/ and currency swaps Thai baht pay fixed Long-term loans payable 4,235 2,824 — Total $686,814 $571,861 $— (*) Fair value of interest-rate swaps and interest-rate and currency swaps, for which special treatment is applied, is included in fair value of the corresponding long-term loans payable for which hedge accounting is applied. 96 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 13. Provision for retirement benefits Upon terminating employment, employees of the parent company and its major subsidiaries in Japan are entitled, under most circumstances, to lump-sum severance indemnities and/or pension payments determined by reference mainly to their current basic rate of pay and length of service. Additional benefits may be granted to employees depending on the conditions under which termination of employment occurs. Certain foreign subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans or defined contribution plans. The obligation for these severance indemnity benefits is provided for through accruals, contributory funded defined benefit pension plans, contributory funded defined benefit enterprise pension plans, and non-contributory funded tax-qualified pension plans. Certain consolidated subsidiaries adopt the simplified method in calculating expected defined benefit liability. Reconciliations of beginning and ending balances of projected benefit obligations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Beginning balance of the projected benefit obligations ¥352,813 ¥329,869 $3,132,774 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting polices — 23,336 — Restated balance 352,813 353,205 3,132,774 Service cost 13,604 13,624 120,796 Interest cost 3,439 3,431 30,536 Actuarial gains/losses 44,020 (191) 390,872 Payment of retirement benefits (18,549) (17,558) (164,704) Increase from changes in scope of consolidation 3,101 — 27,535 Other 160 302 1,421 Ending balance of the projected benefit obligations ¥398,588 ¥352,813 $3,539,229 Reconciliations of beginning and ending balances of plan assets for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Beginning balance of plan assets ¥213,707 ¥188,715 $1,897,594 Expected return 5,311 4,717 47,159 Actuarial gains/losses (6,598) 19,977 (58,586) Contributions 10,200 10,015 90,570 Payment of retirement benefits (10,146) (9,915) (90,091) Other (186) 198 (1,652) Ending balance of plan assets ¥212,288 ¥213,707 $1,884,994 Reconciliations of ending balance of projected benefit obligations and the plan assets, and of net defined benefit liability and net defined benefit asset, as recorded in the consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Projected benefit obligations of funded plans ¥ 255,432 ¥ 219,775 $ 2,268,087 Plan assets (212,288) (213,707) (1,884,994) Subtotal 43,145 6,068 383,102 Projected benefit obligations of unfunded plans 143,155 133,038 1,271,133 Net of liability and asset that have been recorded in the consolidated balance sheet ¥ 186,300 ¥ 139,106 $ 1,654,235 Net defined benefit liability ¥ 186,300 ¥ 142,035 $ 1,654,235 Net defined benefit asset — (2,929) — Net of liability and asset that have been recorded in the consolidated balance sheet ¥ 186,300 ¥ 139,106 $ 1,654,235 Periodic retirement benefit expenses for employees and the breakdown of items for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Service cost (net of employee contributions) ¥11,967 ¥12,037 $106,260 Interest cost 3,439 3,431 30,536 Expected return on plan assets (5,311) (4,717) (47,159) Amortization of actuarial gains/losses 3,266 5,375 29,000 Amortization of prior service costs 142 142 1,261 Additional retirement benefits and other 452 992 4,013 Retirement benefit expenses of defined benefit plans ¥13,956 ¥17,259 $123,921 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 97 The components of other comprehensive income on defined benefit plans for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Prior service costs ¥ 142 ¥ 142 $ 1,261 Actuarial gains/losses (47,352) 25,543 (420,458) Total ¥(47,210) ¥25,685 $(419,197) Accumulated other comprehensive income on defined benefit plans at March 31, 2016 and 2015, was follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Unrecognized prior service costs ¥ 361 ¥ 503 $ 3,205 Unrecognized actuarial gains/losses 58,468 11,116 519,162 Total ¥58,829 ¥11,619 $522,367 Share by major classifications for plan assets at March 31, 2016 and 2015, was as follows: 2016 2015 Bond 36% 43% Stock 21 24 Alternative investments 16 16 Life insurance 14 12 Cash and deposits 10 4 Other 3 1 Total 100% 100% Note: Alternative investments include mainly investments in real estate and hedge funds. The current and future allocation of plan assets, and the current and future long-term rate of expected return from the variety of assets that make up the plan assets, are considered in determining the long-term rate of expected return on plan assets. Major actuarial assumptions at March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: 2016 2015 Discount rate Mainly 0.1% Mainly 0.9% The long-term rate of expected return on plan assets Mainly 2.5% Mainly 2.5% Expected rate of increase in salary 2.3–7.1% 2.3–7.3% Required payments to defined contribution plans at March 31, 2016, amounted to ¥1,416 million (US$12,573 thousand), and at March 31, 2015, amounted to ¥774 million. 98 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 14. Taxes Income taxes applicable to the parent company and subsidiaries in Japan include (1) corporation tax, (2) enterprise tax, and (3) inhabitants tax. Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Deferred tax assets: Net defined benefit liability ¥ 57,150 ¥ 44,782 $ 507,459 Tax loss carry forwards 8,105 15,474 71,968 Accrued bonuses 7,682 8,125 68,212 Foreign tax credit carry forwards 5,319 189 47,230 Impairment losses 4,332 4,180 38,466 Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets 4,198 4,071 37,276 Unrealized gain on noncurrent assets and others 4,004 4,481 35,553 Depreciation 2,696 2,968 23,939 Accrued enterprise tax 2,074 1,537 18,416 Unrealized loss on investment securities 2,073 2,553 18,407 Provision for periodic repairs 1,283 1,198 11,392 Provision for product warranties 1,168 1,261 10,371 Devaluation of inventories 1,057 1,217 9,386 Allowance for doubtful accounts 821 758 7,290 Asset retirement obligations 813 918 7,219 Environmental expenses 238 313 2,113 Experiment and research expenses 198 115 1,758 Deferred gains or losses on hedges 19 678 169 Other 9,742 10,934 86,503 Subtotal deferred tax assets 112,969 105,753 1,003,099 Less: Valuation allowance (16,294) (19,314) (144,681) Total deferred tax assets 96,676 86,439 858,427 Deferred tax liabilities: Identified intangible assets during business combination (53,707) (34,704) (476,887) Unrealized gain on other securities (42,075) (55,582) (373,601) Depreciation—overseas subsidiaries (13,158) (5,149) (116,835) Deferred gain on property, plant and equipment (9,037) (9,406) (80,243) Accelerated depreciation (137) (203) (1,216) Other (5,382) (6,287) (47,789) Total deferred tax liabilities (123,496) (111,330) (1,096,573) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) ¥ (26,820) ¥ (24,891) $ (238,146) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) at March 31, 2016 and 2015, were included in the following line items on the consolidated balance sheets. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Current assets—deferred tax assets ¥ 18,133 ¥ 21,707 $ 161,010 Noncurrent assets—deferred tax assets 20,098 11,351 178,459 Current liabilities—other (120) (7) (1,066) Noncurrent liabilities—deferred tax liabilities (64,930) (57,943) (576,541) In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, the foreign tax credit carry forwards, which had previously been included in other, are reported separately due to their materiality. The figure shown as other for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, has been restated accordingly. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 99 Reconciliation of the differences between the statutory tax rate and the effective income tax rate for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, was as follows: 2016 2015 Statutory tax rate 33.1% 35.6% Increase (reduction) in taxes resulting from: Non-deductible expenses and non-taxable income 1.1 0.7 Equalization of inhabitants taxes 0.3 0.3 R&D expenses deductible from income taxes (4.6) (4.2) Amortization of goodwill and negative goodwill 3.5 2.1 Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 0.2 (0.4) Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries (0.1) 0.4 Difference of tax rates for foreign subsidiaries (1.0) (2.7) Valuation allowance 0.7 (1.6) Decrease in deferred tax assets due to the change in statutory tax rate 1.9 3.2 Other 1.1 (0.8) Effective income tax rate 36.2% 32.5% The “Act for partial Revision of the Income Tax Act etc.” (Act No. 15 of 2016) and “Act for Partial Revision of the Local Tax Act, etc.” (Act No. 13 of 2016) were issued on March 29, 2016, and applied from the fiscal year beginning on or after April 1, 2016. In accordance with this change, the statutory effective tax rate applied in calculating deferred tax assets and liabilities was changed from 32.3% to the tax rate as follows depending on the expected timing of reversal for each temporary difference: Expected timing of reversal Tax rate April 1, 2016, through March 31, 2018 30.9% April 1, 2018, onward 30.6% As a result of this change, deferred tax assets (after netting deferred tax liabilities) decreased by ¥1,114 million (US$9,892 thousand), income taxes— deferred increased by ¥2,687 million (US$23,859 thousand), net unrealized gain on other securities increased by ¥2,265 million (US$20,111 thousand), deferred gains or losses on hedges increased by ¥2 million (US$18 thousand), and remeasurements of defined benefit plans increased by ¥694 million (US$6,162 thousand) in the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. 15. Business combinations Business combinations accounted for by the purchase method were as viii) Basic means of materializing the acquisition follows: Stock purchase for cash as consideration by a special purpose subsidiary of 1. Polypore International, Inc. the Company. (a) Outline of business combination (b) The period of acquiree’s results included in the consolidated financial statements i) Name of counterparty From August 26, 2015, to March 31, 2016 Polypore International, Inc. (c) Cost of acquisition and details ii) Nature of the businesses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Development, manufacture, and sale of polymer membranes Stock purchase price ¥210,043 $1,865,059 iii) Main reasons for the acquisition Purchase price ¥210,043 $1,865,059 a. To develop more innovative products for use in various fields in the battery separator business which can expect further growth through (d) Major acquisition related costs joint R&D, mutual technology provision, etc. between the Company and Advisory fees and others ¥2,185 million (US$19,402 thousand) Polypore International, Inc. (e) The amount of goodwill, measurement principle, amortization b. To further accelerate the globalization of the Company’s Hipore™ method and useful life business by utilizing global product supply and marketing network of Polypore International, Inc. i) Amount of goodwill c. To enter the lead-acid battery separator business which can provide ¥183,553 million (US$1,629,844 thousand) long-term stable earnings contribution by supplying Daramic™ brand ii) Measurement principle products of Polypore International, Inc. Also, to enable the provision Goodwill is measured as the excess of the purchase price over the fair of a broader range of products and technologies in the lithium-ion value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. battery separator business where future growth is expected, including in iii) Amortization method and useful life automotive applications, by supplying Celgard™ brand products. Straight-line method over 20 years iv) The acquisition date (f) Details of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the August 26, 2015 acquisition date v) Statutory form of business combination Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Transfer of shares for cash as consideration Current assets ¥ 42,963 $ 381,486 vi) Name of company after transaction Noncurrent assets 140,091 1,243,926 Polypore International, LP (Changed on March 31, 2016, due to conversion Total assets ¥183,054 $1,625,413 to limited partnership) Current liabilities ¥ 56,555 $ 502,175 vii) Acquired voting right Noncurrent liabilities 99,826 886,397 Voting right before the acquisition 0% Total liabilities ¥156,380 $1,388,563 Voting right after the acquisition 100% 100 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 (g) Amount of identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill, its (e) The amount of goodwill, measurement principle, amortization details and major weighted average useful life method and useful life i) Purchase price allocated to intangible assets and its major items i) Amount of goodwill Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars ¥3,406 million (US$30,243 thousand) Customer-related assets ¥57,982 $514,846 ii) Measurement principle Trademarks 10,770 95,631 Goodwill is measured as the excess of the purchase price over the fair Technology-related assets 9,317 82,730 value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In-process R&D 2,533 22,492 iii) Amortization method and useful life Straight-line method over 20 years ii) Major weighted average useful life (f) Details of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the Customer-related assets 20 years acquisition date Trademarks 20 years Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Technology-related assets 15 years Current assets ¥ 185 $ 1,643 In-process R&D 20 years Noncurrent assets 1,313 11,659 Total 19 years Total assets ¥1,498 $13,301 Current liabilities ¥ 33 $ 293 (h) Pro forma effects on the consolidated statements of income Noncurrent liabilities 241 2,140 assuming the business combination had occurred at the Total liabilities ¥ 274 $ 2,433 beginning of the fiscal year, and its measurement Information is omitted due to immateriality. This note is not audited. (g) Nature of contingent consideration stipulated in the share 2. Kyma Medical Technologies Ltd. purchase agreement and its accounting treatment in the (a) Outline of business combination subsequent period i) Name of acquiree i) Nature of contingent consideration Kyma Medical Technologies Ltd. The payment amount of contingent consideration depends on the degree of achievement of a specified performance metric after the acquisition date. ii) Nature of the businesses Development of technology for monitoring of cardiac patients ii) Accounting treatment in the subsequent period The Company will recognize the variable portion of contingent consideriii) Main reasons for the acquisition ation in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the a. To add technology to measure early signs of congestive heart failure. United States. b. To further enrich the remote cardiac monitoring technology of ZOLL Medical Corporation using the technology of Kyma Medical (h) Amount of identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill, its Technologies Ltd., with a future expectation that combination with details and major weighted average useful life technology of Kyma Medical Technologies Ltd. may enable perfori) Purchase price allocated to intangible assets and its major items mance enhancement of the LifeVest™ of ZOLL Medical Corporation. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars c. To use the marketing channels of ZOLL Medical Corporation to achieve In-process R&D ¥1,271 $11,286 greater market penetration of technology of Kyma Medical Technologies Ltd. ii) Major weighted average useful life iv) The acquisition date In-process R&D 15 years September 16, 2015 v) Statutory form of business combination (i) Pro forma effects on the consolidated statements of income Stock purchase for cash as consideration assuming the business combination had occurred at the beginning of the fiscal year, and its measurement vi) Name of company after transaction Information is omitted due to immateriality. This note is not audited. Kyma Medical Technologies Ltd. vii) Acquired voting right Voting right before the acquisition 0% Voting right after the acquisition 100% viii) Basic means of materializing the acquisition Stock purchase for cash as consideration by a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. (b) The period of acquiree’s results included in the consolidated financial statements From September 16, 2015, to March 31, 2016 (c) Cost of acquisition and details Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Stock purchase price ¥4,631 $41,121 Purchase price ¥4,631 $41,121 Note: Stock purchase price includes ¥1,270 million (US$11,277 thousand) of contingent consideration (fair value). (d) Major acquisition related costs Advisory fees and others ¥117 million (US$1,039 thousand) Asahi Kasei Report 2016 101 16. Asset retirement obligations (a) Outline of asset retirement obligations Due to commitments pertaining to restoration to original state before vacating in accordance with land lease agreements such as for offices, and due to commitments to dismantle leased buildings upon termination of lease period, etc., in accordance with lease agreements for model home parks, relevant asset retirement obligations are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets. In accordance with building lease agreements such as for the head offices, commitments pertaining to restoration to original state before vacating are recognized as asset retirement obligations. However, instead of recording them as aforementioned asset retirement obligations under liabilities, the amount of lease deposit that cannot ultimately be expected to be collected was estimated in a reasonable manner, and of that, the amount corresponding to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, was recorded under operating expenses. (b) Method of calculating the amount of relevant asset retirement obligations The calculation of asset retirement obligations is based on the following: expected term of use of 4 to 55 years, inflation rate of 0.0% to 4.1%, and discount rate of 0.0% to 6.4%. (c) Increase (decrease) in the total amount of asset retirement obligations in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Balance at beginning of year ¥4,039 ¥4,050 $35,864 Increase due to asset retirement obligations accrued 200 332 1,776 Adjustment due to passage of time 133 123 1,181 Increase due to accounting estimates* — 18 — Decrease due to fulfillment of asset retirement obligations (193) (513) (1,714) Increase (decrease) due to foreign exchange fluctuation (131) 29 (1,163) Balance at end of year ¥4,047 ¥4,039 $35,935 * Increase or decrease in asset retirement obligations was made as it became clear that the cost of asset retirement will be different than originally estimated at the time of asset acquisition. The amount of lease deposit which will be written off for a certain percentage at the end of the lease period is charged to expense rather than recorded under asset retirement obligations. Increase (decrease) in those expensed amounts for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Balance at beginning of year ¥1,650 ¥1,652 $14,651 Increase due to new lease agreements 126 14 1,119 Decrease due to the cancelation of existing lease agreements (43) (17) (382) Balance at end of year ¥1,733 ¥1,650 $15,388 17. Business segment information (a) Overview of reportable segments Fibers business The Company’s business segments are based on organizational units The Company manufactures, processes, and sells Roica™ elastic polyurefor which separate financial information is available, and the Board of thane filament, Bemberg™ cupro fiber, nonwoven fabrics (such as Eltas™ Directors carries out periodic review to allocate management resources spunbond and Lamous™ artificial suede), and Leona™ nylon 66 filament. and evaluate business performance. Homes & Construction Materials segment The Company is organized under a holding company configuration Homes business with core operating companies performing operations in four business The Company constructs Hebel Haus™ unit homes and Hebel Maison™ fields. Each core operating company lays out strategy and develops busiapartments, and operates real estate businesses (such as management of ness activities in Japan and abroad. Hebel Maison™ rental units, Atlas™ condominiums, Hebel Town™ housing The Company consists of four segments identified by business developments, and brokerage of used Hebel Haus™ homes), remodeling fields, including “Chemicals & Fibers,” “Homes & Construction Materials,” businesses (such as exterior wall refurbishing, reroofing, redesign, interior “Electronics,” and “Health Care.” renovation, and solar panel installation), and financial and other services (such as mortgage financing, etc.). Main products of the four reportable segments are as follows: Construction Materials business Chemicals & Fibers segment The Company manufactures and sells Hebel™ and Hebel Powerboard™ Chemicals business autoclaved aerated concrete (AAC) panels, Neoma™ and Jupii™ phenolic The Company manufactures, processes, and sells petrochemical products foam insulation panels, Eazet™, ATT Column™, and other piling systems, (such as nitric acid, caustic soda, acrylonitrile, styrene, methyl methacrylate and BasePack™ column base attachment systems. (MMA), acrylic resin, Suntec™ polyethylene, and polystyrene), performance Electronics segment polymer products (such as Stylac™-AS styrene-acrylonitrile, Stylac™-ABS Electronics business acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, Tenac™ polyacetal, Xyron™ modified polyThe Company manufactures and sells mixed-signal LSIs, Hall elements, phenylene ether (mPPE), adipic acid, Leona™ polyamide 66, and synthetic Hipore™ and Celgard™ Li-ion battery separators, Daramic™ lead-acid rubber), and specialty products (such as coating materials, latex, Ceolus™ battery separator, photomask pellicles, APR™ photosensitive resin and microcrystalline cellulose, explosives, explosion-bonded metal clad, printing plate making systems, Pimel™ photosensitive polyimide precursor, Microza™ UF and MF membranes and systems, ion-exchange membranes Sunfort™ photosensitive dry film, and glass fabric for printed wiring boards. and electrolysis systems, Saran Wrap™ cling film, Ziploc™ storage bags, and plastic films, sheets, and foams). 102 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Health Care segment Health Care business The Company manufactures and sells pharmaceuticals (such as Teribone™, Recomodulin™, Elcitonin™, Flivas™, Toledomin™, and Bredinin™), Lucica™ GA-L assay kits, L-series enriched liquid diets, APS™ polysulfone-membrane artificial kidneys, therapeutic apheresis devices, Planova™ virus removal filters, and Sepacell™ leukocyte reduction filters. Critical Care business The Company manufactures and sells defibrillators for medical professionals, LifeVest™ wearable defibrillators, ZOLL AED Plus™ automated external defibrillators, and IVTM—Thermogard XP™ intravascular temperature management systems. (b) Methods to determine net sales, income or loss, assets, and other items by reportable business segment Profit by reportable business segment is stated on an operating income basis. Intersegment net sales and transfers are based on the values of transactions undertaken between third parties. (c) Information concerning net sales, income or loss, assets, and other items for each reportable segment Millions of yen 2016 Homes & Chemicals & Construction Fibers Materials Electronics Health Care Subtotal Others (Note 1) Total Sales: External customers ¥835,582 ¥632,418 ¥174,477 ¥285,404 ¥1,927,882 ¥13,032 ¥1,940,914 Intersegment 12,341 53 367 48 12,809 23,728 36,538 Total 847,922 632,472 174,844 285,452 1,940,691 36,761 1,977,452 Operating income 68,948 71,000 6,889 36,235 183,072 553 183,625 Assets 737,604 449,289 563,680 474,265 2,224,838 62,613 2,287,451 Other items Depreciation (Note 2) 37,435 9,529 17,275 21,539 85,778 1,251 87,030 Amortization of goodwill 517 — 5,369 9,646 15,533 288 15,821 Investments in affiliates accounted for using equity method 31,802 — 333 — 32,135 17,398 49,534 Increase in property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 43,669 11,947 16,708 19,382 91,706 1,513 93,220 Notes: 1. The “Others” category includes plant engineering and environmental engineering, research and analysis, and employment agency/staffing operations. 2. Amortization of goodwill is not included. Millions of yen 2015 Homes & Chemicals & Construction Fibers Materials Electronics Health Care Subtotal Others (Note 1) Total Sales: External customers ¥954,623 ¥603,786 ¥150,388 ¥257,133 ¥1,965,929 ¥20,476 ¥1,986,405 Intersegment 18,216 68 544 41 18,868 22,283 41,152 Total 972,838 603,853 150,932 257,174 1,984,798 42,760 2,027,557 Operating income 64,624 63,037 14,300 30,845 172,806 949 173,755 Assets 810,787 414,028 179,102 501,990 1,905,906 62,874 1,968,780 Other items Depreciation (Note 2) 35,655 9,430 13,874 20,104 79,064 1,094 80,158 Amortization of goodwill 484 — 17 8,555 9,056 264 9,320 Investments in affiliates accounted for using equity method 46,243 — 304 — 46,547 17,013 63,560 Increase in property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 41,718 10,864 11,600 16,595 80,776 1,389 82,165 Notes: 1. The “Others” category includes plant engineering and environmental engineering, research and analysis, and employment agency/staffing operations. 2. Amortization of goodwill is not included. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 103 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Homes & Chemicals & Construction Fibers Materials Electronics Health Care Subtotal Others (Note 1) Total Sales: External customers $7,419,481 $5,615,503 $1,549,254 $2,534,221 $17,118,469 $115,717 $17,234,186 Intersegment 109,581 471 3,259 426 113,736 210,691 324,436 Total 7,529,053 5,615,983 1,552,513 2,534,647 17,232,206 326,416 17,558,622 Operating income 612,218 630,439 61,170 321,746 1,625,573 4,910 1,630,483 Assets 6,549,494 3,989,425 5,005,150 4,211,197 19,755,265 555,967 20,311,232 Other items Depreciation (Note 2) 332,401 84,612 153,392 191,254 761,659 11,108 772,776 Amortization of goodwill 4,591 — 47,674 85,651 137,924 2,557 140,481 Investments in affiliates accounted for using equity method 282,383 — 2,957 — 285,340 154,484 439,833 Increase in property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 387,755 106,082 148,357 172,101 814,296 13,435 827,739 Notes: 1. The “Others” category includes plant engineering and environmental engineering, research and analysis, and employment agency/staffing operations. 2. Amortization of goodwill is not included. (d) Reconciliation of differences between total amounts of reportable segments and amounts appearing in the consolidated financial statements (adjustment of difference) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Sales 2016 2015 2016 Total of reporting segments ¥1,940,691 ¥1,984,798 $17,232,206 Net sales in “Others” category 36,761 42,760 326,416 Elimination of intersegment transactions (36,538) (41,152) (324,436) Net sales on consolidated statements of income ¥1,940,914 ¥1,986,405 $17,234,186 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Operating income 2016 2015 2016 Total of reporting segments ¥183,072 ¥172,806 $1,625,573 Operating income in “Others” category 553 949 4,910 Elimination of intersegment transactions 170 1,087 1,510 Corporate expenses, etc.* (18,592) (16,910) (165,086) Operating income on consolidated statements of income ¥165,203 ¥157,933 $1,466,906 * Corporate expenses, etc. include corporate revenue, basic research expense, and group management expense, etc. which are not allocated to reporting segments. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Assets 2016 2015 2016 Total of reporting segments ¥2,224,838 ¥1,905,906 $19,755,265 Assets in “Others” category 62,613 62,874 555,967 Elimination of intersegment transactions (320,251) (249,428) (2,843,642) Corporate assets* 244,529 295,179 2,171,275 Total assets on consolidated balance sheets ¥2,211,729 ¥2,014,531 $19,638,865 * Corporate assets include assets of the parent company—surplus operating funds (cash and deposits), long-term investment capital (investment securities, etc.), and land, etc. Amounts from consolidated Total of reportable segments Others Adjustments (Note 1) financial statements Thousands of Thousands of Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Other items 2016 2015 2016 2016 2015 2016 2016 2015 2016 2016 2015 2016 Depreciation (Note 2) ¥85,778 ¥79,064 $761,659 ¥ 1,251 ¥ 1,094 $ 11,108 ¥6,782 ¥5,900 $60,220 ¥93,811 ¥86,058 $832,987 Amortization of goodwill 15,533 9,056 137,924 288 264 2,557 — — — 15,821 9,320 140,481 Investments in affiliates accounted for using equity method 32,135 46,547 285,340 17,398 17,013 154,484 — — — 49,534 63,560 439,833 Increase in property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 91,706 80,776 814,296 1,513 1,389 13,435 5,780 6,943 51,323 99,000 89,108 879,062 Notes: 1. Adjustments include elimination of intersegment transactions and corporate expenses, etc. 2. Amortization of goodwill is not included. 104 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 (e) Related Information i) Information on products and services Please refer to (c) Information concerning net sales, income or loss, assets, and other items for each reportable segment. ii) Geographic information 1) Net sales Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Japan China Other regions Total Japan China Other regions Total Japan China Other regions Total ¥1,261,203 ¥185,241 ¥494,470 ¥1,940,914 ¥1,313,128 ¥194,007 ¥479,271 ¥1,986,405 $11,198,748 $1,644,832 $4,390,606 $17,234,186 2) Property, plant and equipment. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Japan United States Other regions Total Japan United States Other regions Total Japan United States Other regions Total ¥361,825 ¥91,425 ¥102,739 ¥555,989 ¥361,130 ¥30,814 ¥110,563 ¥502,507 $3,212,795 $811,801 $912,262 $4,936,858 (Change in presentation method) “United States” was included within “Other” in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, but from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 it has been presented as an independent category since the value of tangible fixed assets in the United States exceeded 10% of the tangible fixed assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 have been restated accordingly. 3) Information by major customer Information by major customer is not shown because no customer accounts for 10% or more of net sales on the consolidated statements of income. 18. Information on related parties Related party transactions Transactions between consolidated subsidiaries of the company submitting the consolidated financial statements and related parties (a) Subsidiaries, affiliates, etc. of the company submitting the consolidated financial statements Type of related party An affiliated company Name of company PTT Asahi Chemical Co., Ltd. Location Rayong, Thailand Paid-in capital 14,246 million Thai baht Business line Chemicals Share of voting rights held by the company (of which, indirectly held) 48.5% (48.5%) Relationship with the related party Debt guarantee Nature of transaction Guarantee for completion of manufacturing facilities Transaction amount ¥11,989 million (US$106,455 thousand) in the year ended March 31, 2016, ¥16,250 million in the year ended March 31, 2015 Amount name — Balance at end of year — Asahi Kasei Report 2016 105 (b) Directors, Corporate Auditors, major shareholders, etc. of the company submitting the consolidated financial statements Type of related party A company in which close relative(s) of a Director or Corporate Auditor of the Company hold(s) a majority of voting rights Name of company Miwa-Syouji Co., Ltd. Location Nobeoka, Miyazaki, Japan Paid-in capital ¥65 million (US$577 thousand) Business line Wholesale trade Share of voting rights held by the company 0.0% Relationship with the related party Purchasing consumable goods Nature of transaction Purchasing consumable goods Transaction amount ¥225 million (US$1,998 thousand) in the year ended March 31, 2016, ¥228 million in the year ended March 31, 2015 Account recorded Accrued expenses Balance at end of year ¥23 million (US$204 thousand) in the year ended March 31, 2016, ¥43 million as of March 31, 2015 Type of related party A company in which close relative(s) of a Director or Corporate Auditor of the Company hold(s) a majority of voting rights Name of company Miwa Vinyl Co., Ltd. Location Nobeoka, Miyazaki, Japan Paid-in capital ¥10 million (US$89 thousand) Business line Manufacture and sale of plastic packaging material Share of voting rights held by the related party 0.0% Relationship with the related party Purchasing consumable goods and raw materials Nature of transaction Purchasing consumable goods and raw materials Transaction amount ¥45 million (US$400 thousand) in the year ended March 31, 2016, ¥49 million in the year ended March 31, 2015 Account recorded Accrued expenses and notes and accounts payable—trade Balance at end of year ¥3 million (US$27 thousand) in the year ended March 31, 2016, ¥2 million as of March 31, 2015 Notes: 1. Transaction amounts are shown net of consumption taxes, while balances at end of year include consumption taxes. 2. Transaction terms and the policy of deciding transaction terms: Ordinary transaction terms are applied to the purchase of products. 19. Per share information Basic and diluted net assets per share and net income per share for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows: Yen U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Basic net assets per share ¥745.94 ¥775.05 $6.62 Basic net income per share ¥ 65.69 ¥ 75.62 $0.58 (a) Basis for calculation of net assets per share Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Total net assets ¥1,057,399 ¥1,097,722 $ 9,389,087 Amount deducted from total net assets 15,498 15,068 137,613 of which, non-controlling interests (15,498) (15,068) (137,613) Net assets allocated to capital stock ¥1,041,901 ¥1,082,654 $ 9,251,474 Number of shares of capital stock outstanding at fiscal year end used in calculation of net assets per share (thousand) 1,396,755 1,396,873 12,402,371 (b) Basis for calculation of net income per share Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2015 Net income attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 91,754 ¥ 105,652 $ 814,722 Amount not attributable to common stock shareholders — — — Net income attributable to common stock owners of the parent ¥ 91,754 ¥ 105,652 $ 814,722 Weighted-average number of shares of capital stock (thousand) 1,396,812 1,397,094 12,402,877 Notes: 1. As the Company had no dilutive securities at March 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company does not disclose diluted net income per share for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. 2. As stated in Note 3. a, the revised accounting standards for business combination and consolidated financial statements are applied. As a result, basic EPS for the year ended March 31, 2016, decreased by ¥0.94 (US$0.008). 106 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 20. Subsequent events 1. Merger through absorption of subsidiaries On April 1, 2016, Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., and Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp., consolidated subsidiaries of the Company, were merged through absorption with the Company. (a) Outline of the transaction i) Name and nature of business of merging companies Surviving company Name Asahi Kasei Corp. Nature of business Diversified chemicals operations Absorbed companies Name Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp. Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. Nature of business Manufacture and Manufacture and Manufacture and sale of chemical products sale of fiber products sale of electronic materials ii) Date of merger April 1, 2016 iii) Statutory form of merger Absorption-type merger with Asahi Kasei Corp. as the surviving company iv) Name of surviving company Asahi Kasei Corp. v) Other items related to outline of the transaction With the start of the Asahi Kasei Group’s new medium-term management initiative in fiscal 2016, the operating portfolio was realigned into three business sectors of Material (currently the Chemicals & Fibers segment and the Electronics segment), Homes (currently the Homes & Construction Materials segment), and Health Care. Within each business sector, portfolio-based management will be thoroughly implemented with optimum allocation of management resources, and further growth will be pursued by creating synergy among the sectors. Together with this change, in order to obtain efficient management and mutual coordination within the Material business sector and achieve greater corporate value, the decision was made to merge Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., and Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. with the Company. (b) Outline of the accounting treatment implemented The transaction was treated as a transaction under common control in accordance with the Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) Statement No. 21 “Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” and ASBJ Guidance No. 10 “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Business Combinations and Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures.” 2. Change in segment classifications In the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company had four reportable segments of Chemicals & Fibers, Homes & Construction Materials, Electronics, and Health Care based on its four business sectors. Beginning with the year ending March 31, 2017, these are changed to the three reportable segments of Material, Homes, and Health Care based on three business sectors. Recalculated segment information concerning net sales and operating income for each reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2016, based on the new segmentation is as follows: Millions of yen Reportable segments Amounts from consolidated financial Material Homes Health Care Subtotal Others Total Adjustments statements Sales: External customers ¥1,004,438 ¥632,418 ¥285,404 ¥1,922,261 ¥18,653 ¥1,940,914 ¥ — ¥1,940,914 Intersegment 3,761 53 48 3,862 41,854 45,716 (45,716) — Total 1,008,198 632,472 285,452 1,926,123 60,508 1,986,630 (45,716) 1,940,914 Operating income 79,209 71,000 36,235 186,444 3,781 190,225 (25,022) 165,203 Thousands of U.S. dollars Reportable segments Amounts from consolidated financial Material Homes Health Care Subtotal Others Total Adjustments statements Sales: External customers $8,918,824 $5,615,503 $2,534,221 $17,068,558 $165,628 $17,234,186 $ — $17,234,186 Intersegment 33,395 471 426 34,292 371,639 405,931 (405,931) — Total 8,952,211 5,615,983 2,534,647 17,102,850 537,276 17,640,117 (405,931) 17,234,186 Operating income 703,330 630,439 321,746 1,655,514 33,573 1,689,087 (222,181) 1,466,906 Notes: The “Others” category includes electricity supply, plant engineering and environmental engineering, research and analysis, and employment agency/staffing operations. Asahi Kasei Report 2016 107 21. Borrowings (a) Bonds payable at March 31, 2016 and 2015, comprised the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Unsecured 1.46% yen bonds due in 2019 ¥20,000 ¥20,000 $177,588 Unsecured 0.30% yen bonds due in 2017 20,000 20,000 177,588 Total ¥40,000 ¥40,000 $355,177 Notes: 1. The current portion of bonds payable is recorded under current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. 2. The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt after March 31, 2016, are as follows: Year ending March 31 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 ¥ — $ — 2018 20,000 177,588 2019 — — 2020 20,000 177,588 2021 — — 2022 and thereafter — — Total ¥40,000 $355,177 (b) Loans payable at March 31, 2016 and 2015, comprised the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Short-term loans payable with an interest rate of 0.36% ¥273,418 ¥ 62,648 $2,427,793 Current portion of long-term loans payable with an interest rate of 0.77% 40,169 33,367 356,677 Current portion of lease obligations with an interest rate of 1.40% 919 1,383 8,160 Long-term loans payable (except portion due within one year) with an interest rate of 1.00% 94,632 130,400 840,277 Lease obligations (except portion due within one year) with an interest rate of 1.82% 537 1,219 4,768 Total ¥409,675 ¥229,018 $3,637,675 Notes: 1. Interest rates shown are weighted average interest rates for the balance outstanding at March 31, 2016. 2. The aggregate annual maturities of long-term loans payable and lease obligations (except portion due within one year) after March 31, 2017, are as follows: Long-term loans payable Lease obligations Year ending March 31 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 ¥18,941 $168,185 ¥280 $2,486 2019 49,616 440,561 118 1,048 2020 12,028 106,802 83 737 2021 4,436 39,389 55 488 2022 and thereafter 9,611 85,340 1 9 108 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 109 Major Subsidiaries and Affiliates (As of April 1, 2016) Paid-in capital Equity Company Main products/business line (million) interest (%) Material Segment Asahi Kasei Pax Corp.* Packaging products and solutions ¥ 490 100.0 Asahi Kasei Finechem Co., Ltd.* Specialty chemicals ¥ 325 100.0 Asahi Kasei Home Products Corp.* Cling film, other household products ¥ 250 100.0 Asahi Kasei Metals Ltd.* Aluminum paste ¥ 250 100.0 Asahi Kasei Geotechnologies Co., Ltd. Sale of civil engineering materials ¥ 132 100.0 Asahi SKB Co., Ltd. Shotgun cartridges ¥ 100 100.0 Asahi Kasei Clean Chemical Co., Ltd. Water treatment equipment, environmental chemicals ¥ 100 100.0 Asahi Kasei Technoplus Co., Ltd.* Processed plastic products ¥ 160 99.4 Japan Elastomer Co., Ltd.* Synthetic rubber ¥ 1,000 75.0 PS Japan Corp.* Polystyrene ¥ 5,000 62.1 Sundic Inc. Biaxially oriented polystyrene sheet ¥ 1,500 50.0 Wacker Asahikasei Silicone Co., Ltd. Silicone ¥ 1,050 50.0 Kayaku Japan Co., Ltd. Industrial explosives ¥ 60 50.0 Asahi Kasei Plastics North America, Inc.* Coloring and compounding of performance resin US$ 21.7** 100.0 Asahikasei Plastics (America) Inc.* Compounded performance resin operations US$ 31.9** 100.0 Sun Plastech Inc.* Sale of purging compound US$ 1 100.0 Tongsuh Petrochemical Corp., Ltd.* Acrylonitrile, sodium cyanide KRW 237,642 100.0 Asahi Kasei Chemicals Korea Co., Ltd. Sale of adipic acid KRW 1,500 100.0 Asahi Kasei Performance Chemicals Corp.* High-performance HDI-based polyisocyanate CNY 285 100.0 Asahi Kasei POM (Zhangjiagang) Co., Ltd.* Polyacetal CNY 265 100.0 Asahi Kasei Microza (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd.* Industrial filtration membranes and systems CNY 69 100.0 Asahikasei Plastics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Sale of performance resin CNY 18 100.0 Asahi Kasei Plastics (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Sale of performance resin CNY 10 100.0 Asahi Kasei Plastics (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. Sale of performance resin US$ 2.6 100.0 Asahikasei (Suzhou) Plastics Compound Co., Ltd. Coloring and compounding of performance resin CNY 50 51.0 Asahi Kasei Synthetic Rubber Singapore Pte. Ltd.* Synthetic rubber US$ 160 100.0 Asahi Kasei Plastics Singapore Pte. Ltd.* Performance resin US$ 46 100.0 Polyxylenol Singapore Pte. Ltd.* PPE powder US$ 35 70.0 Asahikasei Plastics (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Coloring and compounding of performance resin THB 140 100.0 PTT Asahi Chemical Co., Ltd. Acrylonitrile, methyl methacrylate THB 14,246 48.5 DuPont-Asahi Flash Spun Products Co., Ltd. Flash spun products ¥ 450 50.0 Hangzhou Asahikasei Spandex Co., Ltd.* Spandex CNY 154 100.0 Hangzhou Asahikasei Textiles Co., Ltd.* Warp-knit spandex textiles CNY 78 92.5 Formosa Asahi Spandex Co., Ltd. Spandex NT$ 1,003 50.0 Asahi Kasei Fibers (HK) Ltd.* Promotion and marketing of fibers HK$ 65 100.0 Asahi Kasei Spunbond (Thailand) Co., Ltd.* Spunbond nonwovens THB 1,185 89.5 Thai Asahi Kasei Spandex Co., Ltd.* Spandex THB 1,350 60.0 Asahi Kasei Spandex Europe GmbH* Spandex € 23.8** 100.0 Asahi Kasei Fibers Italia SRL* Sale of cupro cellulosic fiber and nonwovens € 3 100.0 Asahi Kasei Epoxy Co., Ltd.* Epoxy resin ¥ 300 100.0 Asahi Kasei Microsystems Co., Ltd.* LSIs ¥ 50 100.0 Asahi-Schwebel Co., Ltd.* Glass fabric ¥ 50 100.0 Asahi Kasei Electronics Co., Ltd.* Hall elements ¥ 50 100.0 Asahi Kasei FP Corp.* Fine pattern coils ¥ 10 100.0 Asahi Kasei E-materials Korea Inc.* Energy and electronic materials KRW 7,962 100.0 AKM Semiconductor, Inc.* Sale of LSIs US$ 2.9 100.0 Asahi Kasei Microdevices Korea Corp. Electronic devices marketing and technical support KRW 820 100.0 AKM Technology Corp. LSI design ¥ 30 100.0 Asahi Kasei Technosystem Co., Ltd. Electronic devices and printed wiring boards ¥ 40 100.0 Asahi Kasei Electronics Materials (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.* Photosensitive dry film CNY 181 100.0 Asahi Kasei Electronics Materials (Changshu) Co., Ltd.* Photosensitive dry film CNY 143 100.0 Asahi Kasei Microdevices (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Electronic devices marketing and technical support CNY 14 100.0 * Consolidated subsidiary ** Including capital reserve 110 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Paid-in capital Equity Company Main products/business line (million) interest (%) Asahi Kasei Microdevices Taiwan Corp. Electronic devices marketing and technical support NT$ 10 100.0 Asahi Kasei EMD Taiwan Corp. Sale of pellicles NT$ 1 100.0 Asahi Kasei Wah Lee Hi-Tech Corp.* Photosensitive dry film NT$ 49 80.6 Asahi-Schwebel (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.* Glass fabric NT$ 326 51.0 Asahi Kasei Microdevices Europe SAS Electronic devices marketing and technical support € 3.0 100.0 Asahi Photoproducts (Europe) SA/NV* Sale of photopolymer, printing-plate making systems € 3.4 100.0 Asahi Photoproducts (UK) Ltd.* Sale of photopolymer, printing-plate making systems £ 0.3 100.0 Polypore International, LP* Battery separators US$ 2,233** 100.0 Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp.* Electronic devices ¥ 3,000 100.0 Homes Segment Asahi Kasei Homes Corp.* Housing ¥ 3,250 100.0 Asahi Kasei Realty & Residence Corp.* Real estate development, brokerage, and related business ¥ 3,200 100.0 Asahi Kasei Jyuko Co., Ltd.* Steel frames ¥ 2,820 100.0 Asahi Kasei Mortgage Corp.* Financial services ¥ 1,000 100.0 Asahi Kasei Reform Co., Ltd.* Home maintenance and remodeling ¥ 250 100.0 Asahi Kasei Home Construction Corp.* Construction of homes ¥ 100 100.0 Asahi Kasei Jyuko Vietnam Corp.* Steel-frame members US$ 13.9** 78.00 Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp.* Construction materials ¥ 3,000 100.0 Asahi Kasei Foundation Systems Corp.* Installation of piles ¥ 200 100.0 Asahi Kasei Extech Corp.* Exterior wall panel installation ¥ 50 100.0 Health Care Segment Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp.* Pharmaceuticals ¥ 3,000 100.0 Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd.* Medical devices, bioprocess products ¥ 3,000 100.0 Asahi Kasei Pharma America Corp.* Clinical trials for new drugs, sale of pharmaceuticals US$ 49** 100.0 Med-Tech Inc.* Medical devices ¥ 140 100.0 Asahi Kasei Bioprocess America. Inc.* Bioprocess equipment and systems US$ 30 100.0 Asahi Kasei Medical America Inc.* Sale of medical devices, medical systems US$ 0.5 100.0 Asahi Kasei Medical Trading (Korea) Co., Ltd.* Sale of medical devices, medical systems KRW 1,000 100.0 Asahi Kasei Medical (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd.* Hemodialyzers; sale of medical devices CNY 165 100.0 Asahi Kasei Medical Trading (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.* Sale of medical devices, medical systems NT$ 5 100.0 Asahi Kasei Medical Europe GmbH* Sale of medical devices, medical systems € 17.8 100.0 Asahi Kasei Bioprocess Europe SA/NV* Sale of virus removal filters € 0.5 100.0 Asahi Kasei Bioprocess Singapore Pte. Ltd.* Sale of bioprocess products SG$ 0.3 100.0 Asahi Kasei Medical Trading Ltd. Sti.* Sale of medical devices, medical systems YTL 0.01 100.0 Asahi Kasei Medical MT Corp. Medical devices, bioprocess products ¥ 10 100.0 ZOLL Medical Corporation* Acute critical care devices and systems US$ 1,723** 100.0 Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical Corp.* Sale of acute critical care devices in Japan ¥ 230 100.0 Others Asahi Kasei Europe GmbH* Business support services, sale of performance resin € 7.9 100.0 Asahi Research Center Co., Ltd.* Information and analysis ¥ 1,000 100.0 Asahi Kasei Engineering Corp.* Plant, equipment, process engineering ¥ 400 100.0 Asahi Kasei Advance Corp.* Sale of Asahi Kasei products ¥ 500 100.0 Asahi Kasei Amidas Co., Ltd.* Employment agency, consulting ¥ 80 100.0 AJS Inc. Computer software, IT systems ¥ 800 49.0 Asahi Yukizai Corp. Synthetic resin, fabricated plastic products ¥ 5,000 30.6 Asahi Kasei America, Inc.* Business support services US$ 0.1 100.0 Asahi Kasei Holdings US, Inc.* Holding company of ZOLL US$ 1,723** 100.0 Crystal IS, Inc.* Development of aluminum nitride substrates and UV LEDs US$ 31.9** 100.0 Asahi Kasei (China) Co., Ltd.* Investment and business support services CNY 275 100.0 Asahi Kasei India Pvt. Ltd. Business support services INR 45 100.0 Asahi Kasei Energy Storage Materials, Inc.* Holding company of Polypore International, LP US$ 2,256** 100.0 * Consolidated subsidiary ** Including capital reserve Asahi Kasei Report 2016 111 Company Information ■ Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2016) Company Name Asahi Kasei Corporation Date of Establishment May 21, 1931 Paid-in Capital ¥103,389 million Employees 32,821 (consolidated) 1,178 (non-consolidated) ■ Asahi Kasei Group Offices Asahi Kasei Corporation Core Operating Companies Tokyo Head Office Asahi Kasei Microdevices 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Phone: +81-3-3296-3000 Phone: +81-3-3296-3911 Fax: +81-3-3296-3161 Asahi Kasei Homes Asahi Kasei (China) Co., Ltd. 1-24-1 Nishi-shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku 8/F, One ICC Tokyo 160-8345 Japan Shanghai International Commerce Centre Phone: +81-3-3344-7111 No. 999 Huai Hai Zhong Road Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Shanghai 200031 China 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku Phone: +86-21-6391-6111 Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Fax: +86-21-6391-6686 Phone: +81-3-3296-3500 Beijing Office Asahi Kasei Pharma Room 1407 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku New China Insurance Tower Tokyo 101-8101 Japan No. 12 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue Phone: +81-3-3296-3600 Chao Yang District Beijing 100022 China Asahi Kasei Medical Phone: +86-10-6569-3939 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku Fax: +86-10-6569-3938 Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Phone: +81-3-3296-3750 Asahi Kasei America, Inc. 800 Third Avenue, 30th Floor ZOLL Medical Corporation New York, NY 10022 USA 269 Mill Rd., Chelmsford, Phone: +1-212-371-9900 MA 01824-4105 USA Fax: +1-212-371-9050 Phone: +1-978-421-9655 Asahi Kasei Europe GmbH Am Seestern 4, 40547 Düsseldorf, Germany Phone: +49-211-8822-030 Fax: +49-211-8822-0333 Asahi Kasei India Pvt. Ltd. The Capital 801C, Plot No. C70, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051 India Phone: +91-22-6710-3962 112 Asahi Kasei Report 2016 Investors Information (As of March 31, 2016) Stock Listing Tokyo Largest Shareholders % of equity* Stock Code 3407 Nippon Life Insurance Co. 5.23 Authorized Shares 4,000,000,000 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 5.04 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 3.94 Outstanding Shares 1,402,616,332 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. 2.53 Transfer Agent Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Ltd. Asahi Kasei Group Employee Stockholding Assn. 2.47 Independent Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata LLC Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 9) 2.08 Number of Shareholders 90,122 Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 1.45 Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 1.45 Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. 1.42 Retirement Benefit Trust (Mizuho Bank account) Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. 1.40 * Percentage of equity ownership after exclusion of treasury stock. In this report, the TM symbol indicates a trademark or registered trademark of Asahi Kasei Corporation, affiliated companies, or third parties granting rights to Asahi Kasei Corporation or affiliated companies. Asahi Kasei IR Website Asahi Kasei’s financial results and other materials for investors are available in our IR website. http://www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/ir Asahi Kasei Report 2016 113 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Corporate Communications www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en Tel: +81-3-3296-3008, Fax: +81-3-3296-3162 Printed in Japan 2016.11
