UN Global Compact – Freshfields’ annual Communication on Progress January 2017 Contents Introduction................................................................ 1 Human rights ............................................................. 2 Labour........................................................................ 5 Environment .............................................................. 8 Anti-corruption .........................................................10 ‘ For us, responsible business is shorthand for the way we should work if we want to carry on being successful in the long term.’ Edward Braham Introduction As lawyers we are naturally drawn to the law. 2016 was an important year for the firm’s commitment to responsible This is why we have chosen business. This year we launched our first integrated responsible Article 1 of the UN business strategy which describes the way we deliver value both to Declaration of Human society and to our own people. For us, responsible business is Rights as the guiding shorthand for the way we should work if we want to carry on being principle of our responsible successful in the long term. It is who we are as a firm and what we business approach: stand for. As lawyers we are naturally drawn to the law. This is why we have ‘…all human beings are chosen Article 1 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights as the guiding born free and equal in principle of our responsible business approach. dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason To read our strategy and see examples of what we are doing to deliver on it please visit our responsible business website. and conscience and should act towards one another in Some of the highlights of the last year include our ongoing efforts to a spirit of brotherhood.’ increase the firm’s diversity, with a particular focus on gender, ethnicity and sexual orientation; helping young people from disadvantaged backgrounds realise their potential; protecting the rights of refugees; endorsing efforts to give ex-offenders and the long-term unemployed access to the workplace; and the start of Freshfields’ 10-year carbon offsetting project in East Africa. None of this would have been possible without the individual commitment of our people. In the last year:  36 per cent of our staff participated in community and pro bono volunteering;  our people gave nearly 68,000 hours of volunteering time;  our total community and pro bono contribution was nearly £14 million supporting 778 organisations; and  our global community investment programmes directly benefitted over 11,467 individuals in our local communities. Our commitment to responsible business has grown in parallel with our support for the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) which have provided both guidance and inspiration since we first became signatories in 2009. We are delighted to remain signatories and supporters of the UNGC’s principles. In this annual Communication on Progress we have bought together the 4 categories of the UNGC principles (human rights, labour, anti-corruption and the environment) with our own responsible business priorities: acting responsibly as a business and supporting access to justice and access to opportunity for our target groups. I hope you will enjoy reading it and finding out more about our work. Edward Braham Senior Partner 1 Human rights Indeed we have taken Article 1 as our guiding principle; as: Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the ‘All humans are born free protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and equal in dignity and Principle 2: businesses should make sure that they are not rights. They are endowed complicit in human rights abuses; and with reason and conscience and should act towards one Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of another in a spirit of association and the effective recognition of the right to brotherhood.’ collective bargaining. Promoting human rights has been a long term goal for us. We have been a proud signatory of the UNGC since 2009 and our policies and practices reflect the UNGC, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Freshfields has established a Global Business and Human Rights team represented by members of the firm from across our offices and practice groups. The team assists clients with risk analysis and compliance, acts as a focus for the firm’s knowledge and practice development in the field of human rights and supports the firm’s management in considering all human rights issues. We help clients design appropriate supply chain due diligence procedures and mitigation measures and advise them on ongoing compliance matters. Our updates and analysis provide insight on commercial human rights issues; current legal requirements and emerging expectations, including those framed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; developments in human rights-related investigations, complaints and litigation; human rights-focused international trade and sanctions measures; and defining what it means to be a responsible corporate player in the global economy. Our client engagement letters refer to the principles of the UNGC. We check new clients and mandates to consider:  their reputation;  anti-bribery and corruption;  sanctions;  other client relationships/conflicts; and  our suitability to act. Additionally, our acceptance procedures seek to identify and address human rights issues in prospective mandates with the assistance of the Global Business and Human Rights team. Building on a pilot project conducted in 2014-15, we are developing systems and procedures for screening all new mandates from a human rights perspective, having regard to the UN Guiding Principles and the learning and recommendations of the International Bar Association’s Practical Guide on Business and Human Rights for Business Lawyers (2016). Our commitment to upholding human rights is part of our commitment to our clients themselves. Our mandate acceptance procedures are being developing not as obstacles to assisting clients 2 but as ways of supporting them ‎by the identification, and addressing, at the outset of a prospective deal or new commercial relationship any human rights issues which may affect their own compliance situation. We also support the protection of human rights through our pro bono practice. We have provided advice to those without a voice through Human Rights First and the Asylum Support Appeals Project (ASAP) as well as many others. Read more about our work with ASAP here. We are extending our work on asylum support to Manchester through our recently established office. Freshfields seeks to ensure that the working conditions at the suppliers of the products and services we purchase meet the standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and international human rights, which include but are not limited to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For more on our approach to managing human rights in our supply chain, please see the labour section. As part of our approach to responsible procurement, we have also responded to the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act UK. Because we are a global business with global supply chains, we adopt the international law definitions of forced labour and human trafficking as the most apt for framing our response to modern slavery as part of our Responsible Business strategy and fulfilling our responsibilities under the Act. The relevant UK criminal offences are addressed by us accordingly. We have supplier questions which deal specifically with modern slavery. We have established a working group, reporting to our senior partner and chaired by a partner, comprised of representatives from the following business functions:  Procurement;  Risk;  Corporate Responsibility;  Human Resources; and  Global Business and Human Rights. The group also has external members to ensure we have an independent voice and to demonstrate transparency. This group has been established to carry out the following tasks:  oversee the development of appropriate training for relevant people within the business to raise awareness of modern slavery and of our policies and procedures;  review currently available information about our global business and supply chains relevant to modern slavery issues;  identify and, where practical, address gaps in that information;  using that information, undertake ‘heat mapping’ to establish operations, situations and/or suppliers that represent a particular risk due to their location, industry or other characteristics;  review existing procurement procedures, eg supplier questionnaires and codes of conduct, and other relevant internal 3 policies and procedures (eg whistleblowing policy) and make recommendations for any appropriate changes;  oversee focused due diligence where potential issues are identified and make recommendations as to how those issues should be dealt with;  capture learning from the group’s work and make recommendations on integrating the lessons learnt into our internal systems and procedures; and  recommend appropriate key performance indicators to be included in future statements. Our full statement can be found here. 4 Labour Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment. We have Responsible Business Procurement Guidelines in place. These are based upon the 10 UNGC principles and outline how we work with our suppliers and what we expect from them. We base our supplier selection on objective and transparent criteria that include appropriate consideration of environmental, social and ethical performance. We do not use our relationships with clients to inappropriately influence our decision on the selection of suppliers. We will also cease trading with suppliers showing persistent disregard for important elements of environmental, social and ethical performance. We have processes in place to ensure that our contractor contracts integrate the London Living Wage and Living Wage in our London and Manchester offices. We expect our suppliers to adopt and demonstrate the following standards of social compliance and ensure that they also apply within their supply chain:  Child Labour: There shall be no use of child labour, and specifically there will be compliance with relevant ILO standards. Specifically, Freshfields upholds ILO Convention 138 on the Minimum Age, and Convention 182 on the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour and expects all our suppliers and contractors to work in line with these standards.  Forced Labour: There should be no forced, bonded or involuntary labour and no workers are required to lodge ‘deposits’ or identity papers with their employers and should be able to leave after giving reasonable notice.  Health, Safety and Hygiene: All employees should work in an environment that is both safe and healthy. Adequate steps should be taken to prevent accidents occurring in the normal course of work. Workers should receive suitable health and safety training and have access to clean toilet facilities and clean drinking water as required.  Discipline: Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of physical abuse, sexual or other harassment and verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation is not acceptable. Disciplinary and grievance procedures shall be clearly documented and communicated to all employees. All disciplinary measures of a serious nature shall be recorded.  Freedom of Association and the right to collective bargaining: All workers and employers have the right to form and join a trade union of their choice and use collective bargaining as a constructive forum for addressing working conditions and 5 terms of employment and relations between employers and workers, or their respective organisations.  Working Hours: Working hours should not be excessive and shall comply with relevant national laws.  Equality of Treatment: Organisations will have a clear policy which seeks to eliminate discrimination in access to employment opportunities, training and working conditions, on grounds of race, colour, gender, age, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, disability or social origin and promote equality of opportunity and treatment.  Remuneration: Wages and benefits afforded to workers should meet national and local standards. Workers should be provided with clear written information on their pay and conditions. Excessive deductions on wages shall not be permitted as a disciplinary measure.  Employment terms: All workers should be provided with written contracts that must detail the terms and conditions of their employment. Contracts should be clearly understandable to each worker. Work required to be performed should be on the basis of recognised employment law and practice.  Community Impact: Organisations should operate in a manner that creates the least negative impact on their local communities and are encouraged to support the communities in which they operate through appropriate community initiatives. It is understood that organisations must comply with all applicable laws and regulations and where there is conflict between these and this policy then the highest standards linked with such laws and regulations will be applied. Where there is no such conflict we would expect that the provisions that give the greatest protection to workers will be applied. We aim to work collaboratively with our suppliers to improve environmental, social and ethical standards with the aim of realising continuous improvement in all three areas for both our suppliers and ourselves. We also want to ensure that supplier’s staff that work on our premises are treated with respect. We uphold equality and diversity with our people, clients, suppliers and stakeholders. All our staff have to observe our policies in this area. Our partners and global people partner hold the ultimate responsibility to make sure we comply with this. The success of our firm is founded on our reputation for quality, trust and integrity wherever we operate. We provide guidance to all employees on what to do if any form of wrongdoing is suspected, internally or externally. We have a global whistle blowing policy that complies with our legal obligations. We want to create a welcoming, positive and supportive environment in which all can flourish, regardless of their gender, race or ethnicity, background, religion, physical abilities, sexual orientation or gender identity. Our diversity and inclusion strategy covers all areas of diversity: gender, race, sexual orientation, religion, disability and age. Our focus areas reflect those that are most material to our business: 6  gender diversity;  race, ethnicity and social mobility; and  supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. The global diversity and inclusion team is responsible for taking ownership of the firm's strategy and providing expert guidance to key stakeholders both internally and externally. We monitor and report on our progress and provide support and guidance to the firm's employee networks. These include a Women’s network, Halo our LGBT+ network, and our Black Affinity Network. We hold training and events to raise awareness of all aspects of our diversity and inclusion programme. 7 Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We aim to protect the environment by:  managing our own environmental impact;  supporting our clients on their journey to a low carbon economy; and  managing the environmental impact of our supply chain. We take a precautionary approach to managing our environmental impact. Our global environment policy outlines our aims to: reduce our use of energy, water, and paper; reduce our business travel; create less waste and procure our goods and services responsibly. Our London office is certified to the environmental management system ISO14001 and the ISO 50001 standard for energy management. We have an environmental working group, made up of representatives of a number of business departments, including administration, premises, corporate responsibility, reprographics, procurement and waste management. The working group meets monthly to review progress against our aims and objectives. We have coordinators in place in our international offices who are responsible for managing aspects of our environmental impact as well as collating data for our the firm’s annual carbon footprint. In the past year we have launched a Green Guide to support our coordinators in achieving our environmental goals. The firm has been carbon neutral since 2007. In 2015 we launched our new innovative carbon offsetting programme Freshfields Reforestation in East Africa Programme, REAP, through which offsets are generated through the planting of trees on smallholder farms. Carbon is sequestered, and the farming communities benefit from better livelihoods due to improved soils, increased crop yields and diversification of income. Read more about REAP here. Our gross carbon footprint for the last three years: Year 2013/14 2014/15 2015/6 Tonnes C02e 28,543 28,611 26,249 One of the ways in which we aim to promote greater environmental responsibility is through the responsible management of our supply chains. We launched a global procurement policy in 2013 along with responsible procurement guidelines. These guidelines reflect the UNGC principles and outline what we expect from suppliers, including environmental considerations. Over the past year, we have trained 44 employees (with purchasing responsibilities) on our policies, 8 guidelines and responsible procurement. All new and existing contracts contain standard clauses on responsible business. We ask all new suppliers to sign up to a supplier portal and complete a questionnaire containing social and environmental questions. We are in the process of reviewing the questionnaire and will be improving our approach. See more on our approach to procurement in the Labour section. We raise awareness of environmental issues with our employees through supporting Earth Hour and World Environment Day each year. Supporting our clients on their journey to a low carbon economy. We help our clients respond to a variety of challenges including climate change. Our low carbon group advises on large-scale, innovative infrastructure projects designed to deliver the low carbon economy and other measures to decarbonise electricity production and consumption such as advice on renewables, carbon capture and trading and energy conservation. We are engaging with clients on the outcomes of COP21 and advising on the business opportunities it presents as well as the operational implications for their own business operations. Over the past year our team has been particularly active in off-shore wind projects in Europe and continues to contribute to the legal literature on the regulation of Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). 9 Anti-corruption Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We recognise that bribery and corruption represent serious threats to economic growth, individual livelihoods and civil society across the world and that lawyers play a vital role in training, educating and supporting the profession in upholding the highest levels of integrity and ethical standards. We have worked alongside the Law Society of England and Wales, the Council of Bars and Law Societies of Europe and the International Bar Association in their efforts to share knowledge, skills and intelligence to educate the wider profession on money laundering and bribery and corruption risk. We are committed to continuing to work with the legal profession in its efforts to facilitate and support national and international co-operation across all sectors and improve monitoring and enforcement. Accordingly, we demand the highest standards of ethical conduct from our partners, employees and others in the conduct of our business and we require that all such persons observe the requirements of all applicable anti-bribery laws (including the UK Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and our anti-bribery policy and procedures, which include the anti-bribery principles set out below:  we do not permit the giving or receiving of bribes, which includes the making of facilitation payments, even if they are considered to be ‘customary’ in the relevant country;  we expect that the offer or acceptance of gifts or hospitality will be reasonable and proportionate. Whilst gifts and hospitality can be seen as an appropriate business-related activity, they should never be given as a bribe;  we expect that expenses or disbursements will be reasonable and bona fide and must not be intended to disguise bribes or facilitation payments;  we do not permit the payment or giving of any direct or indirect payments, gifts or other advantages on our behalf or on behalf of our clients to political organisations or to individuals engaged in politics knowing or having reason to believe that all or any portion of such money, gift or advantage is for the purposes of influencing that organisation or individual in the performance of their functions in order to obtain or retain business; and  we do not permit the use of charitable contributions and sponsorships as a means of disguising bribery. In addition, in some jurisdictions we have to report any suspicion of money laundering and bribery. Our internal policies and procedures also reflect these requirements. Breaches of our anti-bribery policy and procedures may result in disciplinary action being taken, up to and including dismissal. We are also subject to local bar associations’ and law societies’ ethical duties, so our lawyers could be debarred or struck off if they are involved in corruption. 10 Resources Responsible Business Website http://www.freshfields.com/en/global/responsible_business/home/ Freshfields working with ASAP http://www.freshfields.com/en/global/responsible_business/case_stu dy_-_asap/?LangType=2057 Freshfields Modern Slavery Act Statement 2016 http://www.freshfields.com/support/supply_chains.aspx Freshfields Environment Policy 2016 http://www.freshfields.com/uploadedFiles/Locations/Global/Who_w e_are_new/CR_Reporting/FBD%20Environment%20Policy%202015. pdf Freshfields’ Reforestation in East Africa Programme http://www.freshfields.com/en/global/responsible_business/case_stu dy_-_Freshfields_Reforestation_in_East_Africa/?LangType=2057 Thank you 11 freshfields.com The information and opinions contained in this document are not intended to be a comprehensive study, nor to provide legal advice, and should not be relied on or treated as a substitute for specific advice concerning individual situations. This document speaks as of its date and does not reflect any changes in law or practice after that date. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC334789. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. For regulatory information please refer to freshfields.com/support/legalnotice. A list of the members (and of the non-members who are designated as partners) of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP is available for inspection at its registered office, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS. Any reference to a partner means a member, or a consultant or employee with equivalent standing and qualifications, of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities. © Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 2017 12
