2017 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact January 2017 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Legend 2016 Release of Human Rights 2016 Political Jan Risk Outlook Environment Politics Cross-cutting Feb Political Risk Outlook Contents 2016 Risk. Resilience. Reputation. RISK RESILIENCE REPUTATION Release of 6 January 2016 2016 Human Rights Outlook Sponsorship of ENG Sustainable HUMAN RIGHTS Mar Development in the Food and OUTLOOK Release of Beverage Industry 2016 Natural Hazards Dataset Apr Release of Labour Rights Indices maplecroft.com Launch of Institutional Investment May 4 6 8 Service Content update on Human Rights Business Dilemma Forum Jun Launch of Girl Stats Launch of Commodity Risk Service Jul Aug Launch of Modern Slavery Index Sep Sponsorship of Human Release of Environmental Rights Innovation Forum Oct Risks Dataset, including: Statement of Support Our approach to 2016 Air Quality Index Highlights Heat Stress Index sustainability Launch of new Portal Climate Change Exposure Index Biodiversity Index Nov 9 13 18 Dec Release of Civil and Political Rights Indices Sponsorship of Responsible Investor Americas Forum UNGC Principles & Community Environment Sustainable Development Goals 23 31 38 Support for women’s People Products empowerment 2 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress About Verisk Maplecroft “ Verisk Maplecroft helps global organisations make sense of the complex world they work in by giving them the critical insight they need to understand the key issues impacting organisational resilience, sustainable sourcing and investment decisions. For over 10 years, we have worked hand-in-hand with the world’s most sophisticated brands to develop a unique portfolio of global risk analytics, expert insight and user-centric platforms. These resources enable us to deliver a holistic evaluation of the key strategic, operational and reputational risks facing multinational companies, their suppliers and the raw materials they source for any location worldwide. These resources give companies a competitive edge in their decisionmaking across critical functions of their business, including: responsible procurement, compliance, market entry, security, sustainability, human rights due diligence and ESG investing. Company name Email Number of employees Verisk Maplecroft info@maplecroft.com 99 employees Address Web address Sector 1 Henry Street www.maplecroft.com Professional, scientific and Bath technical services BA1 1JS UK Submission date Contact name 27 January 2017 Gus MacFarlane Telephone Membership date Contact position +44 (0) 1225 420 000 11 February 2005 Director © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 3 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Statement of Support “ Verisk Maplecroft remains wholly committed to sustainability and corporate citizenship as evidenced by the tremendous effort and impact that we outline in this report. To ensure that we aligned our efforts behind our core goals, a Corporate Social Responsibly team was elected by their peers last year to focus and drive our program. In 2016, this group was responsible for developing our first ever comprehensive CSR strategy, which has now been implemented across the business and incorporates four key pillars: Community, Environment, Sondra Scott, People and Products. President, The focus brought by this strategy, coupled with a greater investment Verisk Maplecroft due to being part of the larger Verisk organisation, ensured our ongoing Verisk Maplecroft is not adherence to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. only actively adhering to the principles but consistently In addition to expanding and improving existing programs we launched innovating to ensure better several new initiatives in 2016 including: outcomes for our employees and the communities with ■■ An ethnicity working group which aims to better understand if which we engage. ethnicity and diversity issues exist within our company, and to make recommendations to address obstacles that limit equal opportunities. ■■ A flexible working policy that provides employees with the ability to change their working patterns or location to facilitate greater balance between work and personal commitments. ■■ A sustainable procurement policy for food, catering and cleaning products used in our offices. Our aim is to purchase products with the highest ethical and environmental standards possible. Our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact is also clearly demonstrated through our extensive range of innovative risk management products and services. We are committed to developing and delivering products and services that help our clients manage a range of risks and implement responsible and sustainable business solutions. 4 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress In addition to our ongoing investment in existing There are a variety of other ways in which we offerings, we launched several new products and support the principles of the United Nations Global services in 2016. Some highlights include: Compact, including: ■■ Commodity Risk Service to help clients identify ■■ Our ongoing partnership with the United Nations ESG risks in the sourcing of raw materials. In Global Compact to host, develop and manage the particular, this helps companies assess risks Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum beyond the first tier of their supply chain, by (HRBDF), with funding from the GE Foundation. providing data and insights relating to hard and soft VeriskMaplecroft charges discounted fees for this commodities across a range of countries. research ■■ Institutional Investment Service developed ■■ Collaboration with UNICEF on the development of specifically for the ESG+P analysts in the the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas institutional investor community. This service ■■ Contribution to thought-leadership and the helps analysts and portfolio managers track dissemination of research relating to business and ESG+P risks as part of their commitment to human rights, as well as the environment. sustainable investment. Another example is the publicly available Girl Stats We endeavour to share the salient conclusions of platform, which was officially launched in June 2016 our research with a broad range of stakeholders with generous funding from our parent organisation through the public domain in order to raise Verisk Analytics. Girl Stats help companies awareness of the key social, environmental and understand the issues that girls face around the governance risks found across the world. We do world, and how their operations can either positively this via our significant and growing presence in the or negatively impact their lives. international media, through free thought leadership on our public website and through our conference This Communication on Progress outlines our and public speaking engagements. continued commitment to the aims and interests of the United Nations Global Compact. As you will see In addition, we continue to support the principles from this report, Verisk Maplecroft is not only actively through our own corporate values which now reflect adhering to the principles but consistently innovating Verisk’s comprehensive nine point value framework. to ensure better outcomes for our employees and the The first two values are Respect for the Individual communities with which we engage. We have strong and Integrity; both of which speak directly to the backers at Verisk who understand that investing in compact principles. these programs is critical to the sustained growth and success of Verisk Maplecroft and the individuals that make up the company. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Lyn Prentice, our office manager in Bath, for her support in getting our initiatives off the ground, as well as the CSR Working Group for their hard work throughout the year. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 5 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Our Approach to Sustainability Executive summary Photo: Team members at work at Avon Wildlife Trust “ Since the acquisition of our company by Verisk Analytics in 2014, we have continued to develop and strengthen our policies, commitments and actions to ensure we live up to not only our own values, but those of the United Nations Global Compact. Michelle Carpenter, Following this acquisition, we have adopted Verisk’s corporate values. Human Rights Analyst and CSR These values, outlined below, represent the standard to which we hold Working Group member ourselves both in our dealings internally, and when working externally We adopt a collaborative with clients and in our local communities. approach to sustainability and corporate social responsibility, As part of our integration into the Verisk family of companies, we have working closely with both our aligned our policies and processes to those used by Verisk Analytics parent and sister companies to and our sister company, Wood Mackenzie. This represents an adoption ensure that our initiatives of more robust and mature human resources policies and management are representative of our corporate values. systems, as well as new corporate social responsibility commitments. Our employee handbook defines our commitments and expectations in relation to sustainability and corporate citizenship. This handbook was Corporate Values revised in 2016 to include more robust and comprehensive policies for Respect for the Individual staff. These commitments and expectations are organised around four pillars: Integrity ■■ Human rights ■■ Environment Passion ■■ Labour standards ■■ Transparency and disclosure Persistence Each of these pillars explicitly references how we strive to support Confidence / Humility the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. While Excellence corporate citizenship is embedded across our organisation, it is ultimately the responsibility of both our human resources and Teamwork operational leadership teams to implement and enforce the policies Source: Verisk Analytics outlined in our employee handbook. 6 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Figure 1: Summary of framework A Ve r i s k A n a l y t i c s B u s i n e s s Gender Ethnicity Wellness Community Greenhouse Gas Working Working Working Engagement Monitoring Team Group Group Group Steering Committee Verisk Maplecroft CSR Working Group Source: Verisk Maplecroft New CSR Working Group As part of our commitment to corporate social responsibility, we have also created an internal CSR Working Group, comprised of five members of staff from our Bath and London offices. In 2016, this group was responsible for developing our first ever comprehensive CSR strategy, which was approved by our operational leadership team in May. The strategy has now been implemented across the business and incorporates four key pillars: Community, Environment, People and Products. Within each of these four pillars in the strategy document, we outline the actions we take to support local community initiatives, reduce our impact on the environment, support the development and wellbeing of our staff and deliver products that support responsible business practices. Much of this is done through close engagement with the various working groups and steering committees across the Verisk family. This Communication on Progress will further demonstrate our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact through each of our four CSR pillars. The 4 pillars of Maplecroft CSR Community Environment People Products © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 7 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress 2016 Highlights Legend 2016 Release of Human Rights 2016 Political Jan Risk Outlook Environment Politics Cross-cutting Feb Political Risk Outlook 2016 Risk. Resilience. Reputation. RISK RESILIENCE REPUTATION Release of 6 January 2016 2016 Human Rights Outlook Sponsorship of ENG Sustainable HUMAN RIGHTS Mar Development in the Food and OUTLOOK Release of Beverage Industry 2016 Natural Hazards Dataset Apr Release of Labour Rights Indices maplecroft.com Launch of Institutional Investment May Service Content update on Human Rights Business Dilemma Forum Jun Launch of Girl Stats Launch of Commodity Risk Service Jul Aug Launch of Modern Slavery Index Sep Sponsorship of Human Release of Environmental Rights Innovation Forum Oct Risks Dataset, including: Air Quality Index Heat Stress Index Launch of new Portal Climate Change Exposure Index Biodiversity Index Nov Release of Civil and Political Dec Rights Indices Sponsorship of Responsible Investor Americas Forum 8 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress UNGC Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 2 Businesses should make sure that they are support and respect not complicit in human the protection of rights abuses. internationally proclaimed human rights; and Labour Principle 3: Principle 4: 3 4 Businesses should the elimination of all uphold the freedom of forms of forced and association and the compulsory labour; effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 5: Principle 6: 5 6 the effective abolition of the elimination of child labour; and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Principle 8: 7 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives support a precautionary to promote greater approach to environmental environmental responsibility; and challenges; Anti-Corruption Principle 9: Principle 10: 9 10 encourage the Businesses should work development and against corruption in all diffusion of its forms, including environmentally extortion and bribery. friendly technologies. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 9 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Sustainable Development Goals 10 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress UNGC Principles & Verisk Maplecroft Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following United Nations Global Compact Principles through the implementation of the four pillars of our CSR strategy. Community Principle 1: Principle 8: 1 Businesses should support and respect 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater the protection of internationally proclaimed environmental responsibility human rights Environment Principle 7: Principle 8: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental challenges environmental responsibility People Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 Make sure that they are not the protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses. human rights Principle 3: Principle 4: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and association and the effective recognition of compulsory labour the right to collective bargaining Principle 5: Principle 6: 5 The effective abolition of child labour 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 10: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Products Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 Make sure that they are not the protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses human rights Principle 4: Principle 5: 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 5 The effective abolition of child labour compulsory labour Principle 6: Principle 7: 6 The elimination of discrimination in 7 Businesses should support a precautionary respect of employment and occupation approach to environmental challenges Principle 9: Principle 10: 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 10 Businesses should work against corruption in environmentally friendly technologies all its forms, including extortion and bribery © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 11 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Sustainable Development Goals & Verisk Maplecroft Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following Sustainable Development Goals through the implementation of the four pillars of our CSR strategy. Community Environment People Products 12 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress 1 Community Executive summary Photo: Verisk Maplecroft’s active participation in Save the Children’s Christmas Jumper Day 2016. “ Our commitment to the community contributes to the following: UNGC Principles Principle 1 Principle 8 Melanie Auker Sustainable Development Goals Analyst Goal 2 Goal 5 Supporting a variety Goal 10 Goal 15 of causes is a fundamental part of charitable giving at Verisk Maplecroft. We organise Our commitment a range of events that enable We recognise that a commitment to our communities not only benefits colleagues to contribute to different charities the local areas in which we work, but also helps to motivate and engage and organisations our staff. We are committed to being a community-friendly business, throughout the year. playing an active and supportive role in the areas in which we operate. We encourage our staff members to engage with local organisations and institutions, through volunteer work, fundraising and knowledge sharing. This commitment is outlined in our CSR strategy, the mission of which is to benefit our team, local communities and our environment. Engagement with local communities is also embedded in our corporate culture through our parent company, Verisk Analytics, which strongly encourages all business units to take an active role in local communities. As part of this commitment, Verisk Analytics runs an annual Community Engagement Week; a week-long event promoting local volunteer opportunities for all employees. During Community Engagement Week, each member of staff is entitled to a paid day off to donate their time to a local cause. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 13 1 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Community In 2016, the participation of 38 staff members in this process equated to an equivalent value contribution by Verisk Maplecroft of approximately GBP£48,650. We also provide an additional stipend that staff can use to cover the cost of any necessary supplies, travel and lunch. In 2016, the Verisk Maplecroft / Wood Mackenzie Community Engagement Steering Committee was formed, comprised of representatives from both business units. This committee, led by Stephen Halliday, Group President of Verisk Analytics, is responsible for coordinating and promoting community engagement activities across Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie. As part of this aim, the group developed a charter that outlines its commitment, responsibilities and key areas of focus for 2017. As part of an overarching commitment to supporting local communities, our parent company Verisk Analytics continues to support thousands of causes through its Matching Gifts Programme. By matching the Photo: Meal preperation at Julian house, Bath. donations made by both active and retired employees and directors, as well as their spouses, Verisk enables staff to double their contributions to charitable organisations. This is subject to a limit of £3,500 per employee and spouse, and £1,750 per retired employee and spouse. Our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, also demonstrates its commitment to communities through its donation ‘top ups’ programme, which Verisk Maplecroft employees can take part in. Top ups differ from Verisk gift matching in that they can be applied to all donations or funds raised, not those just directly contributed by staff or their spouse. They can also be used to contribute towards the costs associated with volunteer activities. All top ups are subject to approval by the Verisk Maplecroft / Wood Mackenzie Community Engagement Steering Committee. Verisk Maplecroft also helps clients to fulfil their own commitment to local communities through the delivery of our products and services to clients. Our human rights and environment offerings help companies to develop policies and procedures relating to the communities and environments in which they operate. We also help companies to effectively communicate their strategies internally and externally to build reputational advantage for investors, consumers and local communities (for more information, see Products and services section). Our actions in 2016 Volunteering in the local community In 2016, 38 Verisk Maplecroft staff took part in Community Engagement Week across three locations: Bath, Calgary and New York. 14 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Community 1 Photo: Members of Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie staff in Calgary supporting the Stephen’s Backpacks Society Bath (United Kingdom): 33 members of staff ■■ Borderlands: To provide some support to refugees participated in a number of events including in our area, particularly as the European refugee conservation work at Avon Wildlife Trust’s Folly crises continues. This initiative also enabled staff Farm Centre in the Mendips, meal provision for the with an interest in migration and integration to meet homeless at the Julian House charity in Bath and new arrivals in the area and help them settle into support work at Borderlands refugee centre in Bristol. life in the South West of England. This opportunity These projects were selected for a number not only helped our staff to further their knowledge of reasons: of the refugee crisis by hearing first-hand accounts from those using the centre, but also helped them ■■ Avon Wildlife Trust: To fulfil our commitment gain a deeper understanding into the unique needs to the principle of environmental protection. This of refugees in our local communities. initiative also enabled staff with an interest in environmental issues to take part in a project that Calgary (Canada): Two members of staff from was conservation-focused. our Calgary office collected gifts for the Stephen’s Backpacks Society, a charity that provides Christmas ■■ Julian House: To engage with and learn more about gifts for children in need. Our team also organised a the local organisations operating in the Bath area. games session with children from the Boys and Girls This event also enabled staff who enjoy cooking Club of Calgary, which works with young people to to prepare meals for those in need within the Bath overcome barriers, build positive relationships and area. This opportunity not only allowed staff to spend develop skills and confidence. Staff in Calgary chose the day doing something they are passionate about, to provide their help to these organisations to benefit but also to meet local people in their area who disadvantaged children in the city. Likewise, working use the services of Julian House, which is located with children also provided the opportunity for staff to directly across the road from our Bath office. develop their mentoring and leadership skills, while helping those they were working with to build confidence. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 15 1 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Community “ New York (United States): Three members of staff from our New York office worked with Grand Central Neighbourhood Social Services to deliver meal services to the homeless. The office also participated in a food drive which collected goods for community food programmes, David Ransom food pantries and soup kitchens. This gave staff who enjoy cooking an Business Development Executive opportunity to spend time doing something they enjoy, as well as meet those within their community who are in need of meal Community engagement is provision services. still in its infancy at Verisk Maplecroft. However, we Donating to worthy causes recognise its importance and aim to optimise the benefits we Over the course of the year, Verisk Maplecroft staff in London and Bath deliver to local communities in raised £616.71 (which includes £172,98 ‘matched’ by Verisk Analytics) a systematic, coordinated for causes including: and impactful way. ■■ Save the Children (chosen due to Verisk Maplecroft’s ongoing work in the children’s rights space, most notably in our delivery of the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas (see Products section)) ■■ Global Giving’s Ecuador Earthquake Relief Fund (chosen due to Wood Mackenzie’s strong business presence in the country) ■■ The RNLI Lifeboat Service in Scotland (chosen due to the participation of a Verisk Maplecroft staff member in the 2016 Loch Ness marathon) The money was raised through a variety of initiatives such as bake sales, sponsorship of staff in sporting events, calls for donations and the hosting of a Christmas jumper day. Following the consolidation of our Bath office onto one floor in December 2016, we donated a number of pieces of office furniture to The Chrysalis Project near Bristol. Our donation includes 56 desks, 8 Photo: Staff contributions to a charity bake sale pedestals, 4 chairs, 24 dividers and 25kg of stationery which was then redistributed to local organisations including charities, schools, voluntary groups and SMEs. Any pieces of furniture that could not be donated were recycled, supporting the environmental commitments laid out in our CSR strategy. Participating in the wider Community Engagement Steering Committee In 2016, the Verisk Maplecroft / Wood Mackenzie Community Engagement Steering Committee was formed, which has been instrumental in developing the global community engagement charter. Our membership of the group also helped to define key areas of development and focus for community engagement initiatives across Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie globally. Other key outcomes from the Steering Committee in 2016 included: 16 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Community 1 ■■ Development of a new ‘Fundraiser of the Year’ award, which was presented to a Wood Mackenzie staff member in Edinburgh who raised £4,700 for cancer charities in 2016 ■■ The development of a 2017 communications plan to increase engagement across both businesses ■■ Identification of key areas of focus for 2017, with key themes and target dates signed off by the group Future goals ■■ Increased staff engagement in Community Engagement Week, particularly in our London and Singapore offices. In 2016, we had a 38% participation rate. In 2017, we aim for this to be 50% or above ■■ Improve our data collection for better measurement of outcomes and impact Photo: Member of staff volunteering at Borderlands in Bristol © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 17 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress 2 Environment Photo: Verisk Maplecroft staff volunteering during Verisk Community Engagement Week at the Avon Wildlife Trust’s Folly Farm wildlife reserve, Somerset. The group created a bat feeding corridor for several endangered bat species. “ Our commitment to the community contributes to the following: UNGC Principles Principle 7 Principle 8 Olivia Dobson Sustainable Development Goals Head of Environment Verisk’s introduction Goal 12 Goal 13 of a greenhouse gas Goal 14 Goal 15 monitoring initiative is a big step forward in achieving our commitment to improving Our commitment environmental performance. We are committed to taking a precautionary approach with respect to environmental challenges and to undertaking initiatives that promote environmental responsibility. Our commitment to the environment Photo: Staff on a wildlife walk in August 2016 is detailed in both our employee handbook and CSR strategy, and requires us to work towards improving our environmental performance, preventing pollution wherever possible and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards. In this context, we aim to: ■■ Manage our processes so as to avoid or minimise waste ■■ Work to minimise our use of energy ■■ Minimise unnecessary travelling to reduce the impact of aircraft and road vehicle emissions ■■ Include environmental considerations in investment decisions ■■ Ensure all employees have an awareness of our environmental policy so that it is implemented effectively 18 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Environment 2 Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Ongoing implementation of which is part of our overarching commitment to corporate citizenship, which is reflective of the Verisk corporate values. Our parent company, Verisk Analytics, has also committed to reducing its environmental footprint and improving waste management and energy efficiency in business operations. As a part of the wider Verisk family, Verisk Maplecroft also commits to this. Specific targets as laid out in the Verisk 2015 Corporate Sustainability report are: ■■ Reduced energy consumption from business operations and travel ■■ Increase efficiency in business operations and travel ■■ Reduction in business waste ■■ Increased rates of recycling business waste In addition, in the environmental pillar of Verisk Maplecroft’s 2016 CSR Strategy we commit to: ■■ Measuring greenhouse emissions Photo: Our team taking part in conservation work ■■ Reviewing IT, heating and lighting equipment for energy efficiency ■■ Reviewing recycling arrangements ■■ Procument of sustainable food, catering and cleaning products Our actions in 2016 Introduction of a sustainable procurement policy We have continued to source sustainable stationery. All of our purchased paper products are recycled and printing paper carries the following certifications: ■■ Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) mix of recycled wood, wood harvested from sustainable sources and wood harvested from controlled sources ■■ EU Ecolabel for reduced life-cycle impact ■■ Woodland Carbon; a greenhouse gas (GHG) off-setting initiative operated by the Woodland Trust In 2016, we implemented a sustainable procurement policy for food, catering and cleaning products used in our offices. We aim to purchase products with the highest ethical and environment standards possible, such as those of organic origin (as defined under UK and EU law). © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 19 2 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Environment “ Food and drink items purchased for staff carry at least one of the following certifications: ■■ Organic; certified by the Soil Association, EcoCert or the Organic Food Federation Rory Clisby ■■ Fairtrade Foundation; compliant with fair trade standards relating to Environment Research Analyst and member of the CSR supply chain transparency and equitable pricing for producers Working Group ■■ Rainforest Alliance; compliant with Sustainable Agriculture Network We aim to be more standards for conservation, social wellbeing and sustainable responsible in our everyday farm management procurement. By purchasing sustainably-sourced goods, we As a part of our precautionary approach, we exclusively source demonstrate a commitment to everyday products that do not contain palm oil due to the high risks the precautionary principle for of environmental degradation and human rights violations associated minimising environmental risks when sourcing the products with the commodity. We also source cleaning products with a low we use. environmental impact, as well as recycled paper cleaning products. Furthering our efforts to recycle waste Throughout 2016, we continued to provide recycling facilities for our staff for domestic plastic, cardboard and metal packaging. This is collected on a weekly basis. We also initiated a drive amongst staff to increase our recycling rates by increasing the availability and accessibility of recycling collection points. All waste office paper is collected by a commercial confidential waste paper disposal company and is recycled. In 2016, the Bath office recycled 1.4 tonnes of paper.1 In addition, Verisk Maplecroft sent 0.7 tonnes of Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment (WEEE) for recycling in 2016. Of this, 21% was refurbished for reuse without further processing. The remaining materials, including metals, were recycled (See Figure 2: Percentage WEEE recovered, recycled and reused). In August 2016, we consolidated our Bath office onto one floor. As part of this move, unnecessary office furniture was donated to The Chrysalis Project in Bristol , including 4.2 tonnes of desks and a further 1.1 tonnes of pedestals, chairs and other office equipment. The majority of these materials (96%) were directly reused by charities, schools, small businesses and voluntary groups. Any unusable remaining materials were recycled. Improving our energy and resource efficiency Over the past year, staff numbers at our Bath office have fallen significantly. Around a third of the staff based in Bath have permanently relocated to offices operated by our sister companies elsewhere in the UK and abroad. A move towards greater flexibility has also seen a rise in and remote working. 20 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Environment 2 Figure 2: Percentage of WEEE recovered, recycled and reused 45 21 16 3 7 8 reused Metals Metals Inorganic Organic Processing/ (Ferrous) (Non-Ferrous) materials materials Smelting Source: Blackmore Ricotech Given this situation, we saw an expected fall in energy and resource consumption at our Bath office in the past twelve months. We can use the following metrics to measure future performance: The Verisk Maplecroft Cambridge House office in Bath is classified as Category D; with a score of 97/150 (lower scores indicate better energy efficiency). While the score is above what would be expected if the building was new, the score is below the benchmark for existing building stock of this type (109). The annual building emission rate is 99.02kg of CO2 equivalent per square meter.2 In 2016, the Verisk Maplecroft Bath office used 128,368 kilowatt hours of Figure 3: Annual electricity. Based on the UK energy generation mix, this is estimated to electricity consumption represent 52.9 tonnes CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) of greenhouse gas emissions. This represents a 10.6% reduction in electricity usage compared to the same period in 2015 (see Figure 3: Annual electricity consumption). Discounting seasonal fluctuations in energy demand, the long-term trend for reducing energy consumption indicates a consistent quarter-on-quarter fall in energy consumption kWh per month in the 2016 2015 period January 2015 to January 2016 (see Figure 4: Quarterly 128,368 143,545 electricity consumption). Initiatives that allowed us to reduce our energy usage include: ■■ Consolidation of staff on to single floor in August 2016 ■■ Switch from desktop computers to lower energy consuming laptops ■■ Efficient use of air conditioning and heating by not opening windows ■■ Drive to switch-off lighting in unoccupied rooms Paper consumption in Bath has also fallen in the past twelve months, partially reflecting a smaller workforce. In 2016, staff at Cambridge House used 45,000 sheets of paper. This a 40% reduction from a Source:Verisk Maplecroft comparable twelve-month period reported in 2015. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 21 2 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Environment Initiatives that allowed us to reduce our paper Figure 4: Quarterly electricity consumption usage include: 45 Kilowatt Hours (1,000 kWh) ■■ Exclusively delivering products to clients electronically 40 35 ■■ Continued company policy of reducing paper use, 30 including default double-sided printing 25 Reducing travel to cut carbon emissions 20 15 Due to the nature of our business, international travel 10 for sales and consulting staff is unavoidable. However, 5 the use of teleconferencing facilities is encouraged 0 wherever possible to avoid unnecessary travel. ar un ep ec ar un ep ec M5 r J 5 l S 5 t D 5 M6 r J 6 l S 6 t D 6 n 1 1 1 c 1 n 1 1 1 c 1 Ja 20 Ap 20 Ju 20 O 20 Ja 20 Ap 20 Ju 20 O 20 In 2016, Verisk Maplecroft employees flew a total of 478,847 miles, representing 127.4 tonnes CO2e Source: Verisk Maplecroft of greenhouse gas emissions. Until 2016, air travel was not being monitored in the context of our carbon emissions. As such, this figure will become the baseline for future comparison. However, we Verisk Analytics greenhouse gas (GHG) will continue to use teleconferencing and remote measurement initiative presentation technologies as our primary means for In 2016, Verisk Analytics, completed its first internal and external meetings. inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions During the past year we have continued to offer the across all of its business units* for the year 2015. cycle-to-work scheme to our UK-based employees. The inventory was calculated in accordance This is a government initiative that provides users with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a globally with a financial incentive to purchase a bicycle recognised standard developed by the World and use it to cycle to and from work. Through this Resources Institute and the World Business scheme, the government hopes to reduce pollution Council for Sustainable Development. and improve health by encouraging cycling as a Emissions from the Verisk family of companies means of commuting. totalled 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent Future goals (CO2e). As part of this process, Verisk Maplecroft submitted the emissions associated with energy ■■ Investigate off-setting methods for GHG emissions purchased for Cambridge House and emissions for all Verisk Maplecroft activities from air travel. ■■ Investigate potential supplies of 100% renewable Verisk Analytics is preparing to conduct a similar electricity for our Bath office group-wide analysis of 2016 emissions and ■■ Reduce air travel by staff where possible participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), ■■ Continue to reduce paper and electricity consumption a worldwide engagement effort to collect and analyse emissions data as the basis for strategic ■■ Roll out our environmental commitments to staff planning by policymakers and others. based in other locations *With the exception of the former Verisk Health 22 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress 3 People Executive summary Photo: Staff at our head office in Bath “ Our commitment to our People Strategy contributes to the following UNGC Principles Principle 1 Principle 2 Leigh Murphy Principle 3 Principle 4 Vice President of Human Resources Principle 5 Principle 6 The introduction of our new Principle 10 flexible working policy allows employees greater work/life Sustainable Development Goals balance. It also contributes to our gender diversity Goal 3 Goal 5 programme by helping Goal 8 Goal 10 to create a more flexible environment for all staff, including working parents. Our commitment Our business thrives when our people thrive. We are committed to treating all individuals fairly and with respect. This includes promoting equality and diversity, as well an inclusive and supportive environment for our staff and others closely associated with our work. We strive to generate an environment in which individual contribution to the company’s growth and success is identified, recognised and encouraged. In 2016, we launched our new employee handbook. The handbook confirms our commitments to the United Nations Global Compact principles of human rights, labour rights and anti-corruption, as well as to our corporate values of integrity and respect for the individual. Our handbook reaffirms this through our commitment to: © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 23 3 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress People ■■ Respecting human rights and helping our customers do the same through the provision of relevant human rights products and services ■■ Ensuring that all our employees have the right to freely join associations of their own choice (for the purposes of rule formation, administration and the election of representatives); and ■■ Ensuring that all our employees have the right to undertake collective bargaining through an established trade union ■■ Fighting against all forms of forced and compulsory labour and to the effective and responsible abolition of child labour ■■ Ensuring that no individual suffers discrimination, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of sex, (including pregnancy), marital status, religion or belief, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age, disability or otherwise; and to providing a working environment free from harassment and intimidation ■■ Enforcing a zero tolerance for corruption in all our operations, within our field of influence and through our work with our customers. This is outlined in our anti-bribery and corruption policy, which was updated in 2016 Supporting employee wellbeing through our new CSR strategy The People pillar of our new CSR strategy builds on our commitments to human rights and labour rights and aims to realise these through targeted actions. The People pillar is closely aligned with the Thrive programme run by our sister company, Wood Mackenzie. This is a comprehensive programme which incorporates gender and ethnic diversity, wellness and other engagement initiatives. Like Thrive, our People pillar includes a range of programmes and actions, which can be divided into two main categories: ■■ Diversity and Inclusion ■■ Wellness Our actions in 2016 New employee handbook extends employee benefits Throughout 2016, we made significant improvements to employees’ benefits and entitlements, which are reflected in our new employee handbook. These changes include: ■■ New flexible working policy: This policy provides employees with the ability to change their working patterns or location to facilitate greater balance between work and personal commitments. The flexible working policy allows employees to choose a range of options (in close coordination with their supervisors), including working from home, job sharing, part-time work or more flexible working hours. The policy is open to all members of staff, but is particularly beneficial to those with young families. To date, 61% of working mothers and 40% of working fathers have made use of the flexible working policy. 24 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress People 3 “ ■■ Updates to pensions: The amount that employees can now contribute to their pensions and the amount our company matches has increased. In 2016, we also provided our employees with a responsible investment option in their pension scheme. While no Salma Moolji financial advice was given, detailed information on an ethical option Senior Consultant and member of the Ethnicity Working Group was circulated to all staff ■■ Updated sickness policy: Our sickness policy was updated in 2016 The Ethnicity Working Group is central to driving the diversity so that all employees are entitled to sick leave with full pay from the agenda in Verisk Maplecroft. moment they join the company, rather than only after a specified We strive to be an open, period of service. This starts at up to 4 weeks of paid sick leave for representative and inclusive employees who have been with the company for less than a year, workplace where people from all backgrounds feel to a maximum of up to 26 weeks for those who have been with the empowered to contribute company for five years or more and add value. ■■ New Permanent Health Insurance: This offers all employees the potential for additional sick pay when they are off work (beyond the thresholds mentioned above), due to long term sickness. This was added to our benefits in 2016 ■■ New Life Assurance: In 2016, we issued life assurance to all employees. The amount provided is based on the salary of the individual Becoming a more family friendly employer through expansion of our parental leave policies In 2016, we updated a number of our policies including those relating to: ■■ Paternity Leave: We increased the entitlement of relevant Photo: Staff collaborating on a project employees from one week to two weeks on full pay. In 2016, two employees took paternity leave ■■ Shared Parental Leave: This entitles working parents in the UK to share the total period of maternity leave between the two of them in accordance with statutory law. In 2016, two employees took shared parental leave ■■ Ante-natal care appointments: Employees are now entitled to paid time off to attend the ante-natal appointments of their pregnant partner ■■ Maternity leave: We now ‘top-up’ statutory maternity pay to full pay for the first 18 weeks of maternity leave. In 2016, two employees benefited from these new maternity leave entitlements © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 25 3 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress People Committing to more diverse workforce Figure 6: Verisk Maplecroft Nationalities Beyond the improved benefits offered in our updated policies, we also worked hard in 2016 to identify and UK 58% US 13% Canada 6% overcome challenges towards ensuring we provide equal opportunities to all our employees regardless of their sex (including pregnancy), marital status, Ireland 4 % Germany 4 % Slovenia 2% religion or belief, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age, Spain 1% Russia -1% Malaysia 1% disability or otherwise. Our actions in 2016 include: Establishing an Ethnicity Working Group Netherlands1% Norway 1% Poland -1% The Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie Ethnicity Working Group aims to better understand if ethnicity Hungary 1% Denmark 1% Czech Republic 1% and diversity issues exist within our company, and to make recommendations to the company to address obstacles that limit equal opportunities. China 1% Belgium 1% Azerbajian -1% In September 2016, the Ethnicity Working Group rolled out a survey on ethnic diversity in the Austria 1% workplace across both Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie. A total of 488 employees responded, with The representation of ethnic minorities at more key findings including the following: senior levels of both companies was identified as being limited. We have reviewed our recruitment and ■■ 76% find both Verisk Maplecroft and Wood promotion process in this regard, and the Ethnicity Mackenzie an ethnically diverse place to work Working Group together with the Human Resource ■■ 85% find that this ethnic diversity has a positive department has identified follow-up actions for 2017. impact on our business Verisk Maplecroft currently employs people from 19 Figure 5: VM views on ethnic diversity different countries including Britain (58%), America (13%) and Canada (6%). The majority of our other Does diversity has a positive employees are European. impact on the business? Increasing awareness of gender issues through 85% our Gender Working Group In 2016, our Gender Working Group undertook a number of actions, which contribute towards Principle 6 of the United Nations Global Compact. 12% A survey on working parents was conducted and recommendations were made in relation to workplace 3% challenges faced by working parents. A total of 454 members of staff across Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Yes No No opinion Mackenzie took part in the survey. Findings included the following: ■■ 81% of respondents found Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie to be a family-friendly employer 26 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress People 3 Figure 7: Female representation Senior Mid Level Professional (Exec, A & B bands) (C, D & E bands) (F & G bands) 19% 35% 53% 81% 65% 47% = Female = Male Source: Verisk Maplecroft ■■ 52% of respondents said the level of support provided by the company Photo: The number of women in our leadership structure increased in 2016 to working parents will have a “significant” influence on whether they choose to stay at the company. This has been identified as a critical retention issue, which will be followed up by human resources in 2017 ■■ Awareness about the flexible working policy is high, currently at 91% amongst female staff. 61% of females have used the flexible working policy The Gender Working Group also conducted gender analysis on representation, pay and benefits. The group found that the highest-level of disparity in terms of gender representation exists at a senior level, where 81% of senior managers are male. In middle management, the representation of women is 35%, whereas at more junior levels, 53% of employees are women. This indicates a career progression issue for women, which Human Resources will examine in 2017. The data did not identify a systematic pay gap between men and women within the same bands or divisions. 2016 also saw the training of four internal trainers on unconscious bias. These trainers will cascade their learning to new line managers in the first quarter of 2017 across global operations. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 27 3 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress People Anti-corruption training Pledge for Parity In 2016, all our employees participated in interactive, online training to As part of increased efforts ensure they know and understand their responsibilities under Verisk to raise awareness of gender Analytics’ updated anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. The training issues, the Gender Working included questions and answers at the end of each session, allowing Group also took part in Wood employees to demonstrate their understanding and engagement with Mackenzie’s Pledge for Parity the issues. In addition, all employees had to formally consent to abide campaign, which was held on by the new policy. International Women’s Day. As part of this, each member Establishing a wellness team to prioritise employee wellbeing of staff pledged their support In 2016, the Verisk Maplecroft / Wood Mackenzie Wellness Group was for equality between the sexes set up, which implements a variety of activities to improve the wellness in the workplace. Photographs of our employees, including: were taken of each employee ■■ The provision of free organic fruit to all our staff in all our offices who took part, and these were shared on social media ■■ The provision of reduced gym membership rates to all our UK based as part of a wider employees, provided through our private health insurance scheme #PledgeforParity campaign. ■■ The provision of massages in the offices to reduce stress levels. 39 members made use of this service in our Bath office in 2016 Photo: Asia Analyst, Guo Yu, supporting our Pledge for Parity campaign ■■ The provision of private healthcare insurance. This is paid for by the company, but is subject to taxation as a benefit in kind. Currently, 62 of our 99 employees make use of our private health insurance scheme ■■ The provision of standing desks to our colleagues who have relevant medical issues. Currently we have two standing desks in our Bath office and are working on supplying a desk to our Singapore office, based on medical needs ■■ The provision of a paid day that can be spent participating in a variety of activities designed to improve and encourage wellness. In August, all employees were given the opportunity to spend a day taking part in activities such as running, mountaineering, hiking, and rowing. ■■ The provision of a paid half day for team building. In October 2016, all of our teams spent the day taking part in activities such as walking, mini golf and punting, followed by a social outing ■■ The provision of a foosball table in our Bath office, which was purchased in October 2016. This is in daily use by our employees 28 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress People 3 “ Ethnicity Working Group In 2017, the Ethnicity Working Group will work with Human Resources to achieve the following goals, in Employee feedback on 2016 response to the issues identified in the 2016 survey wellness offering on ethnicity and diversity: “I truly feel that it’s not just a buzz word.” ■■ Ensuring our mentors and mentees represent a “I appreciate it greatly and I think we are making wide array of nationalities, races, ethnic groups, etc. this something special.” ■■ Promoting benefits of having a racially and “Please keep pushing this as it will be beneficial ethnically diverse workforce for keeping our talent in house.” ■■ Working with Human Resources to determine the best approach for tracking company-wide progress towards becoming more ethnically diverse at all In November 2016, the group conducted a survey levels of seniority across Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie about ■■ Organising cultural awareness days to celebrate our wellness offerings. Feedback included different cultures, as well as ‘lunch and learn’ the following, which will inform future wellness plans presentations on diversity by external presenters in 2017: ■■ 77% participated in a wellness activity during 2016 ■■ The number of staff rating their overall health as Photo: Members of our Sales and Marketing team discussing a client project excellent and good overall increased from 45% in early 2016 to 56% in November 2016 ■■ Recommendations for improvement included more focus on mental wellbeing and better linking of the programme to remote workers Future goals Gender Working Group Responding to the findings of the 2016 survey and gender analysis, the Gender Working Group will focus on the following goals in 2017: ■■ Continuing the rollout of the unconscious bias training to new managers across our global operations, as well as extending this to all staff ■■ Working with Human Resources to raise the percentage of women in Bands A-C from 26% to 33% by end of 2017 ■■ Working with Human Resources to further improve provisions for employees going on maternity, paternity and parental leave © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 29 3 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress People Wellness Group In 2017, our wellness programme will focus on the following goals, informed by the November survey on wellness. As well as increasing line manager support and buy-in for employee wellness, we aim to improve wellbeing outcomes across Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie, working towards the following: ■■ Improving our support for mental health issues by working with line managers and employees, including through the provision of a stress management course ■■ Ensuring that our wellness programme reaches our colleagues in smaller offices or working remotely ■■ Increasing the number of standing desks in international offices, where employees have indicated a medical need ■■ Organising a family day in the summer of 2017 to enable working parents to take part in a social event without the need for childcare 30 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress 4 Products “ Our products and services contribute to the following: UNGC Principles Principle 1 Principle 2 James Allan Principle 4 Principle 5 Head of Consulting, EMEARC Principle 6 Principle 7 Most companies lack visibility at the farm or mine level and Principle 9 Principle 10 this is where some of the Sustainable Development Goals greatest human rights and environmental impacts occur. Goal 5 Goal 12 Our Commodity Risk Service Goal 13 Goal 16 helps clients understand and tackle these sustainability risks. Our commitment Photo: The Political Risk Outlook 2017 We are committed to developing and delivering products and services that help our clients manage a range of risks and implement responsible and sustainable business solutions. Our suite of human rights, environment, political and economic indices enables companies to carry out robust due diligence and risk assessment, identifying potential and actual impacts across 198 countries. Our research team works closely with clients to produce in-depth country risk reports covering governance, political, human rights, environmental and security issues, as well as provide daily updates through our recently launched portal on key events and trends within focus countries. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 31 4 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Products Agile solutions Our data, analysis and experts support clients across multiple sectors and functions Risk Management Supply Chain Management Responsible Sourcing Finance CSR Consumer and Retail ESG Portfolio Management Manufacturing Legal and Compliance Technology Business Development Telecoms Strategy and Planning Extractives Business Resilience Sustainability Security www.maplecroft.com Source: Verisk Malecroft As part of our bespoke advisory offering, our consultancy team, supported by our researchers, helps companies to articulate their corporate commitments. We do this through the development of policies and codes of conduct, as well as supply chain risk assessments using our risk calculators and supply chain management tools. Our consultants also work with clients to provide: ■■ Supply chain analysis ■■ Stakeholder engagement ■■ Due diligence ■■ Benchmarking and materiality assessments ■■ Sustainability reporting ■■ Management systems support Our actions in 2016 Ongoing product and service delivery Since our last Communication on Progress, we have continued to offer a range of products and services that support responsible business practices. These include our renewable research offerings such as country risk reports and risk datasets. 32 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Products 4 “ Country risk reports Through our country risk service, we analyse the specific risks affecting companies operating in or sourcing from a particular country. A selection of Tier 1 countries such as Brazil, China and South Africa, are monitored Alex Channer Principal Human on a daily basis by expert analysts who produce regular written analysis Rights Research Analyst via our online portal on a number of issues including governance, business environment, human rights, environmental issues and security. High level screening using our Modern Slavery Index Our standard country risk reports also contain specific sections on is the first step in helping these themes, allowing clients to gain in-depth understanding of the key businesses address and issues within a particular country. remediate the risks associated with modern slavery. Risk datasets Our data offering enables clients to assess a range of human rights, economic, environmental and political risks in 198 countries. Over the course of the last twelve months, we have continued to increase clients’ awareness of issues such as corruption through the delivery of our Political Risk Dataset, which includes our Corruption Risk Index. This examines the prevalence and persistence of corruption in public and private sectors around the world. Other related indices include the Rule of Law Index, which assesses judicial independence and effectiveness at the country level, and the Corporate Governance Index, which assesses countries on the basis of ethical behaviour of their firms and the effectiveness of corporate boards. We also continued to deliver our Environmental Risk Dataset, which consolidates all of our environmental indices, providing comprehensive country rankings and analysis of key risks. The dataset covers a variety of issues including climate change vulnerability, waste management and exposure to natural hazards. As outlined in this section, a number of Photo: Verisk Maplecroft Human Rights Outlook 2016 new indices were added to the dataset in 2016 to enhance our client offering. In addition to our data services, we offer bespoke solutions to businesses with specific requirements. For example, we have produced city-level environmental reports for manufacturing businesses, catchment-level water risk assessments and a highly successful carbon accounting and management tool for the International Post Corporation. Maintaining the Human Rights and Business Development Forum In partnership with the United Nations Global Compact, we have also continued to host and update the Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum (HRBDF). This is a multi-stakeholder online platform, funded by the GE Foundation, that helps companies and policy makers understand and share real-world challenges relating to the protection of human rights in developing and emerging economies. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 33 4 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Products Human Rights Human Security Labour Rights and Protection Civil and Political Rights Development Arbitrary Arrest and Decent Working Time Index Freedom of Assembly Index Poverty Index Detention Index Extrajudicial or Unlawful Decent Wages Index Freedom of Opinion and Education Index Killings Index Expression Index Kidnappings Index Child Labour Index Indigenous People’s Health Rights Index Security Forces and Human Discrimination in the Land, Property and Housing Rights Index Workplace Index Rights Index Pandemic Susceptibility Index Torture and Other Forced Labour Index Minority Rights Index Pandemic Transmission Index Ill-treatment Index Access to Remedy Risk Index Freedom of Association and Right to Privacy Index Healthcare Capacity Index Collective Bargaining Index Migrant Workers Index Sexual Minorities Index Obesity Risk Index Modern Slavery Index Women and Girls’ Rights Index Occupational Health and Safety Index Trafficking in Persons Index Young Workers Index Strengthening our product and service offerings Throughout 2016, we continued to update our suite of research and consulting services covering human rights, environmental, economic and political risk, using enhanced methodologies and our rigorous review process. Our continued investment in our products and services has led to double digit increase in subscriptions driven by the number of new companies working with us. 2016 also saw the production of our first Human Rights and Political Risk Outlooks; two publicly available documents highlighting the most pertinent human rights and political issues for business for the forthcoming year. Both outlooks were well received by clients and the media, and we are currently working to produce second editions for 2017. International Post Corporation’s (IPC) Postal Sector Sustainability Report Since 2008, we have worked with the International Post Corporation (IPC) to develop the Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS) programme, a sector-wide initiative to improve carbon management and achieve relative carbon emissions reductions in the postal sector. The EMMS programme is a global initiative, consisting of 20 national postal companies from five continents and provides a common measurement and reporting structure that enables participants to share their carbon and environmental management strategies, performance and achievements. Two targets were set at the beginning of the programme in 2008 to be achieved collectively by 2020. In 2014, the EMMS group successfully achieved the ambitious target of reducing combined carbon emissions from all operations by 20% against emissions in 2008, six years ahead of schedule. The group is also on track to achieve the 90% carbon management proficiency target by 2020. Recognising the group’s continuous improvement, a new target was introduced in 2014: to achieve a 20% reduction in carbon emissions per posted item by 2025, from a 2013 baseline. In January 2016, this delivery efficiency target was approved as an industry benchmark. Verisk Maplecroft will continue its partnership with the IPC to further improve carbon management and achieve associated carbon emissions reductions across the postal sector up to and beyond 2025. 34 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Products 4 Improving methodologies for human rights Over the course of 2016, we completed the process of reviewing and improving our human rights and development index methodologies. Our indices now cover 31 key issues: Our new approach follows the ‘Structure, Process, Outcome’ framework of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), through which our analysts answer a series of questions to generate a score for each country. This process makes our indices more granular, more objective and more transparent, improving clients’ ability to interpret the data across a number of datasets. This allows us to track and analyse the change in the 198 countries we assess and therefore better support the human rights management efforts of our clients. As part of growing public awareness on the issue of modern slavery, 2016 saw the launch of our brand new Modern Slavery Index. This index is specifically designed for companies seeking to assess the extent to which they are exposed to modern slavery through their Photo: The new Verisk Maplecroft portal through business operations and supply chains. Using the International Labour which we deliver much of our products and services Organization definition of modern slavery, we have aligned the index with the UK Modern Slavery Act definition to help clients meet the requirements of the legislation. Since launching the Modern Slavery Index, we have worked closely with a number of clients to produce bespoke reports on the drivers of modern slavery, including the risks to business operations and workers in supply chains. We have also worked with the Corporate Social Responsibility team at our parent company, Verisk Analytics, to identify its own potential risk exposure in preparation for their forthcoming Modern Slavery Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act. Building on our environmental datasets Throughout the year, our environment team worked to release a suite of four new indices that analyse the difference in heating and cooling requirements for buildings, and energy requirements, around the world. The Cooling and Heating Days Indices measure how far (in degrees) and how long (in days) outside temperatures are above and below a threshold temperature, providing both current figures and future estimates in a changing climate. The indices identify the parts of the world that are most likely to experience significant changes in temperatures, helping our clients to identify locations which are likely to see the greatest shift in energy requirements. A new Biodiversity and Protected Areas (terrestrial) Index assesses the risk that business might infringe on local biodiversity, along with the protection and scrutiny associated with nationally and internationallyrecognised conservation designations. The new index features a subnational map, allowing users to view and quantify these risks at a 1km² resolution. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 35 4 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Products Executive summary Photo: Members of our GIS team mapping risks Furthering business engagement with Bringing girl’s rights to the boardroom children’s rights 2016 was the year in which we launched Girl Stats; As part of a five year agreement with and the Global a new data-driven platform helping businesses to Child Forum, we are continuing to manage the identify the issues affecting adolescent girls around Children’s Rights and Business Atlas. This is an the world. The interactive website offers data on online, interactive tool which enables businesses issues such as health, education and labour market to identify, prioritise and manage the potential for participation, enabling business to identify gaps and direct or indirect infringements of children’s rights. understand where their engagement and investment The Atlas is built on the ten Children’s Rights and will have the most positive impact on the lives of Business Principles – a charter that sets out the adolescent girls. actions companies can take to respect and support Enhancing due diligence in the sourcing of children’s rights. raw materials The platform provides businesses with data for 198 In 2016 we launched a new commodity risk service countries and 10 sectors, measuring state protection to help clients identify environmental, social and of children’s rights, as well as respect for these rights governance risks in the sourcing of raw materials. In by businesses. Companies can use this data to particular, this helps companies assess risks beyond understand new country risks, as well as assessing the first tier of their supply chain, by providing data risks associated with current operations, business and insights relating to hard and soft commodities partners or investments. across a range of countries. These commodities Working closely with the Global Child Forum and include, but are not limited to: UNICEF, in 2016 our analysts also delivered a series ■■ Tea ■■ Palm oil of workshops for companies on how to apply the Children’s Rights and Business Principles in decision ■■ Coffee ■■ Gold making processes and how to use the Atlas to inform ■■ Cotton ■■ Coal country and industry strategies. These workshops were attended by representatives from industry and NGOs ■■ Chickpeas ■■ Tungsten and took place in a number of locations including: ■■ Tuna ■■ Cobalt ■■ London ■■ New York ■■ Kuala Lumpur 36 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Products 4 Supporting investment decision-making Identifying child labour risks in raw In 2016, we also launched our Institutional materials sourcing Investment Service (IIS), providing environmental, We worked with the human rights team at a global social, governance and political (ESG+P) data and confectionary company to provide insight into the analysis for the institutional investment community. risk of child labour across multiple supply chains Through this offering, we identify exposure to nonwithin the organisation. financial risks, and help our clients to integrate this into their investment decision-making. For Our solution: equities and corporate fixed-income investors, we ■■ Our thematic and regional specialists identified quantify underlying geographical risk exposure, the key commodities sourced by the company, complementing traditional management and alongside the top sourcing locations for each performance-focused datasets. raw material, including fish, peanuts and tomatoes. Using our data, we ranked the Future goals countries which demonstrated the highest levels ■■ Continue to expand our products and services of risk in relation to child labour, including forced to enable our clients to effectively identify and and hazardous child labour. We then assessed manage their human rights, environmental, the extent to which the involvement of children political, economic and governance risks on farms and plantations impacted their ability ■■ Produce further editions of our publicly available to attend school. Human Rights and Political Risk Outlooks The outcome: ■■ Strengthen our relationships and develop ■■ The analysis provided the company procurement partnerships with key influencers in the field of team with insight into how child labour could human rights, environment and governance to impact the sourcing of raw materials from their deliver enhanced products and services key markets. This included analysis of how ■■ Enhance the Girl Stats project by developing a widespread the issue was in each country, freely-available Adolescent Girls’ Index, which alongside analysis of relevant legal protections will rank countries on the basis of educational in each country to combat the issue. and other opportunities available to girls and young women Photo: Our Human Rights Research team in their weekly meeting ■■ Reduce the number of indices and simplify the data within the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas to cover children’s rights in the workplace, environment, marketplace and the community ■■ Examine ways to partially automate the production of our indices as well as predict trends and gather information on individual violations to better assess outcomes © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 37 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Verisk Maplecroft takes the following actions to support the Women’s Empowerment Principles Policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and advancing gender equality in the workplace Achieving and maintaining gender equality in senior management and board positions We are fully committed to having a representative and balanced leadership team. Mentoring and career progression is open to all employees, regardless of gender, with support and opportunities for all. Our President, Sondra Scott, is female and dedicated to providing equal opportunities for all staff and potential candidates. We are constantly looking to improve the ratio of females in senior management positions Photo: Alice Newman, Environment Research Analyst and in 2016 appointed: ■■ Donna Westerman as Head of Consumer and Retail ■■ Jimena Blanco as Head of Americas ■■ Olivia Dobson as Head of Environment ■■ Erin McVeigh as Head of Consulting for Americas ■■ Helen Hodge as Sector Lead for ICT and Insurance ■■ Mariana Magaldi as Strategy Lead for Quantitative Methods ■■ Gayle Gunawardena as Head of Human Rights Research Our not-for-profit project, Girl Stats, is also led by Kunera Moore and Michelle Carpenter. “ The Gender Working Group continues to collect data on issues such as maternity protections, gender pay gaps and women’s representation across Verisk Maplecroft and our sister company, Wood Mackenzie. Achieving and maintaining gender equality in middle Jimena Blanco Head of Americas and member management positions of the Gender Working Group We apply the same principle throughout the organisation, promoting We are fully committed to balanced leadership at all levels, with appointments subject to both having a representative and merit and a policy of non-discrimination. balanced leadership team. We invested heavily in our teams Equal pay for work of equal value in 2016, appointing a number We use market indicators to inform our banding process and to of female leaders, and we will continue to do so as our ensure equal pay for men and women at equivalent levels of seniority, organisation grows. experience and capability. See People section for more details. 38 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Photo: Verisk Maplecroft is committed to maintaining a balanced and representative team. Flexible work options While employees are on maternity leave, we offer them Keep In Touch (KIT) days to support We operate a flexible working system, whereby their eventual return to work. Prior to returning, work start and end times are not fixed. This flexibility discussions are held to assist a smooth reintegration gives employees the scope to manage family and into the workplace, including through the provision of other non-work commitments alongside their work flexible working hours. responsibilities. Following the introduction of a new maternity leave Having updated our flexible working policy in policy in October 2015, which includes improved 2016, employees are now provided with greater benefits for new mothers, we now ‘top-up’ statutory opportunities for flexible working arrangements, maternity pay to full pay for the first 18 weeks of including working from home, telecommuting and maternity leave. Our paternity leave policy has also sabbatical leave. been updated to provide the same salary top up for up Access to child and dependent care to two consecutive weeks of leave following the birth. While we currently do not provide employees with Recruitment and retention, including training and access to child and dependent care on a corporate development, of female employees basis, UK employees may participate in the Childcare We are an equal opportunities employer, committed Voucher Scheme which allows them to give up a to promoting equality and diversity as well as an portion of their salaries in exchange for childcare inclusive and supportive environment for all of our credit of the same value. Participants are eligible for employees. We do not discriminate on the grounds tax relief and lower National Insurance contributions of gender and men and women are treated equally on the value of £243 worth of vouchers purchased during the recruitment process and throughout their per month. employment. All employees receive training and have Support for pregnant women and those returning the opportunity for professional development after from maternity leave they join the company. We provide full support to pregnant women in terms Gender specific health and safety issues of providing paid time off for access to ante-natal We take every precaution to ensure we provide and care for both expectant mothers and partners of maintain working conditions that are safe, healthy expectant mothers, as well as a enhanced health and comply with all statutory requirements and and safety arrangements. relevant codes of practice. The commitment applies to all employees, regardless of gender. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 39 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Gender-based violence and harassment We deplore all forms of sexual harassment and seek to ensure the maintenance of an inclusive, supportive and safe environment for all employees. Our commitment in this respect is outlined in our employee handbook, along with relevant grievance and disciplinary procedures. Education and training opportunities for women workers We are committed to the professional development of all our employees. We undertake to provide all of our employees, regardless of gender, with the training necessary to successfully fulfil their job responsibilities. Creating and maintaining workplace awareness of gender equality, inclusion and non-discrimination for all workers We are an equal opportunities employer, committed to promoting equality, diversity and an inclusive and supportive environment for all of our employees. Verisk Maplecroft is represented by two employees in the Gender Working Group, led by our sister company Wood Mackenzie. The aim of the working group is to understand more about the gender balance in both companies and produce recommendations as to how to encourage Photo: Analysts Melanie Auker and Theo Way the attraction, development, retention and promotion of female talent. In addition, line managers across our company have received unconscious bias training as part of an initiative led by the Gender Working Group. This training was aimed at helping participants to manage ‘invisible’ biases that they might not be aware of holding, including those related to gender. Across Verisk Maplecroft and our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, four people have been trained to deliver unconscious bias training. They will roll out additional training for new line managers by the end of Q1 2017. Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for women workers We aim to assign all employees work mentors when they begin employment with us. Work mentors guide new employees through the company’s systems and work methods, and also provide regular feedback on performance. In addition, all employees can apply for a mentor at any stage in their career to support their professional development. Other established or emerging best practices N/A Any relevant policies, procedures and activities that the company plans to undertake by its next COP to address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics and responsible staff N/A 40 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and advancing gender equality in the marketplace Supplier diversity programme Girl Stats: Empowering companies to While Verisk Maplecroft does not currently have a positively impact the lives of girls supplier diversity programme in place, our parent Adolescent girls and young women face a number company, Verisk Analytics, is advancing efforts to of legal, cultural and economic barriers around the ensure that minority, women and veteran-owned world, which reduce their chances of achieving full businesses, as well as small and disadvantaged equality with men. However, research consistently businesses, are given the opportunity to participate in shows that investing in girls and young women is the procurement process in the United States. Verisk not only vital for lifting families out of poverty, but has also joined the Women’s Business Enterprise also for sustained economic growth. National Council in the United States as a first step towards expanding procurement opportunities for In 2015, we received funding from our parent female-owned businesses. company, Verisk Analytics, to extend the work of Girls Discovered; an interactive data and mapping An independent provider carries out an analysis platform that we had established in 2009 in of Verisk Analytics’ procurement spending on partnership with the Nike Foundation and United a quarterly basis and reports findings to senior Nations Foundation. Following receipt of the grant management. In 2017, Verisk plans to establish in 2015, the project team decided to make the supplier diversity targets, and to implement a global platform more business-relevant, and conducted supplier code of conduct. a full rebrand, including a new name – Girl Composition of supplier base by sex Stats. The team also comprehensively revised the datasets and indicators on the website, and N/A developed interesting insights and analysis to Support for women business owners and highlight how businesses can make a difference entrepreneurs in the lives of girls around the world. As outlined above, our parent company, Verisk Girl Stats helps companies understand the issues Analytics, has joined the Women’s Business that girls face, and how their operations can either Enterprise National Council in the United States to positively or negatively affect their lives. It focuses expand procurement opportunities for femaleon business-relevant issues such as access to owned businesses. education and employment, as well as legal and societal barriers that prevent girls and young women from reaching their full potential. Girl Stats also provides links to compelling CSR initiatives focused on girls – as well as organisations working on the ground – so that companies can partner with the right groups to generate positive change. The website also offers in-depth, countrylevel insights into the situation of girls and young women in key emerging markets. 41 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 41 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Supplier monitoring and engagement on women’s empowerment and gender equality including the promotion of the Women’s Empowerment Principles N/A Gender-sensitive marketing N/A Gender-sensitive product and service development We have developed a range of products and services aimed at helping clients understand and respect the rights of women and girls. This includes our Women’s and Girls’ Rights Index, which assess the risks to business from the possible association with practices that discriminate against, or infringe on, the rights of women and girls. Another example is the publicly available Girl Stats platform, which was officially launched in June 2016. Other established or emerging best practices We have an unparalleled range of innovative products and services that help clients respect the rights of women and girls. Many of these have been designed to incorporate best practice guidance. For example, the methodology behind our suite of human rights indices incorporates “ the United Nations ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ Framework as a basis for assessing risk in 198 countries. In addition, the human rights due diligence services we provide to our clients is fully informed and aligned with the ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ Framework and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Kunera Moore Any relevant policies, procedures and activities that the company Project Director, Girl Stats plans to undertake by its next COP to address this area, including We want companies around goals, timelines, metrics and responsible staff the world to understand the barriers that girls face and By the end of 2017, the Girl Stats team will deliver a freely available recognise that investing in Adolescent Girls’ Index, which will rank countries on the basis of them can lead to the creation opportunities available to girls and young women. This index will allow of large pools of talent in the workforce, particularly in companies to identify the countries in which their investment in girls and emerging markets. young women will have the most impact. 42 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles The COP describes policies and Community initiatives specifically targeted at the practices related to supporting women’s empowerment of women and girls empowerment and advancing gender As outlined above, the Girl Stats platform provides equality in the community comprehensive data on the lives of adolescent girls Designing community stakeholder engagements and young women around the world, with the aim that are free of gender discrimination / of helping businesses target their investments to stereotyping and are sensitive to gender issues promote positive change for girls. For the past 11 years, we have been helping In addition, we support the empowerment of women organisations manage stakeholder relationships, often through awareness raising events. In 2016, we in highly sensitive environments. This has included the marked International Women’s Day by taking part design and implementation of community stakeholder in a Pledge for Parity campaign alongside our sister engagements for clients. These projects are carefully company, Wood Mackenzie. In this context, each planned to ensure they are free from discrimination member of staff chose a pledge they would like to and sensitive to gender issues. In many cases, the support aimed at eliminating gender discrimination stakeholder engagement undertaken requires the within the workplace. They were then pictured with matter of gender equality to be directly addressed; their pledges, and photos were shared in social for example, to ensure particular projects do not media using the hashtag #PledgeforParity. negatively impact on women and girls in the area, Strategies to ensure that community investment necessitating a fair and non-discriminatory approach to projects and programmes (including economic, be taken to data collection. social and environmental) positively impact Gender impact assessments or consideration of women and girls gender-related impacts as part of its social and/ Our local community engagement initiatives serve or human rights impact assessments a cross section of society, including women. In the We provide human rights impact assessments as past, we have taken part in events focused solely on part of our human rights due diligence service. These women and girls and we aim to do this again in assessments focus on assessing clients’ actual and the future. potential human rights impacts. Assessments include We also provide a range of human rights products gender-related impacts – as well as specific impacts and services that help clients to make a positive relating to vulnerable groups – and are carried out contribution to the rights of those affected by their in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on actions, both direct and indirect, including women Business and Human Rights. and girls. We endeavour to provide access to these products and services to as many organisations Ensuring female beneficiaries of as possible. Indeed, we make some of this content community programmes publicly available (for example, via the Girl Stats Our local community engagement initiatives serve platform, or through the publication of thought a cross section of society, including women. In the leadership pieces). We also provide our products past, we have taken part in events focused solely on and services to NGOS and international women and girls and we aim to do this again in organisations at a discount on a case-by-case basis, the future. where this is practical. Our provision of analysis through the Girl Stats platform also enables companies to understand the issues that girls and young women face and around the world and target their investments to generate positive change. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 43 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Strategies to ensure that community investment projects and programmes (including economic, social and environmental) include the full participation of women and girls Our local community engagement initiatives serve a cross section of society, including women. In the past, we have taken part in events focused solely on women and girls and we aim to do this again in the future. Other established or emerging best practice N/A Any relevant policies, procedures and activities that the company plans to undertake by its next COP to address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics and responsible staff N/A The COP contains or refers to sex-disaggregated data Achieving and maintain gender equality in senior management Photo: Kunera Moore and Michelle Carpenter and board positions lead the Girl Stats project Following our acquirement by Verisk Analytics in December 2014, the structure of our management team and its composition has significantly changed. Our organisation does not have a board of management. However, our operational leadership team is comprised of five members, one of which is female our President, Sondra Scott. Our strategic leadership team, which is responsible for developing our products and services, is comprised of 9 people, 5 of which are women. For more information on the gender in our organisation, please see the People section. Achieving and maintaining gender equality in middle management positions Our middle management team, comprised of team leaders, our strategic leadership team and staff from human resources and finance, is comprised of 24 members, 9 of whom are female. Equal pay for work of equal value All employees receive equal pay for work of equal work. Flexible work options All employees benefit from a system of flexible working hours, with no set start and end times. Our new flexible working policy allows staff to apply for additional flexible working options, including working from home, telecommuting and sabbatical leave. 44 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Access to child and dependent care While we currently do not provide employees with access to child and dependent care on a corporate basis, UK employees may participate in the government Childcare Voucher Scheme, which allows them to give up a portion of their salaries in exchange for childcare credit of the same value. Participants are eligible for tax relief and lower National Insurance contributions on the value of £243 worth of vouchers purchased per month. Currently, we have 6 employees making use of the Childcare Voucher Scheme. Support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave In the past 12 months, we have provided support to two female Photo: Members of staff participating in a wellness activity along with their children employees in this respect, through our Keep In Touch days. In the coming months, two additional members of staff will make use of our maternity leave policy, which provides for full pay for the first 18 weeks of maternity leave. Recruitment and retention, including training and development, of female employees We seek to recruit the best available person for the job, all the while promoting equality of opportunity and operating a policy of nondiscrimination. During 2016, we hired 21 new employees. 7 were female and 14 were male. All employees receive training and development as part of recruitment and professional development. Gender-specific health and safety issues N/A Gender-based violence and harassment N/A Education and training opportunities for women workers In-depth workplace training is provided by our company to all male and female employees. In addition, all staff can attend external events and conferences as part of their professional development. Creating and maintaining workplace awareness of gender equality and inclusion and non-discrimination for all workers All employees are required to read and abide by our equal opportunities policy, as well as our discrimination, bullying and harassment policy. Our updated employee handbook contains information on these policies and their application. © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com 45 Verisk Maplecroft | 2017 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Line managers were also required to undertake unconscious bias training during 2016 in an effort reduce possible unconscious discrimination on the basis of gender. This will be rolled out again for new line managers by the end of Q1 2017. Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for women workers We aim to assign all employees work mentors when they begin employment with us. Work mentors guide new employees through the company’s systems and work methods, and also provide regular feedback on performance. In addition to this, all employees can apply for a mentor at any stage in their career to support their professional development. Other established or emerging best practices N/A Any relevant policies, procedures and activities that the company plans to undertake by its next COP to address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics and responsible staff N/A 46 © Verisk Maplecroft 2017 | www.maplecroft.com info@maplecroft.com 1 Henry Street +44 (0)1225 420000 Bath BA1 1JS www.maplecroft.com United Kingdom
