Communication on Progress 2017 Report STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT From the time Hinopak became signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2006, it gives me immense pleasure to submit Hinopak’s tenth comprehensive communication on progress report for the year 2016-17. Hinopak reaffirms its commitment through actions and implementation on the UNGC’s principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This ten year journey of living the UN Global Compact principles have brought remarkable improvements in our business processes which are evident from various initiatives quoted in the report. I would like to thank our employees and other stakeholders for their contribution towards the company’s sustainable development and encourage them to continue practicing global compact principles in our corporate culture. ________________________________ TATSUHEI MUTO Managing Director & CEO June 16, 2017 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 Organizational Profile GRI Ref. No. 2.1 Name of the Organization Hinopak Motors Limited Assembly, manufacturing and sales of Hino Trucks and 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Buses and Sales of Hino Genuine Parts. Operational structure of the organization, Hinopak is a subsidiary concern of Hino Motors Limited 2.3 including main divisions, operating Japan and Toyota Tsusho Corporation. companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Karachi, Pakistan Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5 major operations or that are specifically One (Pakistan) relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Public Limited Company The company serves markets of Pakistan and some of the Middle East & African countries. Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Types of customers include: customers/beneficiaries). 1. Institutional customers 2. Commercial customers Number of Employees as on March 31, 2017 = 341 (989 including contract and contractor’s employees) For following refer to Annual Report 2016-17 available at: http://www.hinopak.com/finance.htm Scale of the organization 2.8  Net sales (2016-17)= Rs. 22 billion  Total capitalization = Rs. 4.7 billion (0% Debt, Surplus funds)  Quantity of Products Produced (2016-17) Hino Chassis: 3,817 Bus and other specialized bodies: 501 Hilux Frame: 6,451 Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 None period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 1. EFP/GCNP Living the Global Compact Best Practices Award 2015-16 Awards / citations received during the 2.10 reporting period 2. EFP/ILO OHS&E Award in Overall category 3. EFP/ILO Best Practices in Industrial Relations (IR) ISO 14001:2004 Certified Management Systems ISO 9001:2008 Certified OHSAS 18001:2007 Certified 1 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP) Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce & Industry (OICCI) Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) Affiliations / Memberships Management Association of Pakistan (MAP) Pakistan Automotive Manufacturers Association (PAMA) S.I.T.E. Association Pakistan Japan Business Forum (PJBF) Pakistan Society for Training & Development (PSTD) Marketing Association of Pakistan Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 1 June 2016 ~ 31 May 2017 1. UNGC Communication on Progress (COP): 17 June 2016 3.2 Date of most recent previous report/s 2. Annual Report 2016-17 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual Ahsan Waseem Akhtar Deputy Divisional Head HR, Admin & HSE ahsan-waseem@hinopak.com Contact point for questions regarding the Nabila Mujahid Faisal 3.4 Manager Health, Safety & Environment report or its contents nabila-mujahid@hinopak.com Sabira Agha Executive HRD & OD sabira-agha@hinopak.com Governance, Commitments and Engagement Board of Directors (Highest Governance Body) Board Committees: The Audit Committee is responsible for: a. Determination of appropriate measures to safeguard company’s assets; Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest b. Review of quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Company, prior to the 4.1 governance body responsible for specific approval of the Board of Directors; tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. c. Review of management letter issued by external auditors and management’s response thereto and monitor the action plan to improve the control environment; d. Review of the scope and extent of internal audit and ensuring that the internal audit function has adequate resources and is appropriately placed within the Company; 2 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 e. Ascertaining that the internal control system including financial and operational controls, accounting system and reporting structure are adequate and effective; f. Instituting special projects, other investigations on any matter specified by the Board of Directors, and to refer any matter to the external auditors or to any other external body; g. Monitoring compliance with relevant statutes and best practices of corporate governance. The Human Resource & Remuneration Committee is responsible for: a. Recommending human resource management policies to the board; b. Recommending to the board the selection, evaluation, compensation (including retirement benefits) and succession planning of the CEO; c. Recommending to the board the selection, evaluation, compensation (including retirement benefits) of CFO, Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit; and d. Considering and approving on recommendations of CEO on such matters for key management positions who report directly to CEO. Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 for details on the BOD and the Audit Committee. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Chairman (Non-Executive Director) For organizations that have a unitary board Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 members of the highest governance body that The Board of Directors has 7 members; where 5 are nonare independent and/or non-executive executive directors. members. Shareholders: Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Annual General Meeting (AGM) 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Employees: Suggestion Boxes (located at conspicuous places around the company premises) 3 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Commitment: Hinopak Motors Limited is committed to Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. respecting and protecting the dignity of people in all its areas of operations. All stakeholders are assured of sincere efforts to uplift conditions with regard to health and safety, provide sound labour-management relations and participate in human resource/community development. Furthermore, Hinopak is committed to avoiding complicity of human rights abuses in all its areas of operation. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the Human Rights principles: A. HEALTH & SAFETY SYSTEMS Picture 1: Awareness Session on Eye injury causes &  Healthy & Safe Working Environment control. 2,422 training man-hours achieved under staff training on occupational HSE. Hinopak in collaboration with Hashmani Eye Hospital organized awareness session for employees on ‘Eye injury causes and control’. Total 300 employees participated in this awareness session. (ref picture 1) Hinopak arranged free eye camp for Plant drivers, to provide general eye check up and refer those who required treatment. Total 63 persons eyes were checked. Health awareness session on “Diabetes, its cause, prevention & control” was conducted in which 250 th Picture 2: Group Photo on 7 Health & Safety employees participated. Conference Health awareness session on “How to deal with work stress & heart diseases” was organized in which 90 employees participated. Audiometric testing and consultation was arranged for employees working in high noise areas. Total 74 employees were tested. Health screening of food handlers was conducted to help improve quality of life. Total 20 food handlers underwent this screening. 7th Safety Conference was held in May 2016 in order to enhance safety culture in the company. (ref picture Picture 3: Picture taken during mock drill activity 2) Announced mock drills held for both manufacturing 4 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights facilities and the head office staff to assess organizational readiness to cope with emergencies. ERP teams include rescue, firefighting, spill etc (ref picture 3)  Monitoring & Awareness Monthly Safety Patrolling by Top Management, in order to visually check safety issues of both the plants and to show their seriousness towards implementation of safety policies. Daily safety monitoring/patrolling around the assembly and manufacturing facilities being done through the Safety Administration Team (SAT). From FY2012 till March 2016, a total of 1458, Workers Feedback Cards were received out which 1328 have been rectified. No major accident and 3 minor accidents were Picture 4: Occupational Accidental Trend reported from Apr 2016 to Mar 2017 (ref. picture 4). B. TOTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT  Continuous Improvement Kaizen initiatives, involving manufacturing and nonmanufacturing functions, being implemented and monitored and are also participated by top management. Kaizen meetings are held periodically. Recertification of Quality Management System ISO 9001:2008 successfully completed in February 2016. C. EMPLOYEES  Labour-Management Relations 9 laptops were distributed amongst permanent workers through lucky draw in order to serve the commitment of continual computer literacy of workers and their children. (ref picture 5) Nine employees (7 workers and 2 officers) were sponsored ($2,287/each; 90% of the total amount) for their religious pilgrimage (Hajj) and 4 workers along with spouse were sponsored Umrah ($941/each; 100% of the total amount) in 2016. Identification of the recipient workmen and officers under this scheme was also through lucky draw. Picture 5 : Laptop Distribution No strike or cessation in work or loss of work hours due to strike, go-slow or lockout reported during the reporting year. 5 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights  Security & Safety Security measures within & around the company (for all local and foreign employees) tightened owing to the security concerns confronting the city. (ref pictures 6/7) A complete ‘Security Guidelines’ document has been prepared detailing step by step guidance on security management. On the directives of our principal, a policy on data security / confidentiality management has been Picture 6: Road blockers installed at security gates prepared along with a detailed guide book for day to day reference for employees. To ensure and promote road safety among our employees, use of seat belts in cars and safety helmets / side-view mirrors for motorbikes is being encouraged. D. STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION & ENGAGEMENT  Supplier/Contractor/Vendor Engagement Hinopak Vendor’s Convention was held on 25th Picture 7: CCTV cameras installed within & around the company November, 2016. The event was attended by 102 participants mainly belonging to 82 vendors and suppliers. The overall theme of the event was “Ensure Quality” to stress the importance of subject for continuity and sustainability of both Hinopak and its vendors’ business (ref picture 8). To promote the concept of “zero accident tolerance” and “green environment”, Hinopak conducted ‘Workplace Safety Orientation’ at Hino Frontier Motors. 35 participants became a part of this orientation. (ref picture 9) Picture 8: Vendor’s Convention 2016-17  Education / Community Development & Welfare This year 135 workers’ children were recognized for their academic achievement through scholarships. The children ranged from grade three to graduation level. 10 NED University engineering scholars (belonging to Mechanical, Industrial & Manufacturing and Automotive technologies) were given scholarships this year as tuition fee. Students of Mehran and NED University were helped to complete their study projects providing practical Picture 9: Workplace Safety Orientation at Hino exposure to supplement their expertise and Frontier knowledge in their relevant field of study under the 6 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights supervision and guidance of relevant department managers. This year again medical expenses of Darul Sukun were born by Hinopak Motors throughout the year. On the occasion of Independence Day of Pakistan, Hinopak organized an event dedicated to orphans and special children (physically and mentally disabled) at SOS Village and Darul Sukun. (ref pictures 10/11) A program “I am Unique” was organized by Hinopak for SITE Model School girls on 23rd & 26th September, 2016 to empower young girls to become Picture 10: Independence Day celebrations at Darul more body confident, stand up to social pressures and Sukun support others. The objective of this program was to develop leadership skills and make them feel empowered to create a difference in their local communities. (ref picture 12) Student Development Plan (SDP) was organized by Hinopak for SITE Model School children to help them build self confidence, become aware of essential life skills set for thriving in study, home and society, self organizing and sustainability skills and develop leadership skills to increase their capabilities. This Picture 11: Independence Day celebrations at SOS program was conducted in November and December Village 2017 developing 35 children. Due to increasing intensity of summer, there was an indispensable need of water cooler in SITE Model School. Hinopak installed water cooler there in order to provide sufficient supply of chilled and quality water to children. Hinopak sponsored ‘21st Hinopak Trophy KCCA Interfirms Cricket League’. Total 32 teams participated in this tournament. (ref picture 13) Four days mini winter camp was organized by Hinopak employees’ children. This year 373 children participated in the camp which included storytelling, Picture 12: I am Unique program for SITE Model Girls character building, safety sessions, plant visit and other activities. (ref picture 14) In-house training program on MS Excel was conducted for SITE Model School girls. Total 10 students were trained. Hinopak provided school books to Montessori section in SITE Model School. Total 165 books were distributed amongst 55 children. This year Hinopak top management visited several hospitals and provided donations upto Rs. 3.9 million. Donations were given to PNS Rahat Hospital, Burns st Centre and Civil Hospital – Poor Aid Society. Picture 13: 21 Hinopak Trophy KCCA for inter-firms cricket tournament. Hinopak donated Suzuki Bolan Hi-roof to Pakistan Eye 7 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Bank Society to be used for free eye check-up and necessary treatments in order to prevent and cure eye diseases in under privileged areas.(ref picture 15) Hinopak also provided donation to Pakistan Disabled Foundation for renovation of bus to provide better transport facility to disabled persons and to develop affective cooperation and understanding between the disabled and ordinary society. Hinopak sponsored technical project of NED Picture 14: Employees’ children enjoying magic show engineering students titled ‘Formula Auto1 SAE’. The during Mini Winter Camp. idea was to support students by providing technical assistance in body fabrication of vehicle that travels farthest distance using least amount of energy. (ref picture 16) Hinopak supported SITE Model School to renovate their kindergarten section to provide best learning environment for children. It was inaugurated by Hinopak Top Management. (ref picture 17) E. CODE OF CONDUCT Picture 15: Suzuki Bolan Hi-roof donated to Pakistan Eye Bank Society.  Code of Conduct Adherence The Whistle Blowing Committee regularly meets to check compliance to the code of conduct through the whistle blowing procedure. The J-SOX Audit was successfully completed for this year ensuring fair and transparent corporate governance. Newly inducted employees oriented to the code of conduct during the company-wide orientation program. Picture 16: Technical support provided to engineer  Credo, Mission, Values, Practice students for fabricating “Formula Auto1SAE”. Training on company’s values – The Hino Spirit – is conducted for newly hired employees. Planned Initiatives for the Coming Years (under principles 1 and 2):  Kaizen, Quality Circle, Housekeeping trophies and challenges;  Review of the Code of Conduct to make it more detailed and comprehensive.  Awareness sessions on Human Rights protection for Hinopak Vendors. Picture 17: Inauguration ceremony of Kindergarten Section In SITE Model School 8 Hinopak Motors Limited Labour Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Commitment:  We uphold freedom of association and the right of Principle 4: the elimination workers to collective bargaining. of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  We are committed to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour in all areas of our or business Principle 5: the effective partners' operations. abolition of child labour; and  We prohibit engagement, in any form, of child labour in all Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in areas of our business operations or our business partners' respect of employment and occupation. operations.  We advocate equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion in employment and occupation and prohibit any form of discrimination in employment terms and conditions. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the four principles on ‘Labour’: A. INDUSTRIAL & EMPLOYEE RELATIONS  Freedom of Association Hinopak workers are represented by a registered Labor Union, namely Hinopak Motors Limited Employees Union, existing since the company's pre-Japanese ownership from 1969. Current membership to-date is 155, represented by the Collective Bargaining Agent.  Collective Bargaining as a Tool for Addressing Working Conditions, Terms and Employment and Relations Five trust building meetings were held during the reporting year which was attended by representatives from the labour union (mostly CBA officials) and representatives from the management.  Engagement & Participation During the reporting year 10,211 training man-hours were achieved for training and awareness activities of workers (technical & non-technical courses – including training of apprentices). 8th Hinopak inter-department tournament 2016-17 was organized by Hinopak in which 6 teams participated. th Finance Eagles were the winners of this tournament. Picture 18: 8 Hinopak Inter-Department Tournament (ref picture 18) 2016-17. 9 Hinopak Motors Limited Labour Hinopak celebrated its 31st anniversary on 2nd February, 2017 at Chassis Assembly Plant. All Management and non-management employees were invited in cake cutting ceremony to celebrate the occasion.(ref picture 19) B. ERADICATION OF CHILD LABOUR  Underage Hiring Prevention Process We continue to follow the under-age employment clause of the Factories Act 1934 for our workers and apprentices. Picture 19: Hinopak 31st Anniversary celebrations We have no record of underage employee/apprentice; youngest apprentice on board is 18 years old (minimum age is 14 years old according to Apprenticeship Rules 1966 (Sindh).  Vendor / Contractor Evaluation and Engagement Non-employment of child labor is ensured/checked through our ‘Internal Vendor Evaluation Report’ (refer pictures 20-A/20-B). Hinopak employees interacting with vendors/contractors and visiting their premises are to report any observation of engaging child labor. Picture 20-A: Front Page of the Vendor Evaluation Report C. EMPLOYEES  Workforce Diversity Refer to GRI Indicator LA1 for Workforce profile (including workers).  Gender Harassment Program Gender Harassment Program under act “The Protection against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act 2010” has been implemented successfully. Committee of 3 members has been formed for catering to harassment cases. Picture 20-B: Page 5 of the Vendor Evaluation Report including the area of 'Welfare / Environment' 10 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to Commitment: promote greater environmental responsibility; and  We take precautionary approach in meeting environmental challenges in all areas of operations; Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally we are committed to avoiding and mitigating friendly technologies. negative impact of all our activities on the environment.  Guided by our mission and social responsibility principles, we are committed to promoting environmentally responsible thinking within the Hinopak family, marked by sincere demonstration of better environmental-friendly practices. We strive to increase our sphere of influence beyond our company by including all other stakeholders and ensure greater positive impact.  We are committed to the adoption of environmentfriendly technologies that reduce environment impact from our products and day-to-day operations. We ensure effective environment risk management and compliance across all our business activities, from product design/development to product sale. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the three principles on ‘Environment’: A. Environment Management Systems  Leadership Guidance & Legal Compliance Top management defines policy and ensures its compliance. They also ensure availability of resources essential to established EMS system in the company. EMS Objectives are set on annual basis and progress reviewed regularly. Both Int. and External audits are held yearly. MCM are held in there, decisions are taken to improve and enhance our management systems. We are complying with the following regulations under No ‘THE SINDH ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT, 2014’. EPA/TECH/739/2014 (Sind Environmental Quality Standards (Self Monitoring and Reporting by 11 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption Industry) Rules-2014), S.R.O. 72 (KE) 2009 (NEQS for Motor Vehicles Exhaust and Noise), S.R.O. 1062(I)/2010 (NEQS for Ambient Air), S.R.O. 1063(1)/2010 (NEQS for drinking Water Quality), S.R.O. 1064(1)/2010 (NEQS For Noise), S.R.O 549(I)/2000 (NEQS for Municipal & Liquid Industrial Effluents)/ (NEQS for Industrial Gaseous Emissions.),EPA/TECH/739/2014 (Initial environmental examination & Env. Impact Assessment), EPA/TECH/739/2014 (Handling of Hazardous substances). Other than the above mentioned legislations, we are also abiding to The Petroleum Act 1934 and The Boilers and Pressure Vessels Ordinance, 2002. Key parameters (energy consumption, material discard, and water conservation) were reported to Hino Motors, Japan every month. Compliance in all aspects has ensured a clean, green record (no warnings, no penalties) for Hinopak. Water release and air release were both within compliance levels. Our local and international legal compliance have enabled us to enter the export market.  Maintenance & Monitoring A comprehensive study is conducted on yearly basis to identify and evaluate Environmental & Safety Risks involved in our business processes, products and services. Based on the scientific method, their severity is then calculated and appropriate action programs are set to control these high risks through ERIC-P approach. Analysis of Air Emissions from combustion stacks, generators, engines, exhaust emissions, noise monitoring and ambient air are done on predefined intervals.  Auditing, Certifications & Awards Surveillance audits conducted against ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001. Every year, Employers Federation of Pakistan (in Collaboration with ILO) held OHS&E Award competition among its member companies. This year, we have achieved 3rd position in the Overall category. (ref picture 21) We have received ACCA-WWF Best Picture 21: EFP –ILO OHS&E Award Environmental Reporting Award. 12 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption  Hazardous Substance Control All hazardous substances/ waste are disposed off in environmental friendly manner according to EPA/TECH/739/2014 (Handling of Hazardous substances). Hazardous substance include Asbestos, Hazardous waste include Degreasing Sludge, Paint Sludge, Batteries, Hazardous Material Effective Gloves, Paint Booth Filter, FRP Waste, Printer Cartridge, infectious Material Disposal, WWTP Sludge, Transformer oil and Used E/G Oil New Chemical passes through Chlorinated Picture 22: Mr. Tatsuhei Muto plants a tree during tree Organic Compound (COC) assessment before plantation activity in Environment month entering Hinopak premises. Any chemical containing this substance is carcinogenic in nature and is included in TOYOTA Banned Material List.  Communication, Awareness, Training The environmental performance of our plants is reported on an annual basis through our annual report. We celebrate June as Environment Month and submit comprehensive report to Hino Motors Limited, Environmental Division in mid July. Key parameters are monitored and reported to Hino Picture 23: A group photograph of Top Management after Tree Plantation. Motors Ltd., Japan Environmental Division on monthly basis. (ref. pictures 22/23) Keeping our pledge for “Zero Sai”, ‘Safety Dojo Center’ has been established. ‘Dojo’ is a Japanese name for a training center. This training center is equipped with 10 Safety Simulators which were fabricated in-house. Employees can learn about hazards and importance of obeying safe working rules via simulators on ‘Usage of Hard Helmet, Safety Shoes, Importance of Earthing, Slip/Trip hazards, Use of Hand Rails, Protection against Rotating Machines, Fall from Height hazards, to name some. Up till now 949 Hinopak employees and 38 dealers/contractors have been Picture 24: Safety Dojo Center trained.(ref picture 24) Environmental Posters and Banners were displayed throughout HPML.  Stop Global Warming Hinopak has taken appropriate measures to reduce CO2 Emission (27%) based on FY 2014. 13 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption We are continuously decreasing our energy usage by adopting several strategies regarding energy conservation. These include: > Installation of LED Lights in Offices. > To maintain temperature up to 26ºC for air conditioners. > To utilize sunlight where possible to maintain the appropriate light levels. > To switch off the LCDs / monitors when not on seat. >To minimize the energy consumption of compressor by removing air leakages. > To minimize gas & electricity consumption by placing third frame on IMV frame trolley. > To minimize electricity consumption by placing of control switch at PTED Facility. > Controlling of unnecessary light at offices and plants. > Louvers replaced with glass window (Energy saving FRP and window shop Ongoing project). > Minimization of energy consumption of compressor by removing air leakages. > Installation of energy meters to monitor the energy consumption reading in different areas of plant. Every year, we conduct air and water leakage inspections to identify seepages and take appropriate actions to mitigate the problems. Moreover, equipment and machineries are constantly checked / maintained via preventive maintenance to ensure efficiency. Our active involvement in the upkeep and maintenance of our gardens has resulted in Picture 25: Hinopak representative receiving 2nd prize in Hinopak winning 2nd prize in office industrial Horticultural Competition gardens competition in February 2017.(ref picture 25) B. Environmental Responsibility Guidelines  Hino Credo – Corporate Mission, CSR Charter, Hino Spirit Hino Motors' mission statement explicitly indicates environmental responsibility: To make the world a better place to live in by helping people and goods get where they need to gosafely, economically and with environmental responsibilitywhile focusing on sustainable 14 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption development. Hino's CSR Chapter reiterates this commitment… we strive to provide products that are safe and environmentally-friendly, pursuing a responsible balance with the environment in all of our corporate activities. Hino Spirit enjoins all employees to practice the Spirit of Contribution – where it further elaborates that With a deep respect for all people, we approach our work with openness and honesty, and a true dedication to fulfilling our social responsibilities. Our employees are trained on the Hino Spirit Picture 26: Hino Spirit principles.(ref picture 26) C. Environment-friendly Technology  Manufacturing Vehicles that Burn Cleaner Fuels and Emit Less Fuel Euro-II engine technology fitted in some Hino products, despite the absence of local regulations on the same mainly because of absence of clean fuel.  Use of Environment-Friendly Parts / Raw Material Use of environment-friendly gas R-134a & R-404a for air conditioning of buses and refrigeration of trucks is ensured. We monitored and reduced use of diesel in our generator sets and other machinery used for production processes. Quality of fuel, lubricants and other components are being checked by standard specification.  Environmental-friendly Processes Production/Manufacturing processes reviewed regularly. For proper maintenance of vehicles, Hinopak provides authorized service stations/workshops. Paint sludge, FRP and glass wool incineration are done by third party to reduce hazardous waste. D. Disaster Recovery Management and Capability Enhancement  Disaster Management and Recovery A complete risk assessment was performed this 15 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption year to assess human and capital risks associated natural calamities especially earthquake followed by a comprehensive emergency response plan in case of natural disaster.  Disaster Recovery Management / Relief Activities Hinopak provided school supplies to school affected by earthquake in Sawat Upper Dir. In the month of April, 2016. Total 195 bags, 120 lunch boxes, 120 water bottles, 120 pencil boxes, 600 stationary items and 26 sports items were given to school children. (ref picture 27) Figure 27: Donation given for relief of Earthquake victims E. Stakeholder Engagement  Promotion of Vehicle Maintenance for Environmental Preservation Through free service and tune-up camps Hinopak promoted culture of vehicle maintenance among Hino customers and users. Proper and timely maintenance of vehicles ensures fewer emissions of harmful gases (ref picture 28). Figure 28: A picture from free service camp =60 16 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment:  We support the anti-corruption principle and are committed to continue our 'no-tolerance' policy to any corruption practice. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the four principles on ‘AntiCorruption’: A. Ethical Guidelines  UNGC Subscription Hinopak is very vocal about its UNGC subscription and commitment to all 10 principles. This commitment is communicated through publications, press releases, presentations, displays, annual report, COP report etc.  Hinopak Code of Conduct Our basic Code of Conduct is still under revision to make it more comprehensive and explicit, as per the observation Picture 29: Whistle Blowing Procedure of the board of directors. However, Principles 2, 3, 8 and 11 are clear on our pledge to work against anti-corruption practices. The Code of Conduct was circulated again among all management employees to reiterate the standards of ethics presented in the Code. Orientation of new hires includes briefing on basic Code of Conduct, Whistle Blowing procedure and the UNGC's principles. The code of conduct is displayed on conspicuous places (e.g. notice boards) for our non-management staff. Same has been translated in Urdu for better comprehension and understanding of workers.  Hinopak Whistle Blowing System Picture 30: Whistle Blowing Form The Whistle Blowing Committee (WBC), leading in the oversight of our anti-corruption commitment, meets monthly as minimum requirement (ref. pictures 29/30/31). Similar to the previous years, during 2016-17 employees sent 17 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption in their suggestions/grievances through the Whistle Blowing procedure and/or suggestion box. Accordingly, our MD/Chairman Whistle Blowing Committee addressed our employees' concerns. Hino Credo, Mission, CSR Charter Trust is invoked twice in the Hino Credo containing overall company mission, core principle and CSR charter, whereby complying with laws and regulations and maintaining high ethical standards is a major focus. As indicated by our CSR charter which forms a part of the Hino Credo reflects on our commitment to good corporate citizenship, comply with laws and regulations and maintain high ethical standards.  Hino Spirit Picture 31: Suggestion box located at the Head Hino Spirit is a set of 6 key corporate values emanated Office entrance from our principal Hino Motors, Japan. B. Risk Assessment System  J-SOX Internal Control Framework guides Hinopak in following the J-SOX (Japan's version of Sarbanes-Oxley Act). During the reporting year fourteen (14) reportings were done on J-SOX covering areas on financial reporting, ITGC, and control environment. Three (3) internal audits were conducted within period April 2016 to March 2017 as compared to three audits conducted in the previous corresponding period. For this reporting year, internal controls / value additions were provided in the following areas:  Review on HR Manual  Selection & Evaluation of vendors/suppliers in progress  Controls over inventory (stock check twice a year) For the reporting year, Hinopak's MD/CEO again declared compliance with the J-SOX requirements in a report sent to our principal in Japan.  Audit Committee An independent Audit Committee ensures monitoring of compliance activities. All five out of five members of the Committee are non-executive directors. Newly appointed chairman of the Audit Committee in an independent member of the board of directors. 18 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption The independent audit committee reports directly to the Board of Directors.  Corporate Governance / Compliance External auditors publicly attested Hinopak's financial reporting integrity as contained in our Annual Report 2016-171. Hinopak's MD/CEO publicly affirmed compliance with corporate governance regulations as indicated in our Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2017. Other compliances: SECP’s Code of Corporate Governance, Stock Exchange regulations, International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Companies Ordinance 1984 and other taxation laws, etc.  Process Improvement Continuous process improvement activity is underway through ‘Business Process Reengineering’ objective mostly driven by automation of various processes to minimize human error and risks. Improvements underway through the implementation of Oracle R12 (replaced with previous version R11i).  Vendor Pre-qualification Our vendors are subjected to a pre-qualification assessment through the Initial Vendor Evaluation Report before they are inducted as business partners. Tender bids are opened in the presence of internal auditor to make the process transparent. 1 Available on our website http://www.hinopak.com/finance.htm 19 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators GRI G3.1 Performance Indicators Human Rights Ref. Number Performance Indicator Performance HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, All significant vendors and contractors undergo contractors and other business partners that Human Rights screening (both at the time of induction have undergone human rights screening, and during the service tenure) and actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination None and corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers None identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers Suppliers: None* identified as having significant risk for Vendors: 100%** incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of * Due to the nature of the procurement process child labor. through suppliers currently in effect ** Vendors are assessed through the ‘vendor evaluation report’; ensuring no significant risks for incidents of child labour which is evaluated / ensured by regular visits by our team to the vendor’s premises. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations None involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations 100% company processes confirm with the human that have been subject to human rights rights requirements and the standards set forth by The reviews and/or impact assessments. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Note: Comprehensive internal and third party external audits of company systems (e.g. J-SOX, ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 etc.) all endorse compliance with the set standards, including human rights. HR11 Number of grievances related to human None rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Note: The grievances reported / filed through the formal grievance mechanism relate to other areas of operations but not human rights. Labour LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering in formal joint management–worker health Committee: and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and General Secretary of CBA is a member of this safety programs. committee and the General Secretary represents 100% workers (contractor’s workers/permanent workers) to review compliance with the company policies relating to occupational HSE. 20 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, 2,422 OHS training man-hours were achieved during and risk-control programs in place to assist the reporting year. workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious Training and education of the workforce on risks diseases. associated with their concerned section/ shops. Moreover, different health programs held to identify medical issues associated with employees. Some of the programs include: Comprehensive Medical Tests of Chemical Handlers and their appropriate treatments. Medical Tests of Plant/ Admin Drivers, including Eye Testing, ECG, and CPC. Medical tests are conducted for Food Handlers to identify whether they are suffering from any contiguous disease. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, and Total workforce: 989* employment contract, broken down by Non-management contract / contractor’s employees: gender 555 (all males) Non-management permanent: 155 (all males) Apprentices: 26 (1 females, 25 males) Management contract: 56 (males= 54, females= 02) Management permanent**: 191 (males= 180, females= 11) Pakistani Nationals: 983 (females= 12, males= 971) Japanese Expats: 6 (all males) * As on March 31, 2017 ** Including top management LA2 Total number and rate of new employee 2012-13 * hires and employee turnover by age group, Total Hires: 01 where females= 0, male= 1 gender, and region. Total Separations: 21 where female= 2, males= 15 2013-14 * Total Hires: 09 where females= 0, males= 9 Total Separations: 15 where female= 1, males= 14 2014-15 * Total Hires: 20 where females= 0, males= 20 Total Separations: 17 where female=0, males= 17 2015-16 * Total Hires: 8 where females= 0, males=8 Total Separations: 10 where female=3, males= 7 2016-17 * Total Hires: 8 where females= 0, males=8 Total Separations: 9 where female=0, males= 9 *Data for management staff only. 21 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Males*= 100%, Females*= 100% parental leave, by gender. *Reporting period: June 2016 ~ May 2017 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 15% collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Followed as per the requirement of applicable laws and operational changes, including whether it is terms of employment specified in collective agreements. LA10 Average hours of training per year per Management Employees: 62 (males and females) employee by gender, and by employee Non-management Employees: 35 (all males) category. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Board of Directors: All males; 5 Japanese, 2 Pakistani breakdown of employees per employee national. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, The following practices relating to customer satisfaction including results of surveys measuring are in place: customer satisfaction. 1. Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Survey; done annually. 2. “Knocking the Door Project”; done monthly to visit customers at their door step. 3. Routine service camps 4. Training of Hino customers and drivers Economic EC4 Significant financial assistance received from None government. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure The following amount was expanded by the Company investments and services provided primarily (since 2008) for public benefit: for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or probono engagement. Year Actual Spending (PKR) 2008-09 7,164,000 2009-10 1,024,000 2010-11 838,000 2011-12 1,023,000 2012-13 2,855,000 2013-14 1,597,250 2014-15 24,766,000 2015-16 3,936,000 2016-17 5,696,000 Details on impact assessment mentioned in Human Rights-Stakeholders Participation & Engagement. Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8900 kg approx. per unit (for our standard bus model) EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 1971 kg energy consumption during for production 22 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators energy source. process. Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business 100% Divisions (currently nine) have been assessed for units analyzed for risks related to risks related to corruption. corruption. The Audit Committee, headed by the BOD chairman, is responsible for periodic reporting on such risks to the Board of Directors. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of No incidents of corruption have been reported to date. corruption. SO8 Monetary values of significant fines and None total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 23
